21 November 2021||New Delhi,||SKM to go ahead with march to Parliament||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday decided to go ahead with the pre-decided programmes of the farmers’ agitation till November 29. It includes the Lucknow mahapanchayat on November 22, observing the anniversary of the agitation on November 26, and the tractor march to Parliament on the first day of the winter session. “Till the laws are repealed in Parliament, all the pre-decided programmes of SKM will continue. There will be a condolence meeting on November 29, after that we will decide our future course,” said Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), who attended the nine-member core committee meeting at the Singhu border. Divisive note Meanwhile, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who reached the Ghazipur border on Saturday, said the farmers were yet to process the “extra sweetness” in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address on Friday. “He continues to divide farmers between big and small. He insists on addressing us as kuchh kisan (a small number of farmers),” Mr. Tikait said. Referring to Mr. Modi’s attempt to directly address the farmers, he said, “A television address will not do. In a democracy, one-sided decisions are not made. There are cases against farmers because of the agitation against the black laws. They should be taken back. The government has to talk to farmers across the table. Our demand for guaranteed MSP has still not been met. From the impending seed law to the Electricity Amendment Bill, several contentious issues are still pending.” On its part, the SKM is expected to send a proposal to the Government on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/skm-to-go-ahead-with-march-to-parliament/article37605937.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Vijayawada third cleanest city||Andhra Pradesh ranked fifth in the country and first among the southern States in the Swachh Survekshan 2021, with two of its cities bagging the “Cleanest City” tag. It was ranked fourth in 2020. The results were announced on Saturday by President Ramnath Kovind at the Swachh Amrit Mahotsav programme held in New Delhi. It is the only southern State to have two cities in the top 10 ranks in the national ranking of cities with more than 10 lakh population. Vijayawada bagged the third rank, while Visakhapatnam bagged the ninth rank. In the national ranking for cities with one lakh to 10 lakh population category, Tirupati bagged the third rank, while Rajahamundry was ranked 41, Kadapa 51, Kakinada 101, Nellore 107, Ongole 123, Guntur 130 and Chittoor was ranked 137. Also, in the top 25 cities ranking of cities with more than one lakh population Vijayawada bagged the third rank while Tirupati was ranked seven, Visakhapatnam was ranked 18. Vijayawada has been ranked as the third cleanest city in the country in the Swachh Survekashan 2021. The city jumped from sixth place in 2020 to third place this year in the cities with more than 10 lakh population category. Vijayawada has also been declared as “Garbage Free City” with a five-star rating. It is the only city in Andhra Pradesh to receive a five-star rating. The city also found a place in the “Water Plus Cities” list consisting of only nine cities across the country and bagged the “Prerak Dauur Samman Award” in Gold category for various practices, including segregation of waste, processing and recycling wet waste and dry waste, processing construction and demolition waste, landfill management and overall sanitation of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vijayawada-third-cleanest-city/article37605940.ece
21 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Private bus fares may go up in State||Private bus fares in the State are likely to be hiked soon, with Transport Minister Antony Raju indicating that a decision will be taken on the demands put forward by bus owners’ unions without adding much of an extra burden on the public. Speaking to mediapersons here on Saturday after the second round of talks with the unions, he said the Government was considering the demand for bus charge increase in view of the huge hike in fuel prices. A coordination committee of various bus owners unions has been demanding an increase in the minimum fare from Rs. 8 to Rs. 12 and the rate for students to Rs. 6. Another demand was permission to charge Rs. 1 for every additional kilometre and a diesel subsidy. In addition to the fuel price hikes, they had also cited the loss sustained after the COVID-19 outbreak due to extended lockdowns and low numbers of passengers even after the opening up. “The Government is considering their demand for an increase in bus fare due to the hike in fuel prices. Even they know that the Government cannot approve of all their demands. We will try to take a decision which will not cause much of an extra burden on the public. A decision on the date from which the fares have to be revised will also be taken. Talks will be held with the Ramachandran commission before taking a decision,” said Mr. Raju. The private bus owners had earlier given a call for a strike on November 9 raising these demands. The strike was averted following last-minute talks chaired by the Minister. Back then, he had said the Government would consider all the demands and take a decision before November 18. However, a consensus on the minimum fare remained elusive at Saturday’s meeting too and the Government was also not keen on continuing with the tax relaxations it had cleared following the pandemic outbreak.  A consensus on minimum fare remained elusive at Saturday’s meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-bus-fares-may-go-up-in-state/article37606336.ece
21 November 2021||JAGTIAL,||Bidder attempts to end life as draw of lots put off||A man, who applied for grant of licence to open a liquor outlet in Sarangapur mandal, caused a flutter by allegedly attempting suicide in Jagtial town in protest against the postponement of draw of lots for the particular liquor shop for want of the required number of applications on Saturday. In sharp contrast to huge response for the auction of liquor outlets elsewhere in the district and State, the liquor shop in Sarangapur mandal received only six applications as against the stipulated minimum number of 10 applications, required to conduct draw of lots, sources said. Minutes after the postponement of the draw of lots for the Sarangapur shop, an aggrieved applicant ran out of the venue on the Gollapally road in Jagtial and doused himself with petrol in an adjoining agricultural field. The police on bandobust duty immediately responded and foiled his bid. The aggrieved applicant expressed his anguish over the postponement of the draw of lots for the liquor shop in the Sarangapur mandal for which he pooled in money and paid the non-refundable application fee. Official sources maintained that the draw of lots for the liquor shop in Sarangapur mandal will be held soon. within the stipulated time frame as per the norms. In a separate incident, an aggrieved applicant tried to stage a protest at the venue of draw of lots in Kumarambheem Asifabad district after the process of draw of lots in respect of one liquor shop in an interior village was postponed due to lower number of applications than the stipulated number. According to sources, the auction process went off smoothly elsewhere in the district with many liquor shops receiving a large number of applications mainly in the towns, generating windfall revenue for the State treasury.  (Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bidder-attempts-to-end-life-in-jagtial-town/article37606259.ece
21 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Nandamuri family counters ‘insult’ to Bhuvaneswari||The entire Nandamuri family, led by Hindupur MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna, on Saturday launched a scathing attack on the YSR Congress Party leaders, who allegedly ‘insulted’ Nara Bhuvaneshwari, wife of Telugu Desam Party president N. Chandrababu Naidu, and warned them of ‘befitting’ counter/ reply if they tried this yet again. At a joint press conference at his residence in Hyderabad, Mr. Balakrishna took strong objection to dragging the name of his sister, Ms. Bhuvaneshwari, and making some “unpalatable” comments in the Legislative Assembly on Friday, which he said had emotionally disturbed Mr. Naidu to such an extent for the first time, as the YSRCP leaders resorted to a personal attack on a woman, who was apolitical and never interfered in politics. Describing the proceedings of the Andhra Pradesh Assembly on Friday, he said it felt like entering a “cow shed”, and blamed the Assembly Speaker for allegedly failing to maintain the decorum of the House by allowing personal character assassination of a woman who was carrying on her own business and never made any political comments. He took objection to the comments made by Dwarapudi Chandrasekhar Reddy, Ambati Rambabu, Kodali Nani, and Vallabhaneni Vamsi, and asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to rein in his party leaders. “I am fine with issue-based discussion, criticism, or counter-criticism in the Assembly. But just to humiliate the Opposition leader by dragging in women in their house when he gives some suggestions for the good of the people of the State, is not acceptable,” Mr. Balakrishna added. If the YSRCP leaders failed to mend their ways, people know how to change them, said the Hindupur MLA. “Let the YSRCP not play mind games by dragging in apolitical women into their discussions and power is not permanent,” he quipped. Members of the Nandamuri family —Nandamuri Vasundhara Devi, Garapati Lokeshwari, Kumudini, Nara Brahmani, and others — too expressed their displeasure at the way Mr. Naidu was allegedly humiliated, and promised to fight unitedly to protect their self-respect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nandamuri-family-counters-insult/article37605941.ece
21 November 2021||CHITTOOR,||Jagan conducts aerial survey of flood-hit districts||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday conducted an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas in Chittoor, Kadapa, and Nellore districts. Accompanied by Home Minister M. Sucharita and Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy, the Chief Minister arrived in Kadapa by a special flight in the morning. Later, along with his Cabinet colleagues, he boarded a helicopter for a four-hour aerial survey of the flood-ravaged areas. At Kadapa airport, Deputy Chief Minister Amzad Basha, District Collector Vijaya Rama Raju and senior officials of the irrigation, Roads and Buildings and police departments apprised Mr. Jagan about the flood fury, focussing on the rescue operation at Cheyyeru river in Rajampet division, where eight people died. The officials said the aerial survey covered the badly hit Tirupati municipal corporation, the Somasila project belt across Nellore and Kadapa districts, and the Rajampet division. After the aerial survey, the Chief Minister’s entourage landed at Tirupati international airport, from where Mr. Jagan returned to Vijayawada by a special flight. Low-lying areas Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan apprised Mr. Jagan about the flooding of low-lying areas in Tirupati and Chittoor municipal corporations and damages to roads and crops. Rehabilitation work The Chief Minister told the officials to focus on rehabilitation work and evacuation of the affected people as and when necessary. He also enquired about steps initiated for food relief in the affected areas and the arrangement of medicines to the needy. Mr. Jagan cautioned the officials to be alert to the possibility of breaches of tanks and flooding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-conducts-aerial-survey-of-flood-hit-districts/article37605947.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Swachh Survekshan: Bengaluru bags ‘Fastest Mover’ award||Bengaluru was declared the ‘Fastest Mover’ mega city among metros with a population of more than 40 lakh in the Swachh Survekshan 2021. However, Mysuru, which used to consistently rank high in the list, has slid to the 12th place among top 25 cities with a population over 1 lakh. In the Swachh Survekshan 2021 rankings announced on Saturday, Bengaluru was certified as ODF++ (open defecation free) scoring 500 points, but did not get any points under the ‘Garbage Free City’ certification. Bengaluru was ranked 28 among the 48 cities with more than 10 lakh population. Last year, Bengaluru had been adjudged as the winner in the best ‘Self-Sustainable Mega City’ in the category of cities with over 40 lakh population. The urban local bodies in Karnataka won 14 awards under various categories. Mysuru has been adjudged the best medium sized ‘Self-Sustaining City’ apart from getting a five-star rating under ‘Garbage-Free City’ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/swachh-survekshan-bengaluru-bags-fastest-mover-award/article37605982.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,||State revises guidelines for international arrivals||In view of the declining global trajectory of COVID-19 pandemic with certain regional variations, Karnataka on Saturday revised guidelines for all international arrivals. According to the new guidelines, children under five years are now exempted from both pre-arrival and post-arrival testing. However, if found symptomatic for COVID-19 on arrival or during home quarantine period, they should undergo testing and treated as per protocols. A circular issued by Health and Family Welfare Secretary T.K. Anil Kumar here on Saturday stated that the guidelines issued by the Government of India for international arrivals were reviewed and revised by the State COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee. While all other guidelines issued earlier remain unchanged, travellers from countries in Europe, including the United Kingdom, and those from South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe and Singapore need to follow additional measures on arrival, including post-arrival testing, the circular stated. “The revised guidelines are issued in suppression of all guidelines issued earlier with subsequent addendums for international arrivals. The said protocol should be complied by all international travellers, airlines and at various ports of entry - airports, seaports and land borders,” the circular added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/guidelines-for-foreign-arrivals-revised/article37605983.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,||State ULBs bag 14 awards in Swachh Survekshan 2021||The urban local bodies (ULB) in Karnataka have won 14 awards under various categories under Swachh Survekshan 2021 the results of which were announced on Saturday. However it is a mixed bag for the State, as Mysuru – which used consistently rank high in the list – has slid to 12th place among top 25 cities with a population over 1 lakh. However, it has also been adjudged the best medium sized “self-sustaining city” apart from getting a five-star rating under garbage-free city category. The other ULBs in the State in the list with significant mention include Hubballi-Dharwad, which has been declared “fastest mover” medium city while Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike was declared “fastest mover” mega city among urban local bodies with more than 40 lakh population. Besides, Mudhol was declared the “fastest mover” in south zone with a population between 50,000 and 1 lakh. Hosadurga was declared the “cleanest city” in the south zone among ULBs with a population between 25000 and 50,000 while Kumta was the best self-sustainable city in the same category. K.R. Nagar was adjudged as the best city under “citizens feedback” category in south zone among cities with a population between 25000 and 50,000. Periyapatna was awarded “Best City in Citizens Feedback” among ULBs with a population below 25,000, in south zone. Mysuru also won the Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge Award. Among States with more than 100 ULBs, Karnataka was accorded the “Fastest Mover State” Award Indore was declared the cleanest city for the fifth consecutive time followed by Surat and Vijayawada. In all, 4320 ULBs were assessed under various parameters and the process was completely digitalised while the data was collected from different platforms, including apps and portals. The assessment was conducted between March 1, 2021 and March 31, 2021 and there were 6,000 marks in all. While citizens’ voice carried 30 per cent of 1,800 marks, segregation, collection, processing and disposal entailed 40 per cent or 2,400 marks and 1,800 marks was awarded for certification, if any, under which garbage-free rating carried 1,100 marks and open defecation-free parameter carried 700 marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-ulbs-bag-14-awards-in-swachh-survekshan-2021/article37606227.ece
21 November 2021||KAKINADA,||Where girls fear to turn up to school every day||Except this year, the PR Government School for Girls in Kakinada had never witnessed the record enrolment of students in six decades of its existence. Recently, 50 students joined the school by quitting private schools. The teachers who persuaded the parents deserve the credit for their feat — the increase of the student strength from 150 in 2019-20 to 233 now (Class VI-X). A few weeks after the reopening of the school, there was no cheer on the face of any stakeholder — students, teachers, and parents. The prime factor — absence of a safe toilet facility, privacy, and drainage system on the campus that gets inundated even after a single spell of rain. The school has barely a single toilet block with four rooms for urinals and four for toilets. None of the doors in the block is functioning. The block is in a dilapidated state. It is also adjacent to the boys’ school building, putting the privacy of the girls in question. Spending more than six hours a day in the school for five to six days a week, the girls will have to accept whatever facility is available or quit the school. The girls told The Hindu that they have been using the single toilet block. It has no door. During rains, the toilet becomes unhygienic and not fit for use. They have another toilet block that is under repair for some months. They cannot even walk into that block during rains. Some girls have to guard the entrance for others to use the toilet. For 12 women teachers, they have only one separate toilet. The parents have stopped sending their daughters to school, citing the absence of safe hygienic conditions and poor toilet facilities, in particular. “The parents are not willing to send the girls to our school. On Saturday alone, nearly 50% of girls were absent. Poor toilet facility and stagnation of rainwater are the prime reasons,” Headmaster K.V.V. Satyanarayana Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/where-girls-fear-to-turn-up-to-school-every-day/article37606499.ece
21 November 2021||Kozhikode,||LJD serves show-cause notices on dissidents||The Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) on Saturday served show-cause notices on nine dissidents, including its State general secretaries Sheikh P. Haris and V. Surendran Pillai, for anti-party activities by holding a rebel meeting to seek the ouster of party president M.V. Shreyams Kumar in Thiruvananthapuram two days ago. This was decided at a joint meeting of State office-bearers and district presidents, Mr. Shreyams Kumar, national general secretary Varughese George and K.P. Mohanan, MLA, told the media here. The rebels have been given 48 hours to reply considering their long innings in the party. Unless their explanations were found to be satisfactory, action would be taken against them, the LJD leaders said. State secretaries Angathil Ajaykumar and Rajesh Prem and three district presidents N.M. Nair (Thiruvananthapuram), Nazir Punnakkal (Alappuzha) and Sabas Pulpatta (Malappuram), and two State committee members were issued show cause notices. The LJD leaders claimed that their faction had a majority in the State committee and was supported by 11 district presidents. However, seven district presidents were conspicuous by their absence, it is learnt. Meanwhile Mr. Haris told journalists in Alappuzha that neither the State president nor the State office-bearers were empowered to initiate action against them as per the constitution of the party. Only the State working committee and the State council were authorised to issue such show-cause notices, he said. Besides, the State president was a nominated member. Further, he had nominated office-bearers to get a majority in the forum. Even then, they would respond to the show-cause notices, Mr. Haris said, adding the leaders stood by their guns on the removal of Mr. Shreyams Kumar from the post. Earlier, Mr. George and Mr. Mohanan had tried to settle the issue between the official and rebel factions when the issue reached a boiling point. The dissident leaders have accused Mr. Shreyams Kumar of incompetence and deleterious style of functioning. The party just managed to win an Assembly segment though it contested three sitting seats, Mr. Haris said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ljd-serves-show-cause-notices-on-dissidents/article37606332.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,||ACB uncovers several instances of corruption in BDA||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), which launched a massive search and seizure operation at the Bengaluru Development Authority’s head office on Friday, claimed to have found at least 13 specific instances of corruption. A further probe is on, and the raids are expected to continue for a week, said ACB officials. In a press release issued on Saturday, ACB said they found incriminating documents indicating corruption. Most of them relate to allocation of alternative sites and developed land as part of compensation to land losers in Vishweshwaraya Layout, Anjanapura, Arkavathy Layout and Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout. For instance, a single person has been allotted six sites worth Rs. 75 crore in Vishweshwaraya Layout and Arkavathy Layout based on forged documents, ACB claimed. The anti-corruption bureau said it has also recovered incriminating documents that show prima facie large-scale irregularities in land acquisition for Nadaprabhu Kempegowda and Dr. Shivaram Karanth Layouts. During the raids, sleuths uncovered documents showing how bona fide site allottees who have also paid the stipulated fee in time have not been allotted sites, handed over lease-cum-sale agreements in several layouts, harassing them. BDA Chairman and BJP MLA S.R. Vishwanath welcomed the ACB raids and said no corrupt officials would be spared. Acknowledging widespread corruption within the authority, he was of the opinion that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) should be formed to undertake a comprehensive probe and bring all the guilty to book. He added that he would discuss the same with the Chief Minister. “There is widespread corruption in the BDA at the lower bureaucratic levels harassing common people. Since I took charge as the Chairman, I have tried to root out the menace of commission agents and brokers. There is corruption in the higher echelons of the organisation too. We are now working on digitising all records, which will hopefully put some checks and balances,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acb-uncovers-several-instances-of-corruption-in-bda-probe-on/article37605987.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Poor midterm performance sees schools increase offline classes||Poor performance by students in their midterm examinations has led private schools, especially in Bengaluru, to lay greater emphasis on physical classes. Many schools, after consulting with parents, had decided to resume offline classes after students were vaccinated, while others offered a combination of online and offline lectures. “We felt that we had tweaked our online modules to ensure best learning outcomes, but the results show that it is not the case,” said a principal of a city school, echoing the views of other managements. Some schools have decided to make attendance mandatory for physical classes. Although the government had allowed schools to reopen in a phased manner from August 23, many private schools had postponed it as they did not want to take the “risk”, and in many cases, parents had not consented to send their children to school. Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said they decided to resume offline classes last week for class III and above as they were not happy with the performance of the students in the midterm examinations. “We always knew that there was a huge learning gap, but this examination was a wake-up call for us. We realized that students are tired of online classes,” he said. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said while most State board private schools had resumed classes, many Central board schools had not embraced it completely. “But after seeing students bag low marks, teachers and school management are worried that the results would be affected if they do not resume classes immediately,” he said. However, some schools are having a tough time convincing parents of the need for mandatory attendance. After seeing the results, more parents are open to sending their children to school, but not all, said teachers. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary School, said school managements are not able to conduct both offline and offline classes. “As we are not able to provide the option of online classes, it has by default forced students to come to school physically. School teachers have been telling students that it is mandatory to attend offline classes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/poor-midterm-result-leads-to-increase-in-offline-classes/article37605998.ece
21 November 2021||Mangaluru,||Council polls: Kota files nomination papers||Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary submitted his nomination papers for the December 10 elections to the Legislative Council as the BJP candidate from the local authorities’ constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, here on Saturday. Elections will be held for two seats in the constituency. Mr. Poojary submitted his papers to Election Officer and Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra in the presence of Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Water Transport S. Angara, Minister for Energy, Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar, president of Dakshina Kannada unit of BJP Sudarshan Moodbidri, and president of Udupi unit of BJP Kuilady Suresh Nayak. Speaking to presspersons after filing his nomination Mr. Poojary said that he is confident that he will win. The BJP workers will work in unison for the victory of the party’s candidate, he said. To a question he said that the party is fielding only one candidate from the constituency. Hailing from Kota in Udupi district, Mr. Poojary is contesting from the constituency for the fourth time. He was first elected as an MLC in a byelection in 2008 following the death of the incumbent MLC and Congress leader Blasius M. D’Souza. In 2010, he was elected unopposed. He was elected for the third time in the elections held on December 27, 2015, along with Pratapchandra Shetty of the Congress. He had served earlier as Minister for Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport, and Muzrai. He had served as Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council. Meanwhile, South Canara District Central Cooperative (SCDCC) Bank chairman M.N. Rajendra Kumar announced on Saturday that he will not contest the elections. The announcement came a day after Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar said that the Government can dismiss him for alleged misuse of funds. Earlier, Mr. Kumar had announced that he would contest as an independent candidate. While addressing the Jan Swaraj Yatra organised by the BJP in Mangaluru and Udupi, Mr. Somashekar said that Rs. 19 lakh was being transferred every month from the SCDCC Bank to Navodaya Grama Vikasa Charitable Trust of which Mr. Kumar is the managing trustee. The Registrar of Cooperative Societies has the power to disqualify him from being a member of the board under Section 29C of the Karnataka Cooperative Societies Act. The department has already served a notice to Mr. Kumar, the Minister said. Mr. Kumar had opened a campaign office in Mangaluru on November 16 and met Karnataka Pradesh Congres Committee president D.K. Shivakumar in Bengaluru on November 17. He told presspersons on Saturday that he will not contest as he does not want to politicise the cooperative sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/council-polls-kota-files-nomination-papers/article37606433.ece
21 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM defends 10% reservation for poor among forward castes||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the 10% reservation for the indigent among forward caste communities will not upset the quota of any other Dalit or socially or educationally backward community currently eligible for affirmative action. Inaugurating the socio-economic survey to identify the poor among forward community members here on Saturday, Mr. Vijayan said some forces had attempted to create social discord by propagandising that the forward caste reservation would eat into the quota of other eligible groups. They were trying to fuel sectarian passions by falsely claiming that the Government was trying to replace financial backwardness instead of social backwardness as a basis for reservation eligibility. Mr. Vijayan said the 10% reservation would lift the poorest among forward caste communities from poverty and give them a leg-up in life. Currently, they were outside the reservation system. The forward caste quota would not eat into the reservation existing for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and Other Socially and Educationally Backward Castes in government jobs and public-funded institutions. Mr. Vijayan said some argued that caste alone should be the point of reference for extending reservation. Others state that financial backwardness or poverty should be the sole standard for affirmative action. The Government has calibrated its approach to the reservation after factoring in social and economic realities. It would create a circumstance that would allow every person to live and thrive, he said. Currently, a nefarious attempt was afoot to divide the very masses who fight the daily deprivations of crushing poverty. Kerala should stand as one to defeat such revanchism, the Chief Minister said. The Centre had accorded States freedom to calibrate their respective forward caste reservation policy based on the ground situation. Consequently, the LDF Government had appointed a commission chaired by retired judge Sasidharan Nair to study the social situation and give recommendations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-defends-10-reservation-for-poor-among-forward-castes/article37606333.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,||Mysuru 12th in the country in Swachh Survekshan 2021 ranking||The city has slid to 12th place among urban local bodies (ULBs) with a population of over one lakh under Swachh Survekshan 2021 the results of which were announced on Saturday. Among the medium-sized cities with a population between 3 lakh to 10 lakh, Mysuru was also accorded the best “self-sustaining city” award. Indore was ranked the cleanest city for the fifth time in a row followed by Surat and Vijayawada. But as there’s is silver lining to every cloud, Mysuru was ranked 7th among ULBs with 1 lakh to 10 lakh population range and was also accorded a five-star rating under garbage-free city category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-12th-in-the-country-in-swachh-survekshan-2021-ranking/article37606464.ece
21 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||No improvement in GVMC rankings||The ranking of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) saw no improvement in the Swachh Survekshan Ranking-2021, that was announced in New Delhi by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA) on Saturday. The city retained its last year ninth ranking as the cleanest city in the country in the cities over 10 lakh population category. GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha, Former Commissioner, G. Srijana, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari have received the awards in New Delhi. Visakhapatnam is the second city from Andhra Pradesh to be in the top 10 rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-improvement-in-gvmc-rankings/article37606500.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Allotment of licence for 48 liquor shops held up||The draw of lots to allot 2,572 out of 2,620 notified liquor shops for the license period over next two years was held on Saturday in all the 33 districts. The process was held up in the case of 48 shops in 18 districts as the number of applications received for them was lower than the prescribed minimum of 10, raising suspicion that the applicants may have formed cartels. The Excise department initiated an inquiry and a decision on conducting another round of lottery for the auction of the licences for these shops is likely to be taken up on Monday, sources said. The lots were conducted in the presence of district collectors at a centralised venue for all the shops in each of the 33 districts. Over 67,000 applications were received for the shops which generated a non-refundable application money of Rs. 1,357 crore to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/allotment-of-licence-for-48-liquor-shops-held-up/article37606277.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indore keeps cleanest city tag for fifth year||Indore was on Saturday ranked the cleanest city for the fifth consecutive year by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs in its annual cleanliness ranking. The Swachh Survekshan Awards, 2021 handed out by President Ram Nath Kovind included the cleanest State honour for Chhattisgarh for the third time, in the category of States with more than 100 urban local bodies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency, Varanasi, won the award for the cleanest “Ganga city”. In his speech, Mr. Kovind said sanitation workers had worked throughout the pandemic. He said the Government was committed to the safety of workers. Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri said the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan had become a mass movement. Among cities, Surat and Vijayawada secured the second and third place, respectively. The Ministry said the survey was carried out in 4,320 cities over 28 days, where feedback from 4.2 crore persons was recorded. Of States with over 100 urban local bodies (ULBs), Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh were ranked second and third respectively. Jharkhand was judged the cleanest State with less than 100 ULBs, followed by Haryana and Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indore-keeps-cleanest-city-tag-yet-again/article37605939.ece
21 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Six die as two buildings collapse in Kadiri||Six persons died and one more is fighting for life with burn injuries when a three-storeyed under-construction building collapsed on a two-storeyed structure adjacent to it, at Chairman Street in Kadiri town in the district, in the early hours of Saturday. While the Fire Department and police pulled out six persons from the debris with the help of an earthmover, the NDRF team reached the town in the morning and rescued three others, and brought out bodies trapped under the debris. The under-construction building had no pillars and was being built on an old ground floor house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-die-as-two-buildings-collapse-in-kadiri/article37605942.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Why no special status to A.P., HC asks Centre||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Saturday asked the Centre to explain as to why it has not accorded Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh when it has been extended to other States. Dealing with a PIL petition filed by advocate V. Ramachandra Varma from Amalapuram, a Division Bench comprising Justice Ahsanuddin Amanullah and Justice B. Krishna Mohan found fault with the Centre for not implementing the assurances given to the State on the floor of Parliament. The Bench sought to know the objections in according the status to Andhra Pradesh. Advocate M. Sri Rama Rao, appearing for the petitioner, said that in 2016, a special package was given to Andhra Pradesh in lieu of the special status, but industrial incentives being given to a few other States under package-2 were not being extended to Andhra Pradesh. Assistant Solicitor-General N. Harinath, appearing for the Centre, said petitions on the issue were pending before the Supreme Court. The case was posted for its next hearing on December 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-no-special-status-to-ap-hc-asks-centre/article37605915.ece
21 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,||ACB raids houses of Tribal Welfare EE||ACB officials conducted raids on the houses and properties of Tribal Welfare Department Executive Engineer K.S.S. Ravi Kumar and recovered property disproportionate to his known sources of income, in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. The officials said the raids were conducted at five places simultaneously from morning. The places included Kumar’s office and house at Paderu and Visakhapatnam. “Gold, silver, cash, documents all worth about Rs. 2.6 crore were recovered till 9 p.m. Out of this, properties worth about Rs. 1.5 crore are disproportionate assets. Searches will continue and we may ascertain the final tally by Sunday,” said ACB officer K. Lakshmana Murthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/acb-raids-houses-of-tribal-welfare-ee/article37606555.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,||‘Our govt. will buy entire paddy’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao assured farmers that the entire paddy grown during the rainy season would be procured by the State government. Farmers need not worry about that, the Chief Minister said at a press conference on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/our-govt-will-buy-entire-paddy/article37606283.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Aiming for glory||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiming-for-glory/article37606435.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Skies open up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/skies-open-up/article37606279.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Jam-packed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jam-packed/article37606232.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Passing-out parade||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/passing-out-parade/article37606338.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Fight not over, MSP law needed’||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Singh said his party would stand by the decision of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha. “We have to fight for a statutory provision on MSP, the rollback of Electricity Amendment Bill and we have to politically damage the Bharatiya Janata Party because it is against the interests of farmers and workers,” he said.page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fight-not-over-msp-law-needed/article37605948.ece
21 November 2021||Jaipur,||Rajasthan set to get new Cabinet today||Ahead of a Cabinet reshuffle, all the Ministers in the Ashok Gehlot Government in Rajasthan tendered their resignations at a meeting of the Council of Ministers here on Saturday. The new team is likely to be sworn in at the Raj Bhavan on Sunday. It may include supporters of former Deputy CM Sachin Pilot, whose rebellion in July 2020 had threatened the Congress Government’s stability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-set-to-get-new-cabinet-today/article37605949.ece
21 November 2021||Mumbai,||No evidence against Aryan, two others: HC||While granting bail to Aryan Khan, 23, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, in the drug racket case busted on a ship in October, the Bombay High Court has said: “The court prima facie has not noticed any positive evidence against Aryan Khan and two others.” He got bail on October 28. The detailed order was made available on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-evidence-against-aryan-two-others-hc/article37606025.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,||Hyderabad adjudged Best Self-Sustainable Mega City||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has bettered itself in the annual Swachh Survekshan rankings awarded by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, by improving its position over the previous year, and also by standing a winner as the Best Self-Sustainable Mega City in the category of cities with population over 40 lakh. By coincidence, Secunderabad Cantonment Board has also received the recognition as the ‘Best Self Sustainable Cantonment’. The survey results were announced by the MOHUA on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hyderabad-adjudged-best-self-sustainable-mega-city/article37606284.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||EPFO to quicken moves on investment options||The Central Board of Trustees of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Saturday approved a proposal to speed up decisions on investment opportunities, according to EPFO officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/epfo-to-quicken-moves-on-investment-options/article37606118.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hold full-fledged hearing on pollution: plea in SC||A senior advocate in the Supreme Court has written to the court’s judges to hold full-fledged, back-to-back hearings to resolve the pollution crisis and not just a few hearings in the winter months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hold-full-fledged-hearing-on-pollution-plea-in-sc/article37606119.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hold full-fledged hearing on pollution: plea in SC||A senior advocate in the Supreme Court has written to the court’s judges to hold full-fledged, back-to-back hearings to resolve the pollution crisis and not just a few hearings in the winter months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hold-full-fledged-hearing-on-pollution-plea-in-sc/article37606399.ece
21 November 2021||Lucknow,||DGPs’ meet discusses Naxal violence||Violence perpetrated by Maoists, action against terror modules and cyber crime were some of the issues that figured prominently at the conference of DGPs attended by the Prime Minister on Saturday, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dgps-meet-discusses-naxal-violence/article37606400.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,||MGNREGA: Guaranteed man-days now 150||The Centre has approved the State Government’s request to increase the guaranteed man-days of work for a family under the MGNREGA scheme from 100 to 150, said Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mgnrega-guaranteed-man-days-now-150/article37606228.ece
21 November 2021||Chennai,||765 people test positive in Tamil Nadu||The State on Saturday recorded 765 COVID-19 cases, and its tally touched 27,19,515. Twenty districts logged fewer than 10 cases each and 31 saw no death. Twelve more people died, taking the toll to 36,361.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/765-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tn/article37606024.ece
21 November 2021||Chennai,||Stalin releases State policy for children||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday released the Tamil Nadu State Policy for Children, which envisions ‘bala sabhas’ in all panchayats for children and a child protection policy in all local and urban bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-releases-state-policy-for-children/article37606026.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A pilgrim corridor across a bleak landscape||Right by the Ravi river-bed in Pakistan’s Narowal district of Punjab, with hardly a building in the distance on any side, the three-storey Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara is a lonely and unique structure. In 2018, sleepy hamlets nearby awoke to the furious sounds of construction, as Pakistan’s then newly elected Prime Minister Imran Khan accepted an old Indian proposal, revived by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to open a “pilgrim corridor” between the two countries. The corridor would connect the Indian town of Baba Dera Nanak in Gurdaspur district, where the Sikh founder Guru Nanak spent much of his life and the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara built originally on the spot where he meditated, less than five kilometres away, that had been divided by the thoughtless pen of imperial British officers who wrought India’s partition in 1947. For more than 70 years, pilgrims would line up at the last border point on the Indian side, to climb a rickety watch-post and view Kartarpur Sahib through a telescope lens. With the number of Sikhs in Pakistan dwindling, and access to Kartarpur quite rough compared with the gurdwara at Guru Nanak’s birth place at Nankana Sahib, the shrine had fallen into disuse. While Sikh “jathas” or groups are given visas as part of an agreement for Hindus and Sikh to religious sites in Pakistan, in exchange for visits by Muslim groups to various mosques and shrines in India, these are hard to come by. This was also true for the larger non-Sikh population that venerates Guru Nanak, a Hindu born in 1469, who brought Hindu and Muslim followers together to found Sikhism with the message of “Ik Onkar” (One God) that he spread in travels far and wide until his death in 1539. The Gurdwara, small in comparison to the scale of more modern Sikh shrines, has immense spiritual importance, say historians. The idea of the organised Langar , or communal kitchen where rich and poor alike of all faiths can come together to cook, serve and eat a meal, which is a distinctive tradition of the Sikh faith, is believed to have been started here. The shrine is the repository of one of the last copies of the original Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book. In his book ( Sketches from a Howdah: Lady Canning’s Tours 1858-1861 ), Pakistani historian Fakir Syed Aijazuddin recounts how a visiting British dignitary, Lady Canning, was shown the Granth, possibly a first for an outsider in three centuries, which she described it in detail in her 1860 journal as “a thick quarto -sized (approximately 10”X 8”) book written in a peculiar character and language”. According to legend, the original gurdwara by the river also housed a Hindu ‘samadhi’ and a Muslim ‘grave’ of Nanak, as final gesture to uniting his followers who belonged to both faiths and followed in his path as the first Sikhs. In 1947, when Pakistan was carved out of India, the location of the Ravi river decided the gurdwara’s fate was in Pakistan, and Sikhs living in Baba Dera Nanak spoke about how they had to flee their homes on the Pakistani side, not realising that they may never be able to visit their beloved shrine again for decades. Suicide attack Back to 2019, and between the decision to lay the foundation stone for the restoration of the 500-year-old gurdwara, the construction of a massive compound around it on the Pakistani side, the departure and arrival building on the Indian side, and the building of a road to carry pilgrims on both sides of the border, a near-conflict broke out between both countries. After a massive suicide bomb attack that killed 40 CRPF soldiers in Pulwama in February 2019, India carried out air strikes on the Pakistani town of Balakot, leading to counter-strikes by Pakistan along the Line of Control. A few months later, the Modi Government amended Article 370 and bifurcated the State of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union Territories, triggering a series of diplomatic measures by Pakistan, including the recall of High Commissioners, cancelling all trade links and closing its airspace. Conquering the rancour between India and Pakistan was a near impossible feat, and the future of the Kartarpur project, due to be inaugurated in November to mark the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak seemed dim. However, just a few months after exchanging volleys at the UN that year, Mr. Modi and Mr. Khan decided to persevere with the project, and the Kartarpur Corridor was inaugurated on November 9, 2019, allowing the first group of 550 Indian pilgrims to cross over into Pakistan. The pilgrims did not need a visa, and were allowed into Pakistan by a special arrangement that registers them on the Indian side, and lets them visit Kartarpur for the day. Such international human corridors normally work when there is a natural disaster, a conflict where civilians are caught or a refugee crisis, but Kartarpur is a rare peacetime, pilgrim corridor. Inaugurating the integrated check post at Baba Dera Nanak, Mr. Modi thanked Mr. Khan and likened the opening of the corridor to the fall of the Berlin Wall, leading many to believe Kartarpur would mark the beginning of other new initiatives between India and Pakistan, rolling back the break in ties. That was not to be. The inauguration of the Gurdwara corridor was marred by the presence of “Khalistani separatist elements”, which New Delhi protested, and security officials said they worried about the corridor being misused for the movement of spies, weapons, cash and drugs, cautioning against increasing the number of pilgrims allowed per day beyond a few hundreds. Pakistan was willing to raise the number to 10,000, provided they would each pay an entrance fee of $20. India stipulated that each corridor traveller could carry no more than Rs. 11,000 and a bag weighing no more than 7 kg. Despite all the restrictions and procedural delays with registering for the journey, nearly 45,000 Indians and OCIs (Overseas citizens of India) visited Kartarpur on the corridor in the first two months (by January 31, 2020), an average of about 500 per day. More trouble More trouble followed. Within just four months of opening, the corridor had to be closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, as India and Pakistan imposed lockdowns and international travel restrictions. The year that has followed has seen unabated tensions between the two countries, relieved very intermittently by a COVID health initiative for SAARC countries, an LoC ceasefire, an invitation from India to Pakistan for a conference on Afghanistan in Delhi (which was rejected), and an international cricket match between the two countries. Against all odds, and despite the growing chasm between India and Pakistan, Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara and the corridor opened once again on November 17, ahead of Guru Nanak’s 552nd birth anniversary. “The spirit of Kartarpur continues to live. Centuries after his death, Guru Nanak’s message conquers politics, bridges divides and provides a corridor to mutual humanism,” historian Fakir Aijazuddin told The Hindu , when asked about the reopening, in what most would see as an over-optimistic sentiment given the times. Today, in the absence of any other new initiative that would bring the two countries closer together, the Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara remains both geographically and metaphorically a unique, lonely structure across a bleak landscape.  In Focus In 2018, Pakistan PM Imran Khan accepted an old Indian proposal to open a “pilgrim corridor” connecting Baba Dera Nanak in India and Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara in Pakistan Despite many restrictions, nearly 45,000 Indians and OCIs visited Kartarpur on the corridor in the first two months (by January 31, 2020), an average of about 500 per day The corridor, which was closed after the COVID-19 outbreak, was reopened on November 17, ahead of Guru Nanak’s 552nd birth anniversary    The pilgrims do not need a visa, and are allowed into Pakistan by a special arrangement that registers them on the Indian side, and lets them visit Kartarpur for the day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-pilgrim-corridor-across-a-bleak-landscape/article37605886.ece
21 November 2021||JAIPUR,||All Rajasthan Ministers resign ahead of Cabinet reshuffle||Ahead of a Cabinet reshuffle, all the Ministers in the Ashok Gehlot Government in Rajasthan tendered their resignations at a meeting of the Council of Ministers here on Saturday. The swearing-in ceremony for the new Council is likely to be held at the Raj Bhavan on Sunday. Three Ministers holding important portfolios as well as the party posts had on Friday offered their resignations to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, while expressing their desire to serve in the party. Their offer to step down suggested that the Cabinet reshuffle will be based on a “one man, one post” formula. “All the Ministers have resigned at the meeting,” Pratap Singh Khachariawas, who held the Transport portfolio, told presspersons outside the Chief Minister’s official residence. Govind Singh Dotasra, who had quit as Education Minister on Friday, moved a proposal, after which all the Ministers resigned, with Chief Minister Mr. Gehlot accepting their papers. Ajay Maken, Congress general secretary in charge of Rajasthan, was present at the meeting. Mr. Khachariawas, who is also the Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson, said the members of the Council of Ministers had been asked to reach the PCC headquarters at 2 p.m. on Sunday, where they would get further instructions. Earlier in the day, Mr. Gehlot, along with Mr. Maken and Mr. Dotasra, addressed a “Kisan Vijay Divas” rally near the Civil Lines railway crossing in Jaipur. Mr. Gehlot said the BJP Government at the Centre had been “thoroughly exposed” after the announcement for repeal of the farm laws. Mr. Maken, who had arrived here on Friday night, had announced the offer of resignation of three senior Ministers. Besides Mr. Dotasra, the PCC president, the others are Health Minister Raghu Sharma, recently appointed All India Congress Committee in-charge of Gujarat, and Revenue Minister Harish Chaudhary, who was made in charge of Punjab. All the three are close confidants of Mr. Gehlot. The swearing-in ceremony may witness the induction of some supporters of former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, whose rebellion in July 2020 had threatened the Government’s stability. Apart from the Congress MLAs, Independents who supported the Government and former Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs, who merged with Congress to give it a comfortable majority, may also be included in the Council of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-rajasthan-ministers-resign-ahead-of-cabinet-reshuffle/article37605847.ece
21 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Fight not over, MSP law needed: RLD||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the decision to repeal the contentious farm laws, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Singh said it was the victory of the unity of farmers, and added that his party would stand by the decision of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. “I assure the farmers that we are with them. We have to fight for a statutory provision on the minimum support price (MSP), the rollback of the Electricity Amendment Bill and we have to politically damage the BJP because it is against the interests of farmers and workers,” the RLD chief said. Massive rally Addressing a massive Parivartan Sandesh (message of change) rally in Baghra town of Muzaffarnagar, Mr. Singh said for the first time the Prime Minister of the country publicly apologised. “People thought he had no reverse gear. It is because of your efforts and sacrifice that he had to concede your just demand,” he said. Mr. Singh, who has been addressing rallies against the farm laws since January , said he had been advising Mr. Modi to step back as “ hum to paidayshi ziddi hain (we [the farmers] are born stubborn)”. “History tells us we have pushed back those who have tried to control us and he had to apologise,” he said. Taking a dig at the Prime Minister, Mr. Singh said, “Modi ji should come on television in the morning. When he comes in the evening, he flounders… Nobody has seen his academic degrees, but he is an expert at lying. Even in yesterday’s address, he said he could not explain the benefits of farm laws to a few farmers. The fact is he failed to mislead them. Farmers understand their profit and loss. They are not ignorant.” Mr. Singh, however, cautioned that the fight was incomplete. ‘Just the beginning’ “It is just the beginning. The Prime Minister’s decision has filled us with new energy. It tells us that we have to become andolanjivi (professional protesters) for just causes. If you stand up for your rights and stay united, the suit-boot ki sarkar would bend.” Otherwise, he said, one evening you would come to know that the U.P. Sugar Cane Supply Act that guarantees payment to sugar cane farmers in 14 days and interest on the amount if not paid was repealed. He said the party was working towards development of deprived sections of society and appealed to the RLD workers to bring the marginalised to the party fold. “We will give them space in governance. We could not be stopped in Hathras and Lakhimpur. Now we are on the way to Lucknow,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fight-not-over-msp-law-needed-rld/article37605858.ece
21 November 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI report finds 600 illegal loan apps operating in India||A Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Working Group (WG) on digital lending, including lending through online platforms and mobile apps, has stumbled upon more than 600 illegal loan apps operating in India. These apps, mostly used to dupe unsuspecting people, are available on several app stores for Android users in the country, the WG said in a report. In course of its filed work to prepare a detailed report on digital lending and to suggest recommendations, the WG found out the existence of over 1,100 unique loan apps that could be searched through key words such as loan, instant loan and quick loan. These apps were available across 81 app stores from January 01, 2021 to February 28,2021, it stated. The RBI panel pointed out that Sachet, a portal established by the Reserve Bank under State Level Coordination Committee (SLCC) mechanism for registering complaints by public, has been receiving significantly increasing number of complaints against digital lending apps. Around 2,562 complaints were received from January 2020 to March 2021. “Majority of the complaints pertain to lending apps promoted by entities not regulated by the Reserve Bank such as companies other than NBFCs (Non-Banking Financial Company), unincorporated bodies and individuals,” the report observed. Another significant chunk of complaints pertains to lending apps partnering with the NBFCs, especially smaller ones (asset size of less than Rs. 1,000 crore, it noted. Most of the complaints were received from Maharashtra, followed by Karnataka, Delhi, Haryana, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rbi-report-finds-600-illegal-loan-apps-operating-in-india/article37605880.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The comedian from two Indias||On November 15, Vir Das, a comedian and actor, released a six-minute video in which he spoke of “Two Indias”. In the monologue, delivered to an audience at a sold-out show at the Kennedy Centre in Washington DC, Mr. Das, 42, spoke of many contradictions in India on issues varying from women’s safety to tackling COVID-19 and politics. “I come from an India where we worship women during the day and gang rape them at night,” he said. “I come from an India where we take pride in being vegetarian, and yet run over the farmers who grow our vegetables.” The video, uploaded on YouTube, went viral and triggered a storm of responses, with both supporters and critics peddling the ‘Two Indias’ memes on social networks. Mr. Das released a statement on Twitter, explaining his stand. “There has been a sizeable reaction to a video I posted on YouTube. The video is a satire about the duality of two very separate Indians that do different things. Like Any Nation has light and dark, good and evil within it. None of this is a secret,” it read. “The video appeals for us to never forget that we are great. To never stop focusing on what makes us great. It ends in a gigantic patriotic round of applause for a country we all love, believe in and are proud of. That there is more to our country than the headline, a deep beauty. That’s the point of the video and the reason for the applause.” But the clarification did little in calming the storm. A Mumbai-based advocate, who is a legal adviser of Maharashtra’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), filed a complaint with the Mumbai police against Mr. Das for “defaming India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi”. In Delhi, a police complaint was lodged against the comedian by a BJP member for allegedly using derogatory statements against women and India. Apology sought Madhya Pradesh’s Home Minister and BJP leader Narottam Mishra said Mr. Das could not perform in the State “until he apologises”. Abhishek Singhvi, a former spokesman for the Congress Party, joined the narrative. “Vilifying the nation as a whole in front of the world is just not done!” he posted on Twitter. Not everybody is angry with Mr. Das, though. Filmmaker Hansal Mehta tweeted in support of him. “I was very moved by Vir Das. I come from an India where it needs courage for a Vir Das to say this, I come from an India where many of us admire this courage yet choose to remain silent.” Comedian Munawar Faruqui, who was jailed earlier this year over a joke, has said, “I come from Two India: 1947 and 2014.” The Dehradun-born Mr. Das was the first Indian comedian to be on Netflix and has acted in many Bollywood films like Namaste London , Love Aaj Kal and Delhi Belly . He was raised in Nigeria and studied at Lagos. Graduated from the Knox College, Illinois, in Economics and Theatre, Mr. Das started his career on Zoom TV. His YouTube channel, ‘Vir Das Comedy’ is one of the most popular comedy platforms in the country with some 674,000 subscribers. He runs India’s first and foremost Comedy Consultancy called ‘WierdAss Comedy’. Offensive jokes This is not the first time Mr. Das is courting a controversy. In August 2021, he made offensive jokes about the transgender community on his #TenOnTen series on YouTube. After receiving a lot of flak for his comment on social media, Mr. Das apologised and said, “I got the joke wrong.” In July 2020, Mr. Das had uploaded a video on Twitter, saying: “I do not condone offensive jokes. Stop offensive and abusive comedy. It is not easy to take a stand against a community of peers I love, but comedy has become way too offensive.” Nine months ago, Mr. Das landed himself in trouble for cracking jokes on former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. In 2016, after the film Mastizaade was released, an FIR was filed against him and actor Sunny Leone for promoting condoms inside a temple in a vulgar manner. Last year, while talking about self-censoring his content, Mr. Das said in an interview: “I have performed for the biggest people in the country and I am a very small fish in their pond. The guy who gets upset is never the politician or the businessman, it is the guy who loves the politician or businessman.” The show in Washington, however, seems to have upset both of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-comedian-from-two-indias/article37605888.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Lies and spies||John Durham is a U.S. Department of Justice Special Counsel and he is indeed special for his task of investigating another investigation conducted by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and more. The spotlight is on him not for what he is, but what he is investigating. His findings so far have pricked big holes in a story scripted by the FBI and amplified by Democratic partisans and media outlets — that Donald Trump was in cahoots with Russian operatives. The allegations rocked U.S. politics since 2016, and sabotaged the presidency for Mr. Trump even before it began. A Special Counsel, Robert Mueller, could not substantiate the core of the allegation, that Trump advisers criminally conspired with Russian officials to impact the election. But he indicted six Trump advisers on other charges. Mr. Durham’s job is to uncover the origins of the FBI’s investigation and whether anyone acted unlawfully in launching it or subsequently. He is “authorized to investigate whether any federal official, employee, or any other person or entity violated the law in connection with the intelligence, counter-intelligence, or law enforcement activities directed at the 2016 presidential campaigns, individuals associated with those campaigns, and individuals associated with the administration of President Donald J. Trump, including but not limited to Crossfire Hurricane and the investigation of Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, III,” according to his appointment order. Crossfire Hurricane was the code for the FBI investigation into Mr. Trump’s alleged links with Russia. The confusion and controversy over the FBI Russia investigation could be comparable to India’s CAG investigations premised on a dubious construct termed ‘presumptive loss’ to the exchequer. The argument based on a false premise, without evidence, was amplified by ‘investigative’ reporting, and political campaigning, undermining an elected government in the case of ‘2G scam’ in India. The charges that followed did not stand in courts. All this happened in the U.S., ahead of the 2016 presidential contest between Hillary Clinton and Mr. Trump, and later. Mr. Durham was appointed as a Special Counsel to unravel it all. Over the last two years, he has brought three indictments, but the latest one of a Russian national, Igon Danchenko who lives in the U.S., has so shaken the basis of allegations of Trump-Russia collusion that some commentators say the collusion was between the Clinton campaign and some Russians to implicate Mr. Trump. Dossier on Trump Mr. Danchenko’s indictment calls into question a dossier on Mr. Trump prepared by former British spy Christopher Steel, which was used by the FBI to obtain permission to spy on the Trump campaign. Mr. Durham’s investigations found that Mr. Dancheko was feeding Mr. Steel hearsay about Mr. Trump, which he got primarily from a source who was associated with the Clinton campaign. Mr. Steel’s dossier itself was funded by the Clinton campaign. In other words, one Clinton associate was feeding information to a Russian who was feeding it to another Clinton ally, who routed it to the FBI and the media as authentic information based on sourcing from Russia. Mr. Steele actively canvassed the media to publicise graphic details about Mr. Trump’s sexual encounters in Russia. Mr. Dachenko has denied charges of lying to the FBI, but what is already embarrassing the anti-Trump segments of the U.S. media is that they were taken for a ride. Mr. Trump and the conservative media are excited about the indictment. The former President has said a lot more will be coming out as the Special Counsel continues his probe. The Washington Post has admitted that the “allegations (against Mr. Danchenko) cast new uncertainty on some past reporting on the dossier by news organisations, including The Washington Post ”. John Ratcliffe, former Director of National Intelligence who declassified a lot of material related to the Russia probe, said a lot more will be revealed by Mr. Durham. According to Mr. Ratcliffe, the FBI knew the Clinton campaign was working on creating a false narrative on Trump-Russia collusion. He said he had handed over more than 1,000 classified documents to the Special Counsel — which is being used in the investigation. In all this, Mr. Durham has remained mostly silent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lies-and-spies/article37605890.ece
21 November 2021||Lucknow,||DGPs’ meet discusses emerging challenges||Violence perpetrated by Maoists, action against terror modules and cyber crime were some of the issues that figured prominently at the conference of DGPs here on Saturday attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, DGPs of all States and Union Territories, DGs of central police organisations and 350 other senior police officers attended the second day of the three-day conference. The Prime Minister sat through the deliberations in the entire session on Saturday, an official said. The conference discussed a wide range of issues including cyber crime, counter-terrorism challenges, Left Wing Extremism and emerging trends in narcotics trafficking, the official said. Since 2014, the Prime Minister has been taking a keen interest in the conference. Unlike the symbolic presence earlier, he makes it a point to attend all sessions and encourages free and informal discussions that provide an opportunity to the officials to directly brief the Prime Minister on key policing and internal security issues affecting the country, another official said. Hybrid format The conference, organised by the Intelligence Bureau, is being held in hybrid format. The DGPs of States and other police organisations attended the conference physically here, while the remaining invitees participated virtually from 37 locations. As envisioned by the Prime Minister, since 2014, the annual conferences, used to be customarily organised in Delhi, have been organised outside with an exception in 2020 when it was held virtually. There have been considerable changes in the format, topics covered, deliverables at the meet since 2014. The number of business sessions and topics has increased significantly with focus on improving policing in service of people. Before 2014, deliberations largely focused on national security matters. Since 2014, these conferences have a twin focus of national security and core policing issues, including prevention and detection of crime, community policing, law and order, improving police-image, etc., a Home Ministry official said. Earlier, the conference was Delhi-centric with officers coming together only for the conference. Residing in the same premises over 2-3 days has served to build heightened sense of unity among all cadres and organisations since 2014. Direct interaction Direct interaction of the top brass with the Head of the Government has resulted in convergence of views on crucial challenges faced by the country and emergence of doable recommendations, the official said. Since 2015, detailed follow-up of recommendations of past conferences has been the norm and the topic of the first business session, attended by the Prime Minister and the Home Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgps-meet-discusses-emerging-challenges/article37605856.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Nihangs share in the joy of ‘farmer brothers’||The Nihang Sikhs, also known as Sikh warriors, were among the proudest and the happiest lot at the Singhu border on Saturday, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the scrapping of the three farm laws. This was despite the flak they said they had received last month after a 33-year-old man was allegedly lynched by members of their sect at the protest site. Donning blue robes and boasting swords and armours, the Nihangs rejoiced at the fact that their farmer brothers had won their battle after a year-long struggle and that they felt proud of having acted as their protectors throughout the protest. They said while there was a fair amount of opposition after last month’s incident, “they felt validated today as their sole goal was to protect the farmers and see them realise their demands”. Opposition from SKM Gyani Shamsher Singh, a Nihang Sikh, said that after last month’s incident, while the Nihangs faced opposition from the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), they have been steadfast in their stand to punish those who have committed sacrilege. “Ever since our sect came into being, we have been called names and opposed by several persons, none of it bothers us as our job is to secure the farmers’ safety and we are all one,” Mr. Singh said. The SKM had distanced itself from the Nihangs and the victim, who allegedly desecrated the Sarbloh Granth, after the incident and called for a police investigation into the same. Four Nihang Sikhs were arrested in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nihangs-share-in-the-joy-of-farmer-brothers/article37605860.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tourists now prefer to travel farther, longer||With festivals and the coming holiday season raising demand for travel to levels not seen since the COVID-19 pandemic, where people are headed, for how long and what is their means of transport are distinctly different from the early days of relaxation of lockdown across the States. After the second wave of COVID-19 subsided, and travel confidence began to gradually return from June, the average length of stay was between five to seven nights, with most people preferring destinations located within a driving distance. Now, people are willing to plan a longer break of up to 10 days, especially for Christmas and New Year, and take a flight to travel further away, says Daniel D’Souza, president & country head, SOTC Travel. For most domestic tourists, it is a toss-up between hill stations in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Kashmir, Mahabaleshwar and Ooty or the beaches of Puducherry and Goa, say various online travel agents. Jaipur and Udaipur in Rajasthan are also hot favourites. ‘Workation homestays’ MakeMyTrip has also seen a large number of bookings for homestays in Goa, Lonavala, Alibaug and Mahabaleshwar in the west, and Nainital, Mussoorie, Shimla and Manali in the north. Kodagu, Munnar, Chikkamagaluru and Ooty in the south are popular for their “workation homestays”, including plantation stays and eco-friendly cottages. So, who do Indians prefer to travel with? Mr. D’Souza says their survey shows that 62% respondents prefer to travel with family or friends, 20% as either couples or solo and 18% as part of a vaccinated group. “The spotlight has shifted firmly to Destination India and we have witnessed a surge across domestic destinations. We have achieved our 12-month 2019 bookings in merely nine months of 2021 and are currently on 135%. International [travel] has seen a surge of 9X in queries for international travel for July-September vs April-June of 2021-22,” said Rajeev Kale, president and country head, Holidays, MICE, Visa, Thomas Cook (India) Ltd. International travel “We know there is huge pent-up demand because any time restrictions lift, we see immediate, pumped-up demand — be it domestic or international,” says Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager, South Asia, Booking.com. “Destinations in South Asia seem to be on the much-awaited list of Indian tourists, with many eagerly waiting to travel to Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, as restrictions ease in the near future. We have seen a significant jump in international travel bookings for November and as per the data on the platform, the month is leading with most travel bookings during the quarter,” says Vipul Prakash, COO, MakeMyTrip. He adds that there has been a significant uptick in searches and bookings to the U.K. and to the U.S. Not just leisure travel, corporate travel is also gradually picking up — 24% of IndiGo’s total business comes from business travel. The airline ferries almost six out of every 10 air travellers who fly domestically. Its chief strategy and revenue officer, Sanjay Kumar, recently said they had seen a 50% recovery in the corporate segment, and that post-Deepavali, this was likely to improve further. “People have started travelling for meetings and conferences on the corporate side,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tourists-now-prefer-to-travel-farther-longer/article37605878.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Don’t share stage with Ajay Mishra, Priyanka urges PM||A day after the announcement on repealing the three contentious farm laws, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday stepped up the attack on the Narendra Modi Government, asking the Prime Minister to sack Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’. Mr. Mishra’s son Ashish is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident where protesting farmers were mowed down by vehicles of the Minister’s convoy. The Congress leader also urged the Prime Minister not to share the stage with the Minister at the conference of Directors-General of Police (DGPs) in Lucknow, keeping in mind the farmers’ interest. Reading out a letter she wrote to the Prime Minister, Ms. Vadra said: “Yesterday, while addressing the people of the country, you had said that with true mind and pious heart and keeping in mind the interests of the farmers, an unprecedented decision to repeal the farm laws was taken. If this is true, then getting justice delivered to the families affected by the Lakhimpur Kheri violence should be your top priority.” “If today, your intention is really clear about the farmers of the country, then you should not share the stage with the Union Minister of State for Home, and remove him,” Ms. Vadra added. The Congress also observed the day as Kisan Vijay Divas across the country to celebrate the victory of the farmers. Separately, the former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi sent out personalised SMSs to active members of the Congress, urging them to inform people how the party fought against the farm laws. “Dear xxx, We fought hard for the farmers and forced the Modi government to withdraw the black agriculture laws,” Mr. Gandhi said in his message. The message linked to his January 14 press interaction in Madurai where he had said, “Mark my words, the Government will have to take back the anti-farm laws.” From such messages to visiting the families of farmers who died during the agitation and building a memorial in Punjab in their honour, the Congress has been quick to build a political narrative around the complete rollback of the farm laws. While the BJP has sought to build bridges with the farming community ahead of the Assembly elections in key States such as Punjab and Uttar Pradesh (especially western U.P.), the Congress has linked recent decisions such as reduction in fuel prices and rollback of farm laws to elections. The party has argued that a setback for the BJP in the recent byelections across 14 States effected a Rs. 10 and Rs. 5 cut in excise duty on diesel and petrol. “The nation wins in BJP defeat,” said Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-share-stage-with-ajay-mishra-priyanka-urges-pm/article37605865.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC seeks full-fledged hearing on Delhi pollution||A senior advocate in the Supreme Court has written to the Supreme Court judges to hold full-fledged, back-to-back hearings to resolve the pollution crisis. The parent of one of the three children who moved the court to ban firecrackers, senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, said pollution is not a ‘winter’s tale’. The focus on pollution should not be confined to a few court hearings in the winter months. The evil has spread its tentacles outside the capital. Pollutants claim a child every three minutes. Filthy air broadens the great divide between the rich and the poor, even among children, Mr. Sankaranarayanan observed. He acknowledged that he is “privileged to have cleaner air waft through ventilated machines, of vacations that allow us to escape, of cars with rolled-up windows, of access to health care and of even courtrooms with air purifiers”. “But what about the small, grey faces at traffic lights blinking cheerfully at us as they peddle their wares? Or the thousands in Kumhar colony who use choking woodfires for their daily bread? And the tiny bodies rummaging on the disgraceful landfills of Bhalswa, Okhla and Ghazipur as they inhale hydrogen sulphide? As also the millions across the country, because this is no longer a Delhi problem, as the readings from Chennai last week will stand testament,” Mr. Sankaranarayanan wrote. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana is hearing the pollution case. In the last hearing, the CJI reproached the “apathy” of bureaucracy who fail to take preventive steps before the pollution graph goes off-charts, waiting for the apex court to pass judicial orders. Cases of LRI “As each minute micron of the PM2.5 comes to rest on the surface of a child’s lung, never to leave, we are made grimly aware of a shadow enveloping us – of future years with pulmonary disorders, collapsed lungs and worse,” Mr. Sankaranaraynan shared an anxiety shared by the court since 1985, when the first case against air pollution was filed by advocate and activist M.C. Mehta. “More than 1 crore children in the last quarter of a century did not live past their fifth year because of Lower Respiratory Tract Infection (LRI) occasioned by air pollution,” he noted. “A Lancet Report from last year said that 1.7 million deaths of Indians were due to the poison that was being breathed, which was estimated to be a Rs. 2,60,000 crore loss to the economy (about 1.5% of the GDP),” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-seeks-full-fledged-hearing-for-delhi-pollution/article37605873.ece
21 November 2021||Kolkata,||‘Modi, Mamata have same political DNA’||There is an uncanny resemblance in the governance styles of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, though they come from different parties and oppose each other, says Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury , leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha. He says both Mr. Modi and Ms. Banerjee are interested in self-promotion and seek to extend the tenure of bureaucrats who have been subservient to the ruling party. Excerpts:  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced the repeal of the three contentious farm laws. What is your reaction to this development? We from the Congress party welcome the development. This is indeed the victory of the agitating farmers. The BJP Government has been constrained to bow down to the nationwide protest in support of the farmers. Since the very beginning, the Congress party led by Rahul Gandhi overwhelmingly supported the farmers’ movement and led tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana. In the upcoming session of Parliament, we are eagerly waiting for the Union Government to withdraw these laws. We may also seek compensation for the farmers who were martyred during this long agitation. As the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, you are opposing the policies of the BJP at the Centre, but in West Bengal, you are critical of the Trinamool Congress Government. Don’t you think that all Opposition should be united to take on the BJP? Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee have the same style of governance and have same political DNA. The Centre has just passed two ordinances that will allow it to extend the tenures of the Directors of the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate from two years to five years. This is exactly what the Trinamool Congress Government has been doing — extending the tenure of bureaucrats who have been subservient to the ruling party. Similarly, when it comes to self-promotion, both Mamata and Modi are never tired of advertising themselves at the cost of the exchequer. There is an uncanny resemblance. So if Narendra Modi can parade on an Indian Air Force aircraft on an expressway in Uttar Pradesh, there is no corner across West Bengal where there are no photos, graffiti and posters of Mamata Banerjee. What do you think of the Trinamool Congress expanding its base in Tripura and Goa. Congress leaders are joining Trinamool in large numbers in both the States? In both the States, there are some political vagabonds who have defected from the Congress and joined the Trinamool. There is a ploy of projecting Congress-M (Mamata). There is no harm in having political ambitions. But ambitions should not be bereft of logic or understanding of electoral arithmetic. Because of the attempts of the Trinamool to split the electorate in Tripura and Goa, the BJP will be the beneficiary. Who knows, the BJP may have the last laugh in these small States once the Opposition vote is divided. The Congress did not put up a candidate against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhabanipur byelection. Why the animosity still? Yes, we did not put up a candidate against her. On August 20, Mamata Banerjee participated in a meeting of Opposition parties convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi where it was decided that all Opposition parties will campaign on 11 important and sensitive issues. However, on September 6, after being questioned by the Enforcement Directorate, Trinamool MP and general secretary Abhishek Banerjee targeted the Congress. This indicates that there is a change in the strategy of the Trinamool and they will go hammer and tongs against the Congress. After the Assembly election in West Bengal, the Trinamool has further strengthened its hold in the State. The Opposition, including the BJP, is losing its support base as evident in the byelection. There is no existence of Opposition in West Bengal now. There was a vacuum created in the Opposition after the decimation of the Left and the Congress which was taken by the BJP. However, the politics of polarisation has its own life span. It is fast shrinking, particularly when people are suffering from issues of life and livelihood.  The politics of communal polarisation has its own life span, which is shrinking fast||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-mamata-have-same-political-dna/article37605854.ece
21 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Police is ranked third in quality of policing||The Assam police have been ranked third in quality of policing, a survey by the Indian Police Foundation (IFP) has said. According to the ‘IPF Citizen Satisfaction Survey on Smart Policing, 2021’, the popular satisfaction with the quality of policing is highest in three States each in southern and north-eastern India while Gujarat is the only State from the rest of the country among the top seven. Andhra Pradesh tops the list followed by Telangana, Assam, Kerala, Sikkim, Mizoram and Gujarat, the survey said. The IPF report, released on November 18, said the survey is aimed at gauging public perceptions about the quality of policing in India and the level of public trust in the force. A total of 1,61,192 people were interviewed for the survey and 64% of the responses were received online and 36% gathered offline. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana accounted for 56.48% of the total number of responses. The questionnaire covered 10 areas of policing comprising six indicators of competence, three indicators of values and one on public trust. The scores, indicative of the levels of citizen satisfaction, were set on a scale of 1 to 10. Andhra Pradesh (8.11), Telangana (8.10), Assam (7.89), Kerala (7.53) and Sikkim (7.18) emerged as the top five States in the IFP Smart Policing Index 2021. Bihar (5.74), Uttar Pradesh (5.81), Chhattisgarh (5.93), Jharkhand (6.07) and Punjab (6.07) featured at the bottom of the list. The smart policing idea was introduced at the conference of the Directors-General of Police of the States and Central police organisations held in Guwahati in 2014. It envisaged systemic changes to transform the Indian police to be “strict and sensitive, modern and mobile, alert and accountable, reliable and responsive, techno-savvy and trained”. Experts from institutions such as the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai were involved in the survey, a statement from IFP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-police-is-ranked-third-in-quality-of-policing/article37606403.ece
21 November 2021||Srinagar,||Hizbul militant killed in Kashmir||One militant “commander” of the Hizbul Mujahideen was killed in an encounter at Kulgam in south Kashmir on Saturday. A police spokesperson said the militant was encircled during a search operation in the Ashumji area of Kulgam, south Kashmir, on Saturday. He “was offered to surrender”, but was killed after he opened fire on the security forces. The police identified the deceased as “Mudasir Wagay, the newly appointed district commander of the Hizb”. The police said Wagay was an “A+ category” militant and had been active since 2018. “He was one among the list of most wanted terrorists and was part of groups involved in several terror crimes, including attacks on security forces, and civilian atrocities,” the police told presspersons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hizbul-militant-killed-in-kashmir/article37605863.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||EPFO allows faster decisions on investment opportunities||The Central Board of Trustees (CBT) of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Saturday approved a proposal to speed up decisions on investment opportunities, according to EPFO officials. The CBT, at a meeting chaired by Labour and Employment Minister Bhupender Yadav, “decided to empower the Finance Investment and Audit Committee (FIAC) to decide upon the investment options, on case-to-case basis, for investment in all such asset classes which are included in the Pattern of Investment as notified by Government of India”, the Ministry said. Labour and Employment Secretary Sunil Barthwal told The Hindu that empowering the FIAC with greater powers would mean “faster decision-making so that good investment opportunities are not missed due to want of a CBT meeting”. A CBT member, K.E. Raghunathan, said the significant decision would “yield a higher rate of return”. “The FIAC considered various risk factors and mitigation of such risks to recommend this as a good investment opportunity should not be lost if there is adequate risk cover and good yield,” he said. Role of sub-committees The CBT approved the Minister’s suggestion to form four sub-committees on establishment-related matters, implementation of the Social Security Code, digital capacity-building and pension-related issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-allows-faster-decisions-on-investment-opportunities/article37605870.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CoWIN to allow firms to verify vaccination status of people||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday said it had unveiled a feature that allows third party entities such as travel agencies, offices and employers to verify an individual’s vaccination status. This, it stated, would obviate the need for a physical vaccination certificate. The feature, as it is called, was enabled on the CoWIN digital platform on Saturday. It could be accessed by clicking on the “Share your vaccination status” sub-link. The service when queried would return results as “fully vaccinated,” “partially vaccinated,” or “not vaccinated. It ensured privacy, the Government claimed, and could verify a person’s vaccination status without revealing the beneficiary’s protected health data. ‘Flaunt vaccine badge’ Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya promoted the launch of the application via Twitter by inviting people to “flaunt your vaccine badge.” On Wednesday, the Ministry announced that the number of Indians who’ve got two doses of a vaccine exceeded those who have got only one dose, and heralded it as a “significant achievement.” However, a look at vaccination data shows that this is because of a sharp fall in those taking their first dose, and the country, despite its high net numbers, has for more than month been lagging in reaching the unvaccinated. India has administered over 115 crore vaccines as on Saturday evening. While India has given 28% of its population two doses, China has covered 74%, the U.S. 58%, and the U.K. 68%. Only 54% of India has got at least one dose. It is 82% in China, 74% in the U.K. and 68% in the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cowin-to-allow-firms-to-verify-vaccination-status-of-people/article37605876.ece
21 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘State Govt. was misled on Antilia case by Param Bir Singh’||In his first interview since taking charge as Maharashtra’s Minister of Home Affairs in April 2021 — then on the brink of unprecedented chaos due to constant interference from Central probe agencies, and vilification by political opponents of the State Government — Dilip Walse-Patil told The Hindu that he intended to have no confrontation with the Central Bureau of Investigation, and accepted that former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh had misled former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, on the Antilia case briefings.  Excerpts from the interview: Peace was disrupted in many parts of the State a few days ago. Did the police fail in gathering intelligence, which resulted in communal violence in Amravati? The situation in Amravati, where the violence broke out, is under control. Initially, Muslim organisations had given a State-wide call to protest against the incidents in Tripura. Malegaon, Nanded and Amravati saw a few incidents on that day. We had gathered intelligence but did not anticipate such a huge crowd. No permissions were sought or given for the protest march, or the agitation a day after by a political party. The government has formed an inquiry committee. Political allegations have been made by the BJP, accusing the State of sponsoring violence, while your side is pointing out the upcoming elections in other States. What is your opinion? I cannot directly blame the BJP as the probe is on, but a thing should be noted is: why was this reaction on Tripura visible only in Maharashtra and not in Gujarat or Uttar Pradesh? No serious incident took place on the first day but whatever happened took place when a political party [the BJP] gave the bandh call. Now all this is part of a probe. Action will be taken against all, be it a BJP leader or someone else, if their involvement is seen. I don’t agree with State-sponsored violence here. You were given the charge of the Home Ministry at a very crucial juncture. How has been your experience? First of all, I do not think that I was given this responsibility because the department was in bad shape. My party has given me important responsibilities in the past as well, and today, I am fulfilling the orders of my party president in handling this department. Law and order is our priority. We expect nobody to disrupt peace, otherwise action will be taken as per the law. Following the Antilia bomb scare case and the allegations by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, the department was in a bad shape. The Government chose to keep quiet on that controversy. What happened exactly? I was not the Home Minister then so I won’t be able to tell you the exact details. The only thing I can tell now is that the Government was misled on that [Antilia] case at that time by him [Param Bir Singh]. Similarly, a report alleging irregularities in police transfers was made by then State police intelligence chief Rashmi Shukla. Do you think the State Government should have acted on that report because Central agencies like the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate are probing those allegations now? The report is out in public. It has telephonic conversations between certain individuals. Police transfers are conducted through the police establishment board. And as far as Singh’s allegation of extortion is concerned, I don’t think it is factual. He himself has said in an affidavit that he has no evidence. The ED and CBI are conducting their investigations.  We expect nobody to disrupt peace, otherwise action will be taken as per the law||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-govt-was-misled-on-antilia-case-by-param-bir-singh/article37606125.ece
21 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘No evidence against Aryan, two others’||While granting bail to Aryan Khan, 23, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, in the drug racket case busted on a cruise ship in October, the Bombay High Court has said: “The court prima facie has not noticed any positive evidence against Aryan Khan and two others.” A single Bench of Justice Nitin Sambre had granted bail to Mr. Khan, and co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, on October 28. The detailed order was made available on Saturday. The Bench stated: “There is hardly any positive evidence on record to convince this Court that all the accused persons with common intention agreed to commit unlawful act. There is no material evidence to connect all these three Applicants with other co-accused on the issue of conspiracy.” ‘No meeting of minds’ The Bench went on to say: “Rather the investigation carried out till this date suggests that Mr. Khan and Mr. Merchant were travelling independent of Ms. Dhamecha and there was no meeting of minds on the aforesaid issue. So as to infer the case of conspiracy against the Applicants also, there is absence of material on record of them having such meeting of minds with other Accused who were named in the offence in question.” “This Court is of the opinion that the claim put forth by the Narcotic Control Bureau that the accused should be considered to have intention to commit an offence under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, having found in possession of commercial quantity, in the backdrop of case of hatching conspiracy is liable to be rejected,” it said. The Court also took note of the fact that the accused were not even subjected to medical examination so as to determine whether they had consumed drugs at the relevant time. On October 2, the NCB seized 13 g of cocaine, 5 g of MD (mephedrone), 21 g of charas, 22 pills of MDMA (Ecstasy), and Rs. 1,33,000 in cash at the International Cruise Terminal, Mumbai. Mr. Khan, and eight others, have been charged under Section 8 (c) (prohibition to produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consume, import inter-State, export inter-State, import into India, export from India or tranship any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance); Section 20 (b) (punishment for contravention in relation to cannabis plant and cannabis produces, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-State, exports inter-State or uses cannabis); and Sections 27, 28 and 29 read with Section 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (presumption of culpable mental state).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-evidence-against-aryan-two-others/article37605850.ece
21 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||BJP, AAP slam Sidhu for Imran remark||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday found himself in the middle of a fresh controversy after he reportedly said during his visit to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib at Kartarpur that Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was like an elder brother to him. Even as the Opposition parties — the BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — hit out at Mr. Sidhu, voices from within the Congress raised concern over the Punjab party unit chief’s statement. BJP’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh said it was most unfortunate for Punjab and the country that Mr. Sidhu, while in Pakistan, had no words of praise for his motherland but instead was singing praise for the Pakistan Prime Minister, who has been sending “drones and tiffin bombs” to Punjab. He said Mr. Sidhu’s remark that Mr. Khan was like his elder brother had made it evident that Mr. Sidhu was more in love with Pakistan than India. “The Congress stands exposed for its anti-national designs even when Punjab as a border State has been struggling to defeat the nefarious plots of Pakistan,” he alleged. Congress MP Manish Tewari on Twitter said, “Imran Khan may be anybody’s elder brother but for India he is that cat’s paw of Pak Deep State ISI-Military combine that drones’ arms & narcotics into Punjab & sends terrorists on a daily basis across LOC in J&K. Have we forgotten martyrdom of our soldiers in Poonch so soon?” AAP’s Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha said, “Deeply worrying that Punjab’s ruling party chief & Chief Minister are professing their love for Pak PM & Pakistan — a country that exports terror, executes terror modules, sends tiffin bombs & drones arms/drugs into Punjab. Do Sidhu and Channi not value the martyrdom of our jawans?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-aap-slam-sidhu-for-imran-remark/article37605852.ece
21 November 2021||Chandhigarh,||BJP finds fresh winds of hope in Punjab||The simmering anger against the BJP may not immediately mellow down among the farming community in Punjab after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a repeal of the controversial farm laws, but the decision has given enough impetus to the BJP to make inroads in the State ahead of the Assembly election in early 2022. In Punjab, the BJP and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had been in an alliance for the Assembly election, on a seat-sharing formula in which the SAD would contest 94 seats and the BJP 23. However, amid the controversy over the Centre’s farm laws, the SAD, one of the BJP’s oldest alliance partners, decided to break away from the National Democratic Alliance. The BJP recently announced it would contest in all 117 constituencies in the upcoming Assembly election. Even as a seat-sharing arrangement with former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s newly launched party — Punjab Lok Congress — is on the cards, an official declaration on it is still awaited. The BJP and Capt. Amarinder joining hands is being seen as a win-win situation for both. Over the years, the BJP has been contesting the electoral battle in Punjab as a “junior partner” in alliance with the SAD, but now the party has a wide open field to explore its possibilities. Against the backdrop of the emergence of ‘polarisation’ politics lately, the BJP could move in to attract the Hindu votes in the State, especially in urban areas. The SAD is seen as a Panthic (Sikh) party and hence, largely, the Hindu voters have traditionally remained inclined towards the Congress. As the BJP in the past continued to contest with the SAD, the Hindu voters had kept away from the BJP; however, with the BJP now all set to independently fight the upcoming Assembly election, the fight to garner the support of Hindu votes between the Congress and the BJP would be critical for both parties. Some political observers feel that with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu “over-focusing” on Sikh issues to attract Panthic’ votes, the Congress may end up losing the substantial support of the Hindu vote bank. In Punjab, which shares the International Border with Pakistan, the narrative of nationalism, which the BJP has been of late playing its politics on, blends well with the personality of Capt. Amarinder, who has been raking up the dangers of drugs and weapons smuggling from Pakistan. The BJP has been making attempts to garner the support of the Sikh community by presenting itself as the party that has worked towards the interests of Sikhs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-finds-fresh-winds-of-hope-in-punjab/article37605868.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||SKM to go ahead with march to Parliament||On the relevance of the Lucknow rally, Mr Tikait said farmers retain the right to hold mahapanchayats. “The Lakhimpur probe is not on the right track as the Union Minister who was allegedly part of the conspiracy has not been questioned. The increase in the State Advised Price of sugarcane is not as per our expectations. It is still lower than in Haryana and Punjab. I don’t think we will be stopped but if the Government does it, it will do it at its own peril,” he said. Meanwhile, sources in the BKU said they were surprised that the Prime Minister chose to repeal the laws instead of promising a law on the MSP. No MSP guarantee In western U.P., the demand for the elusive statutory MSP guarantee has found much more political resonance than the three farm laws, which were in suspended animation. In fact, BJP leaders who had to do the explaining in villages would crib that promulgation of farm laws has given life to an old demand that no government would like to fulfil. “No wonder, the Prime Minister chose to repeal the farm laws as giving guaranteed MSP would have hurt the corporate friends more,” said a BKU source, laughing at the way farmers had tied up the BJP in knots on the issue. SAP of sugarcane In fact, a few weeks back, the talk in the BKU circles was that before the U.P. Assembly election, the State Government would increase the SAP of sugarcane and the Central Government would accept the demand for an MSP law. “We told the RSS functionaries and top officials who approached us that we understand the compulsions of the government in revoking the farm laws as it would spiral demands for the repeal of Citizenship Amendment Act and reading down of Article 370. We don’t want to put the PM in a spot. Amendments in the farm laws and the MSP law would have resolved the logjam. It seems the decision [to repeal the laws] was spurred by some internal tussle in the BJP and/ or the party wants to use the issue to create a Hindu-Muslim divide,” said a senior BKU leader, requesting anonymity, referring to Muslim voices on the repeal of CAA. Observers say the ruling party was threatened by the increasing social cohesion under the farmer umbrella and it would have affected BJP’s vote banks in the caste-ridden U.P. Improved formula Interestingly, while the RSS-affiliate Bhartiya Kisan Sangh denies the threat of increased social bonding, its leaders in western U.P. admit the real issue in the region was the statutory MSP guarantee. “We have been putting forth even a better formula whereby farmers should get 20% above the cost incurred which should be corrected as per inflation,” said a BKS leader from Muzaffarnagar. During the farmers’ agitation against the contentious farm laws, Mr. Tikait carefully cultivated the demand for MSP to make his supporters join the farmers from Haryana and Punjab who were more affected by the laws. Invoking his father Mahendra Singh Tikait’s formula, he would say the cost of three quintals of wheat should be equal to ten grams of gold. “In 1967, when the Government fixed the MSP of wheat at Rs. 76 per quintal the rate of gold was Rs. 200 per tola . A farmer could buy 10 grams of gold by selling three quintals of wheat. At that time the monthly salary of a primary teacher was Rs. 70. Today, the price of gold is above Rs. 40,000 per tola and the MSP of wheat is Rs. 1,975 per quintal.” Earthy approach It is this earthy approach that planted the idea of guaranteed MSP in farmers’ minds, and now with the “black laws” being repealed, they feel that MSP law is also an achievable target. “In our region, there is a proverb that when an opponent falls during a battle, he gets two extra kicks,” said a BKU leader, explaining the farmers’ decision to stay put. “Now you will even higher attendance at the Lucknow mahapanchayat,” said Rajveer Singh, BKU state vice-president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/skm-to-go-ahead-with-march-to-parliament/article37605843.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Indore keeps cleanest city tag for fifth year||Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri said the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan had become a mass movement. Among cities, Surat and Vijayawada secured the second and third place, respectively. The Ministry said the survey was carried out in 4,320 cities over 28 days, where feedback from 4.2 crore persons was recorded. Of States with over 100 urban local bodies (ULBs), Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh were ranked second and third respectively. Jharkhand was judged the cleanest State with less than 100 ULBs, followed by Haryana and Goa. Among cities with population over 1 lakh, Indore, Surat, Vijayawada, Navi Mumbai, New Delhi, Ambikapur, Tirupati, Pune, Noida and Ujjain were the top 10, in that order. Lucknow stood at 25 out of such cities. Of cities with population less than 1 lakh, Maharashtra’s Vita was the cleanest, followed by Lonavala and Sasvad. The New Delhi Municipal Council’s area was ranked the cleanest in the category of cities with 1-3 lakh population. Noida was named the cleanest among medium-sized cities, that is with 3 lakh to 10 lakh population. Among the big cities with population of 10 lakh to 40 lakh, Navi Mumbai was ranked the cleanest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indore-keeps-cleanest-city-tag-yet-again/article37605845.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Direct Govt. to give sign language interpreters’||A disability rights activist and advocate has moved the Supreme Court to direct the Government to provide sign language interpreters during briefings of Heads of States, Ministers and officials. Advocate M. Karpagam, a disabled lawyer practising at the Madras High Court, said disabled people have an equal right to information and communication. They should be able to learn the news on their own to analyse and take their own decisions based on the information. The plea said the disabled should be able to access the official press briefings of Ministers and Heads of States. It was their statutory right under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. The Act unequivocally prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities. The law puts the Government under an obligation to facilitate easy access to information and communication to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/direct-govt-to-give-sign-language-interpreters/article37605871.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Praying for the world||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/praying-for-the-world/article37606127.ece
21 November 2021||Bhopal,||Ganja sale: case against two Amazon officials||A case under NDPS Act has been registered against Amazon.com Inc’s local officials in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh for alleged smuggling of marijuana through the website. The case was filed on Saturday after the Bhind Police received a reply in response to last week’s summons following a raid that led to the arrest of two men and seizure of 20 kg of marijuana from them. During the investigations, the two reportedly told the investigators that they were using Amazon website to order and smuggle the marijuana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ganja-sale-case-against-two-amazon-officials/article37606402.ece
21 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam will be language lab, says Pradhan||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said he saw Assam as the laboratory of the country’s language-based education in the next decade. He was speaking at the North East Education Conclave 2021 in Guwahati on Saturday. “By the next decade, we are bound to implement the new approach on language. Whatever challenges may come, I see Assam becoming the laboratory of language-based and knowledge-imparting education system in the country,” he said. He said some 180 languages spoken by the communities and tribes in northeast India are the country’s strength. “More than 64 of these languages are spoken in Assam. I strongly believe the diversity of our language is the major unifying factor of our civilisation,” he said. ‘Pathways opened’ Stating that the National Education Policy (NEP) has opened many pathways, he said the focus should be on primary education with an emphasis on teaching in the mother tongue or the local language. “The NEP has amplified the possibility of language, giving importance to mother tongue, local languages,” Mr. Pradhan said. The NEP, he said, was designed keeping the fast-changing world in mind. “There are 26 crore students in India and 1.25 crore of them are studying in the northeast, primarily Assam. The NEP is the instrument and document for the transformative way in front of us. For humanity and civilisation, the challenge is how equal economic opportunities can be given to all sections of the society,” he said, praising the Assam Government for spending 6% of its GDP on education. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the NEP will motivate the students to strive for excellence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-will-be-language-lab-says-pradhan/article37605848.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Narendra Giri death: CBI files chargesheet||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday filed a chargesheet in the case of the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad chairman Acharya Narendra Giri against his disciple Anand Giri and two others, officials said. In its chargesheet filed in a court in Allahabad, the CBI has charged Anand Giri, priest of Allahabad's Bade Hanuman Temple Addhya Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari with criminal conspiracy and abetment to suicide. All three are in judicial custody. Narendra Giri was found dead by his disciples at the Baghambari Mutt in Allahabad on September 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/narendra-giri-death-cbi-files-chargesheet/article37605934.ece
21 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Power struggle in Nagaland||New Delhi has a new group to negotiate with for a solution to the seven-decades-old “Naga political problem”. Some leaders of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Reformation) led by Akato Chophi have formed a breakaway group by the same name. The split has been attributed to a power struggle within the outfit. There are more than a dozen extremist groups. All except the Yung Aung faction of the NSCN are in peace mode following ceasefire agreements with the Centre since 1997, beginning with the NSCN (Isak-Muivah). The Yung Aung faction operates from Myanmar and most of its members are Nagas of the neighbouring country. Chophi claimed his group has more than 2,000 active members and said the onus was on the Government of India to sign a peace deal with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/power-struggle-in-nagaland/article37605861.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Varun seeks ‘strict action’ against Mishra||BJP MP Varun Gandhi, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asked for “strict action” to be taken against Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son, Ashish Mishra, remains incarcerated for the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, which saw the death of eight people, including four farmers. Mr. Gandhi has echoed the demands made by his cousin, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, with regard to Mr. Mishra. A day after Mr. Modi’s announcement on the repeal of the three farm laws, Mr. Gandhi, while thanking him for his “large-heartedness” for the move, said if the step had been taken earlier, the lives of “many innocent farmers” could have been saved, and that the next step to a full rapprochement with farmers groups would be according statutory guarantee of minimum support price (MSP). ‘Appropriate action’ “The heartbreaking incident (Lakhimpur Kheri) is a blemish on our democracy. It is my request to you that appropriately strict action is taken against the Union Minister who has been connected to this incident so that there is a fair enquiry,” he wrote. Mr. Gandhi was the only BJP MP to protest the Minister’s alleged role in the incident. He sought a Rs. 1 crore compensation for the families of the farmers who lost their lives and the withdrawal of “all politically motivated false FIRs that have been registered as weapons of harassment” against farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varun-seeks-strict-action-against-mishra/article37605866.ece
21 November 2021||Bhopal,||E-commerce firm officials booked in M.P.||The Bhind district police in Madhya Pradesh have registered a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 against local officials of amazon.in in connection with the alleged smuggling of marijuana through the e-commerce network. The case was filed after the police received a reply filed by company officials, said an official. The reply from the e-commerce platform had come in response to a summons in connection with a search on Saturday that led to the arrest of two men with 20 kg of marijuana. The two told investigators that they were using Amazon’s site to “order and smuggle marijuana” to various States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/e-commerce-firm-officials-booked-in-mp/article37605926.ece
21 November 2021||Agartala,||Mob thrashes five persons in Tripura||A mob thrashed a group of five godmen from Uttar Pradesh on suspicion of being child abductors at a locality in west Tripura on Saturday. The incident occurred at Teliamura in Khowai district, about 43 km east of Agartala. The police said one of the five godmen was wounded. A mob thrashed them after detaining them over rumours of child abduction at Shanti Nagar in the Teliamura police station limits. Verifying claims The incident occurred outside a Shiva temple. The police have kept the godmen at the station and are verifying their credentials as well as the claims of the local residents. The godmen, residents of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh, said they were on a pilgrimage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mob-thrashes-five-persons-in-tripura/article37605874.ece
21 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha allows cultural shows to resume||After a significant improvement in the COVID-19 situation, the Odisha government has permitted cultural activities such as operas, open air theatres and street plays. The State has been reporting fewer than 300 COVID-19 cases for the past nine days and active cases have remained in single digit in six districts. Cultural programmes such as orchestra, theatre and dance programmes have been allowed with due compliance to COVID-19 protocols, said P. K. Jena, Special Relief Commissioner, in an order issued to this effect. It has been clarified that not more than 2,000 can assemble at one place and seating arrangement has to be made maintaining six feet from each other.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-allows-cultural-shows-to-resume/article37605884.ece
21 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Review hydro projects in Arunachal’||The People’s Party of Arunachal (PPA) has slammed the government for allegedly not taking any action against power developers who failed to commission hydroelectric projects despite deadlines set in the memoranda of agreements. “Not even one of the 143 power projects for which deals were signed has taken off. There has been no follow-up action from the government,” PPA secretary Kaling Jerang said. “In spite of information sought through RTIs, the government is yet to give the details on the Rs. 14,000 crore collected as upfront money. The government has also not provided any feedback to various organisations,” Mr. Jerang stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/review-hydro-projects-in-arunachal/article37605883.ece
21 November 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||288 tanks reach full capacity in Ariyalur||With Ariyalur district receiving more than average rainfall during North East monsoon already, 288 out of the 2,477 tanks and ponds under the control of Public Works Department and local bodies have filled up. Disclosing this here on Saturday, Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi said that the district had received 613.38 mm of rain since October 1, which was 6% more than the average received during the North East monsoon. The district has received 1,336.84 mm of rainfall since January and this was 22% more than the normal average rainfall of the district for a year. Thanks to the good inflows, 288 tanks have filled up and 129 others were close to filling up with water storage of more than 90% of their capacities. The storage at 532 other tanks and ponds was more than 80% of their capacities; 701 water bodies had more than 70% storage;and 616 other tanks had more than 50% storage. The storage at Siddhamali reservoir in the district stood at 211.05 million cubic feet (mcft) on Saturday against its capacity of 226.8 mcft. The reservoir was still getting an inflow of 256 cusecs. The Ponneri near Jayamkondam had 94.50 mcft (capacity 114.45 mcft) of water. The surplus discharge from the two reservoirs have been suspended. The PWD was maintaining a close vigil on water flow to the waterbodies and their banks and if necessary surplus waters would be discharged, she said. During the widespread rain in the district under the NE monsoon, 987 houses have been damaged. Of this, 20 huts were fully damaged and 655 others were partially damaged. Three tiled houses were partially damaged. Relief has been distributed to the affected persons. Paddy crop on 217.55 hectares, maize (cholam) and pearl millet (kambu) on 56.68 ha, pulses on 14.24 ha, and cotton on 1,588.18 ha had been damaged in the district due to the rain. This apart, paddy on 524 ha, ‘cholam’ and ‘kambu’ on 80 ha, pulses on 301 ha, sugarcane on six ha and cotton on 4,004 ha had been inundated due to the rain. Steps have been taken to drain the water from the fields. Enumeration of affected crops was still under way as the rain was continuing, Ms.Saraswathi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/288-tanks-reach-full-capacity-in-ariyalur/article37606163.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination: Karnataka crosses 7 crore mark||With the total number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in Karnataka crossing the seven crore mark on Saturday, the State is inching towards achieving 100% inoculation. With 2,83,338 doses administered till 6 p.m. on Saturday, the total number of doses touched 7,01,99,026. Of these 2,65,27,346 are second doses. Stocks available With a target population of 4.89 crore, the State had a task of administering a total of 9.78 crore doses (first and second doses included). With 7.01 crore doses administered till Saturday, the State has achieved a cumulative coverage of 71.67%. The challenge is to administer the remaining 2.76 crore doses. As of Saturday, the State had a stock of 90,76,172 doses. Currently, the State is in the sixth position in the country after Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, and Bihar. On September 17, during the mega vaccination drive that coincided with the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the State had crossed five crore mark. The State has been conducting special vaccination camps every Wednesday with a target of 10 lakh doses. However, with not many people coming forward to get jabbed, the State has been able to administer around five to six lakh doses only every Wednesday. COVID-19 vaccination was rolled out on January 16 for healthcare workers followed by frontline workers in the first and second phases. So far, 77% of the targeted 8,98,717 healthcare workers have been fully vaccinated while 85.1% has been jabbed with the first dose. Over 96% of the targeted 8,69,700 frontline workers have been fully vaccinated. Last-mile issues Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said, “Although over 40 lakh people are due for the second dose in Karnataka, it has become a challenging task for the State to get them inoculated as people are not coming forward.” With the number of new cases declining, people have become reluctant to get vaccinated. The government has started ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door campaign to motivate those who are yet to get vaccinated. “This is a national campaign that will go on till November 30 as the trend is the same across the country,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-karnataka-crosses-7-crore-mark/article37605908.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to get ‘bala sabhas’ in all panchayats||The creation of ‘bala sabhas’ at all village panchayats for children aged 12 to 18, on the lines of gram sabhas, the introduction of a child protection policy at all panchayats and urban bodies and a child safeguarding policy at all schools are among the provisions envisioned in the Tamil Nadu State Policy for Children, 2021, released by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday. “Bala sabhas, which will meet at least four times a year like the gram sabhas, will pass resolutions on matters related to children and submit them to gram sabhas to take appropriate action,” the policy said. The policy has also provided for strategic approaches in four specific areas — life, survival, health and nutrition; education; protection, and participation. Though it makes a mention of POSH, it does not mention the POCSO Act. The policy also notes that the pandemic has exacerbated the existing inequity in education, digital divide, learning crisis, violence against children and poverty, and has further increased the vulnerability of children. Speaking to The Hindu , child rights activist R. Vidyasagar welcomed the government releasing the policy. “Tamil Nadu has already achieved near universal elementary education, and health indicators for children too are in an advanced stage. It remains a problem only for the last-mile population. But there are some exclusive issues that the children in Tamil Nadu face, which have not yet developed in other States. There is a big gap in secondary education, and there are many pockets of poor enrolment in secondary education within the districts,” he said. Adolescent children are at crossroads, he said, adding: “They are subjected to hard labour, they face sexual and other abuses, and early marriages and teen pregnancies, substance abuse, trafficking and mental health issues are the other problems that they face. By addressing these specific issues upfront in the policy, Tamil Nadu can show the way for addressing second-generation issues of children for the whole country,” said the former child protection specialist with UNICEF. “The policy should have paid more attention to providing life skills education and guidance for adolescents, including on reproductive health and other aspects,” he said, adding the two innovative things that could be done were making secondary education free and compulsory for all, and providing specific legal protection to adolescent children, who are treated neither as children nor as adults under most laws. The policy will be implemented by developing a comprehensive plan of action. An exclusive multi-sectoral advisory group will be constituted at the State level for the implementation of the policy and for further monitoring. The policy said Tamil Nadu would regularly carry out a child budget analysis. To access the policy document, log on to:https://bit.ly/tnchildpolicy2 021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-get-bala-sabhas-in-all-panchayats/article37606075.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Northern parts of city remain flooded as Kosasthalaiyar swells||Several parts of northern areas in the city remained flooded on Saturday when Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited Manali New Town and inspected relief and rescue measures. At least 31 low-lying areas in the city were flooded on Saturday. In north Chennai, areas in the Kosasthalaiyar river basin, such as Manali, were heavily flooded. In addition to residential areas, container yards and industrial areas too bore the brunt. Many villages in Tiruvallur district were inundated. Officials said Poondi reservoir received heavy inflow from various sources like Nandhi river and Kesavaram and Ammapalli dams in Andhra Pradesh. The Kosasthalaiyar carried nearly 45,000 cusecs of water on Friday. Although the river had a capacity to carry up to 70,000 cusecs downstream, stormwater from some of the villages flowed in, and this led to reverse flow in places like Vellivoyal and Idayanchavadi, the officials said. The Water Resources Department reduced water release from Poondi reservoir to 23,000 cusecs as there was a dip in the inflow. The reservoir has a storage of 2.95 tmcft. against its capacity of 3.23 tmcft, and the water level is maintained at 34.41 feet against its maximum level of 35 feet. Minister for Milk and Dairy Development S.M. Nasar and Tiruvallur Collector Alby John Varghese inspected the flooded areas, including Vellivoyal, along the Kosasthalaiyar. The Minister inspected the spot near Vazhuthigaimedu at Sholavaram taluk, where the river bank had been breached and sand bags had been placed as a temporary measure. Boats were used to rescue stranded residents at many places in north Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/northern-parts-of-city-remain-flooded-as-kosasthalaiyar-swells/article37606034.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Self-belief, focus key for success, Sindhu tells IIT-M graduates||Olympic medal-winner and shuttle badminton world champion P.V. Sindhu has said that hard work, discipline and passion were important to succeed in any field, including sports. She was speaking at the 58th convocation of IIT Madras held virtually on Saturday. Congratulating the graduates for their hard work, Ms. Sindhu encouraged them to continue learning and explore newer horizons. “For the women who are graduating in particular, I would like to say that we need to believe in ourselves and that we can achieve anything if we focus whether it is in sports or education,” she said. As many as 1,962 students graduated from the institution. They included 392 candidates who received their Ph.D. This was the highest number of Ph.D degrees awarded in an academic year and comprised Ph.D, Joint Degree Ph.D with foreign institutions and dual degree Ph.D. Sumanth R. Hegde was awarded the President’s Prize for the highest CGPA amongst B. Tech and dual degree, and E. Santhosh Kumar was awarded the Sri V. Srinivasan Memorial Prize for the highest CGPA in dual degree. Guhan Narayanan was awarded the Dr. Shankar Dayal Sharma Prize for the best all round proficiency in curricular and extracurricular activities in B. Tech, and Mayur Vikas Joshi was awarded the Governor’s Prize for the best all-round proficiency in curricular extracurricular activities in dual degree. ‘It is new India’ “In the last couple of years, my belief in India to do cutting-edge research has become even stronger. I am truly impressed with what is being done at IIT-Madras in areas of 5G, drones, hyperloop, space technology, 3D printing and so on. Work like this will define the New India,” said Pawan Goenka, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Madras, speaking at the virtual ceremony. Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT-Madras, presented the institute’s annual report. He applauded the teachers and students who had weathered a difficult year during the pandemic and said that all of them saluted the commitment of the frontline workers who have been on campus. “Despite the pandemic, we have maintained our growth momentum in attracting funding for research from both government and industry. The growth in the latter is particularly encouraging and heart-warming, as IIT-Madras is widely perceived to be the leader in research collaboration with industry,” he said in his speech. “In 2020-21, the institute received sanction for 179 Ministry-sponsored projects for a total value of Rs. 359.25 crore and 533 consultancy and industry-sponsored research projects amounting to Rs. 230.09 crore,” he said. He said that they had filed for 195 patents during the year of which 68 are international filings and were granted 124 Indian and five international patents. “IITM-incubated companies are together valued at Rs. 11,400 crore, based on their last investment data. As many as 106 start-ups are in the market, having generated, despite the pandemic, revenue of Rs. 440 crore in FY20-21 and created more than 5,200 direct jobs,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/self-belief-focus-key-for-success-sindhu-tells-iit-m-graduates/article37606040.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decks cleared to implement amendment to APMC Act||With the Union Government deciding to repeal three farm laws, the decks have been cleared for the implementation of the amendment made last year to the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act (the APMC Act), which is aimed at, among others, giving freedom to agriculturists to sell their produce across time and space. On May 29, 2020, the then AIADMK government got an ordinance promulgated to amend the APMC Act, which covered a host of areas, such as providing for geographically restriction-free trade or transaction of agricultural produce across the State; enhancing transparency in trade; promoting emergence of multiple channels to competitive marketing; and encouraging investments in development of markets and marketing infrastructure. A week later, on June 5, the Union Government came out with three ordinances, including the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Law, which had enlarged the scope of ‘trade area’ to any area or location or place of production, collection and aggregation anywhere in the country for the trade of farmers’ produce. However, this was not applicable to the physical boundaries of those market yards or markets falling under the State APMC Acts. It was this aspect of allowing barrier-free trade of farmers’ produce outside the markets notified under the State APMC laws became the cause of agitation by sections of farmers. Though Tamil Nadu has been allowing virtually deregulated conditions for the farm market, it has not disturbed the power of the market committees, set up under the APMC Act, to monitor transactions taking place outside the regulated markets. The May 2020 ordinance, too, had left this aspect intact. However, with the constitutional position of a Central law prevailing over a State law on the same subject, the Tamil Nadu Government did not proceed to frame the rules, despite getting the ordinance approved by the Assembly in the form of a Bill and cleared by the then Governor Banwarilal Purohit in October. After the DMK took over in May this year, it got a Bill through the House to repeal the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2019, the subject of which was covered in another Central law. Enquiries reveal that Governor R.N. Ravi’s assent is awaited for the repeal Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decks-cleared-for-implementation-of-farm-law/article37606111.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||35-year-old Assam man dies at airport departure terminal||A 35-year-old man from Assam was found dead near a toilet at the departure terminal of Chennai airport on Saturday morning. On receipt of information, Airport police inspector Pandi and other personnel reached the spot and recovered the body. They conducted an investigation to identify the deceased. After going through the documents in his baggage, the police identified him as Dipak Paul from Assam, a construction worker. On Friday, he came toboard a flight to Guwahati. At the check-in point, he fainted and doctors in the airport gave him first aid and referred him to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. He again came to the airport on Saturday morning and was lying breathless near the toilet. On examination, he was found dead and his body was taken to the Government General Hospital, Chromepet, for a post-mortem examination. The police registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-year-old-assam-man-dies-at-airport-departure-terminal/article37606036.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Moderate rain to continue till Wednesday||Parts of the north coastal districts are likely to experience moderate rain on Sunday, and rainfall may be heavy in some districts. The State may see an increase in rainfall from Thursday, as a fresh weather system is expected to move towards Tamil Nadu’s coast. The cyclonic circulation, a remnant of Friday’s depression, may influence scattered rain, including in Puducherry and Karaikal, on Sunday. Heavy rain may occur in one or two places over Salem, Namakkal and Kallakurichi on Sunday. Delta districts and seven others may record isolated heavy rain on Monday. N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, said there may be an increase in rainfall over the State after Thursday. A cyclonic circulation is likely to move from the south of the Bay of Bengal towards Tamil Nadu’s coast, around Friday or Saturday. Chennai may experience thunderstorms, with light to moderate rain, in some areas, and a maximum temperature of 30 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Thunderstorms are common during the northeast monsoon due to temperature differences between the sea and land. They occur during early morning hours, when warm air from the sea interacts with cool land breeze. Sea surface temperatures are generally higher now, he said. Many weather stations in north Tamil Nadu recorded mild rain of up to 1 cm on Saturday, till 5.30 p.m. During the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday, Tirupuvanam in Sivaganga district and Jamunamarathur in Tiruvannamalai district received 7 cm, the day’s highest amount of rainfall in the State. The back-to-back weather systems have brought copious rain to the State. Tamil Nadu has so far recorded an overall 52 cm of rainfall — 68% excess than its normal since October 1. Many waterbodies in and around Chennai are already full. In Tiruvallur district, 404 of the 574 tanks, under the maintenance of the Water Resources Department, have touched 100% capacity. Among the 909 tanks in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, nearly 818 tanks were full as on Saturday. Waterbodies in Thenneri, Uthiramerur, Sriperumbudur, Pillaipakkam, Manimangalam, Thaiyur and Madurantagam, falling in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, have reached their full levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moderate-rain-to-continue-till-wednesday/article37606061.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 765 fresh COVID-19 cases and 12 deaths||As many as 765 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Saturday, taking its tally to 27,19,515. Twenty districts logged fewer than 10 fresh cases each and 31 saw no death due to the infection. Theni recorded no case. Coimbatore topped the table with 125 cases. Chennai followed with 118 cases. There were 73 cases in Erode, while Chengalpattu and Tiruppur saw 58 and 48 cases respectively. Forty-one people tested positive in Salem, while Namakkal recorded 39 cases. Among the 20 districts that saw cases in single digits, Pudukottai, Ranipet, Tenkasi and Tirupattur logged just a single case each. Nineteen districts have fewer than 100 active cases each. Theni continued to account for the least number of active cases at 10. At present, 8,827 people are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in the State, and Chennai accounts for a majority of the active cases at 1,297, followed by Coimbatore with 1,204. The State recorded 12 deaths, and its toll touched 36,361. Chengalpattu and Chennai recorded three deaths each, while there were two deaths in Salem. Among the deceased was a 38-year-old woman from Salem who had rheumatic heart disease. She was admitted to a private hospital in the district on November 18. She died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 879 persons were discharged after treatment. This took the total recoveries to 26,74,327. As many as 1,00,998 samples were tested, and the total count touched 5,32,57,459. Over three lakh people were vaccinated on Saturday — 3,40,092 people, including 1,95,219 aged 18 to 44 and 97,078 in the 45-59 age group, got jabs. This took the coverage in government centres to 6,22,06,497.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-765-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-12-deaths/article37606065.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palar witnessing flows never seen before||The Palar river, known for remaining dry ordinarily, has been witnessing historic flows, thanks to heavy rainfall in its catchment, including parts of Andhra Pradesh. At 5 p.m. on Saturday, the river witnessed the flow of 1.56 lakh cubic feet per second (cusecs), as recorded at the Vayalur checkdam in Chengalpattu district. The river joins the sea downstream the checkdam. Friday saw a rapid rise in flow from 43,535 cusecs at 6 a.m. to about 87,880 cusecs at 3 p.m., and about 1.65 lakh at midnight. Such flows are considered uncommon. Over 100 years ago, the river had registered a six-digit flow, an official of the Water Resources Department said. Originating from the Nandi Hills in Karnataka, the Palar flows down to Tamil Nadu through Andhra Pradesh. Of its total length of 348 km, 93 km lies in Karnataka, 33 km in Andhra Pradesh and 222 km in Tamil Nadu. The river, having seven tributaries, enters Tamil Nadu near Vaniyambadi. It covers many important towns such as Vellore and Kancheepuram. From November 10 to 20, about 37 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) of water drained into the sea through the Vayalur checkdam. This is equivalent to at least one-and-a-half years’ requirement of Chennai’s water supply. Chennai Metrowater supplies about 970 million litres a day to the city and its added areas. Even though the monthly requirement comes to about one tmc ft, an official, looking after the affairs of Chennai Metrowater, said one had to take into account evaporation and seepage losses, which came up to 40%. Going by this calculation, Chennai requires around 20 tmc ft a year to sustain the present level of water supply throughout the year, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palar-witnessing-flows-never-seen-before/article37606073.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister to inaugurate Connect 2021 on Nov. 26||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will on Friday inaugurate the 20th edition of Connect 2021 and launch various policies of the Information Technology Department. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) is organising Connect 2021, an international conference and exhibition on Information and Communication Technology (ICT) on Friday and Saturday. It will be hosted by the Tamil Nadu Government and co-hosted by Software Technology Parks of India, Ministry of Electronics and Telecommunications, Government of India. The partner countries for Connect 2021 are Australia and the U.K. The theme of the two-day conference is “Building a sustainable deep technology ecosystem.” “Over the last two decades, Connect, as an event, has led to various path- breaking initiatives, like the formation of tech corridors, ICT academy and specialised technology parks,” said S. Chandrakumar, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu. Josh Foulger, chairman, CII, Connect 2021, and country head and MD, Bharat FIH Ltd., said the Connect event which was started as an ICT industry event, has morphed into an international technology event, encapsulating all technology providers and technology consuming industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-to-inaugurate-connect-2021-on-nov-26/article37606069.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai-Salem Highway still in limbo||Though the Supreme Court had given its nod to acquire land for the construction of a 277.3-km Chennai-Salem Highway at an estimated cost of Rs. 10,000 crore in 2020, there is hardly any movement in the proposed eight-lane expressway. The highway (NH179A and NH179B) is part of the first phase of the Bharatmala Pariyojna Project to improve the efficiency of freight and passenger movement across the country by bridging critical infrastructure gaps. The proposed highway aims to cut travel time between Chennai and Salem by half. However, the project faced stiff opposition from those who feared losing their lands, and thereby their livelihoods. The DMK government too had expressed its opposition to the project, and when Chief Minister M.K. Stalin met Prime Minister Narendra Modi after taking charge, he submitted a memorandum of demands, which included one pertaining to the project. A retired engineer of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said the highway was needed since the present road to Salem had many curves and had development all along it, making widening impossible, which led to unnecessary accidents. “Any changes in the alignment that the government wants can be made even now. The NHAI and the Centre are ready to construct the road, which is in the interest of the State and its people. The ball is in the State Government’s court now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-salem-highway-still-in-limbo/article37606027.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre for Police Well-Being opened||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Saturday inaugurated a Centre for Police Well-Being for rendering special counselling and to treat police personnel with suicidal tendencies and alcohol addiction. This was first of its kind programme to cover at least 1,000 police personnel in the next three months. A comprehensive wellness programme called the “police well-being training” was rolled out with the assistance of experts from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans), Bengaluru, in 2018. After inauguration of the new centre at Guru Nanak College in Velachery, Mr. Jiwal said that already the police well-being training programme was under way. “The well-being 2.0 programme is a targeted programme for the most vulnerable group of police personnel, from a mental health point of view. Under it, treatment and counselling will be given to personnel with suicidal thoughts, personnel with a history of misbehaviour with the public or colleagues or family members and alcohol addicts,” he said. “Around 1,000 persons will be counselled and treated at the centre for three months. Individual counselling, family counselling, and de-addiction programmes are also conducted to the personnel,” said Mr. Jiwal. A memorandum of understanding has been signed with M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, Madurai, for conducting the programme. To start with, persons addicted to alcohol will be treated first. Psychologists and social workers will visit the houses of police personnel based on the recommendation of the NIMHANS team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-for-police-well-being-opened/article37606046.ece
21 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Puthiya Tamilagam to organise World Hindu Awareness conference in Senkottai on December 15||Puthiya Tamilagam (PT) founder K. Krishnasamy on Saturday said his party will organise a ‘World Hindu Awareness and Co-ordination’ conference in Senkottai in Tenkasi district on its 25th founding day, December 15. “As a precursor to this conference, we organised a protest against attacks on Bangladeshi Hindus on October 28 in Chennai,” he said. Dr. Krishnasamy also criticised the Tamil film industry for making profits by ‘appropriating struggles’ of political movements. “We carry out protests by taking on several obstacles and encountering numerous problems. When we are protesting, we get no support from people. Especially, the Kodiyankulam issue. Nobody came in support of us. During the Manjolai protests, nobody supported us. In Kandadevi, nobody kept a single scene in any movie in support of it. Recently in Karnan , there was no mention of who carried out the Kodiyankulam protests,” he said. He opposed using ‘ Jai Bhim ’ as the title of a film meant for ‘commercial purposes’. “It is a slogan for social liberation. It is not a film title for commercial purposes. Indian government should have banned the film,” he said, claiming that the film evokes caste, religious and language animosity. “I do not know why there is a Censor Board in this country,” he said. The party leader said the State government’s announcement of financial relief for farmers of Rs. 25,000/hectare was not enough. “Farmers can come out of the losses only if they are given Rs. 1.25 lakh/hectare,” he said. “Pongal gift of Rs. 5,000 each should be given to agricultural labourers. For other families, Rs. 2,500 must be given,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puthiya-tamilagam-to-organise-world-hindu-awareness-meet/article37606058.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Body of ‘godman’ found in the backyard of his house||The body of a ‘godman’ Nagaraj was exhumed from the backyard of his house in Perumbakkam and sent for post-mortem on Saturday. According to police, Nagaraj, a resident of Kalaignar Karunanidhi Nagar in Perumbakkam, claimed to invoke divine powers. Since he was missing, his daughter, not satisfied with her mother’s response about his whereabouts, lodged a complaint in the Perumbakkam police station on Friday. When the police grilled Lakshmi, wife of Nagaraj, she told them that on Wednesday he had dug a pit in the backyard of their house, sat in it and asked her to bury him alive. The police are investigating to verify her claim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-godman-found-in-the-backyard-of-his-house/article37606041.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DASE raises need to have Vishaka panels in hospitals and medical colleges||The Doctors Association for Social Equality (DASE) has raised the need to constitute ‘Vishaka’ committees to inquire into complaints of sexual harassment in workplaces, in all hospitals and medical colleges. In the wake of the recent arrest of two government doctors on charges of rape and molestation of women colleagues, G.R. Ravindranath, general secretary of DASE, said, the committees should be set up and monitored to ensure proper functioning. Neglecting the safety of women medical and nursing students, doctors and healthcare workers in government and private medical, nursing colleges and hospitals, has led to an increase in sexual offences against women. The association termed the continuing practice of merely transferring persons involved in sexual offences, as wrong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dase-raises-need-to-have-vishaka-panels-in-hospitals-and-medical-colleges/article37606042.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Give up privatisation of express trains: Ramadoss||Pattali Makkal Katchi founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday said efforts to privatise 13 express train routes, operated by the Southern Railway, have not been successful, and the Centre should give up. According to him, revenue sharing agreements could be annulled, citing lack of interest by private companies. “It will not be beneficial to people or Central government. It would only pave the way for private companies to exploit Indian people and infrastructure of railways. Let the effort to privatise railways be considered a failure. Centre should not pursue privatisation any longer,” he said. “Only 10% of the trains are going to be privatised. Since rest will be operated at a low cost (by the Railways), travellers will not prefer private trains. However, if majority of the trains are privatised, situation will change dramatically. Private companies will start dictating terms,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/give-up-privatisation-of-express-trains-ramadoss/article37606057.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNRERA decides to execute sale deeds in favour of home buyers in Sahara’s Coimbatore project||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) said it will execute the sale deed for undivided share/plots to home buyers and common area in favour of Sahara Housing Investors Association, with regards an integrated residential project in Coimbatore, promoted by Sahara Prime City Ltd and its sister concerns, from 2005 onwards. The Authority pronounced its order in an execution petition filed by Sahara Housing Investors Association, for non-compliance of its earlier order by Sahara. The proposed project was on 112.14 acres in Saravanampatti village, Coimbatore District and came to a standstill at the end of 2013, after the Supreme Court verdict on the Sahara Group. In its earlier order in 2020, TNRERA had allowed the Association to take over construction and restrained Sahara Group from proceeding further in any manner in respect of the project. It had also directed Sahara Prime City Ltd to execute the sale deed for undivided share/plots in respect of the allottees, as well as to execute the sale deed conveying the common areas in favour of the Association and also levied a fine of Rs. 1 crore on the firm, for failing to register the project as an ongoing project under RERA. Acting on the execution petition, TNRERA has appointed its officials to execute the sale deed. Post registration, the Authority said it will write to the Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) to accord renewal/revised planning permission on application by the Association, subject to fulfilling all statutory requirements. Its order also said the Association of home buyers is at liberty to register the project and approach it for any further directions. This comes as a big relief for about 700 investors who have put in nearly Rs. 100 crore in the project and have been waiting to own their dream houses for more than a decade. “As of now we have over 450 members in Sahara Housing Investors Association and the Authority has also permitted non-members to join the Association,” said a home buyer. Association secretary Arjun said non-member investors in the Sahara City Homes, Coimbatore project can contact him on 98943 44344 to join the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnrera-decides-to-execute-sale-deeds-in-favour-of-home-buyers-in-saharas-coimbatore-project/article37606109.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vasan welcomes PM’s announcement on repeal of farm laws||Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of withdrawing the three farm laws in the upcoming Parliament session. Mr. Modi had taken the decision to assure farmers that his government is for the farmers and agriculture. As the Central Government is working for the benefit of farmers and agriculture, he said, his party welcomed the decision and would continue to support farmers. Flood relief On Saturday, Mr. Vasan distributed flood relief in Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s Kolathur constituency as the area was flooded during the recent rain, a press release said. He also requested the Tamil Nadu Government to cancel the exam for those who had already qualified for teaching posts in the exams held in 2013, and provide them government jobs on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/repeal-of-farm-laws-welcomed/article37606086.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 1 cr. people aged 18-44 yet to take first dose||Around one crore people aged 18 to 44 and nearly 50 lakh people aged over 45, mostly senior citizens, are yet to take the first dose of COVID-19 vaccines in Tamil Nadu, said Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. Making an appeal to all eligible people to get vaccinated against COVID-19, he said Tamil Nadu had so far achieved 75% first-dose coverage and 38% second-dose coverage. Over 72 lakh people were due or overdue for the second dose, he said. The Health Secretary said unvaccinated and incompletely vaccinated people continued to pose a risk not just to themselves, but also to the community at large. They should view it as their duty to ensure that efforts to prevent any resurgence of COVID-19, such as vaccination, following COVID-19 appropriate behaviour such as masking and physical distancing and adherence to standard operating procedures, are effective. These measures are the cornerstone in the fight against COVID-19, he said. People should come forward and ensure that their near and dear ones, friends, colleagues and relatives get the first dose on Sunday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nearly-1-cr-people-aged-18-44-yet-to-take-first-dose/article37606063.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches forensic DNA profile search tool||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday launched a forensic DNA profile search tool, developed by the State Forensic Sciences Department. Tamil Nadu became the first State in the country to introduce such a tool, a State Government press release said. Through the tool, DNA profiles of children who are kidnapped or missing can be matched, and they can be reunited with their parents. Identifying criminals It will also help identify criminals who operate between States, identify dead bodies that are washed ashore and match identities through skeletal DNA profiling and identify people who lose their lives in natural calamities, among other such measures, the release said. Mr. Stalin also inaugurated police housing quarters, police stations and Police Department buildings, built at a cost of Rs. 44.30 crore and an office building of the Home (Transport) Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-forensic-dna-profile-search-tool/article37606068.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||International fliers forced to wait endlessly to leave Chennai airport||After a long flight, many international passengers arriving in the city endure a frustrating wait in long queues to complete immigration formalities at Chennai airport. This particularly happens early mornings when several international flights arrive in short intervals. There are not enough staff at the immigration counters at the international terminal of the airport to cope with the rush, sources said. Irate passengers have been posting on social media platforms about the delay to complete the routine immigration formalities at the airport. A passenger, Neel Patel, posted on social media: “AC does not work , no wifi / network for international travellers. No separate queues in immigration, literally 1,000 people stand behind each other.” Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said, this problem occurs due to bunching of flights. Nearly seven or eight flights land at the airport between 1 a.m. and 4 a.m. and since these are international flights, about 200-250 passengers could exit from each one, resulting in congestion. “Earlier, there were only about four or five staff at the immigration counters but now we have increased it substantially. In the arrivals, 19 normal counters and 14 e-visa counters are manned and in departures, 22 counters have staff. We have taken up this issue already with the authorities concerned. We are adding more staff and will ensure this issue is resolved,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/international-fliers-forced-to-wait-endlessly-to-exit-airport/article37606048.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Writer returns payment received for Jai Bhim||Writer Kanmani Gunasekaran has returned the remuneration he received for penning the dialects for the film Jai Bhim . “I sent a cheque for Rs. 50,000 to 2 D Entertainment Private Ltd,” he told The Hindu and added that he felt “betrayed” by the film crew. “When the director approached me for including dialects of the Nadu Nadu (Central Region), I was told the title of the film was Eli Vettai (Rat Hunting). I also told them that except a few names, everything suited the milieu of the region and the director agreed to change it,” he said. Reservations over title Mr. Gunasekaran, who in a Facebook post on the issue identified himself as a Vanniyar, said he had reservations about the film after the title was changed. “There was a perversion after the many changes were included. They have denigrated our [late] leader Kaduvetti Guru and depicted the story against facts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/writer-returns-payment-received-for-jai-bhim/article37606044.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police inspector, six others booked for assaulting 2 youth||The city police has booked seven persons, including a traffic police inspector, for wrongful confinement of two youth at a house in Vadapalani and beating them up. Sources in the police said that Ashwin and Baskaran were classmates of the daughter of the inspector at a private college and took intimate photographs and videos without her knowledge on the campus and also threatened to release them on social media if she did not pay them Rs. 10 lakh. A few weeks ago, the inspector, along with six others, barged into Ashwin’s house in Chitlapakkam and abducted him and Baskaran in a car to Hosur. Stripped, beaten up The two were later brought back to the city and confined in a house in Vadapalani, where they were stripped and beaten up before being let off. Based on a complaint from Ashwin, the police booked a case against seven persons, including the inspector. Meanwhile, the All Women Police, Tambaram, also registered a case against Ashwin and Baskaran based on a complaint lodged by the inspector’s daughter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-inspector-six-others-booked-for-assaulting-2-youth/article37606043.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cong. plans campaign against BJP’s policies||The Congress will hold awareness campaigns across the State from November 22 to 29, against the anti-people activities of the BJP government at the Centre, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said. The party has directed its cadres to campaign in a manner similar to India’s freedom struggle and to raise awareness of the massive price rise in the country, among the people, Mr. Alagiri said. In a statement, Mr. Alagiri said, the BJP had been raising Central taxes on petrol and diesel for the past seven years and had earned revenues to the tune of Rs. 23 lakh crore, due to which the prices of essential commodities had skyrocketed. Hunger prevails Due to the wrong policies of the BJP , people’s livelihoods are at stake and they are suffering from untold miseries, Mr. Alagiri said. Due to this, nearly 20 crore Indians are suffering from hunger in the country, and India is languishing at the 101st rank among 116 countries in the Global Hunger Index, he said. He further said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not bothered about this and accused him of giving away public sector enterprises to his corporate friends.  BJP had been raising Central taxes on petrol and diesel for the past seven years and had earned revenues to the tune of Rs. 23 lakh crore, due to which the prices of essential commodities had skyrocketed.K.S. Alagiri President of TNCC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-to-hold-awareness-campaign-against-centres-policies/article37606078.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bank of Baroda property expo||Bank of Baroda launched a property expo at SIET College, Teynampet, on Saturday. The expo, which was inaugurated by M. Lakshmi, chief executive officer of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, will be open till 7 p.m. on November 21. The fair featured developments from more than 30 builders, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-of-baroda-property-expo/article37606035.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for ward||The Madras High Court has directed the State government to consider a representation made to it by C. Jagadeesan, an auto driver, in 2018 for setting up a separate ward in the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for those who get admitted to obtain disability certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-ward/article37606037.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS questions status of expert panels||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday raised questions over the status of expert panels, constituted by the DMK Government, to find ways to improve the State economy and increase the sources of finances. In a statement, he said no details were available on the working of these panels and on the advice rendered by them to the government. Mr. Palaniswami was making the observation in a statement on reports that outlets of Amma Marundhagam, pharmacy shops set up by the previous AIADMK regime to sell medicines at nominal rates, were being wound up, citing financial burden as the reason. Pointing out that a “people welfare government” meant one that protected the interests of the people, Mr. Palaniswami accused the DMK Government of “snatching away” people’s welfare measures. He wanted the government to give up its approach on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-questions-status-of-expert-panels/article37606071.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No quarrying 500 m from archaeological sites, says govt.||The State Government has amended the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1959, according to which no lease or license for quarrying of any mineral will be granted within a 500-m radial distance from the boundaries of an archaeological site or remains of an ancient monument. A gazette notification issued by the Industries Department on the amendments added that no quarrying, mining or crushing activities should be carried out within one km radial distance or the protective distance, as notified by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Government of India, from boundaries of ecologically sensitive and environmentally protected areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-quarrying-500-m-from-archaeological-sites-says-govt/article37606076.ece
21 November 2021||CHITTOOR/ANANTAPUR,TAMIL NADU||A.P. still reeling under flood impact||Even as the rain abated, flooding continued in several localities of Tirupati and Chittoor municipal corporations of Andhra Pradesh on Saturday. The municipal authorities went on a whirlwind visit of the affected areas, cautioning residents to move to safer places. In a separate incident, six persons were killed when a building collapsed in Kadiri town of Anantapur district following incessant rain in the last couple of days. A majority of the badly affected residential colonies along the foothills of Tirumala Hills, from the Leela Mahal junction to Karakambadi in Tirupati, were gradually limping back to normalcy with receding water levels. In several localities, residents mostly complained of their motorcycles and pets getting washed away. In Chittoor, the flooding from Gangineni Cheruvu and Kattamanchi stopped, while the areas along the Neeva river from Iruvaram to Murakambattu and NTR Jalasayam continued to witness water-logging. Building caves in Six persons died and one more is fighting for life with burns when a three-storey under-construction building collapsed on a two-storey structure adjacent to it, in Kadiri town of Anantapur district, in the early hours of Saturday. The under-construction building had no pillars and was being built on an old ground floor house. The incessant rain led to the walls of the old building giving way and falling on the adjacent building at 2.45 a.m., which triggered an LPG cylinder blast, said the police. The owner of the under-construction building, Firoza Bee, 65, died in the mishap. The other deceased were identified as Saidunnisa (2), Fariunnisa (eight months), Banu (30), Yashika (3), and Fathima Bee (65). Aerial survey Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday conducted an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas in Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore districts. Accompanied by Home Minister M. Sucharita and Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy, the Chief Minister went on a four-hour aerial survey of the flood-ravaged areas. Officials of the Irrigation, and Roads and Buildings divisions, and the police, appraised Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the floods’ fury, focusing on the rescue operation at the Cheyyeru river tragedy in Rajampet division, where eight people died. The CM told officials to focus on rehabilitation work and evacuation of the affected people as required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ap-still-reeling-under-flood-impact/article37605904.ece
21 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Relief likely for households in added areas||There might be some respite for the added area residents from the impact of unequal water distribution. And they might get the relief before summer 2022 as the Coimbatore Corporation plans to study and rectify problems in the distribution. The Corporation sources said it had started studying the problem after Minister for Electricity V. Senthilbalaji had announced that the civic body would be taking steps to reduce the gaps in water supply distribution by bringing down the supply cycle from once in nine days to once in two days. Consequent upon the announcement, Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara had asked Suez India Pvt. Ltd. to study the present water supply situation and suggest steps to be taken to improve distribution. Mr. Sunkara said of the ways to improve water distribution one was to augment source – having more water supply sources and the other was to improve distribution. The Corporation had enough water sources to supply to the city, including the added areas and in the immediate future there would be no problem, what with the Pilloor III project making progress. The Corporation, therefore, decided to focus on improving distribution and to start doing so it wanted to how much water was going where. To do so, it had asked Suez India Pvt. Ltd., which was already taking care of water distribution maintenance in 60 wards in the core city, to study the situation in added areas. The company engineers studied the distribution to discover that the deficit in supply to the added area residents varied from 5% during monsoon seasons to 15% during summer. The Corporation was supposed to supply each resident 135 litres a day. In a few places in the added areas, the Corporation supplied water at 50 litres a person a day and in a few others 250 litres a person a day. The second problem was that there were no flow meters to assess how much water the Corporation was pumping to the local, neighbourhood water distribution tanks. And, there were no meters either for the tanks to which the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Distribution Board (TWAD Board) supplied water. The company, the sources said, therefore suggested to the Corporation to install electromagnetic, automatic flow meters at the entry points of all the local distribution tanks in the added areas, spread over 40 wards. The Corporation would be spending around Rs. 5.36 crore to install over 100 such meters. The sources said the installation of the meters would enable the civic body to monitor water supply on a real-time basis as the meters would be transmitting data to the dashboard at the Corporation. Once the Corporation had this data on hand, it would be able to set right the distribution or take remedial measures wherever necessary, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-likely-for-households-in-added-areas/article37606094.ece
21 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cong. takes out candlelight march||Members of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee took out a candle light march on Saturday to honour the farmers who had died protesting against the three farm laws. Led by the TNCC working president Mayura S. Jayakumar, the workers marched from the party office near the Coimbatore Railway Junction to the Red Cross Junction. Mr. Jayakumar said the candle light march was in response to a call given by the party high command. The protest was to honour those farmers who had died fighting against the three farm laws, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi said would be repealed. If the Prime Minister where to think that he could hoodwink the farmers by repealing the three laws ahead of the Assembly elections to be held in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh he was wrong. Coimbatore District Pradesh Congress Committee leaders Karuppasamy, Chinnaiyan, Rajamani and Krishnamurthy were among those who participated in the march.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cong-takes-out-candlelight-march/article37606092.ece
21 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Preventing crimes against women, children top priority of police’||Pradip Kumar, Inspector General of Police (IGP), assumed office as the Commissioner of Coimbatore City Police on Saturday. Mr. Kumar said that the city police will give topmost priority in preventing crimes against women and children. The police will also focus on the protection of senior citizens and weaker sections in society. Mr. Kumar said the police will also strive to ensure peace in the city. Road safety will be another area of focus and the police will work towards eliminating organised and white collar crimes and job frauds, he said. Mr. Kumar replaced IGP Deepak M. Damor who was transferred and posted as the Joint Director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. Prior to his new office, Mr. Kumar served as the Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Chennai city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preventing-crimes-against-women-children-top-priority-of-police/article37606101.ece
21 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Court postpones hearing of principal’s bail plea||The special court in Coimbatore on Saturday postponed the hearing of the bail application filed by the principal of a private school, who was arrested after a 17-year-old girl student ended her life allegedly following sexual assault by a teacher. G. Kulasekaran, Sessions Judge, Special Court for the trial of cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, will hear the bail plea of Meera Jackson alias Mini Jackson on November 24. Court sources said that the judge postponed the hearing after the prosecution sought time to file its petition objecting the bail plea of the accused. The principal was arrested by the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore west, on November 14, two days after the arrest of the teacher - Mithun Chakravarthy (31). The class XII student was found dead in her residence on November 11.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-postpones-hearing-of-principals-bail-plea/article37606087.ece
21 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Swachh Sarvekshan 2021: Coimbatore emerges as the 46th cleanest city||Government of India has ranked Coimbatore as the 46th cleanest city in the annual Swachh Sarvekshan report for 2021. It had ranked Coimbatore at the 40th place in the 2020 report. Sources said Coimbatore’s journey in the Government’s annual ranking of cities on various aspects of cleanliness was one of steady decline. Starting from the 18th rank in 2016, Coimbatore moved to 16 in 2017, remained at the same spot in the next year’s survey and went down to the 40th spot in 2019. It held the position in the last year’s survey and this year it slipped further to the 46th place, reflecting the steps the Coimbatore Corporation had taken over the years. The current ranking had come as a wake up call for the city managers at the Corporation, who would do well to compare their performance vis-à-vis Indore in Madhya Pradesh. When the Government had ranked Indore in the first place in 2017, Coimbatore stood at 16. While Indore held on to its position, Coimbatore had steadfastly slipped from one rank to another. The city had the necessary workers, push carts, auto rickshaws, bins, micro compost centres, transit stations and a dump yard to improve its ranking but the Corporation did very little with those to improve waste collection. There was not a ward of the 100 where the Corporation had successfully implemented 100 door-to-door collection of waste, the sources said and added that if only the Corporation went about the waste collection exercise earnestly, it would gained more ranks to put the city within the first 10 cleanest cities in the country. Of the three parts or stages in the waste collection exercise – first, involving the public whose responsibility was to hand over segregated waste, the second involving the Corporation and the third involving the waste plant operator in Vellalore – the Corporation could focus on its role by improving collection and transportation. The sources said the Corporation by efficiently deploying the auto rickshaws it had bought for collecting and transporting waste could ensure almost 100% door-to-door waste collection in at least two of the five zones in the city. If it did so, it could redeploy the resources in those two zones to other zones. The result of such an exercise could over-all improvement in waste collection in at least three or four of the five zones, the sources explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swachh-sarvekshan-2021-coimbatore-emerges-as-the-46th-cleanest-city/article37606090.ece
21 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID completes interrogation of Sri Lankan gangster’s aide||The Crime Branch-CID (CB-CID) of the Tamil Nadu police on Saturday completed interrogation of Sri Lankan gangster Angoda Lokka’s close aide Chanuka Thananayake alias Ladiya in custody for five days. He was interrogated along with T. Gopalakrishnan alias Jayaprakash who gave him shelter in Bengaluru. The CB-CID team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police P. Sivakumar took the two men to Bengaluru from where they were arrested by a special team on November 13. The CB-CID had seized electronic gadgets, mobile phones and SIM cards from them. Thananayaka, who left Sri Lanka along with Lokka a few years ago, had managed to obtain an Aadhaar card by producing forged documents. Sources in the CB-CID said that Gopalakrishnan was previously arrested for sheltering Sri Lankan drug dealer Suresh Raj in Bengaluru. Raj was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the smuggling of weapons and drugs by a suspected international network. Gopalakrishnan gave shelter to Thananayaka on the instructions of Raj, said sources. CB-CID produced the duo before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court on Saturday. They were remanded in judicial custody till December 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-completes-interrogation-of-sri-lankan-gangsters-aide/article37606102.ece
21 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 125 COVID-19 cases||A total of 125 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The Health Department said that 112 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,204 active cases on Saturday. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.4 % on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 48 fresh cases, taking its tally to 96,573 cases. The overall toll touched 988 following the death of one person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-125-covid-19-cases/article37606103.ece
21 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||A total of 37 dogs from 15 zonal railways participated in the All India Inter Railway Dog Squad Competition organised by the Railway Protection Force from November 17 to November 19. A release said Southern Railway was adjudged as the ‘overall champion’ and Western Railway was the ‘runner up’. Dog Remo of South Central Railway stood first in the explosive trade, Dog Janshi of Southern Railway came first in tracker trade and Dog Veeru from Central Railway was first in narcotic trade, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37606098.ece
21 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Child Rights Commission visits Tiruppur||Members of the Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Friday conducted a meeting at the Collectorate in Tiruppur on child safety. A release said the members urged strengthening of the District Child Protection Unit and recommended the formation of child protection units at the levels of Corporation, Municipalities and Town Panchayats. Commission’s chairperson Saraswathi Rangasamy participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-rights-commission-visits-tiruppur/article37606104.ece
21 November 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore continues to reel under floods||Several parts of Cuddalore district continue to reel under floods caused by incessant rain over the last few days, under the impact of the release of surplus water from reservoirs that left the Thenpennaiar river in spate. Over 11,000 people are at relief centres, mainly in Cuddalore and Panruti taluks. There are 11 relief centres in Cuddalore, where nearly 9,750 people have taken shelter. In Panruti, there are nine relief centres where about 598 have been accommodated. People living in around 30 coastal villages on the stretch from Cuddalore to Panruti have been badly affected. The floods also claimed the lives of hundreds of livestock and disrupted electricity and water supply, plunging the inundated villages into darkness for the last two days. Sources said that about 70,000 cusecs of water was released from the Sathanur dam into the Thenpennaiar on Thursday. As the inflow increased, the river continued to swell, inundating habitations and farmlands along its course. The administration faced the problem of ‘reverse flow’ when the sea could not absorb the heavy inflow immediately. As a result, the swirling waters changed course and flooded vast areas, particularly those close to the coast. Around 50 villages surrounding Cuddalore Corporation such as Thazhanguda, Nanamedu, Utchimedu, Kandakadu, Gundu Uppalavadi and Periya Kanganakuppam were completely marooned and cut off from the district headquarters. At Semmandalam and Gundu Uppalavadi, the river breached its banks and inundated habitations. Traffic has been suspended on several rural roads and the district police have also banned movement along bridges that are submerged. Meanwhile, around 33 persons, including 28 girls attached to a children’s home in Periya Kanganakuppam, were rescued by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel and accommodated at a temporary shelter in Cuddalore. On Saturday, Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare M.R.K. Panneerselvam inspected flood-hit areas in Alpettai, Thidirkuppam, Kondur, Kondur, Thiruvanthipuram, Periya Kanganakuppam and Cuddalore new town and distributed food packets to the affected residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-continues-to-reel-under-floods/article37606055.ece
21 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Implementation of welfare schemes reviewed||The District Development, Coordination and Monitoring Committee meeting chaired by MP S. Senthilkumar was held at the Collectorate here. Reviewing the progress of the works undertaken through various Schemes, Mr. Senthilkumar urged the line departments to implement the schemes by following the guidelines. Any hiccups in the implementation should be brought to the notice of the Collector, or to his attention, as the chairperson of the Committee, Mr. Senthilkumar said. The Committee meets every quarter to peruse and review the implementation, and progress of the various schemes of the governments. According to the administration, the meeting reviewed the works undertaken during 2019-20, 2010-21, 2021-22 fiscal. MNREGS, Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, Jal Jeevan Misson, and Member of Parliament Local Area Development Fund initiatives were among the schemes reviewed. Collector S. Dhivyadarshini was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implementation-of-welfare-schemes-reviewed/article37606205.ece
21 November 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Nursing college correspondent booked||The Dindigul Police have registered a case under the POCSO Act against the correspondent of a nursing college here on Saturday. Following a road blockade by the students at Muthanampatti, which hit vehicular movement on the Dindigul-Palani Road on Friday, the police had promised stern action after a probe. The Thadicombu police said that they have registered a case against the correspondent Jothi Murugan and hostel warden Archana. While the warden has been arrested and remanded in judicial custody, they were on the look out for the prime accused in the case. Meanwhile, revenue and police officers led by District Revenue Officer Latha and DIG of Police Vijayakumari addressed the girl students and parents at the college. On the assurance that the correspondent would be arrested by the special team and also a committee would be formed to inquire into the allegations, the parents agreed to take their children home. Following this, the authorities closed the classrooms and hostel. Further investigation was on. A majority of the students complained that the correspondent, in connivance with the warden, had physically abused some girls. The issue came to light after a parent raised it and threatened to approach the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correspondent-of-nursing-college-booked/article37606081.ece
21 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to utilise suburban bus stand in Erode||With the Erode Outer Ring Road project completed and work is in slow place to establish a temporary bus stand at Solar Punjai Lakkapuram, there is a demand for utilising the suburban bus stand at Anakalpalayam in Pudur village that remains non-functional after construction in 2014. Under the Scheme Component of Pooled Assigned Revenue, the bus stand was constructed at Rs. 1.53 crore opposite to the Armed Reserve Ground to cater to the growing needs of the people. The bus stand has five bays, separate entrance and exit, 12 shops and other basic amenities. Though the bus stand was inaugurated by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, through videoconferencing, no buses were operated, so far. The facility is used by farmers for drying crops and vehicle learners. Currently, Erode Corporation is in the process of establishing a temporary bus stand for Karur, Tiruchi, Madurai and Tirunelveli-bound buses. Though work began four months ago, there is little progress in the work. With the suburban bus stand lying unutilised for seven years now, motorists and people urge the district administration and the TNSTC to utilise the facility. Buses from Karur and Muthur Road can take the outer ring road and reach the suburban bus stand that is located within four km, said Muthukumar of Lakkapuram. “When a facility is available, they should utilise it and a process should be expedited to establish a permanent bus stand at Solar”, he added. Villagers said that ring road works were completed a year ago and vehicles from Namakkal and Karur districts are using the road to reach Perundurai without entering the city. “Instead of spending money on establishing a temporary bus stand, the existing bus stand could be utilised”, said people in Pudur village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-utilise-suburban-bus-stand-in-erode/article37606209.ece
21 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns people against taking bath in rivers||With surplus water being discharged into River Bhavani and River Cauvery, District Collector H. Krishnanunni has asked people not to take bath in the rivers and water bodies. Water discharge At present, 65,000 cusecs is discharged from Stanley Reservoir in Mettur into River Cauvery while the discharge of surplus water into River Bhavani was stopped from Bhavanisagar Dam. In a release, the Collector said since rain was continuing and the dams continued to receive copious water, the discharge from the dams into rivers could be increased based on the inflow. Hence, people should not enter the rivers for bathing, taking selfies or taking their cattle into the river. Also, they should not enter the rivers for washing clothes. “People should also desist from entering water bodies,” the release added. The release also said due to rain, tourists should avoid visiting hill areas as landslides could occur.  Temples Also, temples located near the river could also be flooded due to increase in discharge. Hence, people should avoid visiting the temples, the release added. People living in low-lying areas should move to safe locations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-people-against-taking-bath-in-rivers/article37606210.ece
21 November 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||21 men undergo vasectomy in Karur||The district authorities commemorated International Men’s Day by organising a special vasectomy camp at Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Men who underwent the procedure were honoured as ‘Thanga Thandhai,’ given tokens of appreciation, Rs. 5,000 as cash incentive and a provisional certificate to avail welfare schemes provided by the government. The procedure, known as non-scalpel vasectomy has a recovery period of two hours and the person can usually return to work the next day, Deputy Director of Family Welfare Sripriya Thenmozhi said. A drive to conduct the procedure was planned by the district administration to keep a check on maternal deaths. “Many women ailing from chronic illnesses and not aware of family planning were seen to suffer during childbirth. Keeping their wellbeing in mind, and that of the children, men were encouraged to undergo the procedure,” she said. Using the provisional certificate, they can avail themselves of any one of 10 government schemes such as free house site patta, old age pension for an elderly person at home, milch cow or goat, free cattle shed, soft loans up to Rs. 10 lakh for starting micro, small and medium unit without surety, among others. The men were also given condoms and briefed on safe sex practices. Collector T. Prabhushankar urged men to opt for the procedure as it was easy and done without a knife, anaesthesia and did not involve stitches and did not need a recovery period. It would ensure a healthy life and prosperity for the family, he said. There would not be any side effects and the person can go to work the very next day, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-men-undergo-vasectomy-in-karur/article37606167.ece
21 November 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Girl found dead, sexual harassment alleged||A Class XII student from a private school in Karur was found dead at her house late on Friday. A handwritten note, implying sexual harassment, was found in the girl’s belongings by the police. However, it gave no further details. According to police sources, the 16-year-old’s father had died of an illness just a few days ago. She had gone to school on Friday and returned home. The girl’s mother was at work at her shop, and the girl was by herself all evening. Their neighbour, an elderly woman, had gone to check on the girl at 6.45 p.m., and found her dead. She immediately alerted the mother, the police said. The body was sent to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. On searching her belongings, the police found a note purportedly written by the girl. “I should be the last person to die because of sexual harassment. I am scared to reveal the identity of the person who made me take this decision. I wanted to live. No girl should die like me henceforth,” the note left by the girl read. Special teams have been formed to investigate the case from various angles. Enquiries will be conducted with the girl’s classmates, teachers and neighbours, sources said. Allegation surfaces Meanwhile, the Inspector at the Vengamedu police station has been placed on vacancy reserve, after claims that he behaved harshly with the mother of the girl surfaced. The matter will be investigated, police sources said.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)   Their neighbour, an elderly woman, had gone to check on the girl at 6.45 p.m., and found her dead. She immediately alerted the mother||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-found-dead-sexual-harassment-alleged/article37606066.ece
21 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Administration takes steps to clear water from inundated habitations||The heavy rain and the resultant inundation of residential colonies kept the administration on its toes with alternative drainage routes dug up to let out the runoff from the lakes here. Earlier, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy inspected the draining out of rainwater from heavily inundated housing colonies in the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The heavy rain of Thursday and Friday led to overflowing of Kattiganapalli lake and Chinneri lake. In many areas, poor compliance with the underground drainage linkages led to sewage overflowing from the culverts. In parts of the town, sewage mixed with storm water gushed through the streets and into homes. In Periyar Nagar, the run off from Kattiganapalli lake that had entered residential colonies was let out by digging trenches. The Collector monitored the work. On Saturday, the inflow into KRP dam was 13,181 cusecs and the discharge was 14,715 cusecs. The discharge into the river was 14,538 cusecs, keeping in place the public advisory to keep away from venturing into Thenpennai river. The district received an average rainfall of 1.70mm on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/administration-takes-steps-to-clear-water-from-inundated-habitations/article37606207.ece
21 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘About 95% of Periyar Bus Stand work in Madurai is over’||About 95 % of works at the Periyar Bus Stand, being executed under the Smart City Project at a cost of Rs. 174.56 crore, was completed, said Municipal Administration Director P. Ponniah here on Saturday. The official inspected the Tamukkam Grounds where massive infrastructure, including a state-of-the-art auditorium, was coming up at Rs. 45.55 crore, road bridge at Rs. 23.17 crore at Kuruvikaran Salai Road connecting the north-south of the city across the Vaigai among others. During a review meeting held at Anna Maligai, the civic officials, led by Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan, presented an overview of the works being executed at different stages. Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Ponniah said that the bus stand, situated in the central part of the city, was ready for inauguration. “There are a few final works to be done...The bus stand has a lot of features for the benefit of the public,” he added. In the first phase, the bus stand would become operational. In the second part, the old shopping complex bus stand, which too, was getting a facelift, would take a few more months for completion, he replied and added that the COVID-19 pandemic and the recent rain had slowed down the work pace. However, he was hopeful that the works would get expedited soon and the city may experience decongestion when the development works were completed. Road work He said that funds were no constraint for laying or repairing roads, which have been spoilt in the recent rains. Under the AMRUT scheme, the government had proposed to bring in potable water from Mulla Periyar river to Madurai city at a cost of Rs. 1,295.76 crore. About 30 lakh litres of water would be stored at over head tanks in Melavasal, Thideer Nagar, he said. Mr. Ponniah added that after the project was completed drinking water distribution would be perennial in the city and it would meet the expectations of the residents in the 100 wards.  The city will experience decongestion when the development works are completed P. Ponniah Director, Municipal Administration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/about-95-of-periyar-bus-stand-work-is-over/article37606183.ece
21 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rugby tourney under way||A two-day Rugby tournament commenced here at the Race Course Stadium here on Saturday. According to the organisers, 25 teams (both men and women) from different districts are participating in the tourney, which is being held in knock-out and league format. The Tamil Nadu Rugby Football Union president V.V.R. Raj Satyan, who presided over the 21st annual general body meeting here, said that over the last seven years, the number of youth taking to Rugby had increased manifold. He appealed to the government to encourage the sport in such a manner that more number of aspirants even from remote locations may take to the game. The teams, which qualified from the knockout and league stage, would compete in the semi-finals and the final event to be held on Sunday. Apart from the office-bearers, national Rugby players, including Venkatesh, Shankar and Noel, who participated, said that the sport was being played in 100 countries across the globe and as many as 24 States in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rugby-tourney-under-way/article37606428.ece
21 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Take decision regarding petitions on premature release of convicts: HC||The premature release of convicts was not a matter of right. Life sentence means it is for the entire life and any premature release can be done only by following the due process of law. Such process is subject to the prerogative power of the executive, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed. The court was hearing a petition filed by the wife of a life convict seeking a direction to the State government to consider her representation made for the premature release of her convict husband. He was convicted for major offence, including murder, and under the Indian Explosive Substances Act, a Central Act. The woman said that her husband was entitled to premature release as per an order issued by the State government in 2018. A policy decision was taken for the release of prisoners on their good conduct in the light of the birth centenary celebration of the former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran. The government order had laid down the category of prisoners entitled to release. The State submitted that the life convict was found guilty of major offences. The government order enables life convicts who have completed 10 years of actual imprisonment as of 2018 to seek premature release. As a pre-condition, they should exhibit satisfactory behaviour and should have not been convicted and sentenced for offence under the Central Acts. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed that the court did not find any infirmity or illegality in the decision taken by the State for not considering the case of the petitioner for premature release. The court was told that the life convict had now spent 17 years in prison. The court took note of the fact that prison authorities had initiated the process of constituting an advisory board to consider the case of life convicts who had completed 14 years of their sentence as of 2018. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the case was not taken up for consideration, it was submitted. The court directed the authorities to expedite the process and communicate the decision to the petitioner as well as the prisoner at the earliest. The court also directed the authorities to take a decision in another case pertaining to premature release of a convict. A life convict had spent 22 years in prison. He was sentenced for murder and for offence under the Arms Act. Meanwhile, a woman has sought cancellation of the premature release of two life convicts in a murder case. She complained that after their release, the convicts were involved in a murder case and other serious offences. The judges directed the Home Department to take a decision on the recommendation made to rescind the order of the premature release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/premature-release-of-prisoners-is-not-a-matter-of-right-says-hc-madurai-bench/article37606085.ece
21 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Aspiring entrepreneurs should have clarity of domain’||Aspiring entrepreneurs should have clarity of the domain in which they want to focus. It should be clearly defined to be successful, said co-founder of IT firm Mindtree Subroto Bagchi at Shri Manikam Ramaswami Memorial Lecture on Saturday. He was delivering a special lecture virtually at Thiagarajar School of Management. He said aspirants should also focus on innovation, methodology and use of tools and ensure quality in their venture. Branding was another important aspect. The purpose was to present the internal value to the external world. Entrepreneurs should love to sell their ideas and focus on the fulfilment of the idea. He said the aspirants never to underestimate anyone. He said the aspiring entrepreneurs should be open to working in other organisations before starting their own ventures. It would help them in understanding the important aspects and learning from mistakes. Industrialist Ravi Sam recollected his experiences with Manikam Ramaswami, a renowned Industrialist. He said Ramaswami worked for the uplift of the people and rural development. His development models were used by many, he said. B.T. Bangera, Chairman, Board of Governors, Thiagarajar School of Management, welcomed the gathering and Principal of Thiagarajar School of Management M. Selvalakshmi proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aspiring-entrepreneurs-should-have-clarity-of-domain/article37606430.ece
21 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tourist exhibition in progress in city hotel||For the first time, tourism departments from Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh among other States are participating in a tourist expo being held at Hotel Fortune Pandiyan. According to a press release issued here on Saturday, the two-day expo would conclude on Sunday. The organisers said that about 50 travel operators, including government tourism departments, are participating. Special package with attractive offers, including air and hotel accommodation, are available for the customers intending to travel both domestic and international tourist spots, they added. The exhibition would be open from 11 a.m. to 7.30 p.m., said coordinator Anurag Gupta in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourist-exhibition-in-progress-in-city-hotel/article37606429.ece
21 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 141.05 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,096 cusecs and a discharge of 2,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.42 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 3,310 cusecs and a discharge of 2,668 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,752 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Kallandiri 43.2, Periyar 40.4, Pulipatti 30.6, Thekkadi 21, Thaniyamangalam and Sathiyar dam 17, Peranai 15.2, Mettupatti 14.6, Melur 14, Manjalar dam 13, Andipatti 9.2, Gudalur 8.6, Kodaikanal 8, Chittampatti 5.2, Idayapatti 5, Shanmuganadhi dam 2.3 and Uthamapalayam 1.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37606188.ece
21 November 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Nagapattinam residents can get subsidy for installing solar systems||The Tamil Nadu Energy Development Agency (TEDA) has urged residents of Nagapattinam district to avail themselves of the subsidy provided by the government to erect grid connected rooftop solar systems. The government was providing up to 40% subsidy in the fixed cost of installation of the systems in individual houses or apartments. The excess power generated through such systems, after domestic consumption of the owners, would be sent to the grid with net metering. This would substantially reduce the power charges for the owners. Domestic consumers who face high power bills can opt for this system, an official release said. Those who wish to benefit from the scheme can register their names with the Tangedco online link:https://www.tnebltd.gov.in/ usrp/apply.xhtml More details can be had from the Assistant Engineer of TEDA at the District Rural Development Agency by dialling 9385290522 or by sending an e-mail to:ngp@teda.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nagapattinam-residents-can-get-subsidy-for-installing-solar-systems/article37606174.ece
21 November 2021||PALAKKAD,TAMIL NADU||Kerala BJP scales up constituency panels||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will scale up its organisational strength in the State by doubling the number of constituency committees. BJP State president K. Surendran said here on Saturday that the party would now have 280 Assembly constituency committees. “Considering the geographical peculiarities, each Assembly constituency will now be divided into two. For example, the Varkala Assembly constituency will have two committees: one for Varkala and the other for Navayikulam. Similarly, Attingal will have Attingal and Kilimanoor and Palakkad will have Palakkad and Pirayiri,” he said. Accordingly, BJP State council members will also double from 140 to 280. The bifurcation of the constituency committees will be on the basis of the civic bodies. Mr. Surendran said the scaling up was being done with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The new constituency committee presidents would be aged below 45 years and more women would be given opportunities. “We reached a decision after listening to 12,680 party workers. We want to infuse young blood into the party. The names of 280 presidents can be announced by December 1 or 2,” he said. Protest against K-Rail Mr. Surendran said the BJP would strengthen its agitation against the proposed K-Rail (SilverLine) by joining hands with the groups which were already on the warpath. The BJP will also launch a campaign against the CPI(M) promoting Islamic extremism. A protest will be staged in all district headquarters on Thursday demanding that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) take over the inquiry into the recent murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker A. Sanjith at Mambaram, near Palakkad. “We will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday and convince him of the necessity for an NIA inquiry,” he said. According to him, Muslim groups within the CPI(M) and the Congress are creating communal polarisation in the State. Referring to the Union Government readying to roll back three farm Bills, Mr. Surendran challenged the Congress and the CPI(M) to introduce the Mandi system in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-bjp-scales-up-constituency-panels/article37605914.ece
21 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre was forced to repeal farm laws’||Former Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy has said the Centre was forced to repeal the three farm legislations because of the indefinite struggle by the farmers, as well as Opposition parties. In a video message on Friday night, he said the BJP’s Puducherry unit used to ridicule the Congress for staging agitations against the farm laws. Now what explanation will the Puducherry BJP give to the people for repealing the laws,” he asked. The senior Congress leader said that though the Centre had decided to withdraw the legislations taking into account the Assembly election due next year, the Congress welcomed the decision as farmers are the backbone of the country. The Centre’s decision to extend the services of the heads of CBI and the Enforcement Directorate showed their intent to keep the investigating agencies under their control, he said. “The Central investigating agencies have become a puppet in the hands of Mr. Modi. The Opposition members should oppose the ordinance extending the services of chiefs of CBI and ED in the winter session of the Parliament,” he added. On devastation caused by the recent floods, the former Chief Minister said the government should immediately provide assistance of Rs. 10,000 each to all ration card holders.  BJP’s Puducherry unit used to ridicule the Congress for staging agitations against farm laws V. Narayanasamy Former Puducherry CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-government-was-forced-to-repeal-farm-laws/article37606169.ece
21 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CPI flays govt. over relief measures||The Puducherry unit of the Communist Party of India has flayed the NDA government in the Union Territory for not providing relief to the rain-affected people. Party secretary A. M. Saleem, in a statement, said the relief measures announced by the government was yet to reach the beneficiaries. He urged the Chief Minister to prevail upon the Centre to depute a team to assess the rain damage in the Union Territory. A Central team was expected to survey the affected places in the neighbouring districts, Mr. Saleem also added. The recent rain had caused heavy damage in urban and rural areas. Several roads in the town are completely damaged and a large stretch of farm lands got inundated. The farmers have suffered heavy crop loss, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-flays-govt-over-relief-measures/article37606495.ece
21 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry likely to get heavy rain for five days||The Puducherry region is likely to experience heavy rainfall in isolated places for the next five days, District Collector Purva Garg has said. The India Meteorological Department has issued a heavy rainfall warning over isolated places in Puducherry, she said in a release on Saturday. The district administration was fully geared to tackle any eventuality arising out of the situation. Since the onset of Northeast monsoon, the region has received a total of 870 mm of rainfall. The State Emergency Operation Centre has been functioning 24x7. During the heavy rain on Thursday and Friday, the Centre received 80 calls from people for assistance. The complaints were related to trees getting uprooted, waterlogging, uprooting of electric poles etc. The administration was taking all steps to bale out water from low-lying areas. On Friday alone, 45,000 food packets were distributed to rain-affected persons, the release said. The Bahour and Ossudu tanks are filled to full capacity and excess water was being released through channels, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-likely-to-get-heavy-rain-for-five-days/article37606053.ece
21 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||43 new cases recorded in U.T.||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 43 new COVID-19 cases from testing 2,124 persons. Of the total new cases, 19 were registered in Puducherry region, 16 in Karaikal, 7 in Yanam and 1 in Mahe, statistics released by the Health department said. No death related to COVID-19 was recorded in the Union Territory during the last 24 hours ending 10 a.m., on Saturday. So far, 1,869 persons succumbed to the novel coronavirus. According to the data, 1,286,31 persons got infected by the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/43-new-cases-recorded-in-ut/article37606496.ece
21 November 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Old TNSTC buses will be replaced soon in all districts, says Minister||About 1,300 metric tonnes of fertiliser has arrived here in Ramanathapuram, officials in the Agriculture department said on Saturday. This follows the review meeting that Transport Minister Raja Kannappan had with Collector Shankarlal Kumawat at the Collectorate on Friday. When reporters pointed out the fertilizer shortage in the district, the Minister said that steps had been taken and it would reach the respective societies within 24 hours. Officials said that they had received additional 350 tonnes of fertilizer and it would be available in all the designated Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies and in private dealers stores. The Minister had said that the farmers need not have any apprehension about shortage of fertilizer and the government had made elaborate arrangements. Due to rains, there were some delay, but from now on, there would be no such issues, Mr. Kannappan had clarified. When the bad condition of buses run by the TNSTC was pointed out, he said that the State government would soon get 2,500 new buses. Apart from Chennai, other districts would get their fair share of replacement of old and worn-out vehicles. Blaming the previous AIADMK regime, he said that poor upkeep and maladministration had led to sorry state of affairs. He assured that the DMK government would set the house in order. The officials, he said, had identified 42 spots in Ramanathapuram district, which reported waterlogging and inundation problems. The public have been told to move to the relief centres. So far, about 600 people were in the centres. As and when the water drained, they could move over to their dwellings. Permanent measures would be taken to set right the waterlogging problems. To a question, he said that by the next financial year, Ramanathapuram town would get a new bus stand. “We are in the process of identifying the site for the new facility,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-tnstc-buses-will-be-replaced-soon-in-all-districts-says-transport-minister/article37606080.ece
21 November 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Unity among farmers forced PM to withdraw farm laws: VCK||Determination and unity among farmers and their associations made Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the three ‘controversial’ farm laws, said Viduthalai Chiruthai Katchi (VCK) founder and MP Thol. Thirumavalavan said here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the Opposition parties across the nation had stood with the farmers, who were clear about their demands. Not in a mood to listen to the Opposition and the farmers, the Centre had then claimed that they were here to uplift the farmers and neglected their suggestions. Election fear As thousands of farmers camped on the outskirts of New Delhi for over 18 months facing the cold and rain, the BJP feared that they would lose the ensuing elections to be held in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and a few other States early next year. Hence, as a face saving tactic, the Prime Minister had announced that the government would withdraw them in the winter session of the Parliament. “This is a clear victory for the farmers. It is also a beginning of victory for all the Opposition parties who have lined up to defeat the fascist BJP”, Mr. Thirumavalavan said and added that the BJP had taken the decision, though late, keeping the polls in mind. Award for CM On the rain in Tamil Nadu, he said that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s efforts had prevented loss of many lives and properties. The VCK would present “Ambedkar Sudar” award to Mr. Stalin at a function to be held in Chennai in December, he said. He was here to address a conference organised by the party.  This is a clear victory for the farmers. It is also a beginning of victory for all the Opposition parties who have lined up to defeat the fascist BJP Thol .Thirumavalavan VCK founder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/unity-among-farmers-forced-pm-to-withdraw-farm-laws-vck/article37606083.ece
21 November 2021||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 2,000 hectares of paddy fields submerged in Ranipet||With the sudden rise in water level in the Palar for the past few days, nearly 2,000 hectares of paddy fields in Ranipet district were submerged in water. Officials said that key agricultural areas, like Nemeli, Thimiri, Arcot, Kaveripakkam, Wallajah and Sholinghalur, witnessed inundation of agricultural lands where paddy, banana and groundnut had been cultivated for the second season. Among the most affected regions, Nemili along the Palar has faced huge crop loss on 479 hectares, mostly paddy, followed by Thimiri and Arcot region in the district. Apart from paddy cultivation, 382 hectares of horticulture crops were also affected due to the rise in water level in the Palar. “Sudden gush of water from nearby lake flooded my paddy crop on four acres, which I was planning to harvest in a fortnight,” said R. Saravanan, a farmer in Arcot region. Ranipet Collector D. Bhasakara Pandian said that the crop damage would only increase in the coming days due to continuous rain in the district with an average of 20 mm in key agricultural areas. On Saturday, a Minor Irrigation (MI) tank in Athipet village breached resulting in inundation of crops. Livestock loss Vellore stands second with crop loss on 433.83 hectares, followed by Tirupattur faced with crop loss on 102.05 hectares as on Saturday. However, Vellore has the highest livestock loss with 14,800 fowls and eight cattle. Meanwhile, 17,151 cuecs of water has been released from Mordhana reservoir into the Palar as on 8 p.m. on Saturday with a warning issued by Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian to residents asking them not to venture near waterbodies as the release of water from the reservoir will be increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nearly-2000-hectares-of-paddy-fields-submerged-in-ranipet/article37606541.ece
21 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment donated||The Paragon Group donated medical equipment to Vembadithalam Government Hospital as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility programme recently. According to the officials, the firm donated a steam generator, ultra sound scanning machine and other essential devices at a cost of Rs. 5.7 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-donated/article37606204.ece
21 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Beauticians condemn sexual assault on minor girl||Beauticians gathered in front of the Collectorate here on Saturday and condemned the alleged sexual assault by a school teacher on a 17-year-old student which led to her death by suicide in Coimbatore and demanded stern action against the accused. The members of Association of Professional Beauticians raised slogans against school authorities who did not take any action on the student’s complaint. They demanded that the State government should initiate stern action against the accused and take measures to prevent such incidents in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beauticians-condemn-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article37606215.ece
21 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam increased||The discharge from Mettur dam was increased from late hours of Friday. According to officials from Public Works Department, the water level at the dam remained at 120.10 ft. At 8 a.m, the storage was 93,630 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 65,000 cusecs. Equal amount of water was released into River Cauvery through power houses and Ellis Saddle surplus gates and 200 cusecs through East-West canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-mettur-dam-increased/article37606056.ece
21 November 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Co-operative week celebrated||The National Co-operative Week was celebrated at the community hall of Salem District Central Co-operative Bank on Saturday. Salem Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj, District Revenue Officer V. Alwin Sanuja, MPs A.K.P. Chinraj and S.R. Parthibhan and other senior officials took part in the event. According to officials, there are 361 co-operative societies in the district. As per a release, during the current fiscal, farm loans to the tune of Rs. 164.56 crore has been disbursed to 24,552 farmers. A sum of Rs. 20.23 crore has been disbursed as loans to Adi Dravidar and tribal farmers, and Rs. 17.27 crore farm loan has been provided to 3,174 new members. As part of the celebrations, loans to the tune of Rs. 15.32 crore was provided to 2,082 beneficiaries including Rs. 12.05 crore to 1,514 farmers, Rs. 44 lakh to 103 differently-abled persons for setting up new businesses, and Rs. 142 crore to 35 women self-help groups. In Namakkal, Collector Shreya P. Singh distributed farm loans to the tune of Rs. 16.46 lakh to 20 farmers on Friday. Ms. Singh also presented prizes to students who won in various competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/co-operative-week-celebrated/article37606214.ece
21 November 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Electoral roll observer inspects special revision camps||Electoral roll observer for Salem district V. Shobhana visited and reviewed the progress of special summary revision camps at polling centres here on Saturday. Ms. Shobhana along with senior officials visited the revision camps set up at Sri Saradha Vidyalaya Girls Higher Secondary School, Clooney Girls Higher Secondary School and Kottai Government Girls Higher Secondary School here and assessed the progress of revision process. District Revenue Officer V. Alwyn Sanuja, Salem Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj and other senior officials were present. Ms. Shobhana said in a release that the special revision camp was held at 1,216 centres at the district on Saturday and the public could also apply through websitewww.nvsp.inand voter helpline number to make the necessary edits or for addition or deletion of names from the list. She said that the final voters’ list would be released on January 5. Till date, 36,786 applications have been received in the district for addition, deletion of names, address change and for corrections, a release said. In Namakkal, District Collector Shreya P. Singh reviewed the progress of the camps. She visited the camp at Ulakapampalayam Government Higher Secondary School. Ms. Singh along with Superintendent of Police Saroj Kumar Thakur later visited educational institutions where counting centres for ubran local body elections would be set up. According to a release, urban local body elections would be held to five municipalities and 19 town panchayats in the district. There are 447 wards across the local bodies. The officials visited Arignyar Anna Government Arts College in Namakkal, S.R.V Boys Higher Secondary School in Rasipuram, and Vivekanandha Women’s Engineering College in Tiruchengode and reviewed the facilities for strong rooms and counting halls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electoral-roll-observer-inspects-special-revision-camps/article37606217.ece
21 November 2021||Staff Reporter,TAMIL NADU||Awareness rally aims to ensure safety of children||A rally that aims at creating awareness among the public on the need to ensure safety of children and prevent child abuse was taken out at Thindal on Saturday. Organised by Young Indians (Yi) of the Confederation of Indian Industry, the rally was flagged off at Vellalar Matriculation Higher Secondary School by Vidhya, Director, Rajendhra School in the presence of Yi Chairperson Priya Naveen and Project Masoom coordinator Yadhavi Yogeshkumar. Participants said that crime against children, particularly sexual abuse, are on the rise and only by creating awareness and bringing in change in the mindset of the people, safety of children can be ensured. They said that it is the responsibility of each and every individual in the society to ensure children’s safety, both at home and public places, and called for a coordinated effort for ensuring their protection. The organisers said that the Yi project “Masoom” was to create awareness among children, parents and other stakeholders in the society. During the awareness week celebrated from November 14 to 20, Yi conducted fun awareness activities for children, pasted awareness stickers in products and sweet boxes, conducted awareness programmes for differently-abled and rural children, trained the trainers at a school and conducted speech competition and street plays. Children in distress can call the helpline number operated by the Childline at 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-rally-aims-to-ensure-safety-of-children/article37606213.ece
21 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Heritage Walk in Thanjavur on the cards||Steps will be taken to introduce and popularise a short Heritage Walk in Thanjavur soon, said Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver. Stating this in a press release issued here on Saturday, he said that it had been proposed that the 5-km Heritage Walk starting from the World Heritage Monument complex – the Big Temple - which is also identified as ‘Small Fort’ and culminate at the granary on the West Raja Veedhi. Heritage locations such as the moat, Thanjai Naalvar Illam, Ayyan Kulam, temple car dock, “veena” making units and Kalyanasundaram Higher Secondary School would be covered in the walk. Apart from installing billboards at these sites explaining the heritage value of the locations, flyers containing the details required to take up the Heritage Walk would be made available to the tourists visiting the Big Temple and the Palace Complex, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heritage-walk-in-thanjavur-on-the-cards/article37606157.ece
21 November 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Homeopathic practitioner ends life||G Srinivasan (50), a homeopathic practitioner, of NRT Street, Lakshmipuram, Periakulam in Theni district was found dead in his dwelling on Saturday. Following a complaint from his wife Shanthi, also a homeopathic practitioner, the Thenkarai police registered a case of unnatural death. According to the complainant, Srinivasan has been running a homeopathy nursing home in Periakulam. It is said that a senior official in the Health Department, who had visited the nursing home, had pointed out some flaws. He had demanded Rs. 50,000 as bribe. When Srinivasan had shown all the certificates obtained from the department prior to commencement of the nursing home, the official had objected to it and even threatened to close down the facility, if he failed to part with the bribe. The complainant stated that Srinivasan had recently sent a notice to the health department official through his advocate. Irked, he had allegedly warned Srinivasan of dire consequences. Unable to face the mental agony, he had told his wife that he would end his life, she had stated. The police investigation was on. The body was sent for post-mortem to the government hospital. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homeopathic-practitioner-ends-life/article37606187.ece
21 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Continue direct procurement of produce from farmers: CPI (M)||The Union Government, which has been compelled to withdraw the controversial farm laws following sustained and an unprecedented year-long agitation by the farmers, should formally pass a resolution in the Parliament in this connection, CPI (M) central committee member U. Vasuki said. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday in the sidelines of the party’s 2-day district committee conference that commenced on Saturday, Ms. Vasuki said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, fearing a crushing defeat in the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, had repealed the farm laws. Besides passing resolution in the Parliament to formalise withdrawal of these controversial laws, the Union Government should ensure minimum support price for farm produce and create more number of cold storages to store the harvested goods. To encourage farming and ensuring decent minimum support price for growers, the Centre and the Tamil Nadu Governments should continue direct procurement of farm produce from agriculturists directly. On the unprecedented fuel price hike, Ms. Vasuki said the excise duty and cess being levied on petrol and diesel should be cut drastically. Slashing of price should also be applied to liquefied petroleum gas. The CPI (M) leader came down heavily on the PMK and Arjun Sampath of Hindu Makkal Katchi for having announced cash price for those who assault actors Suriya and Vijay Sethupathi. “Instead of doing third-rate politics in Tamil Nadu, these people should join hands with the CPI (M) in its fight for the people’s welfare,” She invited. Ms. Vasuki expressed concern over the unprecedented rise in sexual harassment of children on school premises. “The Tamil Nadu Government should take punitive measures to crush such crime against children and the women as well,” she appealed. She urged the CBI, inquiring into the violence that erupted during anti-Sterlite protest and the killing of 13 persons in police firing, to file the charge sheet without further delay. In the inaugural function of the party’s district conference held earlier, district executive committee member Rahgavan hoisted the CPI (M) flag and passed a resolution against the move to privatise VOC Port, Thoothukudi. Another resolution called for tax waiver for partly mechanised matchstick manufacturing units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/continue-direct-procurement-of-produce-from-farmers/article37606185.ece
21 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||DMK functionary held for assaulting medical intern||The Thoothukudi South Police have arrested ruling DMK’s Ottapidaram panchayat union chairman Ilaiyaraja for abducting and assaulting a senior intern of Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, dentist P. Muruga Perumal, 25, of Thirukkazhukundram in Chengelpattu district, who is doing his senior internship in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, was abducted by A. Ilaiyaraja of Muppullivetti near Ottapidaaram and two others in a vehicle on November 18 around 1.30 p.m. He was taken to a farm reportedly belonging to Ilaiyaraja near Ottapidaram where he was attacked and tortured till 7 p.m. After snatching his wallet and mobile phone, worth about Rs. 70,000, Ilaiyaraja brought Dr. Muruga Perumal in a car and dropped him at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital premises with a warning that any attempt to file complaint with the police about the attack would lead to his death and his family as well. Fearing for his life, Dr. Muruga Perumal went to his friend’s house in Madurai and informed his father Padmanabhan about the attack. After the family reached Madurai, Dr. Muruga Perumal was admitted to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital around 10 p.m. on Friday. When the complaint was filed with the Thoothukudi South Police, Ilaiyaraja was arrested while a hunt is on to nab his associates. During investigation, the police found that Dr. Muruga Perumal was reportedly in a relationship with a woman senior intern, also working in the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and they had taken photographs. When Dr. Muruga Perumal reportedly blackmailed her with those photos, she told her mother, who works as a teaching faculty with a government-aided arts and science college on Palayamkottai Road. As her mother sought the help of Ilaiyaraja, her student, he had abducted Dr. Muruga Perumal, the SP said. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-functionary-arrested/article37606110.ece
21 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases continue to be low in delta districts||The central region reported 103 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Two patients succumbed to the viral infection, one each from Nagapattinam and Tiruchi districts. In Tiruchi, the total number of patients who contracted the infection continued to be higher than the regional average. A total of 29 patients had reported positive. In Thanjavur, 23 patients tested positive while the other seven districts in the central region reported less than 20 cases. Karur reported 18 fresh cases, Nagapattinam registered 14, and Tiruvarur, 11. Mayiladuthurai reported three cases, Ariyalur and Perambalur reported two each and Pudukottai one - the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-cases-continue-to-be-low-in-delta-districts/article37606168.ece
21 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SIDCO housing quarters’ residents wade through foul smelling water||The SIDCO housing quarters in Tiruverumbur has been inundated with rainwater and waste water from an overflowing septic tank. Residents have to wade through foul smelling water which they believe would put them at risk of infections. A total of 18 houses, six in each block were constructed for workers employed at SIDCO. While some continue to reside there, many have moved elsewhere. J. Babu, a resident, said that the water had entered the ground floor of the building and people were forced to wade through it to go anywhere. “When I have to go to work, I do not have a choice but to walk in the water. My clothes begin to smell foul and it is impossible to go on like this,” he said. There were children in the building who had fallen ill due to the stagnation and smell. The day after a heavy rain, children and even adults take leave from work and stay home as they can only leave if the water recedes, they said. On Friday night, water from the police quarters which lies ahead of these tenements also began to flow into their streets and homes. The quarters do not have proper septic tanks and is being let off into an empty plot behind the building. When it rains, the water overflows and stagnates in front of the houses. The problem has persisted since 2017, Sakthi, another resident, said. Several petitions were submitted to the Collector but to no avail, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sidco-housing-quarters-residents-wade-through-foul-smelling-water/article37606171.ece
21 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||184 tanks in Tiruchi full||In Tiruchi district, 184 of the total 1,348 tanks under the control of PWD RC Division, Ariyar Division, Tiruchi Corporation, town and village panchayats, have filled up. Of the 98 rainfed tanks under Ariyar division, 32 have filled up . Eight of the 76 tanks under RC division have reached their full capacity and 40 others had more than 90% of their storage. As many as 125 tanks under village panchayats had filled up. While many tanks in Thuraiyur region have filled up, there has been poor inflow to many of the tanks in Manapparai and Marungapuri areas. Discharge up Meanwhile, with the inflow to the Mettur dam going up significantly, there has been a corresponding increase in the discharge too. Consequently, the PWD authorities have stepped up diversion of the surplus water into the Kollidam at Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) near Tiruchi where 73,516 cusecs of water was being realised. On Saturday evening, 63,547 cusecs of water was being released into the Kollidam, a flood carrier, at Upper Anicut. Of this, 11,613 was being released in the Kollidam north branch and 51,934 in the Kollidam south branch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/184-tanks-in-tiruchi-full/article37606164.ece
21 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Saturday stood at 120.10 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 65,239 cusecs and the discharge 64,574 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37606161.ece
21 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Rev. Barnabas is new Bishop of Tirunelveli CSI Diocese||Rev. A.R.G.S.T. Barnabas, a presbyter with a service of more than 35 years, is the Bishop-designate of the Church of South India, Tirunelveli Diocese. The consecration of the Bishop will be held at CSI Holy Trinity Cathedral on Sunday (November 21) at 2 p.m. The consecration ceremony will be led by Most Rev. A. Dharmaraj Rasalam, Moderator of the Church of South India in the presence of the Rt. Rev. Dr. K. Reuben Mark, Deputy Moderator. Formal reception will be given to the new Bishop at Sarah Tucker College at 5 p.m. Born on March 17, 1960, Rev. Barnabas did his Bachelor of Arts in English and Bachelor of Divinity from the Union Biblical Seminary, Pune. He was ordained as deacon in 1985 and presbyter in 1986. He has rich pastoral experience and has worked in several pastorates of the CSI Tirunelveli Diocese such as Vickramasingapuram, Alangulam, Millerpuram, Military Lines English Church, Palayamkottai, Parappadi, Perumalpuram and is now at CSI Holy Trinity Cathedral, Tirunelveli. He played an active role in the relief work during the flash floods in the Tamirabharani in 1992, tsunami in 2004 and COVID-19. He continued his ministerial focus on strengthening the congregations and building new churches and institutions. Rev. Barnabas did his chaplaincy training at International Training Centre at New Jersey and New York, USA from 1996 -1997. He has completed Advanced Chaplaincy Training in International Training Centre at New Jersey from 2002 - 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rev-barnabas-is-new-bishop-of-tirunelveli-csi-diocese/article37606178.ece
21 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||10-year-old girl set on fire by stepfather dies||A 10-year-old girl, who was allegedly set on fire by her stepfather on Wednesday night, succumbed to the burns on Friday night in the hospital. The police said G. Suja, 33, a mother of three children from Periyavilai in Kanniyakumari district, married one Jesu Antony Raj of the same area eight years ago after her husband Gurunathan died. After settling down at Kaavalkinaru in Tirunelveli district, Antony Raj and Suja were working in a hotel there. When her 10-year-old daughter came to the hotel on Wednesday, she took a biscuit packet and returned home without paying money for the snack. Agitated over this, the hotel owner shouted at Antony Raj. He went home and sprinkled kerosene on the three children and allegedly set them on fire in the night. As the children screamed in pain, the neighbours rushed and doused the flames. While the 10-year-old girl was badly injured, others escaped with minor blisters. The 10-year-old girl was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital in Aasaaripallam, where Antony Raj was admitted with minor injuries and breathing difficulties. Even as the girl was undergoing treatment, she succumbed to her burns on Friday night. Panagudi police have registered a case based on a complaint from Ms. Suja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-year-old-girl-set-on-fire-by-stepfather-dies/article37606184.ece
21 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend Tejas Express to Tirunelveli’||Member of Parliament S. Gnanathiraviam has urged the Southern Railway to modernise the busy Tirunelveli Railway Junction with better passenger-friendly amenities and extend the Chennai – Madurai Tejas Express to Tirunelveli. In a memorandum submitted to B. G. Mallya, General Manager (In-Charge), Southern Railway recently, Mr. Gnanathiraviam said the movement of passengers between Tirunelveli and Chennai was huge and hence the existing rail services connecting these two cities were not enough for the past several decades. Hence, the Chennai – Madurai Tejas Express should be extended to Tirunelveli considering the additional revenue this service can generate for Indian Railways. The MP also has sought the extension of Bikanir – Madurai Express, Mangalore – Thiruvananthapuram Express, Tambaram – Shencottai Antyodaya Express, Guruvayoor – Punalur Express and Chennai Central – Madurai Tri-weekly Express to Tirunelveli and the extension of Hyderabad – Tambaram to Kanniyakumari via Tirunelveli. “Though the extension of Hyderabad – Tambaram Express Train to Kanniyakumari is being sought on several occasions, the railway authorities, citing lame excuses, are preventing the extension, which is totally injustice,” Mr. Gnanathiraviam said. Since the movement of pilgrims between Tirunelveli and Tirupathi is quite high, the Tirupathi – Villupuram train should be extended to Tirunelveli via Madurai. The Kanniyakumari – Dibrugarh Express should be operated via the shortest route of Tirunelveli, Madurai, Salem, Arakkonam and Chennai as this train is now being operated in a circuitous route via Kochuveli in Kerala. The Nagercoil – Mumbai Express, being operated four days a week via Tirunelveli should be converted into daily express train. Since passenger traffic between Tirunelveli and Thiruvanathpauram via Nagercoil is quite high, four MEMU services between these two cities should be introduced. A new weekly express train connecting Tirunelveli and Tambaram in Chennai via Tenkasi should be introduced. Similarly, Tirunelveli – Yashwantpur Janshatbhdi day-time train via Madurai and Hosur should be introduced as Tirunelveli Junction has parking and maintenance facilities. The much-delayed track doubling work between Madurai and Kanniyakumari should be completed at the earliest. The Tirunelveli – Palakkad Paalaruvi Express Train should have stoppages at Keezha Kadayam and Paavoorchathram stations and the starting time of this train from Tirunelveli should be changed to 8 p.m. instead of existing 11.20 p.m., which was inconvenient for passengers. The Tirunelveli Railway Junction, which was in a worst shape, should be given a facelift by modernising the existing facilities besides providing additional passenger-friendly amenities in the second busiest railway junction in the Madurai Division. Apart from creating platforms 7 and 8, a shopping mall having immense business potential to earn additional revenue for Indian Railways with ample car parking areas should be built. The Nanguneri Railway Station should be expanded as devotees were visiting Sri Vaanamaamalai Perumal Temple. Moreover, electric locomotive factory should be set-up at Nanguneri in public – private partnership mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-tejas-express-to-tirunelveli/article37606537.ece
21 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 140.05 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 2,165.52 cusecs and 1,616.10 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 92.30 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 450 cusecs and 10 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37606536.ece
21 November 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Palar surge hits life in Ambur-Gudiyatham belt||A sudden surge in the level in the Palar since Friday morning has disrupted life in Tirupattur, Vellore and Ranipet districts. Many residents have moved to temporary relief camps. “Heavy rain, especially in the hilly areas, has pushed up the level in the Palar. So far, 4,068 persons have been accommodated in 25 relief camps in Ambur alone,” said S. Anatha Krishnan, Tahsildar, Ambur taluk. Officials said continuous rain in the catchments, including Tirupattur town, Natrampalli, Kandeli and Vanniyambadi and in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, pushed the level up in the river and in minor irrigation tanks and lakes. These districts have 4,167 waterbodies. Among them are 1,119 minor irrigation tanks maintained by the Public Works Department (PWD). The rest come under the Rural Development Department. Nearly 50% of them have reached their capacity. Tiruvannmalai has 1,886 waterbodies, including 600 irrigation tanks under the PWD, followed by Ranipet with 1,718 waterbodies (369 irrigation tanks under the PWD). PWD officials said inundation in many areas along the river was mainly due to the discharge of 1, 04,054 cusecs from the Poonai and Palar anaicuts on Friday. The discharge is mainly due to heavy rain and the release of excess rainwater from the Kalavagunta dam in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. As a result, many low-level areas along the river such as Madhanur, Ambur, Vanniyambadi, Kandeli, Gudiyatham, Pallikonda, Katpadi, Walajah, Arcot and Nemili were affected. More than 25 villages, mainly in the Gudiyatham taluk in Vellore, were cut off from Ambur in Tirupattur after the bridge at Madhanur collapsed on Saturday. Some of the affected villages included Agraharam, Alinjikuppam, Ananganallore, Pernampattu, Perumbadi, Pichanur, Pogalur, Puttavaripalli, Rangampettai, Sarangal, Reddimankuppam, Gopampatti, Pattuvampatti, Athrampatti, Kempasamudiram and Machupattu. Residents of these villages used the 1,000-metre-long bridge to reach Madhanur village, off the Bengaluru Highway, in Ambur. Now, they have to take a detour of 30 km, through Gudiyatham and Pallikonda, to reach Madhanur. The Palar water inundated many houses at Ambedkar Nagar in Ambur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palar-water-surge-hits-life-in-ambur-gudiyatham-belt/article37606050.ece
21 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Seven tribal settlements in Udumalpet get water supply||The Forest Department, as part of the Special Area Development Programme (SADP) of the State government, has provided water supply to seven tribal settlements within Udumalpet forest range at Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in Tiruppur district. According to Udumalpet forest range officer C. Dhanabalan, the project to supply water to seven out of the 12 tribal settlements in the forest range commenced in August and was completed in November. The settlements covered under the project are Thirumoorthy Malai, Kodanthur, Kulipatti, Kurumalai, Poochukottanparai, Kattupatti and Mavadappu. “The total length of the pipes we used for all seven settlements was around 37 km,” Mr. Dhanabalan said. The project involved drawing water from a perennial stream in the vicinity and supplying to the settlements through pipes by using the gravity flow water distribution system. No electricity or motor pumps were used for the water supply project, he added. Among the seven settlements, Mavadappu was the most remote one (about 40 km away from Kodanthur) and extending the water supply network to this settlement took around two months, he said. An overhead tank with a capacity of 2,000 litres was installed at Mavadappu to store the water earlier this week. The remaining five settlements in Udumalpet forest range of ATR will also receive water supply following the sanctioning of additional funds, Mr. Dhanabalan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-tribal-settlements-in-udumalpet-get-water-supply/article37606097.ece
21 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Shiv Sena functionary booked in Tiruppur||The Tiruppur police on Saturday registered a case against a functionary of the Shiv Sena on charges of deliberate provocation, after he led an event to mark the death anniversary of Nathuram Godse, assassin of Mahatma Gandhi, in Tiruppur on November 15. Youth wing president Police sources told The Hindu A. Thirumurugan Dinesh, 30, State president of the Shiv Sena’s youth wing Yuva Sena, organised an event to mark Godse’s death anniversary at the party’s office in Rakkiyapalayam on November 15. Around 10 men garlanded a photo of Godse and allegedly raised provocative slogans during the event. Based on a complaint from A. Naseerdeen, of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam, the Tiruppur Rural (Nallur) police registered a case against Dinesh. The case was registered on Saturday as per the directions of City Commissioner of Police V. Vanitha after receiving legal opinion, according to the police sources. Investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shiv-sena-functionary-booked-in-tiruppur/article37606059.ece
21 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||166 child marriages stopped in Tiruppur in 18 months||Officials from Childline helpline 1098 in Tiruppur district have stopped 166 child marriages between April 2020 and October 2021, according to the latest data. Released by Executive Director of Centre for Social Education and Development C. Nambi as part of the annual Childline se Dosti initiative for child rights awareness, Childline officials intervened in 102 child marriages between April 2020 and April 2021 and 64 child marriages between April and October this year. Tiruppur North and Avinashi Blocks reported the highest number of child marriages during this 18-month period with 30 and 24 child marriages respectively. Other Blocks with more cases of child marriages included Udumalpet with 24 cases, Palladam (17), Dharapuram (16), Tiruppur South (15) and Uthukuli with 10 cases of child marriages. Between April 2020 and October 2021, the Childline officials also rescued 142 children from child labour, Mr. Nambi said. With schools not functioning for 19 months due to COVID-19 lockdown, around 60% of children from the villages surveyed in Tiruppur district were found to have gone for work, he said.  Children in distress shall contact Childline, a 24x7 nationwide helpline, at 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/166-child-marriages-stopped-in-tiruppur-in-18-months/article37606095.ece
21 November 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination: lucky draw planned to reach target||The district administration has announced that lucky draws would be conducted after the mega COVID-19 vaccination camp scheduled for Sunday. Disclosing this in a press release, Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan has said that those who have taken the vaccination jab - be it first dose or second dose of vaccination - during the 10th mega camp would become eligible to participate in the taluk-level lucky draw to be conducted after November 21. The winners of the first three places in each taluk would get dinner set, hot box and kitchen set as incentives for coming forward to take the jab. It has been planned to administer a total of 50,000 jabs through the camps to be conducted at 300 places in rural areas, 60 places in Municipalities, 40 places in Town Panchayats, 50 primary health centres, 8 government hospitals and at Thiruvarur Government Medical College hospital on November 21, she added. ‘Only solution’ Claiming that vaccination was the only solution available to prevent the spreading of the novel coronavirus, the Collector exhorted the public to come forward to get themselves vaccinated in the interest of society at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-lucky-draw-planned-to-reach-target/article37606158.ece
21 November 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Loadman killed in freak accident||Natarajan, 49, of Bamani hamlet near Mannargudi, serving as a loadman at the open stockyard at Moovaanallur died in a freak accident at the Direct Purchase Centre (DPC) on Friday. According to police, the mishap took place when the deceased, assisted by two of his colleagues, pulled the tarpaulin covering a paddy bags stack at the stockyard in the morning. Unexpectedly the paddy bags fell over him and he died on the spot. On receiving information, Mannargudi police rushed to the spot and removed the body to the Government District Headquarters hospital, Mannargudi for postmortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loadman-killed-in-freak-accident/article37606159.ece
21 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||A home away from home for affected families||Fifty-eight-year-old Noor Begam, a mother of three, rests herself on a jute mat at the century-old Khaire Jaree Aided Middle School in Melvisharam near Arcot in Ranipet district. She is staying with her neighbours in the school since Friday since water entered their houses on the rear end of the school after a breach in a nearby lake. They never felt they were far away from their homes. Not because of the short distance between the school and their Mangalore tiled houses but their bonding with the school as they did their schooling there years ago. Tucked between the common market and the Bengaluru Highway (NH 48), the school now houses more than 300 persons, including around 80 children from Melvisharam, a predominately Muslim neighbourhood, since Friday due to the rise of water level in the Palar. Food and tea The single-storey school has a big classroom and five small classrooms on its ground floor. Each room is occupied by at least 8-10 families. They were provided with food and tea, thrice a day. On an average, 50 bubble-top water cans were used at the school-turned relief camp every day for the affected persons. Interestingly, the school also functions as a COVID-19 vaccination centre for months taking advantage of online classes. “We will return to our homes even if it is a tile-roof house once water gets drained in the next few days. However, the school (relief camp) helps us to bond with each other as we share everything in common,” said young Mohammed Aslam. Many relief camps in Ranipet, Vellore and Tirupatur are set up in government schools, community centres and marriage halls. Basic facilities including blankets, clothes and stainless steel utensils were given to the affected families. Uninterrupted milk is provided at these camps for children and babies. Among three districts, Vellore has the highest number of 3,809 persons including 627 children in its 39 relief camps, followed by Ranipet with 1,297 persons including 367 children in its 9 camps in the district as on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-home-away-from-home-for-affected-families/article37606052.ece
21 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district reports 9 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,075 with 9 new cases reported on Saturday. While 48,841 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 96. The district's death toll is 1,138. In Ranipet district, 1 new case was reported positive and the total stood at 43,521. In Tirupattur district, 1 new case was reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,367. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 4, taking the total number of cases to 55,138. Out of this, 54,403 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 66.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-9-new-covid-19-cases/article37606539.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Highway to future||A brand new expressway is getting ready, to create a path between Chennai and Bengaluru via Andhra Pradesh. Expectations have run high since the announcement last week that the Expert Appraisal Committee of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had recommended environment clearance for a portion in Tamil Nadu and a portion in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. The 258.8-km expressway, costing Rs. 12,500 crore, which would allow motorists to drive safely without the intrusion of pedestrians, local traffic and cattle, a huge problem with the existing highway route, would be south India’s first expressway constructed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Work to construct the 106-km stretch of the fully access-controlled, four-lane, junction-and-signal-free expressway running through Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore and Ranipet districts in Tamil Nadu is expected to commence in about five months. “We are in the process of signing agreements with the concessionaires, and then they will have time to mobilise men and material after which the work will begin. Since the land has been acquired, it is only a matter of constructing the road, which will take 30 months,” said S.P. Somasekhar, Regional Officer, NHAI. In Karnataka, work on the Rs. 3,500-crore stretch, running to a length of 71 km, has already started in two packages. Financial closure is under way for the third package. “It is planned to be completed within 2.5 years, which will be much ahead of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh,” a source said. In Andhra Pradesh, the road, which runs to a length of 85 km, has also been tendered out as three packages. The Letters of Acceptance have been issued to the concessionaires, and work is expected to commence in six months. About 7 km of the Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway (BCE) passes through the Rayala Elephant Reserve area, and environment clearance is awaited for this stretch. Designed for speed The BCE project, being taken up under the National Highways Development Project, will allow motorists to reach Bengaluru in under 3 hours from Chennai, depending on their speed. “Though highways are designed for speeds of 100 km/hr, most motorists average at 60 km/hr-70 km/hr. However, the BCE is designed for 120 km/hr, and everything else permitting, motorists can clock such speeds on it,” a source associated with the project said. It will be completely fenced off to ensure that no animals stray onto the road, and since there will not be any local traffic, a service lane will not be built. The proposed expressway is to be developed as a fully access-controlled facility on a greenfield alignment, which means there will not be any existing road in the alignment. The road will cross built-up area only at two locations, the source added. The existing National Highway-4 (NH-4), which runs parallel to the proposed expressway, is one of the highest traffic-carrying corridors in the country. It carries over 70,000 passenger car units per day. Due to the sheer volume of traffic, vehicle movement is considerably slow at peak hours in the Sriperumbudur belt, which is also also a major industrial belt. P. Nandagopal, of Freedom Travels, said it took around five hours if the road was good to reach Bengaluru. “However, it takes 2.5 hours to reach Ranipet alone. Since widening work is happening, there are many route diversions on the way. You will not know where the diversions are, or if there are any inundated stretches or potholes,” he said, adding that hopefully the proposed road would not have potholes and had proper drainage. At present, widening work is underway in the Karapatti-Walajapet stretch. The alignment, which starts from Bengaluru, near the existing NH-4, east of Hoskote town, ends near Sriperumbudur on NH-4 near the Hyundai factory. Apart from Tamil Nadu, it runs through Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh and Bangalore Urban, Bangalore Rural and Kolar districts in Karnataka. It will be connected to the Chennai port via the Chennai Elevated Expressway from Maduravoyal. “The double-decker facility from the port will become a six-lane elevated 22-km corridor so that it can be integrated with the BCE,” another source said. In Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the expressway passes through cultivated land, forests and barren land, and in Tamil Nadu, it runs through cultivated land and barren land, not affecting any forest lands. Prioritising safety Keeping the safety of motorists in mind, the BCE will have wider lanes of 3.75 m each instead of the regular 3.50 m. “Vehicles will clock more speeds, so more space is being provided to ensure their safety. The paved shoulder’s width will be 3 m, double that of regular highways. The median’s width will be 21 m and be depressed, like a valley in the midst of two roads. This space can be used to widen the road in the future,” Mr. Somashekar said. A third-eye will keep a constant watch for speeding. “We will be monitoring using CCTV cameras. However, if there is speeding, the agency that maintains the road cannot take any punitive action. It will be the job of the police to enforce the rule,” another source said. Not an average highway Apart from avoiding towns, villages, religious and historic monuments, environmentally sensitive areas, forests etc., expressways are usually junction-free and access-controlled, meaning more safety for road users. Expressways do not enter habitations and will help vehicles to be fuel-efficient thus bringing down transport costs. The BCE will have toll plazas only at entry and exit points, and it will have something called closed tolling by which motorists will only have to pay for the length that they have to travel. “Since we have defined entry/exit points, the fee collected will be predetermined. In regular highways, even if you only use 5 km of a tolled road, you will have to pay for the entire stretch covered by that contactor,” another source said. Larger economic effects The project’s main aim, which is to reduce travel time between Chennai and Bengaluru, will have a larger economic effect, as it will lead to savings on fuel, man hours and costs, according to Suresh Krishna, State president, CREDAI Tamil Nadu. Mr. Krishna said if this was extrapolated over one year, the number of man hours saved would be quite significant. “The project will also increase economic activity in the region by opening up new areas for industrial development. There is potential for manufacturing facilities, warehousing facilities along the corridor. Also, the project will be closer to the port, and will facilitate easy cargo movement on the corridor,” he said. Further, the corridor could become a growth corridor just like how Sriperumbudur and Oragadam were. The benefit of the project would be exponential, he added. “If industrial development happened in that corridor, residential areas will also grow. For every 1,000 direct jobs, 3,000 indirect jobs are created, and when industrial development happens, it requires labour, who will want to be closer to the workplace leading to development of housing facilities. A resultant addition will then happen in terms of creation of healthcare facilities, schools, restaurants and shopping facilities,” he said. New avenues C. Devarajan, convenor, infrastructure panel, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), said with Bengaluru being a major textile sourcing hub for exports, there was a need for access to a port, which the corridor would provide through Chennai. “A number of districts will also be connected through the project. In many of the districts, there are clusters of industries that will see growth when the corridor is ready,” he said. “Some of the possibilities are textile, agriculture and healthcare hubs coming up on the corridor. It can be specialised or a combination of different things,” he said. Though no industrial corridors or special zones are being planned along the alignment, the BCE will ultimately lead to development of hubs and towns near its alignment. “It has been designed in such a manner that the ribbon form of development, along the road, is not being encouraged. Tamil Nadu does not have such development. We do see a lot of open spaces along highway roads,” a planner said. The road with its way-side facilities and elevated construction will have something very new to offer to those taking it to Bengaluru.   We are in the process of signing agreements with the concessionaires, and then they will have time to mobilise men and material after which the work will begin. Since the land has been acquired, it is only a matter of constructing the road, which will take 30 months S.P. Somasekhar Regional Officer, National Highways Authority of IndiA   The project will also increase economic activity in the region by opening up new areas for industrial development. There is potential for manufacturing facilities, warehousing facilities along the corridor. Also, the project will be closer to the port, and will facilitate easy cargo movement on the corridor Suresh Krishna State president, CREDAI Tamil Nadu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/highway-to-future/article37606031.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 73 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Saturday reported 73 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total cases to 1,05,620. While 62 persons were discharged, 798 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 41 positive cases and two deaths were reported on Saturday. In Namakkal, 39 COVID-19 positive cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-73-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37606211.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Sree Narayana Mission: Kumbabishegam, mahaganapathy homam, 5 a.m. onwards.  Coimbatore Malayali Samajam- Ladies Wing : Golden Jubilee celebrations, 5 p.m.  New Century Book House: 36th national book expo, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.  Book release: Release of book “Uyiracham” by Ravichandran Aravindan, Mullai hall restaurant, Opposite to Pricol Apartment, Nava India Road, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37606099.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||RELIGION  Sri Kattazhagia Singarperumal Temple: Sahasra deepa mahothsavam, nagaswaram by T.S.K..Sowrirajan and party, 10 a.m.; thirumanjanam, 11 a.m.; vocal concert by Sruthi Ranjani-Smrti Ranjani and party, 4.30 p.m.; discourse by Nagai Mukundan and Sahasra deepam, Srirangam, 6 p.m.  Sri Kamalavalli Nachiar Temple: Dolothsavam, Sri Thayar purappadu from sanctum sanctorum, 6 p.m.; unjal kandarulal, 7.15 p.m.; purappadu from Unjal mandapam, 8.30 p.m.; reaching sanctum sanctorum, Woraiyur, 8.45 p.m. GENERAL  Solar Trust and UNICEF: Training and discussion with coordinators on introduction of ARS mobile App and ARS-IP data collection, TASSOS campus, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article37606533.ece
21 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||No power supply||Some areas in belagavi and surrounding areas will suffer power outage on Sunday [November 21] from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Areas like Bijagarni, Bokamur, Kavalewadi, Belavatti, Bakanur, Belagundi, Sonoli, Elebail, Rakaskoppa, Kudremani, Kallehol, Uchagaon, Bekkinakeri, Sulaga, Turmuri, Konewadi, Bachi, Saogaon, Mundoli, Hangaraga, Hindalaga, Ganeshpur, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Army colony, KHB layout, Benakanahalli, and nearby areas will be affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-power-supply/article37606256.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru is 28 out of 48 among cities with over 10 lakh population||Among urban local bodies with a population of over 10 lakh, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike was placed 28 out of 48 in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 rankings, which were announced by the Centre on Saturday. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Harish Kumar and Joint Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan received the award in Delhi. This time around, cities were categorised based on their population, and Benglauru was grouped with metros that had a population of over 10 lakh and above. The new ranking system, said waste management experts, makes it difficult to compare how the city fared this year when compared to previous years. Sandya Narayanan, waste management expert, estimated that the city’s performance had hit a little over the 50% mark this year. Mr. Gupta, while expressing satisfaction with the recognition the city got for its initiatives in waste management and cleanliness, acknowledged the need for improvement. “While we are happy with this recognition, we know there is a lot more work to do and we will strive harder to work with all communities to make our city cleaner. I thank all those who have contributed to this award and recognition, particularly our SWM team and pourakarmikas,” he said. Speaking to The Hindu from Delhi, Mr. Khan said. “We have several pockets within the city where source segregation is almost 100%, such as H.S.R. Layout and Koramangala. The welfare schemes for pourakarmikas, including uniforms and other benefits, have been recognised. We seem to be lacking in the area of citizen feedback,” he said. Under the certification, points are given only when there has been actual work on the ground. “Both Water Plus and Garbage Free City require a fair amount of rigour and work. We are not equipped for it right now, as we are still in the service level category improvement,” Ms. Narayanan added. Concurring, V. Ramaprasad, waste management expert, said that Bengaluru has yet to put in place an integrated system with all civic agencies and utilities working together. “For Water Plus, there should be no raw sewage in drains and all waste water should be treated. We are far from achieving this,” he added. Swachh Survekshan requires digitisation and real-time monitoring of all processes of all streams of waste, which would include end-to-end processes. Another big component is the circular economy in waste management. “The government has already established the Bengaluru Solid Waste Management Company. We also need a good expert committee in place that will work on integrating the efforts of all utilities and agencies. Right now, all are working in silos,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-is-28-out-of-48-among-cities-with-over-10-lakh-population/article37605991.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Draft of BBMP Election Rules, 2021, notified under new Act||The State Government on Saturday notified the draft of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Election Rules, 2021, under the new BBMP Act, 2020. The final notification will be issued 30 days from now, the draft notification said. On October 31, the State had extended the term of the delimitation committee retrospectively by six months from July 28 to end on January 28, 2022. It was speculated that the Government was keen on pushing the much-delayed civic polls in the city further, said sources. However, with the petition seeking directions to the Government to hold the polls immediately expected to come up for final hearing and disposal in the Supreme Court on December 6, the Government has changed track and notified the draft rules, sources said. “The civic polls have already been delayed by over a year and we have been fighting legally to ensure immediate elections. We hope the apex court will rule in our favour,” said Abdul Wajid, former Congress floor leader in the BBMP Council and a petitioner before the apex court. The delimitation committee is in a quandary as to whether to expand the BBMP jurisdiction or not. While it is proposed to add urbanised villages in the one kilometre radius from the existing limits into the civic body’s area, there are reservations over the same, sources said. “Given that the 110 villages included into the BBMP area in 2008 still lack basic infrastructure like water and drainage, it is not prudent to expand the BBMP jurisdiction further,” said a senior official, who added that the Chief Minister, who also holds charge of Bengaluru Development was also inclined towards the same stand. However, MLAs from outer zones continue to demand inclusion of new villages into the BBMP area. “MLAs argue that the inclusion of new villages will increase the property tax of properties in these villages which are mostly urbanised, contributing to the tax base of the city. But there are also real-estate concerns - inclusion in the city limits will make prices go northwards,” said a former councillor who did not wish to be named. Sources said a draft of the delimitation of 243 wards for the present jurisdiction was ready in the civic body, and if a final decision to not expand the jurisdiction was taken, the civic body was ready to publish the draft to invite objections. Sources in the ruling BJP said the party was ready for the elections to be held by March - April, 2021 and would try to avoid facing the polls before that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/draft-of-bbmp-election-rules-2021-notified-under-new-act/article37605996.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Promote investment in State: CM tells AKKA||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has called upon the Association of Kannada Kootas of America (AKKA), a non-profit organisation of non-resident Kannadigas, to promote investment in Karnataka. The Chief Minister said, “I have seen Kannadigas being successful overseas. You (AKKA members) are ambassadors of Karnataka.” Addressingthe Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations organised by AKKA, he asked them to speak to business people in the U.S. and inform them about the excellent investor-friendly environment in Karnataka. He said his Government would give priority for Kannadigas to get more jobs in the private sector and that this required a special programme. Several attempts had been made to provide jobs to Kannadigas, but not with great success. The BJP Government amended the Karnataka Industrial (Standing Orders) Rules, 1961, to make industrial units give priority to Kannadigas in group C and D jobs. The poorest of the poor Kannadiga needs to be economically empowered. “We have realised this and will work towards this,” he said. On the importance of education and skill development, Mr. Bommai said the Government would offer higher education in Kannada. “Though there were many hurdles, our Government is ready to address them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/promote-investment-in-state-cm-tells-akka/article37606005.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister chairs meet on GST||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who heads the Group of Ministers (GoM) on Goods and Services Tax (GST), chaired a meeting on rate rationalisation of taxes on Saturday. The GoM has to submit a report in December on issues related to rationalisation of GST and ways to augment revenue. Finance Ministers and officials from various States participated in the videoconference. The Centre has suggested to the GoM to recommend rationalisation measures, including merger of tax rate slabs, for evolving a simpler tax structure. GST Council next month The GoM’s report is expected to be ready before the GST Council to be held in December to enable discussions on recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chief-minister-chairs-meet-on-gst/article37606006.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Writers, others seek repeal of State laws||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on repealing three contentious farm laws, many writers, activists, and academicians have asked the Karnataka Government to withdraw the recently amended land reforms Act and the APMC Act for the benefit of farmers. Amendments to the APMC Act has removed restrictions on sale of farm produce and allowed private players to purchase agricultural commodities from farmers, which was opposed by farmers’ groups on the ground that it clips the powers of the APMCs and permits entry of MNCs in the agricultural marketing sector. The amended land reforms Act removed income restrictions on purchase of agricultural land and permitted non-agriculturists to buy agricultural land. K.M. Marulasiddappa, Rajendra Chenni, Siddalinga Pattanasetty, Vasudhara Bhupathi, B.K. Chandrashekar, Vijaya, Hi.Shi. Ramachandre Gowda, Kale Gowda Nagavara, Rahmat Tarikere, Purushothama Bilimale, Shudra Srinivas, Neela K., Chandra Poojari, S.G. Siddaramaiah, K.S. Vimala and others have demanded that the Karnataka Government withdraw the amended land reforms Act and APMC Act, enacted in 2020. Joint statement In a joint statement, they said: “Prime Minister Modi’s announcement of withdrawal of the three draconian farm laws was clearly a historic victory for the farmers. However, this does not mean that Mr. Modi genuinely regrets the enactment of these unjust laws, as the announcement comes just before elections in five States... The fact that farmers will not withdraw their protest until the laws are formally repealed by Parliament is an indication of how little they trust Mr. Modi’s words.” They also demanded a statutory order ensuring minimum support price for farm produce and withdrawal of amendments to the Electricity Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/writers-others-seek-repeal-of-state-laws/article37606009.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC driver gets jail||A city court on Friday convicted a Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation driver for rash driving and sentenced him to one-month imprisonment and pay a fine of Rs. 2,000. In June 2019, the driver, Manjunath H.N., attached to Peenya depot, started the bus from HMT Hospital Stop while a commuter was trying to board. As a result, she fell and sustained injuries. The Jalahalli police registered a case against Manjunath and filed a chargesheet before the 3rd traffic court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-driver-gets-jail/article37605988.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Couple killed||A couple on a scooter was killed on the spot when a speeding truck rammed into them at Doddaballapur-Dabaspet highway on the outskirts of the city on Saturday. The driver escaped leaving behind the vehicle. The deceased have been identified as Shyam Nayak, 55, and his wife Sharadha, 45, of Shanthinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/couple-killed/article37605993.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jeweller robbed of gold worth Rs. 2.5 cr.||Two armed men attacked a jeweller and his employee and robbed them of 5.5 kg of gold bullion valued at around Rs. 2.5 crore at Cubbonpete on Friday night. Jeweller Siddeshwar Haribha Sindhe, 32, and his employee Srikanth Jadhav had purchased the bullion at a gold company that evening and were returning to their shop in Cubbonpete on their two-wheeler. Around 8.30 p.m., two armed men on a scooter intercepted them. The pillon rider attacked the duo with a sword, snatched the bag of gold and sped away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jeweller-robbed-of-gold-worth-rs-25-cr/article37605994.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Why yatra amid floods, HDK asks BJP leaders||JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D.Kumaraswamy on Saturday chastised BJP leaders and Ministers for keeping themselves busy with Jan Swaraj Yatra at a time whenthe State was reeling under floods and farmers were in distress.He also said there was no coordination between the Government and officials on flood management. Mr. Kumaraswamy, in a series of tweets on Saturday, described the devastation of standing and harvested crops caused by floods and sought to know where all the district in-charge Ministers were in such a situation. He said they were busy “boasting about their achievements” ahead of the Legislative Council elections instead of visiting flood-hit areas. “The Chief Minister during his videoconference on floods has asked officials to visit flood-hit areas but not his Ministers. Ministers are not going to the flood-hit people and there is no coordination between officials and the Government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-yatra-amid-floods-hdk-asks-bjp-leaders/article37606001.ece
21 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rs. 1 cr. donated to relief fund||Marketing Communication and Advertising Ltd., a State Government enterprise, on Wednesday donated Rs. 1 crore from its profits for 2020-21 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. MCA chairman C. Munikrishna presented the cheque to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-1-cr-donated-to-relief-fund/article37606002.ece
21 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Honour for Surya Prasad||Musicologist, critic, and columnist M. Surya Prsad has been elected president of the 51st National Music Conference of Bangalore Gayana Samaja. The conference will be held from December 5 to 12. Dr. Prasad will be honoured with the title ‘Sangeetha Kalarathna’ and presented a cash prize of Rs. 50,000 and a citation on December 12, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honour-for-surya-prasad/article37606003.ece
21 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KRS extends support to Kadur women||The Karnataka Rashtra Samiti (KRS) Party, led by activist Ravi Krishna Reddy, has extended its support to the women of Muslapura Hatti in Kadur taluk fighting against opening a bar in the village. Mr. Reddy and other leaders of the party visited the village recently and interacted with the women. The party leaders told the women they would stand by the villagers in their protest against the liquor shop. The party had been in favour of liquor-free Karnataka. Following the police action against those women who ransacked the bar on November 12, many have fled the place. The police have registered the case against 41 villagers. Liquor shop “We are in support of the women who fought against the liquor shop. They have not committed any crime. They have fought for their lives. There is no need for the accused to hide. They should come out and go to the police station with their head held high,” he said. Later in a press conference at Kadur, Mr. Reddy alleged that the police treated the accused women as terrorists. “The police rushed to the village early in the morning and arrested them. The police have been acting under the influence of politicians. The influential people, including a policeman, are behind setting up the bar in the village, against to the will of local people,” he said. Further, he said the women had fought against the bar in a democratic manner. When they went to Chikkamagaluru to submit their plea, the Deputy Commissioner did not meet them. “I feel the DC is unfit to hold this position. He should have listened to the people and ensured the bar license was cancelled. He has failed in his duties,” he said. KRS youth wing president Raghu Janagere and others were present at the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krs-extends-support-to-kadur-women/article37606446.ece
21 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Flyover: Panel suggests modifications||An experts’ committee on the Elevated Rotary Interchange project has said that even at a conservative estimate of 3.5% annual traffic growth rate, the Kittur Chennamma Circle at Hubballi will have 20,162 vehicles at peak hour by 2027 and 34,742 by 2037. Explaining the various parameters considered before arriving at the conclusion on the necessity of the elevated corridor, member of the committee and Vice-Chancellor of KLE Technological University Ashok Shettar told presspersons on Saturday said that the committee had made the following recommendations on modifying the plan: At Hosur Junction Relocate the existing BRTS bus station, allowing a the introduction of a combined intermediate arm at the centre instead of divided elevated lane arms; end BRTS exclusive corridor at Mahila Vidyapeetha BRTS bus stop instead of Hosur bus stop(existing); Relocate BRTS bus stop to a location in front of IT park. At bus stand (Chennamma Circle) Relocate BRTS bus station to make a wider carriageway available for the service road that addresses the congestion; make provisions for exclusive BRTS bus terminals in the new bus stand under the Smart City Project. Provision for BRTS buses Bus station for the buses moving towards Dharwad: exclusive terminal in the new bus stand (as it is already part of the design being implemented under Smart City Project); bus Station for buses coming from Dharwad at Basava Vana. Vijayapura Road Instead of landing the Vijayapura elevated arm at Kubera Apartment, it should be joined with vehicular underpass (VUP) and remove the existing VUP approach; modify Vijayapura arm from one-way to two-way from Chennamma Circle to join existing VUP with a divided intermediate lane of 12.6 metres wide to facilitated the elevated traffic plying to and from Vijayapura; enhance the service road at VUP to 5.5m on both sides. Koppikar Junction Shift takeoff from LIC office to BRTS Bus Station location at Koppikar Road junction (about 300 m); redesigning of Koppikar Road junction; relocate BRTS Bus station; service road on mixed traffic lane should be 7.5 m wide; four lane elevated corridor. Adequate parking space, toilets must be provided below the flyover intersection that can help the shops and vendors of the area; Beautification of the intersections at grade level need to be undertaken to landscaping and other treatments; Pedestrian safety must be of prime importance while designing the at-grade traffic controls and crossings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flyover-panel-suggests-modifications/article37606244.ece
21 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Decision, though a bit late, taken in the interest of farmers’||Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday said that that a decision on repeal of farm laws was a little bit delayed but had been taken in the interest of farmers of the country. Addressing presspersons in Bagalkot on Saturday, Mr. Yediyurappa was of the view that although the decision was a bit late there was nothing wrong in accepting it. However, he contended that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not make it a prestige issue. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done a great job and the nation has welcomed it. I appeal to the Opposition to stop criticising the Prime Minister as the decision has been taken in the interest of the farmers who were agitating for almost a year,” he said. Regarding the deaths of farmers during the agitation, Mr. Yediyurappa said that there were different reasons for the deaths and all knew under what circumstances they occurred and what were the other developments. ‘Not gimmick’ On allegations of the move being an election gimmick, he said that there was no need for Mr. Modi to do anything for the sake of elections. His name itself would get the required votes for the party candidates and victory in elections, he said. On whether he was contemplating retirement from politics, Mr. Yediyurappa said he had not thought anything about it. “I have resigned from the Chief Minister’s post and am not aspiring for any post. I am only focusing on strengthening the party for its victory in the next Assembly polls. The party high command will take a decision on whether to field me or not in the next election,” he said. On Saturday, Mr. Yediyurappa addressed “Jana Swaraj” conventions in Bagalkot and Vijayapura. Leaders from both the districts, including Ministers Govind Karjol and B. Sriramulu, A.S. Patil Nadahalli, Somangouda Patil Sasanur, and Ramesh Bhusanur, MLAs, and Hanumantha Nirani and Arun Shahpur, MLCs, attended the conventions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/though-late-decision-to-repeal-laws-taken-in-farmers-interest/article37606250.ece
21 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Elevated Corridor essential for Hubballi’||The 13-member experts’ committee constituted to look into the objections raised against construction of the Elevated Rotary Interchange at Kittur Chennamma Circle here on Saturday said that the project was essential for the city considering the traffic needs and future vehicular numbers. The work on the project sanctioned by the Union Government had already begun, but was stopped following concerns and objections raised by various stakeholders, including engineers and architects from the twin cities. Addressing presspersons along with members of the experts’ committee, led by Vice-Chancellor of KLE Technological University Ashok Shettar, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that the committee after due deliberations based on data and spot visits had arrived at the conclusion that the Elevated Rotary Interchange was essential for the city in addition to developing alternate arterial roads and bypass roads keeping in mind the ever increasing traffic volume. However various modifications had been suggested after taking into consideration the objections raised by stakeholders, including architects, engineers, traders, and businessmen. “All the concerns and objections of the stakeholders have been addressed in the modified plan for Elevated Rotary Interchange and other packages of the elevated corridor. The modifications will necessitate additional land acquisition at some points for widening the roads. Although the overall estimate will be little bit more, there will not be any problem in getting requisite sanctions as cost other modifications suggested in plan will save money in some packages,” he said. On the question of traffic volume on the elevated corridor, Mr. Patil said that the committee looked into the issue, analysed data and cross-checked it by conducting spot visits and found that the elevated corridor would be useful in easing traffic congestion. He said that the one of the major concerns was about trade and business being affected as the flyover would curtail access to Koppikar Road and that had been redressed in the modified plan. Under the modified plan there would be easy access to Koppikar Road, which would solve the major problem, he said. Presentation Making a presentation on the recommendations of the committee, Prof. Shettar said that the committee had suggested various modifications based on the feedback from stakeholders, which included development of a few junctions by widening the roads, shifting of BRTS (Bus Rapid Transit System) stations at three different points, shifting the ramp to facilitate access to the busy Koppikar Road and others. He said that in addition to modifications in the plan, the committee had made other recommendations like creating slow speed zone which would benefit vendors and businesses. Adequate parking space should be provided under the flyover and charging stations to encourage usage of e-vehicles, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elevated-corridor-essential-for-hubballi-experts-committee/article37606226.ece
21 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BJP State chief goes hammer and tongs at Mallikarjun Kharge, Priyank||Unleashing a verbal attack against Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge and his son and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Priyank Kharge, BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that the “Kharge gang’s looting” will shortly come to an end. “You have taught a lesson to the Kharge gang by defeating Mr. Mallikarjun Kharge in the last Lok Sabha elections. You have forced Mr. Priyank Kharge to flee Kalaburagi by defeating Congress in the mahanagara palike elections. I congratulate you for it. In the coming elections for Legislative Council, you should again defeat the Kharges,” Mr. Kateel said at a public meeting as part of its Jan Swaraj Yatra in Kalaburagi on Saturday. Taking exception to the Congress’ criticism in the bitcoin scam and defending Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, Mr. Kateel said that Congress leaders had gone mad. “Mr. Jnanendra is working day and night to ensure law and order in the State. There is no troublesome incident reported during his period as a Home Minister. Congress leaders have gone mad to make baseless allegations against Mr. Jnanendra,” Mr. Kateel said. Pointing to his party’s minority status in the Upper House of the State Legislature, Mr. Kateel promised that the Basavaraj Bommai Government would increase the honorarium of gram panchayat members to Rs. 10,000 a month if his party wins more seats in the coming elections to the Legislative Council and attain majority in the Upper House. “We have suggested that Mr. Bommai adopt the Kerala model to give more autonomy to gram panchayats. Kerala gives Rs. 1 crore grants annually to each gram panchayat. The GP president is provided with a car and a personal secretary there. We too are planning to make similar provisions in Karnataka,” Mr. Kateel said. Mr. Jnanendra, Industry Minister Murugesh Nirani, Union Minister Bhagwanth Khuba, Lok Sabha member Umesh Jadhav, legislators B.G. Patil, Dattatreya Patil Revoor, Subhash Guttedar, Basavaraj Mattimud, Shashil Namoshi, Rajkumar Patil Telkur, Avinash Jadhav, and other party leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-state-chief-goes-hammer-and-tongs-at-mallikarjun-kharge-priyank/article37606255.ece
21 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Protest against proposed Bill||Members of the All-Karnataka United Christian Forum for Human Rights (North East Zone) have staged protests opposing the proposed Anti-Conversion Bill in the State. The members led by forum president Rev. Robert Miranda stage a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Friday and submitted a memorandum addressed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai stating that the Government’s move would affect religious harmony. The agitators also opposed the decision taken by the Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department to conduct a survey of religious places belonging to the Christian community and Christian missionaries functioning in the State. Rev. Miranda cited Article 25 (freedom of conscience and free profession, practice, and propagation of religion) and Article 26 (freedom to manage religious affairs) of the Constitution and said that the proposed law would infringe upon the rights of the citizens. They added that the members of the community run various educational and health institutions, which had helped thousands of people, and asked the Government to prove that even one of these institutions had forced them to change their religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-proposed-bill/article37606246.ece
21 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Judicial inquiry sought into bitcoin scam||Former Minister B. Ramanath Rai on Saturday sought a judicial probe into the multi-crore bitcoin scam as he said names of some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists are said to be associated with the hacker, Srikrishna alias Sriki, who has been arrested in connection with the scam. Talking to reporters, Mr. Rai said the name of a senior BJP leader is among those of State BJP office-bearers mentioned in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The names mentioned in the letter are of powerful people. It is necessary to have a probe by a sitting High Court judge to get a true picture of the scam,” he said, and added it will be difficult for the Central and the State investigation agencies to do a fair investigation in the matter. Mr. Rai said when any scams were reported the Congress Governments at the Centre and the State have promptly ordered high-level probe into those incidents and took disciplinary action against all the party activists found involved. Former MLC and All-India Congress Committee secretary Ivan D’souza on Saturday asked Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot to probe into the allegation made by Karnataka State Contractors’ Association that tender amount for Government projects are inflated by about 30% to pay to politicians. Mr. D’Souza said Mr. Modi had termed the Congress Government in the State as “10% commission” Government during the 2018 Assembly election campaign. “Now the contractors themselves in the complaint to the Prime Minister have put out the rates that is being demanded by those in power in the State. They have also said about 10% cut demanded for clearing payment,” he said. “This is a serious allegation against Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other members in the Cabinet. The Prime Minister himself should get the matter investigated or the Governor should take suo motu cognisance of the complaint and get it probed,” he told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/judicial-inquiry-sought-into-bitcoin-scam/article37606445.ece
21 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Be cautious while sharing info on social media, children told||Expressing concern over children becoming victims of cyber crime, Dakshina Kannada Senior Child Protection Officer and Assistant Superintendent of Police Gaana P. Kumar on Saturday asked children to exercise caution while sharing information on social media. Speaking during an interaction with children on the impact of COVID-19, Ms. Kumar said several children have become victims of cyber crime during this lockdown when they have been exposed to online classes. Children have been stalked on social media. They should be aware that their accounts are monitored by others. She said Dakshina Kannada has so far reported 48 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act in this year. Four cases under Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act have also been reported during this period. The Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights had organised the interaction. Member D. Shankarappa said the commission has begun the process of hearing from children of the problems they have faced due to pandemic and the lockdown. The children will air their grievances before the district-level officials for redressal. If those problems are not resolved at the district-level, the children will be allowed to raise it during the divisional-level or the State-level meeting, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/be-cautious-while-sharing-info-on-social-media-children-told/article37606444.ece
21 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Christians oppose move to bring in anti-conversion Bill||Christians in the city have submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner opposing the anti-conversion Bill proposed by the State Government. The memorandum was submitted on Friday at the call of the All-Karnataka United Christian Forum for Human Rights (AKUCFHR), a release said. The leaders who met the in-charge Additional Deputy Commissioner Manikya appealed to the Government to withdraw the orders on the survey of Christian missionaries and the establishments. Interacting with the official, J.B. Saldanha, Public Relations Officer and Spiritual Director Catholic Sabha, said that Christians question the need for such a survey when sufficient laws and court directives are in place to monitor any aberration of the existing laws. Former MLA J.R. Lobo said that Article 25 of the Constitution guarantees freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion subject to public order, morality and health. Further, Article 26 gives “freedom to manage religious affairs”. And, therefore, introducing such laws would infringe the rights of the citizens, especially of the minority communities. Stany Lobo, president, Catholic Sabha, said that the false allegation of conversions on Christian communities has disturbed the peace and unity among all Christians in Karnataka. “The Government must never try to bring enmity between Christian denominations by generalising few incidents and branding our actions as conversions,” he said. The leaders said that Christians are known for peace, unity and social service. Thousands of schools, colleges and hospitals are run and managed by Christian Community across the State. When lakhs of students are graduating from these institutions year after year and thousands of patients irrespective of caste, creed and colour receive the best medical attention from hospitals and care centers managed by Christians, but not one of them has ever been influenced, compelled or coerced to change his or her religion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/christians-oppose-move-to-bring-in-anti-conversion-bill/article37606452.ece
21 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Door-to-door vaccination survey to be carried out in Udupi from tomorrow||The Health Department will take up a drive of visiting houses from November 22 to November 30 in Udupi to convince those who have not been jabbed against COVID-19 to get themselves vaccinated, according to Udupi District Health and Family Welfare Officer H. Nagabhushana Udupa. Anganwadi workers and ASHAs will visit houses during the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign and convince those who have not taken the first and second doses to get themselves vaccinated. The survey will be conducted based on the voters’ list, he said. The objective is to achieve 100 % vaccination, he said in a release. As Udupi district has the target of vaccinating 9,99,000 people who are aged above 18, so far the department has administered vaccine doses to 9,24,639 people with the first dose thus achieving 92.56 % coverage as on Saturday. He said that 6,11,569 (61.22 %) people have received the second dose. As the people who have not been vaccinated yet, the risk of COVID-19 spread still exists. So the district administration has sought the cooperation of the people. Appealing to those who have not been vaccinated to get vaccinated he said that no COVID-19 test will be conducted for those who come to vaccination centers for vaccination purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/door-to-door-vaccination-survey-to-be-carried-out-in-udupi-from-tomorrow/article37606455.ece
21 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Journalists help to maintain social wellness||Just as doctors help in maintaining physical and mental health, journalists play an important role in maintaining social wellness, said N. Kishore Alva Mitthalike, president of Indian Association of Pathologists, Karnataka chapter. He was speaking at the National Press Day celebrations, organised by the Dakshina Kannada Working Journalists Association, the Mangalore Press Club, and the Patrika Bhavana Trust here. Dr. Mitthalike said as the media in China failed to raise an alarm and create awareness among people over the COVID-19 outbreak, the pandemic spread across the world. However, the situation was different in India where the media played a vital role in awareness creation and disseminating information to the public on the pandemic. Because of such a proactive action, the pandemic could be brought under control in the country, he said. Inaugurating the celebrations, Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner C. Madan Mohan said when journalists have a social commitment and concern, they could discharge their duty without fear or favour. In his address on ‘Challenges before the media’, Vijaya Karnataka’s assistant editor Krishna Bhat Aladangadi said the present day newsroom requires all-rounders just like the 20-20 cricket teams. Newsrooms require journalists who could handle every issue. Journalists besides their writing skills, need to have oratory skills too. While oratory skills count heavily in the electronic media, journalists in the print media too should develop the same for effective communication, Mr. Bhat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/journalists-help-to-maintain-social-wellness/article37606439.ece
21 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||17 new cases in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 12 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With 18 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 101. Test positivity rate was put at 0.24%. A fine totalling Rs. 1,07,74,170 has so far been collected in 88,813 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported five new cases and all these cases were from Udupi taluk. Four patients are under home isolation and one is in the designated government healthcare facility. With three patients discharged, there are 52 active cases in the district. With 16,867 people vaccinated on Saturday, the total number of people covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 25,09,131. Of these, 15,43,471 have received their first dose and 9,65,660 their second. In Udupi, 5,372 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 15,41,995, of which 9,25,077 have received their first dose and 6,16,918 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-new-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi/article37606453.ece
21 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Leopard rescued near Bantwal||Forest Department officials rescued a leopard caught in a snare at Manchi village in Bantwal taluk early on Saturday. According to Rajesh Baligar, Range Forest Officer, Bantwal the leopard, aged between eight and 10, weighed between 50 kg and 60 kg. It did not suffer any injury. The locals informed about the leopard at about 8 p.m. on Friday. Later it was darted and released. The rescue operation went on till 2 a.m. on Saturday, he said. Local people too helped the forest officials in rescuing it. The beast will be let into the forests after observation, the RFO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-rescued-near-bantwal/article37606442.ece
21 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The India Meteorological Department has said that heavy to very heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over all the districts of coastal Karnataka when the rainfall shall exceed 115.5 mm on Sunday.    Kanaka Jayanti will be observed in the office of Deputy Commissioner here on Novmber 22 at 10.30 a.m. It will be celebrated in a simple way as the model code of conduct for elections, a release said.    There will be no power supply to some areas in the city on November 23 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. The areas are Mannagudda, Urwa Market, Boloor, Matadakani, Gundu Rao Lane, Bokkapatna, Barke, Lady Hill, Lalbagh, Chilimbi, Warehouse Road, Ballalbagh, Kodialbail, Urwa Marigudi Temple Road, Hoigebail, and Ashoknagar. It is for maintenance works.    Power supply to some areas in Udupi will be stopped on November 23 from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are city bus stand, Badagupete, Kadiyali, Sharada Kalyana Mantapa, Bailakere, Vadiraja Cross Road, Kunjibettu, Gundibail, Kalsanka, Krishna Mutt parking area, and Sharadamba Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37606440.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Crops on 500 ha of land, 1,600 km of road damaged in rains||Crops on 500 hectares of land and 1,600 km of road has been damaged during the recent spell of rains in Mysuru district. Disclosing this to reporters in Mysuru on Saturday, Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar said the Deputy Commissioner had sent a detailed report on the damage caused by rain in the district to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The report also includes the damage caused to 1,994 houses including 87, which were completely damaged, and 1,907 that were partially damaged. The rains had also claimed three lives. While 1,100 km of roads in urban areas of the district had been damaged, 500 km of the roads in rural areas had been damaged in the rain, he said. A total of 67 school buildings had been damaged while 133 electric poles had collapsed. Though an initial estimate of Rs. 9.5 crore had prepared for the repair of the road atop Chamundi Hill, where landslips were reported after the recent spell of rains, Mr. Somashekar said the officials had been told to prepare a fresh report after the rains completely subside. A decision on payment compensation for crop loss and release of funds for repair of infrastructure will be taken by the Chief Minister, who had already received a copy of the Deputy Commissioner’s report, Mr. Somashekar said. To a question on the collapse of houses in Mysuru, Mr. Somashekar said the Deputy Commissioner had also had a survey of houses that were on the verge of collapse. Mysuru district had received unprecedented rainfall during November this year, he said. Fielding questions on his special officer Dinesh G. contesting elections in Mandya from the Congress, Mr. Somashekar said he had been relieved from duty the moment he received information about the same. “He informed me about his desire to contest the elections. I immediately wrote to the authorities to relieve him from duty. I have also informed the party leadership about the same,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crops-on-500-ha-of-land-1600-km-of-road-damaged-in-rains/article37606469.ece
21 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Proposed PRASHAD project atop Chamundi Hills questioned||The proposed development of Chamundi Hills under Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Heritage Augmentation Drive (PRASHAD) scheme has come under flak from a section of the citizens who said this would add to the growing pressure on the environment. The proposal for the project comes close on the heels of a movement launched to save Chamundi Hills that is gaining traction with an online petition gathering over 40,000 signatures. The movement was revived consequent to a series of landslips that led to road caving in, highlighted the growing ecological fragility of Chamundi Hills, and the imperatives of its conservation. Though Chamundi Hills was included under the PRASHAD scheme when announced a few years ago, it did not get started and was subsequently dropped due to a faulty DPR. Hence, the government submitted another plan which envisages a series of measures to embellish the temple precincts and the surroundings of Devikere, Nandi statue, relocation of kiosks, and construction of a rajagopura, apart from an interactive museum highlighting the contribution of the Wadiyars etc. “At a time when the people of Mysuru are crying hoarse to conserve the sanctity of Chamundi Hills by protecting the green cover and clearing the concrete structures, the Government and the Tourism Department has proposed a recipe for complete concretisation of Chamundi Hills’’, said Bhamy V. Shenoy of Mysore Grahakara Parishat. He said the focus should be on shoring up the green cover and reducing the anthropogenic pressure on Chamundi Hills which is fast turning into an urban jungle. Chamundi Hills is an ecological entity and a watershed which feeds 12 lakes including Karanji. More concretisation on the hilltop and paving means more run-off and damage at the top besides sounding the death-knell to the water bodies, warned U.N. Ravikumar, an environmentalist advocating alternative and green technologies. “Chamundi Hills cannot accommodate more people than its carrying capacity and such projects will only increase the anthropogenic pressure. The need of the hour is a buffer zone around Chamundi Hills but it has not been declared despite persistence from a section of the citizens since 25 years’’ he said. However, he said buffer as a concept should emerge as a public sentiment and as a policy from the Government which should define a land use pattern that is not inimical to the local environment. “There should be a ban on any construction atop and around Chamundi Hills which is fast turning into a concrete jungle’’, said Mr. Ravikumar who has studied the ecology of the region for more than three decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposed-prashad-project-atop-chamundi-hills-questioned/article37606472.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||BJP will win around 16 seats in Council polls: KSE||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa on Saturday expressed confidence of the BJP bagging around 16 seats in the elections to the Legislative Council from Local Authorities’ constituencies. Addressing a press conference in Mysuru, Mr. Eshwarappa said the party had already announced its list of candidates and was hopeful of performing well this time as the number of BJP supported members of the gram panchayat as well as the party MLAs were higher than the previous elections. Besides, Mr. Eshwarappa claimed that the pro-rural programmes taken up by the centre and the State Government will hold the party candidates in good stead. Already, the party is in majority in the Assembly and by performing well in the coming elections, the BJP will enjoy a majority even in the Council. Fielding queries from reporters on the allegations made by the State Contractors’ Association that they were forced to cough up huge sums of money as commission for government works, Mr. Eshwarappa said he was ready to look into the complaints of demands for commission for works executed by his department if the complaint came to him. “If they let us know which official or elected representative demanded commission, we will have it inquired and take action,” Mr. Eshwarappa said before rejecting former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s charge that the BJP Government was immersed in corruption. “It was the erstwhile Congress Government which was a ‘percentage government’, he said. To another question on the delay in taluk and zilla panchayat polls, he said the election to the local bodies will likely be held in February-March 2022 after the completion of the delimitation process. Mr. Eshwarappa also took exception to Mr. Siddaramaiah accusing a section of the party workers from Chamundeshwari for allegedly conspiring to defeat him in the last elections and sought to question the former Chief Minister whether he did not feel ashamed of defeating former Minister G. Parameshwara in the earlier election. Accusing Mr. Siddaramaiah of misusing the Backward Classes, Minorities, and Dalits for realising his political goals, Mr. Eshwarappa said the former Chief Minister had deliberately prevented the release of the report on the caste survey when he was in power. Mr. Eshwarappa was in Mysuru on Saturday leading a team of ‘Jan Swaraj Yatra’ to mobilise support for the party. After finishing a tour of Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Udupi, and Mangaluru, Mr. Eshwarappa visited Mysuru and Chamarajanagar on Saturday. The team is scheduled to visit Mandya and Hassan before visiting Kodagu. Mr. Eshwarappa was accompanied by Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje and Co-operation Minister S.T. Somashekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-will-win-around-16-seats-in-council-polls/article37606448.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||At BJP’s Jan Swaraj Yatra, Cong. targeted||The BJP launched the Jan Swaraj Yatra to interact with eligible voters and drum up support for its candidates in the forthcoming Legislative Council elections. The yatre for the Mysuru-Chamarajanagar region entailed discussion with party workers and candidates to chalk out their strategy for the elections. Senior party leaders, including Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S.Eshwarappa, Revenue Minister R. Ashok, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje, former Chief Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda toured the region and addressed the workers. In Mysuru, Mr. Ashok said the BJP had a head start over both the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) which, he said, were in a state of confusion and disarray. He said the BJP Government had initiated lot of good works and this should be effectively communicated to the people at the grass-roots level. “We need leaders to air the problems and speak for the Mysuru-Chamarajanagar region in the Council and hence it was important for the party to win the elections,” he said. Mr. Ashok said under the Congress corruption had reached sky high and the late Rajiv Gandhi himself had stated that out of every hundred rupee released by the Centre to the village, only Rs. 15 percolates to the beneficiaries. But under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the money is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries and there is no corruption,” he added. Mr. Eshwarappa launched a broadside against the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, saying his dream of becoming Chief Minister again would be dashed. Let alone becoming Chief Minister, he would not even get elected to the Assembly, said Mr. Eshwarappa. Ms. Karandlaje, Mr. Sadananda Gowda, Minister for Cooperation and Mysuru district in-charge S.T. Somashekar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/at-bjps-jan-swaraj-yatra-cong-targeted/article37606450.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Posts created for tahsildar’s office in newly carved Saligrama taluk||The State Government has created a total of 17 posts for the tahsildar’s office in the newly-carved out Saligrama taluk in Mysuru district. According to a recent order issued by the Revenue Department, two posts of tahsildars (one each of Grade 1 and Grade 2), two posts of Shirasthedar, three first division assistants, one food inspector, four second division assistants, one data entry operator, three Group D employees and one vehicle driver. The order issued by the Revenue Department on November 11 had been approved by the Finance Department. The final notification for creating Saligrama taluk was issued on December 31, 2020, and published in the State Gazette. Subsequently, the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru had sent a proposal to the State Government to sanction posts necessary for setting up a taluk office for Saligrama taluk. Services to public After examining the proposal, the State Government decided to create necessary posts for a tahsildar’s office in Saligrama to provide services and administration to the general public, the order said. It may be mentioned here that Saligrama taluk was one of the 12 new taluks created in the state in March 2019 by the then JD(S)-Congress Government. 120 villages Carved out of mostly K.R. Nagar, Saligrama, which is the ninth taluk in Mysuru district, comprises of Saligrama, Mirle and Chunchanakatte hoblis, besides 14 villages of Hosa Agrahara hobli, covering a total of 120 villages with an estimated population of 1.2 lakh. The Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham had recently urged the State Government to upgrade Saligrama Gram Panchayat to a Town Panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/posts-created-for-tahsildars-office-in-newly-carved-saligrama-taluk/article37606470.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cong. launches membership drive||The Congress launched a membership drive in the city on Saturday as part of its efforts to strengthen the party at the grassroots and expand its support base. The drive was launched by party secretary Satish Jarkiholi, who said that the workers should strive to reach out to the masses and elicit their support for the ideals and visions of the Congress. “The party was strong and its popularity had reached a high during the period of Indira Gandhi and we should strive to attain the same popularity again,” he added. Former MP and KPCC working president R. Dhruvanarayan said the objective of the campaign being launched across the state was to shore up the membership and enlist more than 50 lakh new members. He said there were regions like in Sindgi where there were no booth-level committees and the workers should constitute the committees and popularise the views and visions of the Congress to enlist public support and shore up the party’s support base, he added. The Congress leaders, who addressed the gathering, said the count down to the exit of Narendra Modi has begun after the repealing of the three farm laws in deference to the demands of the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-launches-membership-drive/article37606467.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||AAP blames corporation for damage during rain||Aam Aadmi Party Mysuru District President Malavika Gubbivani recently alleged that the Mysuru City Corporation and its councillors should be directly blamed for the damage caused due to heavy rains in the city. They should be held responsible in case of loss of life, injuries to the public and damage caused to properties because of rain havoc, the party said. Ms Malavika told reporters here that the MCC had prior information about the forecast of heavy rains lashing the city but did not make any preparation to face the challenges posed by the heavy downpour. The works like clearance of blocked drains, disconnection of pipes carrying rainwater into the underground drainage from households etc., are being taken up now after the damage is done, she charged. “Due to pressure from influential persons, the MCC has not acted against encroachments in lakes and structures built on storm water drains. The MCC has failed to get installed rainwater harvesting systems in government buildings or built recharge wells in public parks which could ease flow of rainwater on roads. The negligence on the part of MCC officials and elected representatives has caused hardships to the public,” she alleged. “Will the MCC compensate for the losses suffered by people,” she asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aap-blames-corporation-for-damage-during-rain/article37606465.ece
21 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine drive launched||Shilpa Sharma, Chief Executive Officer of Yadgir Zilla Panchayat, has said that pneumonia can cause death in humans if treatment was not given at the appropriate stage. She was speaking after inaugurating a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine drive in Yadgir on Saturday. Ms. Sharma, who inaugurated the drive formally by administering vaccine to five children, said, “pneumococcal conjugate vaccine is given as a shot to children in three stages. The first stage is six weeks from their birth, the second is 14 weeks, and the final stage is 9 months”. Habib Husman, Deputy Director of Kalaburagi division, said that pneumococcal conjugate vaccination can prevent 80% of deaths among children. Thus, officials of the department should ensure that vaccination was administered to the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pneumococcal-conjugate-vaccine-drive-launched/article37606257.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mysuru 12th in Swachh Survekshan ranking||Mysuru was ranked first among 73 cities that were surveyed in 2016, fifth in 2017, eighth in 2018, third in 2019, and fifth in 2020 surveys. Given various categorisation based on population and introduction of new segments it was evident that Mysuru would bag an award or two giving the local authorities something to cheer about. But its rank has definitely slipped when considering its position among cities with a population above one lakh. If the overall points are taken into consideration that includes ULBs with population below one lakh, Mysuru is ranked 15th with an overall score of 4851.91 out of 6,000 marks.  There were also certain changes in the award of marks and citizens feedback which received 25% of the total marks (6,000) in 2020, has been increased to 30 per cent for 2021 and Mysuru secured 1301.62 marks. The direct observation by independent evaluators which carried 25 per cent marks, was merged with the citizens’ voice and service-level progress to avoid duplication. While service-level progress based on segregation of collection, processing and disposal of waste and sustainable sanitation carried 25 per cent marks in the 2020 exercise, it carried 40 per cent weightage in the 2021 exercise. Meanwhile, city-based activists came down on the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) for not doing enough in terms of cleaning up the urban area which, they said, was reflected in the rankings. Bhamy V. Shenoy said the MCC stressed too much on jatha and awareness rally but it was time to crack down on violators who litter public area. But unfortunately, the MCC took a lenient approach when it came to imposing penalty, he added. MCC Health Officer Dr. D.G. Nagaraj told The Hindu over phone from Delhi that there were challenges that needed to be addressed, one of which being disposal of legacy waste. However, the process to treat the legacy waste of nearly 2.5 lakh tonnes is set to commence in due course and will stand in good stead for Mysuru in the future editions of Swachh Survekshan. Similarly, there will be stress on completing the construction and demolition waste recycling plant which will add to Mysuru’s cleanliness quotient. “With these two facilities in place, Mysuru can expect to outrank other cities in future while there will also be efforts to use the treated and recycled water,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-12th-in-swachh-survekshan-ranking/article37606474.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Elevated Corridor essential for Hubballi: Committee||Addressing presspersons along with members of the experts’ committee, led by Vice-Chancellor of KLE Technological University Ashok Shettar, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that the committee after due deliberations based on data and spot visits had arrived at the conclusion that the Elevated Rotary Interchange was essential for the city in addition to developing alternate arterial roads and bypass roads keeping in mind the ever increasing traffic volume. However various modifications had been suggested after taking into consideration the objections raised by stakeholders, including architects, engineers, traders, and businessmen.   “All the concerns and objections of the stakeholders have been addressed in the modified plan for Elevated Rotary Interchange and other packages of the elevated corridor. The modifications will necessitate additional land acquisition at some points for widening the roads. Although the overall estimate will be little bit more, there will not be any problem in getting requisite sanctions as cost other modifications suggested in plan will save money in some packages,” he said. On the question of traffic volume on the elevated corridor, Mr. Patil said that the committee looked into the issue, analysed data and cross-checked it by conducting spot visits and found that the elevated corridor would be useful in easing traffic congestion. He said that the one of the major concerns was about trade and business being affected as the flyover would curtail access to Koppikar Road and that had been redressed in the modified plan. Under the modified plan there would be easy access to Koppikar Road, which would solve the major problem, he said. Making a presentation on the recommendations of the committee, Prof. Shettar said that the committee had suggested various modifications based on the feedback from stakeholders, which included development of a few junctions by widening the roads, shifting of BRTS (Bus Rapid Transit System) stations at three different points, shifting the ramp to facilitate access to the busy Koppikar Road and others. He said that in addition to modifications in the plan, the committee had made other recommendations like creating slow speed zone which would benefit vendors and businesses. Adequate parking space should be provided under the flyover and also charging stations under the flyover to encourage usage of e-vehicles, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that the experts’ committee’s role regarding the flyover issue had ended with the finalisation of recommendations and it would be sent to the NHAI and agencies concerned for further approval. Recommendations Mr. Patil said that the copies of the recommendations of the committee would be sent to the various organisations and individuals who had filed objections. “If they have any further objections to the modified plan, they can submit it to me,” he said. Police Commissioner N. Labhu Ram, urban planning expert M.N. Chandrashekhar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elevated-corridor-essential-for-hubballi-committee/article37606247.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Voicing their demand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/voicing-their-demand/article37606457.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  College of Fisheries: World Fisheries Day, P. Manivannan, Principal Secretary, State Department of Fisheries, delivers key note address, Salma K. Fahim, Additional Secretary, Department of Infrastructural Development of Ports and Inland Water Transport, K. V. Rajendra, Deputy Commissioner, Dakshina Kannada, and S. Babu Venkatesh, Deputy Inspector General and Commander, Indian Coast Guard, Karnataka, guests, Yekkur, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37606441.ece
21 November 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||Council elections: BJP candidates’ list out||With the last day for filing nominations to the Legislative Council elections set for November 23, political parties have now either finalised candidates or in the last leg of finalising names. The Bharatiya Janata Party announced candidates on Friday night, while Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar called on his party president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi on Saturday to discuss names. Earlier, on Friday, Mr. Shivakumar met Congress general secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala to discuss selection of candidates and the party’s strategy. After the meeting, he said, “There is no confusion in the party in selection of candidates. Wherever we have more than one aspirant seeking ticket, the party will consider the stronger candidates.” Late on Friday, BJP high command announced a list of 20 candidates. The party is confident of winning 14 seats, sources said. The party will find it tough to muster enough numbers for victory in Mandya, Hassan, Kolar, Bengaluru Rural, Bidar, and Vijayapura, sources said. The party has again given the ticket to five candidates who will complete their term and retire on January 5, 2022. They are Kota Srinivas Poojary, Minister and Floor Leader of the Ruling Party in the Council, Pradeep Shettar, brother of the former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, Deputy Chairman of the Council M.K. Pranesh, B.G. Patil, and Mahantesh Kavatgimath. Suja Kushalappa, brother of BJP MLA Appachu Ranjan, and Prakash Khandre are among other prominent candidates. JD(S) list by Monday The Janata Dal (Secular) is expected to announce the names of its candidates by Monday. Party sources said the candidates for Hassan, Bengaluru Rural, and Mandya had been finalised, but it was yet to decide on other constituencies. Sources said the party was most likely to contest in six seats of the 25 going for polls. Elections to 25 seats of the Legislative Council will be held on December 10, and the results declared on December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/council-elections-bjp-candidate-list-out-congress-jds-are-finalising-names/article37606008.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,KERALA||FSI cell to be set up inside Aranya Bhavan||The headquarters of the Forest department at Aranya Bhavan may soon have a dedicated cell of the Forest Survey of India on its premises. Director General of FSI Anoop Singh, during his visit to the department on Saturday, has made a request to the Telangana Forest department to provide space and necessary manpower for the same. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Force R. Sobha informed that a letter has already been addressed accepting the proposal, and that a dedicated working group will be created for interaction and discussions on various aspects. Mr. Anoop Singh appreciated the work of the Telangana Forest Department in the field of Management Information Systems, Geographic Information System, Differential Global Positioning System/ Differential Global Navigation Satellite System and remote sensing. He wished to involve the department in the development of protocol for digitisation of forest blocks, improvements desired in e-Green Watch portal, forest fire risk zonation, selection of sites for construction of water harvesting structures, plantations and other activities. Detailed presentations of the activities and modules of GIS and MIS cells were made to apprise the DG of the work done in Telangana State. Mr. Anoop Kumar said the data from Parivesh portal for curation of forest and wildlife clearances is required to be transferred to the e-Green Watch portal which captures the information on the compensatory afforestation works taken up by the State governments, to avoid redundancy. A detailed presentation was made on the standard operating procedure for survey and demarcation of forest areas, which has been submitted to the government for approval. Mr. Anoop Kumar has suggested for involvement of Survey of India apart from Telangana State Remote Sensing Applications Centre, National Remote Sensing Centre and for formation of a working group for monitoring the digitisation of forest boundaries. All senior forest officials attended the meeting and the presentation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fsi-cell-likely-to-be-set-up-at-aranya-bhavan/article37606326.ece
21 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Acid attack on man: woman arrested||The Adimaly police on Saturday arrested a woman for allegedly pouring acid on the face of a youth at Irumpanam. The police identified the accused as Sheeba Santhosh, 35, a resident at Padikappu. They said Sheeba had befriended Arunkumar, a resident of Thiruvananthapuram, over social media. Arunkumar allegedly broke the relationship when he came to know that she had two children. Sheeba, according to the police, called Arunkumar to talk over the matter and poured acid on him. Arunkumar lost one eye in the attack. Sheeba also sustained burns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/acid-attack-on-man-woman-arrested/article37606416.ece
21 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Greens object to tunnel road project||Environmental organisations have urged the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) not to clear the application of the Public Works Department (PWD) seeking allotment of forestland for the construction of the proposed Anakkampoyil-Meppadi tunnel road, an alternative to the Thamarassery Ghat Road linking Kozhikode and Wayanad districts. The project envisages the construction of a 6.8-km tunnel on the Anakkampoyil -Kalladi-Meppadi route to decongest the Thamarassery Ghat Road. In a letter to the MoEFCC, Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti president N. Badusha said that according to the application submitted by the Executive Engineer, PWD (Kozhikode), the project required 51.370 hectares, including 34.304 hectares of forestland, spread over four villages. The application said the construction of the four-lane tunnel could cost Rs. 2,080 crore, and that it could bring down the time taken to travel from Kozhikode to Mysore considerably. The project will give a fillip to tourism, industry, and agriculture, it said. At the same time, the application did not mention studies to be done prior to the launch of the project such as environmental impact study, assessment of possible damage to biodiversity, and loss of water sources in the project area, Mr. Badusha said. Landslip-prone areas The Samiti urged the MoEFCC to consider the latest study on landslide-prone areas in the region by the Geological Survey of India before approving the project. Incidentally, the rock structure at the opening of the proposed tunnel at Swargamkunnu is in a dangerous state after the loss of tree coverage on its slope. The eastern slopes of the region are landslip-prone, and landslip sites such as Puthulama and Mudakkai near Meppadi are on hill slopes. Mr. Badusha said the proposed project would not help tourism, industry and agrarian sectors. If the five ghat roads connecting Wayanad with neighbouring districts are strengthened, travel-related issues can be effectively resolved, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-up-in-arms-against-tunnel-road-project/article37606354.ece
21 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Govt. medical college will materialise in Wayanad’||The State Government is committed to establishing a Government medical college in Wayanad, Health Minister Veena George has said. Speaking to the media after a review meeting on the construction of the proposed medical college at Mananthavady on Saturday, Ms. George said all healthcare facilities would be set up at the medical college, which is temporarily functioning from the district hospital. The construction will be completed on 50 acres at Boys Town in the district in a time-bound manner, the Minister said. The Government had earmarked Rs. 300 crore in its last budget. The contracting agency had submitted a Rs. 630-crore estimate for the project, she added. The Government has sought financial assistance from the Centre for the project, Ms. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-medical-college-will-materialise-in-wayanad/article37606348.ece
21 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Vayomithram ailing due to funds crunch||The Kerala Social Security Mission project Vayomithram, which benefited people above 65 years, has come to a standstill following a shortage of medicines and no government orders to restart the closed mobile clinics. The project seeks to provide health care and support to elderly people residing within the limits of Corporations, municipalities, and a few block panchayats. Free medicines, mobile clinics, palliative care, counselling, and help desk service are the main features of the project. More than 2 lakh registered people are to benefit from the project. However, after the outbreak of COVID-19, the clinics were stopped. Still, it was ensured that medicines were supplied to the elderly. Rs. 30-crore dues Across the State, with the support of volunteers, medicines were supplied even during the pandemic. But now, there has been a shortage of medicines for the past three months. Besides, they are yet to receive a government order to restart the clinics, said a district coordinator, on conditions of anonymity. Shortage of funds is cited as the reason for the delay in the supply of medicines. There are dues of Rs. 30 crore, which the Social Security Mission has to pay the Kerala Medical Service Corporation (KMSC). The delay in releasing the funds has led to a shortage of medicines, said Ramesh (name changed), another project coordinator. There are two medical teams in Corporation limits and one for each municipality. A team comprising a doctor, nurse and junior public health nurse conducts camps to examine the people and prescribe medicines, which are given out through volunteers. Medicines free of cost “Many of the medicines are related to lifestyle diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure. They are given free of cost. But due to the shortage, people are being told to purchase them from outside,” said Raneesh, who volunteers to distribute medicines to people in Iritty municipality. Executive director M. Anjana of the Social Security Mission was unavailable for comments. However, Assistant Director P. Sherif said each year the number of beneficiaries had seen an increase and the Plan fund of Rs. 24 crore was insufficient to meet the growing demand. Following its intervention, Rs. 12 crore has been issued to the KMSC to ensure that the medicine supply continues. More steps are being taken to address the financial crunch. He said due to the pandemic, camps could not be conducted. As a solution, the contact number of doctors have been provided to the patients, helping them to contact the doctors directly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vayomithram-ailing-due-to-funds-crunch/article37606362.ece
21 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Journalism award presented||The Kalathil Ramakrishnan Memorial Journalism Award was presented to N.P.C. Renjith, chief reporter at Malayala Manorama , Kannur. Veteran journalist N.P. Chekkutty presented the award on Saturday. The award was instituted by Kalathil Ramakrishnan Smaraka Samiti, Thalassery, in memory of Kalathil Ramakrishnan who was a senior staff correspondent at The New Indian Express . The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 10,000, memento, and a citation. Samiti president P. Divakaran presided over the function held at Brennen College. E.V. Sugathan, Regional Deputy Director, Public Relations Department, delivered the memorial speech. Samiti secretary E.M. Renjith Babu welcomed the gathering. K. Daglas, joint secretary, proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/journalism-award-presented/article37606347.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi-based worker back from Sri Lanka after two-year ordeal||When he left for Sri Lanka more than two years ago, Trisham Singh did not have the slightest inkling of the ordeal in store for him; that it would take the intervention of civil society organisations, International Labour Organisation (ILO), Indian High Commission, and the Kerala Police to bring him back home. A native of Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh settled in Vazhakkulam with family more than two decades ago, the 43-year-old had flown to the archipelago to take up a job in a steel factory on October 16, 2019. Before long, the dream turned into a nightmare, as long hours of work separated by a nominal break and infrequent holidays ensued. To make matters worse, the company allegedly confiscated his passport and let his resident visa expire in September 2021, thus reducing him to a bonded labourer of sorts. He was allegedly threatened with consequences for visa violations if he revolted. He was not allowed to return despite his wife being diagnosed with a problem warranting a surgery. Trisham, who eventually managed to return on Saturday morning, was not spiteful but simply happy to be back with his family and be by the side of his wife Vidhyavathi Devi when she goes under the knife. “I was always sure about returning to my family some day despite all the hardships. There was shortage of workers, and the company was trying to hold me back till finding a replacement. I will again go back to that country if a good offer comes my way,” he said. The breakthrough in efforts to bring him back happened when the Thadiyittaparambu police alerted the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development following a petition lodged by his wife on October 26. “We intervened through our Worker Facilitation Centre operating on Willingdon Island with the support of the ILO. We visited Trisham’s house and verified details and later confirmed them with him through a WhatsApp call on October 31. He requested us to delay the repatriation efforts till he was paid the salary for October,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, CMID. Efforts gathered momentum after he alerted about receiving the salary on November 7. The CMID then approached the ILO, which in turn roped in the Migrants Forum Asia and the Sri Lanka-based Lawyers Beyond Borders. The issue was also taken up with the Indian High Commission in the island nation. The concerted efforts in just about a fortnight freed Trisham from forced detention. Sabarinath Nair, Regional Migration Specialist, South Asia, said ensuring fair recruitment remained critical to spare migrants from landing in trouble. “Compliance with the ILO General Principles and Operational Guidelines for Fair Recruitment applicable to governments, employers, and labour recruiters will go a long way in protecting vulnerable migrants,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-based-worker-back-from-sri-lanka-after-two-year-ordeal/article37606379.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to relocate RDO from Fort Kochi gets louder||With a large number of applications for land conversion pending with the Kochi Revenue Divisional Office in Fort Kochi, the call to relocate the office either to Kakkanad or a location in Ernakulam town has got louder. “This has been a demand being made over several years, and the Revenue Department authorities have not listened to the plea,” said M.X. Sebastian, Vyttila Mandalam president of the Congress. Sources in the Revenue Department too said people from far-flung areas of the district found it extremely difficult to reach the Fort Kochi office. A former Revenue Department official said shifting the office to a more accessible location would help people. Revenue staff members are of the view that it would help if the office was shifted to a more accessible location considering the present traffic conditions in Kochi. It is estimated that at least 13,000 applications are still pending with the RDO in Fort Kochi for land conversion, department sources said. A total of 27 staff members were transferred out of the Fort Kochi RDO in the second week of August this year. The decision to reshuffle staff came in the wake of complaints of anomalies in which a large number of applicants flagged delay in considering their applications. The owner of a small plot of land in Poonithura village, near Vyttila, questioned how the land that was physically converted before 2008 found a place in the data bank prepared to prevent conversion of paddy fields or wetlands. The Kerala Conservation of Paddyland and Wetland Act came into effect in 2008. The 2008 law said paddy fields or wetlands converted before 2008 would be exempted. The owner of a five-cent property in Poonithura village said he had bought a house in 1990 after it was built in 1985 by the original owner. However, the property is included in the data bank of wetlands and paddy fields. It implies that a long-drawn process is needed to get clearance for the property. Another landowner said around 1.9 cents, which had been converted before 2008, had been included in the data bank. If these properties are out of the data bank, as they should actually be, it would help people get over official formalities and even monetize their property in case of a requirement, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-relocate-rdo-from-fort-kochi-gets-louder/article37606367.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CWC shifts abandoned boy to child care institute||A boy, nearly two years old, who was found abandoned at a park in Fort Kochi on Friday afternoon was put up at a child care institute by the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) after completing formalities in the early hours of November 20. A youngster, identified as Roshan, had found the child playing alone with stray dogs and sat alongside, as his parents were not to be seen. Later, an autorickshaw driver, M.A. Ashgar, joined him, and they alerted the Fort Kochi police. They, along with two woman cops, then combed the entire area for the boy’s parents but in vain. “Though the boy was found speaking Assamese, he is suspected to have been here for a while, since he was responding to questions in Malayalam. He told that his name was Rahul. He was very playful and healthy and never for a moment cried,” said Mary Anitha, a clinical psychologist who runs the Centre for Empowerment and Enrichment for differently abled and underprivileged children. She took the child to the child care institute. Shortly, the CWC made arrangements for the medical examination of the child at the Ernakulam General Hospital and issued an order for his placement in a child care institute. An emergency RT-PCR test was done, and the child was shifted to the institute. The District Child Protection Unit has been asked to publish a notification with details and photographs of the abandoned child in an attempt to trace his biological parents or legal guardians in keeping with the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act. “Since the child is suspected to be from another State, a notification will be published in a daily there as well. Besides, an ossification test will be done to determine the age of the child. We will wait for a period ranging between two and four months before making the child available for adoption,” said Bitty Joseph, Chairperson, CWC.  Though the boy was found speaking Assamese, he is suspected to have been here for a while, since he was responding to questions in Malayalam Mary Anitha Clinical psychologist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cwc-shifts-abandoned-boy-to-child-care-institute/article37606364.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Food on Wheels to hit the road again||Food on Wheels, a programme for sustainable self-employment for women under the Kudumbashree Mission with the backing of the Kalamassery Municipality and the National Urban Livelihood Mission has survived a trial by fire to come through two lockdowns, one following close on the heels of the launch of the programme in early 2020. The custom-made electric autorickshaws with modern kitchens have been idling through the months of COVID-19 restrictions on economic activities. Of the nine autorickshaws, at least three will hit the roads early next week, said Priya Babu, member of the Kalamassery Municipal Council from Ward 35 (Koonamthai) and team leader for the programme that aims to provide tasty and quality food under hygienic conditions like the much popular ‘thattukadas’ across the State. Each of the units comprised five women entrepreneurs, and they had received training in management of food services. The units have also received Food Safety and Standards Authority of India licence. Kudumbashree sources said since the autorickshaws are battery-powered, the period of idling during the lockdown had resulted in some problems, which are being rectified. The Kudumbashree Mission also plans to provide financial backing for the revival of the Food on Wheels programme considering that the food units were popular and had registered good customer response. Ms. Priya said the specially designed autorickshaws had been lying idle for eight to 10 months after the initial success because of pandemic restrictions. The batteries had been down, and their guarantee period is over, which entail fresh investments in getting the power units working again, she added. The Food on Wheels programme had also drawn attention to its sustainable energy mode of operations. Each of the units had solar panels to light up the food units at night, as they were operated mostly between 6.30 p.m.  Of the nine custom-made electric autorickshaws with modern kitchens, at least three will be operational next week Priya Babu Member, Kalamassery Municipal Council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-on-wheels-to-hit-the-road-again/article37606369.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MVD to crack down on adulterated fuel||Close on the heels of cases being registered against buses and goods carriers that were transporting or found using adulterated fuel in Palakkad and Kozhikode, the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has sought the constitution of teams in all districts to do random checking on vehicles. Such a concerted clampdown on what is being seen as increasing reliance on adulterants owing to exorbitant pricing of diesel and petrol is the need of the hour. Solvents like benzene and naphta, which are carcinogenic, are often used as adulterants in fuel, said a senior official with an oil company who was associated with random checks on fuel outlets in the State. “Kerosene and paraffin wax were used as adulterants till a few years ago. There are organised gangs who lace fossil fuels with different solvents in such a proportion that they attain the same density as petrol or diesel in their pure form. Similar solvents that were imported too were found to be used to adulterate fuel, despite their adverse fallout on public health and safety and life of vehicles,” he added. To keep track of vehicles that operate on adulterated fuel, MVD personnel have sought the constitution of teams comprising officials from the department, police, Pollution Control Board, Legal Metrology Department, and oil companies. Regional Transport Officer (Enforcement, Ernakulam) G. Ananthakrishnan had recently written to the Additional District Magistrate (ADM) seeking the formation of such a team for joint inspections. Minimal fine “It is crucial to maintain vigil in Ernakulam, since many such widely misused compounds or solutions are manufactured in bulk in the district, primarily for industrial use. Joint inspections are all the more important, since MVD personnel are empowered to collect a maximum fine of just Rs. 250 for operating a vehicle using adulterated fuel. Compoundable offence The offence is compoundable with such minimum fine, as per the Motor Vehicles Act. But police officers in the rank of DySP or above can register a case and forward it to the court, as per provisions of the Essential Commodities Act. It will help if personnel of agencies who have technical expertise join in the random inspections,” the officer said. Private buses On diesel samples collected from three private buses in Palakkad a month ago, Jayesh Kumar M.K., Enforcement RTO (Palakkad), said the buses were owned by different people. “Their fuel samples were collected on the basis of tip-offs. The police have registered a case, and the samples were sent for testing. The owners could be charged under non-bailable provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, if the test results are positive for adulterants,” he added. A senior official with an oil company said reliance on adulterated fuels was a dangerous trend. “Our squads, who collect samples from retail outlets, are willing to extend help to the district administrations to bring an end to the practise. On its part, the State Government must make optimal use of the mobile sample-testing lab that oil companies handed over to it, to maintain vigil against unscrupulous operators,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-seeks-joint-teams-to-check-use-of-adulterated-fuel/article37606372.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Resume premium bus services to suburbs’||The KSRTC’s decision to deploy a bulk of air-conditioned low-floor buses as Bypass Rider services on the Thiruvananthapuram-Kozhikode route through the national highway and MC Road must not be at the cost of premium services it operated from the city to its suburbs, according to passengers. Among them, there was sound demand for services to, among other places, Muvattupuzha, Angamaly, Aluva, and Piravom, mainly from regular passengers, a bulk of whom are office-goers and women. Among regular commuters on the city-Muvattupuzha route, till buses were withdrawn in the wake of the pandemic, was Siby joseph, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK). “Myself and my colleague used to commute 90 km to and fro each day in either AC low-floor or fast passenger [FP] buses on the route. I shifted to car when they were withdrawn. The AC low-floor buses, which enjoyed good patronage, have not resumed service, although a few FP services have begun operations,” he said. According to him, car journeys are a hassle, since it caused driver fatigue, especially during the return trip back home. Late evening drives are especially risky, since roads are not well lit. The KSRTC must resume AC bus services as soon as possible, so that people who now commute in personal vehicles can shift to public transport, Mr. Joseph said. Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR) chairman D. Dhanuraj said the KSRTC, which enjoyed monopoly along the NH and other nationalised routes, must resume premium bus services to suburban towns, to lessen traffic congestion and pollution caused by cars and two-wheelers. “It will also help commuters save substantial amounts spent on fuel. Sadly, decision-makers seem clueless or lack will power to streamline public transport modes in the State.” However, Tajudeen V.M., the Ernakulam zonal officer of the KSRTC, said AC buses from the Volvo stable raked in higher income when they were operated on long-distance routes between districts, rather than in suburban corridors which could make do with conventional non-AC buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resume-premium-bus-services-to-suburbs/article37606366.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man sentenced to RI for sexual abuse of child||The Additional District and Sessions Court for the trial of cases related to atrocities and sexual violence against women and children on Saturday sentenced a man to 50 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and slapped a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on him for sexually abusing a six-year-old boy. He was working as a school bus driver when the incident occurred in 2016. The prison term will run concurrently. Judge K. Soman found the 50-year-old guilty under multiple sections, including IPC 377 (unnatural offences) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The prosecution was represented by P.A. Bindhu. The case was that the convict sexually abused the victim multiple times aboard the school bus taking advantage of the fact that the boy was the last one to be dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-ri-for-sexual-abuse-of-child/article37606374.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Order on Swapna’s plea tomorrow||The Ernakulam Principal District and Sessions Court will pass its orders on Monday on the plea of Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, to relax her bail conditions in the prevention of money laundering case filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Swapna had approached the court to relax her bail condition that she shall not leave Ernakulam. The petitioner submitted that she was a permanent resident of Thiruvananthapuram and wanted to go back, said Sooraj T. Elanjikkal, her lawyer. ED’s suggestion The ED, which had earlier submitted before the court that it had no objections in relaxing the bail conditions, had suggested that she shall not leave the State without the prior permission of the court. After spending nearly one-and-a-half years in jail, she had walked out of prison two weeks ago. It was the bail granted by the Kerala High Court in the case booked by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act that eventually enabled Swapna to walk out of the prison. Bail in two cases She had earlier secured bail in the two cases booked by the Customs, one in connection with gold smuggling and another in connection with the US Dollar smuggling case. The Kerala High Court had also quashed the preventive detention slapped against her under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-on-swapnas-plea-tomorrow/article37606356.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Four held with premium drug||A gang of four persons was arrested with 100 grams of premium party drug MDMA along the national highway at Kariyad Junction near Nedumbasserry on Saturday. The arrested are Safeer Moideen, 24, of Perumbavoor, Hashim, 23, of Aluva, Jaseel P. Jaleel, 24, of Vengola, and Asif, 23, of Uliyannur. They were nabbed by a special squad constituted by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik and comprised members drawn from the Narcotic Cell and the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF). The contraband was allegedly smuggled in from Bengaluru and was found hidden in a secret chamber beneath the steering wheel of the car. The police had chased them down at Kariyad when they attempted to flee abandoning their car. The car and a weighing machine were seized. They are suspected to have smuggled in drugs in the past. “We have expanded the probe to find out for whom the consignment was being smuggled in,” said Mr. Karthik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-held-with-premium-drug/article37606377.ece
21 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Petition to stay uniform mode of Mass||The Ernakulam sessions court on November 22 will consider a petition seeking to stay the introduction of uniform mode of celebration of the holy Mass in the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church. The Archdiocesan Movement for Transparency have challenged the decision that the “celebrant shall face the faithful at the Bema during the Liturgy of the Word, turn towards the altar — in the same direction that the faithful are facing — for the Liturgy of the Eucharist, and once again face the faithful during the conducting of rites after holy communion”. The practice is to come into effect on November 28. Faithful from the Thamarassery and Thrissur dioceses have also approached the court with a similar prayer. In his statement filed before the court, Fr. Sebastian Manickathan, the power of attorney holder of Archbishop Antony Kariyil, submitted that the civil court did not have any jurisdiction to entertain the suit as the conduct of a ritual or ceremony was not a civil right. The holy Mass is a religious sacrament based on religious faith and it is a prayer ceremony service founded on customs and ritual as far as the Christian community is concerned. The method, practice, and the contents of the prayer to perform the holy Mass were matters of religious practice of the particular denomination, he submitted. Fr. Manickathan submitted that there was no violation of any civil right even as per the averments of the plaint. and the only concern was with respect to the rituals. The question to be considered in the case was with regard to the manner in which the Mass was to be performed, which was purely a ritual which cannot be considered by a court of law, he submitted. He further submitted that the question of religious sacrament cannot be treated as a question of civil rights. The civil court had the jurisdiction only to try suits of civil nature and not the practices of religion. Hence, the present suit was outside the purview of the Code of Civil Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petition-to-stay-uniform-mode-of-mass/article37606363.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Repeal of farm laws a calculated move’||Former Union Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha on Saturday said there was no noble intention behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing the repeal of three farm laws against which farmers had been protesting for over a year. “This is a calculated move by the PM,” he said. Mr. Sinha was speaking to reporters online as part of an interaction organised by the Cochin Chamber of Commerce and Industry. He later addressed the Chamber as part of a series titled ‘India Forward’. On the upcoming elections in five States, including UP, he said the BJP lived to fight elections. Uttar Pradesh and Punjab were key states for the BJP, but the repeal of the farm laws would not have a serious impact on the outcome of polls in those States, said Mr. Sinha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/repeal-of-farm-laws-a-calculated-move/article37606370.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||835 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam||A total of 835 cases of SARS-CoV-2 were reported from the district on Saturday. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 10.57%. As many as 963 patients recovered from the disease. As on Saturday, the district had 7,740 active patients. A fresh batch of 7,903 samples were sent for testing. With 11,869 doses of COVID-19 vaccine being administered on Saturday, the total number of doses administered in the district stood at 49,91,773.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/835-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article37606371.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Naval sailors complete training||A batch of 205 sailors, including 24 Coast Guard Naviks, completed their basic communication professional training on Saturday. Captain Milind Mokashi, Officer-in-Charge, Signal School, gave away prizes and certificates. Shreyash B. Gaikwad, SSR, Rajaram Shaw, SSR, and Sandeep Ranjan, NVK (GD), were adjudged first in academics in Tel (Ops), Electronic Warfare (EW) and CG respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-sailors-complete-training/article37606357.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IAS Association meets Chief Minister||Officers of the IAS Association Kerala chapter led by president B. Ashok, CMD, KSEB, met Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday with the request that the suspension of senior IFS officer and Chief Wildlife Warden Bennychen Thomas following the tree-felling order controversy may be reversed. Mr. Vijayan is learnt to have told them that he would consider the request. However, since an inquiry by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy into the order allowing the felling of 15 trees downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam to facilitate Tamil Nadu carry out strengthening works on the baby dam was going on, it was unlikely that there would be an immediate decision on the issue. A call would be taken after the inquiry report is submitted, it is understood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ias-association-meets-chief-minister/article37606396.ece
21 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fodder grass units planned in 7 districts||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani has said that the government will ensure all support for new entrepreneurs in the animal husbandry sector. Inaugurating the fodder grass cultivation programme of Kerala Livestock Development Board (KLDB) at Chanapara recently, she said many entrepreneurs had started livestock farming. “Financial aid and training will be provided to Kudumbashree workers. If fodder grass is cultivated, there is no need to buy expensive fodder,” said the Minister. A number of schemes to support the farmers are being implemented through the Kerala Dairy Farmers Welfare Fund Board (KDFWFB). Five-hundred fodder grass units will be set up in seven districts and a maximum of Rs. 16,000 will be provided to the farmers to establish the one-acre units. The KLDB will provide free planting material to Kudumbashree members along with scientific training in fodder cultivation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fodder-grass-units-planned-in-7-districts/article37606424.ece
21 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Programming contest for girl students||The Amrita Vishwa Vidhyapeetham is organising AlgoQueen, a programming contest to encourage coding among girl students across the country. As a part of this initiative, Amrita will be hosting a series of contests. In the first two quarters, students will participate in online exams comprising four rounds of questions based on C, C++, Java and Python followed by an on-site round depending on the pandemic situation. AlgoQueen will be conducted by ICPC and hosted by Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham in collaboration with Amazon Web Services (AWS), IBM Q, and JetBrains. The questionnaires will be created solely by girl engineering students at Amrita and will be open to all girl students from schools across India in teams of maximum two members. Online workshops will be provided to help students build confidence before the competition. Through this process, participants will have the opportunity to receive mentorship from some of the best minds in this space. Last day to register The competition will be held on a third-party site called Competitive Drills Contests and participating students can begin their preparation for the competition by visiting codedrills.io. The last day of registration is December 25 and the contest will be held in January 2022. Top teams will win prizes. For details, visit amrita.edu/algoqueen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/programming-contest-for-girl-students/article37606417.ece
21 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vacant seats for course at LBS centre||The LBS Centre for Science and Technology has invited applications for the vacant seats in Logistics and Supply Chain Management Course that will be held at Kollam regional centre in association with NoRKA Roots. The course will be free for SC/ST students belonging to below the poverty line (BPL) category while those belonging to other categories need to pay 25% fee. For more details of the programme visit the website www.lbscentre.kerala.gov or call 0474 2970780.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacant-seats-for-course-at-lbs-centre/article37606422.ece
21 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NSS objects to survey methodology||As the State Government is set to begin its socio-economic survey among forward communities, the Nair Service Society (NSS) has come out in the open against the initiative, raising objection to its methodology. In the editorial of the latest edition of the NSS mouthpiece Service , the organisation has asserted that the census, to be carried out through a sample survey of five backward families using a mobile app, will not bring out the clear picture. “The NSS has already clarified that if these details, which should have been collected by deploying qualified officials with due consideration, will not only fail to bring the desired results but also end up as a mere eyewash. The Kerala State Commission for Economically Backward Classes among Forward Communities, however, is learnt to have found our demands baseless, which is indeed condemnable,” it said. It has further demanded that the commission review its stance and carry out the census by following a method on the lines of the national census.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nss-objects-to-survey-methodology/article37606388.ece
21 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Concern over setting up of study chairs||Functionaries of a trust in memory of social reformer Ayyankali have accused Calicut University authorities of ignoring the interests of the Scheduled Castes even as the university is all set to launch study chairs named after him and B.R. Ambedkar. K. Sivaraman and Velayudhan P. Moonniyur, president and general secretary, respectively, of Mahatma Ayyankali Cultural Educational Trust based in Tenhipalam, said the university Syndicate had given approval for their proposal to set up a study chair named after Dr. Ambedkar, chairman of the drafting committee of the Indian Constitution, in 2015. The university asked the trust to give away Rs. 25 lakh as corpus in 2016. The functionaries expressed their inability to pool in such a big amount and sought a relaxation. The Syndicate refused to accept the demand, alleged Mr. Sivaraman and Mr. Velayudhan, and was now using its own funds to set up these chairs. They said the chairs named after writer Vaikom Muhammad Basheer and India’s first Education Minister Maulana Abul Kalam Azad set up by the university were almost defunct. The fate of the new chairs was also anyone’s guess, they said. The university, meanwhile, is learnt to be going ahead with setting up these study chairs. Dr. Ambedkar Chair would be attached to the Department of Political Science and Ayyankali Chair would be part of the Department of History. A sum of Rs. 25 lakh each would be allocated for both. The authorities are claiming that they would strive to ensure the educational uplift of the oppressed classes. The launch is tentatively scheduled in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-setting-up-of-study-chairs/article37606342.ece
21 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local bodies to adopt Smart Garbage Monitoring System||The route is clear for local bodies in the district to adopt the Smart Garbage Monitoring System, with the State Government permitting them to include it in their project plan for the next financial year. The Kozhikode Corporation and the seven municipalities have to adopt the system mandatorily, while only 30% of grama panchayats are expected to adopt it in the first phase. Details of waste collected by Haritha Karma Sena (HKS) members from houses and commercial establishments are entered into the Smart Garbage Monitoring System through a mobile application on the spot. Data entered in this manner may include the type and weight of the material collected as well as the user fee levied by HKS. The details can be accessed by officials, thus making it easy for them to monitor the collection, segregation and recycling of waste effectively. The system was developed by KELTRON, and hence the local bodies have to pay a certain fee to the agency for using the system. Besides, they need to spend on smart phone recharge of HKS members, setting up QR codes at homes and establishments and purchasing laptops for managing data. The Kozhikode Corporation can set aside Rs. 25.1 lakh, including the user fee of Rs. 17.7 lakh to KELTRON to run the project for a year. As for municipalities and grama panchayats, the project period is six months. Accordingly, municipalities may set aside Rs. 7.63 lakh (Rs. 6.49 lakh to KELTRON) and grama panchayats Rs. 2.05 lakh (Rs. 1.36 lakh to KELTRON). “All local bodies need to prepare a revised project plan including the system and submit it at the District Planning Committee meeting in January,” said P. Prakashan, District Coordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission. Even though only 30% of grama panchayats need to adopt the system now, a lot more of them are expected to get on the bandwagon this year, considering how many of them have a functional HKS, he added.  All local bodies need to prepare a revised project plan including the system and submit it at the District Planning Committee meeting in January P. Prakashan Kozhikode District Coordinator, Haritha Keralam Mission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-to-adopt-smart-garbage-monitoring-system/article37606352.ece
21 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Veena visits proposed site for AIIMS||The Union Government is expected to clear the proposal to set up an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Kinalur in Kozhikode district soon, Health Minister Veena George has said. The Minister on Saturday visited the site, owned by the Kerala State Industrial Corporation (KSIDC), where the State Government has proposed to set up the institute. Ms. George said between 150 acres and 200 acres was available here. Construction work could start immediately and the Centre had been informed about it. 140 acres with KSIDC The KSIDC has around 140 acres of land at Kinalur and Kanthalot villages. It would be transferred to the name of the Director of Medical Education. The Kozhikode District Collector had completed land marking. Ms. George said more land would have to be acquired for the project. Meetings involving various departments chaired by the Chief Minister were being held. The State Government has notified acquisition of another 100 acres. In August, a three-member panel led by Health Secretary Rajan N. Khobragade had found the site ideal for setting up AIIMS. A final decision would be taken after a team from the Union Health Ministry visits the site. K.M. Sachindev, Balussery MLA, Asha Thomas, Additional Chief Secretary, and District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veena-visits-proposed-site-for-aiims/article37606385.ece
21 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘ST Muslim’ category for PG admissions kicks up a row||An inquiry has been sought into the inclusion of ‘Scheduled Tribe Muslim’ category for students during the ongoing admissions to postgraduate courses in teaching departments of the University of Calicut. P. Rasheed Ahammed, United Democratic Front-aligned Syndicate member, said on Saturday that there was nothing called “ST Muslim”. It should be found out on whose directions such a category had been created. The university authorities are learnt to have informed Mr. Ahammed that the category was meant for students from the Lakshadweep. The Syndicate member, however, said students from the islands were being given reservations not because they belonged to the ST category or because of their minority status. They are getting the benefit of the special consideration for the residents of the islands. Even those who are not Muslims or those who claim to be non-religious were being given reservations if they are from Lakshadweep. ‘Bid to create division’ Mr. Ahammed alleged that the creation of a new category and the plan to give reservations was “anti-Muslim” and “anti-ST”. There was also an attempt to create division between communities. He sought action against the people behind the move. The Director of Admissions has promised to look into the allegation and take action, Mr. Ahammed added.  Students from the islands are being given reservations not because they belong to the ST category or because of their minority status P. Rasheed Ahammed Syndicate member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/st-muslim-category-for-pg-admissions-kicks-up-a-row/article37606341.ece
21 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML plans action against local leaders||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leadership is contemplating action against some of its leaders, including district-level office-bearers, for the poor performance of the party in the Assembly polls. A State leadership meeting of the party held here on Saturday reviewed reports submitted by various committees on the defeat of its candidates in 12 Assembly segments, including four sitting seats. Local-level factionalism, flawed campaigning and shoddy coordination at the constituency- level have been attributed to the defeat in Azhikode, Kozhikode South, Kuttiyadi, Tanur and Kalamassery. Party sources said the leadership would meet again next week possibly on November 27 to initiate action against those responsible for the poor performance. A comprehensive assessment of the polls showed that a section of party workers were against the candidature of Vanitha League national general secretary Noorbina Rasheed who had contested from Kozhikode South, sources said. Poor coordination between the Congress and IUML leaderships had led to the defeat of K.M. Shaji at Azhikode. In the case of Kuttiyadi, Parakkal Abdulla, who had lost by a thin margin 333 votes, had to face dissidence at some local regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-plans-action-against-local-leaders/article37606380.ece
21 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pet licensing norms leave caretakers worried||With local bodies in Kerala moving to a stricter pet licensing policy, many animal rescuers and shelter home operators who have been taking care of abandoned and sick dogs are facing a crisis. The revised annual licensing fee is a major concern for those running such small facilities with a large number of dogs at their homes or rented spaces. “The increasing cost of medicine and food for the sheltered dogs alone is a huge responsibility for the caretakers. I have 14 such dogs in my custody, and I will have to struggle a lot to secure the licence fee of Rs. 500 for each and its annual renewal,” says Samson Samuel, a well-known pet rescuer in the northern Kerala region. ‘Closure of facilities’ Mr. Samuel, hailing from Kannur district, says the new law, introduced without considering the challenges of voluntary caretakers, will gradually lead to the closure of many local rescue shelters. The members of various voluntary rescue service groups in Kozhikode district say there are no rehabilitation shelters controlled by the local administration that provide satisfactory service. The work is mostly done by six smaller income groups of animal lovers in the city, they add. The main demand of the voluntary rescue teams is the introduction of a separate licensing policy for them without a hefty fee. According to them, the rescue teams mostly deal with animals suffering from various ailments, injuries and trauma. A rigid approach in the name of enforcing rules for commercial players in the field will affect the spirit of a large number of genuine operators who run pillar to post to meet various expenses, they add. “There has been a spurt in the sale of many costly dog breeds since the lockdown period, but many are now abandoning the animals, claiming various inconveniences. “Only the rescue volunteers are there to attend to such issues,” says E.M. Rajeev, a dog trainer-cum-rescuer who has been active in the field for over 30 years. Mr. Rajeev, who is also chairman of the city-based Petlife Charitable Trust that takes care of animals in need of critical support, says those offering selfless service in the field should be extended better financial support and legal protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-pet-licensing-norms-leave-animal-rescuers-a-worried-lot/article37606344.ece
21 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. to hold dog adoption camp||The Kozhikode Corporation is getting ready for its first dog adoption camp on November 29. “For a long time, people have been dropping off puppies from the street at our ABC Centre at Poolakkadavu. Some people have chosen to adopt them right from the centre after vaccination,” said health standing committee chairperson S. Jayasree. She said the recent High Court directive on those lines had led the civic body to set up an adoption camp. The camp will be held at Tagore Centenary Hall, from where people can adopt the vaccinated puppies. “This is a lot better than letting them grow up on the street among dangerous dogs. And this is all we can do until we have a better plan to rehabilitate them,” said Ms. Jayasree. At present, the Corporation has 11 vaccinated puppies at its ABC Centre. They are being taken care of by two non-governmental organisations that have partnered with the civic body for the rehabilitation of stray dogs. “This is a first and experimental step. However, if the programme succeeds and all the puppies have takers, we have a scheme for advance registration by which we can provide people puppies as and when we get them,” she said. The puppies are all less than two months old and are not sterilised. The licensing process and the implanting of microchips in the animals will be done at a later stage after the adoption. The Corporation is also planning to set up ‘dog parks’ in the city, where stray dogs can be protected so that they do not harm the public. “Some NGOs have expressed willingness to run the dog parks if we set them up,” said Ms. Jayasree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-hold-dog-adoption-camp/article37606340.ece
21 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Selected for K.M. Munshi Award||Harikrishnan A.S. of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan School, Perumthuruthy, Kozhikode, has been selected for the Kulapathi K.M. Munshi Award for having secured the highest marks in Mathematics among students of Bhavan’s schools in the All India Secondary School Examination held in March 2021, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/selected-for-km-munshi-award/article37606346.ece
21 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Minister clarifies on free food kits||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil has denied reports quoting him saying that the State Government will not give free food kits to deserving people any more. Opening an adalat to clear files here on Saturday, he clarified that the Government distributed free food kits at a time when COVID-19 had hit the population hard. Since the situation is improving now, they were not being distributed. If there is a need to resume the distribution, the Government would definitely think about it. The Government wants to ensure that no one was facing starvation in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-clarifies-on-free-food-kits/article37606386.ece
21 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||No breakthrough in RSS worker’s murder||The police have yet to make any breakthrough in the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker A. Sanjith even five days after the killing at Mambaram near here. Although the first information report (FIR) was filed against five unidentified persons, the motive was given as political. The police had released the picture of a white Maruti 800 car suspected to have been used by the killers. The face sketch of one of the suspects had also been released. Although the police questioned some Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) workers in connection with the case, they were yet to get any lead. A large team of police personnel was involved in the investigation that has crossed the State borders. The police have enhanced the surveillance of SDPI centres both in Kerala and Tamil Nadu after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders accused the SDPI of the murder. ‘Laxity of police’ BJP State president K. Surendran alleged here on Saturday that the police had been lax in the investigation into Sanjith’s murder. Talking to newspersons after visiting Sanjith’s family at Elappully near here, Mr. Surendran said that the police did not take instant action after the murder. He said the police did not check vehicles along the highways soon after the murder. He accused the police of trying to scuttle the investigation. Mr. Surendran threatened to lay siege to Ministers if the police continued their neglect in the investigation. He said he would meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday demanding that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) conduct an inquiry into the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-breakthrough-in-rss-workers-murder/article37606530.ece
21 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Rights panel lays stress on officials’ respectful behaviour||The Human Rights Commission has underscored the importance of respectful behaviour on the part of officials towards the people reaching government offices in the State. Addressing a human rights awareness programme here, Human Rights Commission member K. Baiju Nath said officials should change their attitude towards the people reaching government offices. Refusing to help people would amount to denial of human rights, he said. “Upholding human rights means delivering timely justice to deserving people. Helping people fulfil their needs and rights is the responsibility of government officials. Such a thought should be inculcated in them,” he said. According to Mr. Baiju Nath, human rights awareness had become the need of the hour. He went on to say that it would be the responsibility of higher officials to ensure that human rights were not violated among those working under them. The rights awareness programme was organised jointly by the State Human Rights Commission, district administration, and the Victims Information, Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (VISWAS) here on Friday. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi presided over the function. Additional District Magistrate K. Manikandan, Deputy Collectors Kaveri Kutty and V. Abbas, Huzoor Shirasthdar Latheef Thaha, VISWAS secretary P. Premnath, convener K. Vijaya, vice president R. Devi Kripa, and bar association president K.K. Sudhir spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-panel-lays-stress-on-officials-respectful-behaviour/article37606527.ece
21 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Ahalia launches solar plant||Minister for Power K. Krishnankutty launched a one-megawatt (MW) solar power plant on the Ahalia campus at Kanjikode, near here, on Saturday. The on-grid solar power plant under Ahalia Alternative Energy Private Ltd was set up in four-and-half acres with the support of the Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology (Anert). Windmills Mr. Krishnankutty congratulated the Ahalia management for the contributions it made in the alternative energy sector. Ahalia had set up windmills on its campus. He called upon the people to emulate the model set by Ahalia. Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) director V. Murugadas presided over the function at Ahalia Women and Children Hospital. He released the brochure of the Ahalia solar project. Elappully grama panchayat president Revathi Babu, Pudussery panchayat president S. Praseetha, Vadakarapathy panchayat president Josey Britto, Ahalia group director Shreya Gopal, executive director Krishnakumar Kishore, and Ahalia Alternative Energy Private Ltd senior consultant K. Radhakrishna Kumar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ahalia-launches-solar-plant/article37606529.ece
21 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Venugopal: farmers’ win a warning to Centre||All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K.C. Venugopal has described the victory of farmers’ agitation as a warning to the Union Government’s policy of supporting the corporates. Inaugurating the Kisan Vijay Divas programme organised by the Congress at Fort Maidan here on Saturday, Mr. Venugopal said that the Congress had insisted against politicising the farmer agitation. He said the Union Government was culprit number one and the State Government culprit number two in the rise of petrol prices. “It was the failure suffered by the BJP in recent byelections that forced the Government to slash the taxes on petrol nominally. Still the Pinarayi Government in Kerala refused to let go the additional taxes. Former Congress Chief Minister Oommen Chandy had slashed the taxes,” he said. Mr. Venugopal said the Congress would go ahead with its agitation against both Governments. On behalf of the AICC, Mr. Venugopal felicitated senior Congress leader V.S. Vijayaraghavan on the occasion of his 80th birthday. District Congress Committee (DCC) president A. Thankappan presided over the function. KPCC working president Kodikkunnil Suresh, MP, KPCC vice president V.T. Balram, V.K. Sreekandan, MP, Ramya Haridas, MP, KPCC general secretaries C. Chandran and K.A. Thulasi, and Youth Congress State president Shafi Parambil, MLA, were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/venugopal-farmers-win-a-warning-to-centre/article37606493.ece
21 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pampa dam opened||As the storage level in the Pampa dam improved sharply owing to overnight rain in the Sabarimala forests, two gates of the dam were opened on Saturday. Water level in the dam crossed 983.95 metres on Friday night, following which authorities declared a red alert for the dam. In view of the continuing inflow, the District Collector ordered to open its gates to discharge up to 100 cumecs of water into the Pampa river. The discharge was expected to raise the water level in the Pampa by 10 cm. The Collector has advised the public to exercise caution. NDRF deployed Meanwhile, a battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Arakonam began its operations at the Sabarimala Sannidhanam. The team, comprising 60 members, equipped with rescue gears, including air boats, life jackets and lifebuoys, was deployed at the Sannidhanam and the Pampa base camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pampa-dam-opened/article37606389.ece
21 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,KERALA||L-G, CM discuss flood mitigation measures||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday said she held a discussion with Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on the long-term flood mitigation measures to be adopted in the Union Territory. Interacting with reporters after visiting the flood-affected areas in Aryapalayam near Villianur, the Lt. Governor said she had a detailed discussion with the Chief Minister on the permanent flood mitigation measures to be adopted and on the relief given to people affected in the recent rain. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy had called on the Lt. Governor at Raj Nivas on Saturday. Ms. Soundararajan said she discussed the steps to be taken to prevent sea erosion with the Chief Minister. The Lt. Governor said a Central team would visit the Union Territory on November 22 to assess rain damage. Steps were being taken to construct a new bridge across the Sankarabarani near Villianur. The bridge would be constructed in such a way that any rise in the water level in the river would not cause hindrance to traffic movement on Villupuram-Puducherry route, she added. Relief measures are being provided to people shifted from areas on the banks of the Sankarabarani to relief camps, Ms. Soundararajan said. The Lt. Governor also distributed relief materials, such as clothes to people residing at relief camps in Villianur. She also distributed books to school students. The Lt. Governor was accompanied by Collector Purva Garg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/l-g-cm-discuss-flood-mitigation-measures/article37606383.ece
21 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to launch e-Health in 50 more hospitals||The State Government’s e-Health project is being extended to 50 more hospitals, along with the setting up of virtual IT cadre in all districts. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate these projects as well as three digital innovation projects for the health sector, proposed by Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council (K-DISC), on a virtual platform on Monday. Health records e-Health, which had been envisaged with the aim of developing an electronic demographic data base, electronic health records (EHRs) of a population and end-to-end automation of all government hospitals to ease hospital processes and health care service delivery, is already operational in 300 public sector hospitals. The project is ready to be extended to 150 more hospitals, of which 50 hospitals will go on board on Monday. These include 11 hospitals in Thiruvananthapuram, four each in Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Kannur, five in Thrissur and 11 hospitals each in Palakkad and Malappuram. Virtual IT cadre While extending the project to all districts, the Health Department is also setting up a virtual IT cadre, including all resource personnel with IT skills and those interested in involving in the project, to help hospitals get on the digital platform This virtual IT cadre would also help the Government in the implementation of various e-governance projects in other departments. Emerging projects The three innovative ‘emerging technology projects’ for the State Health Department, developed by K-DISC, which will be inaugurated by the Chief Minister include an automated retinal image quality assessment and feedback generation project; blood bag traceability and linked blood storage centres and block chain-based vaccine coverage analysis system.  This virtual IT cadre will help the Government in the implementation of various e-governance projects in other departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-launch-e-health-in-50-more-hospitals/article37606373.ece
21 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF steeped people in misery, says Satheesan||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said the six months of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) governance has sunk the people in misery. In what amounted to a chargesheet against the second Pinarayi Vijayan Government, Mr. Satheesan said here on Saturday the Government’s refusal to slash the local levy on fuel and curb inflation was emblematic of its indifference to the travails of the common man and tantamount to tax terrorism. He said the skyrocketing fuel prices had upended the family budget. However, the Government offered no hope to citizens. The LDF was on the cusp of hiking bus, water and electricity charges. The LDF was more focussed on muscling through “quixotic” mega projects such as the SilverLine semi-high-speed railway to satisfy the craving of the power-drunk administration for monumental schemes as a mark of its governance legacy, Mr. Satheesan said. ‘High-level corruption’ The Government had wilfully undercounted COVID-19 deaths to maintain the myth that it had successfully curbed the pandemic. The illegal felling of hundreds of ancient rosewood trees in the forested South Muttil village in Wayanad demonstrated high-level corruption in the LDF Government, Mr. Satheesan said. The Government had permanently sacrificed the safety, security and peace of mind of 40 lakh people living downstream from Mullaperiyar dam by secretly acceding to the demands of the Tamil Nadu Government. The Government gave tacit approval to Tamil Nadu to fell 15 trees and clear undergrowth to strengthen the baby dam to further its case in the Supreme Court, raising the water level to a dangerous 152 feet, he said. Mr. Satheesan said the Government had imperilled the future of students and parents by pushing them from pillar to post for Plus One higher secondary seat. The Education Department could not offer seats even to A-plus students in schools in their taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-steeped-people-in-misery-says-satheesan/article37606392.ece
21 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,075 new cases, 6,061 recoveries||Kerala logged 6,075 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 60,437 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 50,95,924 cases. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 37,299 with the State adding 248 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. These include 32 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 216 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The State’s active case pool dropped to 61,114 patients on Saturday, with 6,061 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 6.8% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals now is 833, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support was 329 on Saturday. On Saturday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 302. Hospitalisations have stabilised around the 5,000 mark and at present 5,162 persons are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals. Most cases in capital Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of 949 new cases, followed by Ernakulam 835, Kollam 772, Thrissur 722, Kozhikode 553, Kottayam 488, Kannur 367, Idukki 241, Malappuram 215, Alappuzha 213, Pathanamthitta 205, Wayanad 203, and Kasaragod 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6075-new-cases-6061-recoveries/article37606391.ece
21 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Beneficiary list for RAY housing scheme revised||The city Corporation has revised the beneficiary list for the second phase of the Rajiv Awaz Yojana (RAY) housing project at Mathippuram, after it was found that a few eligible beneficiaries were excluded and others wrongly included. The project began six years ago with a plan to complete the construction of new flats in place of the old huts. The residents from the plot were shifted to a rehabilitation site set up by the Corporation, while a few of them shifted to rented accommodation. The civic body had prepared a list of 320 beneficiaries for the project. However, with some of the intended beneficiaries submitting applications claiming that they were not included, the welfare standing committee had asked the Vizhinjam Health Inspector to enquire and submit a report. It was found that 28 families who had demolished their old huts for the housing projects were not included in the list, while 54 families who were yet to demolish their huts were included. Addressing these discrepancies, a final beneficiary list of 293 families has now been prepared. The Corporation has also decided to bear the cost for power and water connections to the flat complexes, the works for which were completed at Mathippuram, near the Vizhinjam fishing harbour. As per the RAY project, the beneficiary has to pay a share of Rs. 54,000 for the flat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beneficiary-list-for-ray-housing-scheme-revised/article37606516.ece
21 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||949 new cases, 1,002 recoveries in district||The district logged 949 COVID-19 cases and 1,002 recoveries on Saturday. The test positivity rate stood at 12.7%. As on Saturday, 8,922 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. District Collector Navjot Khosa convened a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in the district where it was decided to step up vaccination and achieve 100% vaccination. Schools, old-age homes, mental health centres, prisons and hostels will be closely monitored as part of tackling the pandemic, the meeting decided. The meeting decided to carry out inspections, establish contact lists and ensure proper quarantine. The meeting discussed the daily caseload and test positivity rate in the district and also the possibility of the formation of new clusters with the reopening of schools. The meeting also decided to identify people who are yet to get their second dose and complete the vaccination process. Ms. Khosa also urged officials to ensure that COVID-19 protocols, masks and sanitisers and proper distancing, are being observed. Procedures for the issuance of death certificates of COVID-19 victims will be speeded up, the administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/949-new-cases-1002-recoveries-in-district/article37606521.ece
21 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Centre scuttling Kerala’s development: CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said here on Saturday that the Centre had turned its back on Kerala's development. He said that the Centre had withdrawn from investing in SilverLine (K-Rail) , Kerala's semi high-speed railway project, denied clearance to international carriers to operate from Kannur and soft-pedalled on the Sabarimala airport scheme. The pro-corporate Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre wanted to supplant the Government with the private sector in basic infrastructure creation. Such a move would bring public structures under the control of corporates who would consequently charge common folk for their use. However, Kerala has impeded the Centre's market-friendly neo-liberal policies. It has refused to yield development to profit-motivated private entities with scarce social responsibility. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), a State-owned body corporate sanctioned by an act of the Assembly, has successfully raised long-term and low-interest loans from the open financial market to meet the developmental aspirations of the people, he said. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said KIIFB was the answer to the Centre's apathy. It had poured crores into modernising roads, bridges, schools, colleges, harbours, housing and hospitals. KIIFB has proven that the State could create publicly owned infrastructure available to citizens at minimal or no cost. The market forces in power at the Centre could barely brook an entity such as KIIFB. Hence, they had unleashed instruments of State in their control to discredit the agency. He said the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) recently overstepped its constitutional jurisdiction and made adverse and baseless remarks about KIIFB. The Congress and BJP had amplified the CAG's "erroneous conclusions". Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said that only sadists could attack KIIFB given its criticality for State's development. The Congress, he said, was speaking the BJP's language in Kerala. It was at the forefront to demolish Kerala's struggle to surmount the Centre's hurdle to the State's aspiration to evolve into a modern society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-scuttling-keralas-development-cpim/article37606381.ece
21 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Waterlogging at Kallattumukk being addressed: Minister||The Government has begun taking steps to address the serious waterlogging issues at Kallattumukk in the city, Minister for General Education and Labour V.Sivankutty has said. The work on laying inter-locking tiles in the damaged section of the road at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh has begun. This will only be a short-term measure to enable the public to use the road immediately without any difficulties. A comprehensive project at a cost of around Rs. 8 crore will be implemented. The initial steps regarding this project are in the final stage. The implementation will begin at the earliest. Once this project is completed, the perpetual waterlogging issues at the area will be fully addressed, said Mr.Sivankutty. In a press release, he said that he had visited the area, along with Minister for Public Works P.A.Mohammed Riyas, soon after taking charge. The works which were envisaged then have begun on the ground. He accused the ongoing protests spearheaded by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of being politically-motivated. The previous BJP MLA of Nemom had failed to take any concrete step to address the water-logging issue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waterlogging-at-kallattumukk-being-addressed-minister/article37606517.ece
21 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Biography of Tanya to be out in Malayalam||‘The Savichevs are dead. Everyone is dead. Only Tanya is left.’ So ends the short diary of Tanya Savicheva, the young Russian girl whose jottings captured the horror of one of the darkest episodes of World War II; the 872-day siege of Leningrad (present-day St Petersburg) by the German forces. Tanya - short for Tatiana - died of intestinal tuberculosis in 1944 at the age of 14, a victim of the war. On the 80th anniversary of the siege of Leningrad, Tanya’s poignant story is being told in Malayalam, possibly for the first time. Tanya Savichevayude Katha (The Story of Tanya Savicheva) has been written by Ratheesh C. Nair, the Honorary Consul of Russia in Thiruvananthapuram, and published by the Russian House here (formerly the Russian Cultural Centre). “Apart from being the 80th anniversary of the siege, 2021 also marks the 80th anniversaries of the start of the Great Patriotic War (following the German invasion of the Soviet Union) and the opening of the ‘Road of Life,’ the ice road route across Lake Ladoga through which eight lakh people were evacuated from the besieged Leningrad,” Mr. Ratheesh Nair said. Tanya’s diary contains only a few pages, but they record the deaths of her family during the siege. Today it is on display at the St. Petersburg History Museum. Tanya Nikolayevna Savicheva was born on January 23, 1930, the youngest of a large family. She had two sisters and two brothers. Her father Nikolai succumbed to cancer in 1936. After the war broke out, the invading Germans launched a blockade of the Soviet city of Leningrad on September 8, 1941. The Savichevs, except for Tanya’s brother Mikhail, were trapped in the city. Ten lakh people died in the siege. On September 10, 1941, the Germans had bombed the main food depot. Electricity was cut by the time winter set in. Tanya's old diary was used as fuel for cooking food, and she was presented with a small notebook of her sister Nina. It was this book in which she wrote the first lines of her famous diary ‘Zhenya (her sister) is dead. 28 December, 12 noon. 1941.’ The diary contained eight more pages, recording the deaths of her grandmother, her brother Lyoka, uncles Vasya and Lyosha and her mother Maria Ignatievna. Her sister Nina and Mikhail survived the siege, but Tanya was unaware of it. Tanya was evacuated in July 1942 along with 142 other children. But she left her diary behind. She passed away on July 1, 1944, at a hospital in Shatki. Nina, who returned to St Petersburg after the war, discovered her sister’s diary, paving the way for its eventual fame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/biography-of-a-little-diarist-coming-out-in-malayalam/article37606421.ece
21 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||6,450 more will join civil defence force: CM||As many as 6,450 more people will become a part of the civil defence force in its next phase, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Speaking at the passing out parade of Fire and Rescue Services officers at the Central Stadium here on Saturday, he said that the force now consists of 30% women, which has proved to be helpful in rescuing families in disaster sites. The rescue efforts will be much more effective and strong once the defence force is fully ready. Mr.Vijayan said that the modernisation of forces is necessary to meet the evolving challenges in rescue efforts in the current times. The State Government is taking steps in this direction. The Government is also concentrating on improving the basic infrastructure facilities for the Fire Force to increase its efficiency. Forty nine new officers became part of the Fire Force on Saturday. Mr.Vijayan also flagged off the new vehicles of the Fire Force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6450-more-will-join-civil-defence-force-cm/article37606518.ece
21 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Complete second dose of vaccination soon: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has directed that the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine be administered to the eligible population in the State as soon as possible. At the COVID-19 review meeting on Saturday, he directed that the list of the eligible population due for the second dose of vaccine be prepared and arrangements be made to vaccinate them. District Collectors and Ministers in charge of districts should hold meetings with the local body representatives and expedite the vaccination process. Ward-level committees and other departments should help with necessary measures to complete the vaccination. It was decided at the meeting that the field-level hospitals created during the peak of the pandemic to reduce crowding at secondary and tertiary care hospitals – COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres – be retained only in localities where they are absolutely necessary. Mr. Vijayan directed that COVID-19 surveillance in schools, post re-opening, be strengthened.  Meeting decides to retain first-line centres only where they are absolutely necessary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complete-second-dose-of-vaccination-soon-cm/article37606358.ece
21 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assault: SHRC orders probe||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has taken cognisance and ordered an investigation into the alleged assault of a caregiver of a patient by the security staff at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) on Friday. The SHRC has ordered the Director of Medical Education and the District Police Chief to conduct an investigation and submit a report within three weeks. Chirayinkeezhu-native Arundev, who has been a caregiver for his grandmother, was allegedly attacked by three security staff at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-shrc-orders-probe/article37606520.ece
21 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sabarimala: food inspections stepped up||The Food Safety Department has intensified inspections at locations frequented by Sabarimala pilgrims during the annual Mandala-Makaravilakku festival season. Food safety officials have fanned out to Nilackal, Erumely, Laha, Pampa, and the Sannidhanam to inspect wayside eateries, bakeries, stalls selling chips, and food production units. Unlicensed outlets were issued notices following inspections by officials recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-food-inspections-stepped-up/article37606360.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against revenue recovery||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-revenue-recovery/article37606532.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-normal/article37606494.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Striking a chord||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/striking-a-chord/article37606350.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||At their feet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-their-feet/article37606376.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fervent appeals||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fervent-appeals/article37606419.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Chosen best coop hospital||NS Co-operative Hospital has bagged the award for the best cooperative hospital in the State for the third consecutive time. Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan gave the award to its president P. Rajendran. The purse of Rs. 1 lakh was contributed to the CMDRF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chosen-best-coop-hospital/article37606423.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In protest mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-protest-mode/article37606523.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Raising demands||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raising-demands/article37606525.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Policy matters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/policy-matters/article37606394.ece
21 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Let’s not set a bad example: Jr. NTR||Junior NTR, Telugu actor and a member of the Nandamuri family, took to the social media on Saturday and posted a recorded video appealing to all politicians not to denigrate the discussion in the Assembly, and, instead, limit it to criticism and counter-criticism on public issues. “Let us not set a bad example by making personal remarks on women as that is the beginning of anarchy. I am not speaking as a member of the family of someone who was hurt yesterday, but as a husband, son, and citizen of this country. Dishonouring women is against Indian / Telugu culture,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lets-not-set-a-bad-example-jr-ntr/article37606486.ece
21 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Situation still grim in Tirupati, Chittoor||Even as the rains abated, flooding continued in several localities of Tirupati and Chittoor municipal corporations on Saturday. The municipal authorities went on a whirlwind visit of the affected areas, cautioning residents to move to safer places. In Tirupati, a majority of the badly affected residential colonies along the foothills of Tirumala Hills from Leela Mahal junction to Karakambadi were seen gradually seen limping back to normalcy with receding water levels. The residents who witnessed rainwater entering their houses at Madhura Nagar, Leela Mahal junction, Akkarampalle and Sivajyothi Nagar said that they were relieved with of rains stopping since Friday night, giving them time to set things right. At several localities, residents mostly complained of their motorcycles and pets getting washed away, and valuable documents and bank passbooks getting soaked. Residents of some localities went on a search to trace their bikes. The carcasses of the cattle, stray dogs, and some pets were removed to the outskirts for disposal. Officials of Tirupati Municipal Corporation said that at present the water-logging was slowly receding all over the eastern side of the city, while the areas close to the Peruru Banda tank, which breached in the south-western side, were still under water. Sanitation drive About 500 sanitation workers from the Kurnool district were deployed to clear choked drains, manholes, and clearing of garbage dumps, besides spraying disinfectants to prevent an outbreak of diarrhoea and viral fevers. Owing to proximity to the breached Peruru and Tummalakunta tanks, the areas from SP Mahila University towards Krishna Nagar, MR Palle, Vaikuntapuram, Bairagipatteda, and some localities on the AIR Bypass roads were water-logged. The areas of Auto Nagar, Gollavanigunta on Tirupati-Renigunta road were also under water. The force of the rainwater at the Kapilatheertham falls had started decreasing from Saturday morning, with no fresh rain in the upper reaches of Seshachalam ranges. The APSRTC authorities launched a massive sanitation drive in their bus stations in Tirupati, and draining out the stagnant waters. Water-logging In Chittoor, the flooding from Gangineni Cheruvu and Kattamanchi stopped, while the areas along the Neeva River from Iruvaram to Murakambattu and NTR Jalasayam continued to witness water-logging. Municipal Commissioner P. Viswanath visited the affected localities and urged residents to move to relief centres. The residential areas between Gandhi Road and Santhapeta were under one-foot water. After the flooding of the Tirupati-Kadapa road at Rajampeta, bus services were diverted towards Piler and Rayachoti. People reaching Tirupati from Hyderabad were opting to reach via Nellore instead of Kadapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/situation-still-grim-in-tirupati-chittoor/article37606487.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw cases against farmers, says KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has demanded the Centre to withdraw cases against farmers and other agitators who had participated in the 13-month long agitation against the three farm laws enacted by Centre and announce an ex-gratia of Rs. 25 lakh to each family which lost its bread earner. The State government will pay each family Rs. 3 lakh, which entailed a total allocation of Rs. 22.5 crore for the purpose. A group of ministers and officials will visit New Delhi on Sunday to meet Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution System and other officials to resolve the issue of fixing paddy target for the State. Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy and Civil Supplies Minister G. Kamalakar will form part of the ministers’ delegation and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar will lead the delegation of officials. Mr. Rao will also be there for two days and try to meet Prime Minister and Jal Shakthi Minister, the latter over the demand to refer allocation of Krishna river water to a tribunal. Disclosing these details at a press conference here on Saturday, the Chief Minister said some 700 farmers had died during the agitation and the fight made by the farming community against the three farming laws was historical. Procurement quota “We are asking the Centre to finalise our target. Based on that we will ask farmers to cultivate the crop. There was statement from the Centre, whether official release or leak, that it would discuss about increase in raw rice procurement with State and that it would not buy parboiled rice. Which statement was correct we do not know. We want to finalise the issue with the Centre. If possible we will meet even Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Mr. Rao adding that any advance information would be useful for the farmers. He has suggested the Prime Minister to make farmers Atma Nirbhar stating that no other country in the world can feed farmers if agriculture sector collapsed. He has also demanded that a legislation on minimum support price (MSP) be passed by Parliament to give an assurance to the farming community. Power reforms Bill Stating that the Centre has been trying to impose the new Electricity Bill on the States forcibly and asking them to fix meters for agriculture bore-wells, Mr. Rao demanded that the Bill be withdrawn immediately as States like Telangana are extending round-the-clock power to farmers and why it should be discontinued. “We are asking the Centre to finalise our share in Krishna and Godavari water from day one after formation of Telangana State. Not only that we had even withdrawn case in the Supreme Court. Who is preventing the Centre from referring the issue to the tribunal? Why there was delay and who is responsible for that?” asked Mr. Rao warning that any delay would lead to agitations and the TRS would support such agitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-cases-against-farmers-says-telangana-cm/article37605906.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veteran actor hospitalised, critical||Veteran actor Kaikala Satyanarayana was admitted to Apollo Hospitals on Saturday in a critical condition. The hospital administration said he is in severe septic shock, and suffered multi-organ failure. Respiratory support He was on respiratory support and tracheotomy at home post COVID. “His condition is very critical and expected outcome is poor,” the hospital said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veteran-actor-hospitalised-critical/article37606309.ece
21 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP inaugurates APSP volleyball court||East Godavari SP M. Raveendranath Babu on Saturday inaugurated a volleyball court on the AP Special Police 3rd Battalion ground here. He also played a friendly match with the AP Special Police. The battalion Commandant Sumit Garud and other officials were present. The APSP personnel were told to set a priority for physical fitness given their tasks and assignments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-inaugurates-apsp-volleyball-court/article37606505.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Baby in adoption case may return today||The baby of Anupama S. Chandran, the young mother who alleged that her infant son was given in adoption against her will, is likely to be brought back to Kerala on Sunday. Emotional scenes played out at the house of the foster care parents in Andhra Pradesh, even as the officials of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare tried to convince them about the need to bring the baby back to Kerala. Besides the officials of the council, representatives of the Women and Child Welfare Department of Andhra Pradesh were also involved in the discussions to shift the baby back to Thiruvananthapuram. The baby is likely to be brought to the office of the council on Monday, the deadline fixed by the agency to bring the baby back. The foster parents, who belonged to an affluent family, had made all the arrangements for providing a better environment for the child, according to those who were privy to the developments. The District Child Protection Officer, Thiruvananthapuram, is understood to have identified a person in the district, with whom the baby would be entrusted till the process is completed. The DNA test for confirming the biological parents of the baby is likely to be held next week. Meanwhile, the Women and Child Development Department has sought 10 more days to complete the proceedings in the adoption case. As the Family Court, Thiruvananthapuram, considered the case on Saturday, Assistant Public Prosecutor P.P. Hakkim submitted that the inquiry report, as directed by the court, was in its final stages. The lawyer submitted that the arrangements for the DNA test had been completed. The court posted the case on November 30. Earlier, Family Court judge K. Biju Menon had sought a report from the State Government on whether the council had a valid licence to function as a specialised adoption agency. The lawyer representing the council produced a photostat copy license issued to the agency. Once brought back, the baby will be put in the care of a fit person, to be identified by the District Child Protection Officer. Two Sub Inspectors and a woman police constable and a woman help from the council are on the team that has left for Andhra Pradesh. Other than providing security, the police team is not involved in steps for bringing the baby back, a police officer privy to the developments said. The council had requested the Special Juvenile Police Unit to provide security to the baby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adoption-case-posted-for-november-30/article37605918.ece
21 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Piano prodigy hits the right note||For 12-year-old Sourojit Dutta, the COVID-19 pandemic proved a blessing in disguise. While others kept cursing their fate after being forced indoors, the Class 6 student from Kolencherry simply dedicated himself to brushing up on his potential in piano. That has paid rich dividends, as the youngster has cleared the Associate of Trinity College London (ATCL), a level-4 diploma in music performance offered by the acclaimed college. Consisting of eight grades that usually take five years to complete, Sourojit wrapped it up in six months and cracked the examination with a 40-minute flawless recital of some of the toughest western classical pieces. Going by the Book of India Records , he is the youngest Indian to clear the ATCL. “I was determined not to waste my time during the pandemic and practised really hard on the acoustic piano my dad gifted me. I practise six hours a day,” the young musical prodigy said. His instructor Anil K. Cheriyan, who runs a music academy at Kolencherry where Sourojit has been a student for the last four years, recalled how his ward skipped the lower grades and straight away appeared for the eighth grade and followed it up with the ATCL, a post-nominal diploma. “The ease with which he plays tough western classical pieces is just unbelievable. Compositions by legendary western classical musicians remain his favourites,” Mr. Cheriyan said. That he chose tough western classical pieces by Beethoven, Frederic Chopin, and Franz Liszt was, therefore, instructive. “They were all great composers of their times, and I thought I would better play their pieces,” said Sourojit. Music runs in his family that is originally from Midnapore in West Bengal but settled down here 15 years ago. His father, Sumit Dutta, who heads the department of community medicine at the Kolencherry Medical Mission Hospital, is a trained tabalist and is now researching in ‘Hindustani Music and Music Therapy’, while his sister is a passionate violin practitioner. “I was amazed to see my son reproducing the songs on the keyboard he had listened his sister played on violin. Then he started listening to western classical compositions by legends online. He could not reproduce them in his keyboard, and that is when I bought him an 88-key piano,” said Mr. Dutta. Own compositions Sourojit is also building a repository of his own original compositions, which already has 20 compositions. He wants to compile his compositions and bring out an album in the future. Rather than sitting on his laurels, Sourojit is now planning to appear for the next level, Licentiate Trinity College London, in December and follow it up with Fellowship Trinity College London. “I want to be a concert pianist and also teach piano,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/piano-prodigy-hits-the-right-note/article37605912.ece
21 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six huts destroyed in cylinder blast||Six huts were reduced to ashes at Nandyal Check Post on Kurnool city outskirts on Saturday afternoon when an LPG domestic cylinder exploded in one of the huts. None was injured as they were away from their houses. The daily wage workers lost almost everything they had and were literally on the streets with rains pounding every now and then. Panyam MLA Katasani Rambhupal Reddy and Kurnool Mayor B.Y. Ramaiah visited the houses and consoled the inmates. Bag of rice given They promised to support them in all possible ways. They handed over one bag of rice to each affected family as a measure of immediate relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-huts-destroyed-in-cylinder-blast/article37605952.ece
21 November 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||MGNREGA man-days to be raised to 150||The Centre has approved the State Government’s request to increase the guaranteed man-days of work for a family under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme from 100 to 150, said Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa on Saturday. This will increase the State’s allocation for the MGNREGA scheme by Rs. 400 crore this year. Mr. Eshwarappa, who was in Mysuru heading a team of BJP leaders as part of the Jan Swaraj Yatra, said the State Government last month urged Union Rural Development Minister Giriraj Singh during the latter’s visit to the State to increase the guaranteed days of work. Three days ago, the State received an order from the Centre, Mr. Eshwarappa said. Though Karnataka had been given a target of 13 crore man-days last year, the target was reached by November itself. When the State approached the Centre, 2 crore additional man-days were sanctioned. Similarly, this year also, the target of 13 crore man-days had already been reached, Mr. Eshwarappa said. The MGNREGA scheme has become very useful for not only a large number small and marginal farmers owning less than 5 acres of land, but also to maintain and expand public resources such as lakes and kalyanis, Mr. Eshwarappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mgnrega-man-days-to-be-raised-to-150/article37605916.ece
21 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rescue operations in Nellore pick up pace as rain abates||Relief operations picked up pace as rains abated in most parts of the district as also in the upper riparian districts bringing down the inflow into Somasila reservoir by over 1.80 lakh cusecs to 3.89 lakh cusecs on Saturday evening. Two units each of the National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force rescued over 2,500 stranded people. One person from the SDRF, K. Srinivasulu from Vizianagaram district, drowned when his life jacket reportedly accidentally slipped in the flood waters, revenue officials said. Many villages downstream of the river were inundated following an inflow of 5.12 lakh on Saturday morning from a peak inflow of a record 5.50 lakh cusecs on Friday. The outflow from Somasila reservoir was brought down to 3.32 lakh cusecs in the evening maintaining a flood cushion of 9.46 tmcft in Somasila reservoir. The storage in the reservoir was brought down to 68.54 tmcft to avoid submergence of habitations in the upper reaches of Penna river. As many as 7,142 people from 29 villages, which were worst-affected, were put in 18 relief camps set up in the flood-affected areas the district. The relief camps would be run in Nellore urban, Nellore rural, Kovur, Buchireddipalem, Vidavalur, Anantasagaram, Chejerla, Indukurpeta mandals till the floods receded, SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu said while overseeing the relief operations. As many as 145 of the 1,780 tanks overflowed and caused inundation following continuous downpour in the last 15 days, he said. Now with rains abating, the district administration expected the floods to recede in the next 24 to 48 hours. SCR GM inspects track Meanwhile, South Central Railway General Manager Gajanan Mallya and senior officials visited the damaged railway track between Rajampeta and Nandalur to chalk out an action plan for restoration on a war footing. The officials said that steps would be mooted for temporary restoration as an immediate alternative. About 19 flood relief centres were set up in Jammalamadugu division, the officials said. Four more bodies were retrieved from floodwaters in the Rajampeta APSRTC bus tragedy. So far, 12 bodies have been recovered, including that of a couple of RTC crew. Twelve persons died and many others went missing after two RTC buses were stuck in floodwaters when the protection wall of Annamayya project was washed away. which also led to heavy flooding in seven villages, damage of railway track on Chennai-Mumbai section and the Tirupati-Nagapur NH. The inflows into the breached reservoir from the Bahuda river had receded by Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rescue-operations-in-nellore-pick-up-pace-as-rain-abates/article37605956.ece
21 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers resume march amid rain||Jubilant over the Bharatiya Janata Party’s backing of their court to temple march, farmers from Amaravati resumed their march to Tirumala amid intermittent showers from Gudlur in Prakasam district on Saturday. Holding colourful umbrellas, 157 farmers from Amaravati walked on the waterlogged roads in some stretches following the downpour. Leading the march, Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti Convenor A. Siva Reddy before entering the SPSR Nellore district, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to drop the three farm laws following protracted struggle by farmers, augured well for them. He described the BJP's support to the Nyayasthanam to Devasthanam Mahapadayatra as a shot in the arm for troubled Amaravati farmers who had parted with their small pieces of land for a world-class capital, he said the BJP-led Government at the Centre was sympathic to their cause. Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy too had no option but to give up its capital trifurcation division in the wake of 700 plus days of struggle seeing the massive public response to the yatra in the last 20 days or incur the wrath of the people, he opined. BJP leaders including former Union Ministers D. Purandeswari and State President Somu Veerraju would take part in the long march on Sunday, he said. Former MLAs Pothula Rama Rao and Ugra Narasimha Reddy were among those who joined the padayatra on Saturday. Moved by the plight of farmers including women, local people, showered flower petals on them in among other villages MKogalur, Chinnapavani and Chinnalatrapi and offered them food and water with love and affection. The walkers also got a rousing reception when the long march reached Rajavari Chintalapalem in SPSR Nellore district after covering a distance of 18 km for night halt. TDP leaders from SPSR Nellore district Abdul Azeez and Beeda Ravichandra offered to extend all support to the walkers in the next 20 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-resume-march-amid-rain/article37605954.ece
21 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reading habit helps children in many ways’||District Revenue Officer Balivada Dayanidhi on Saturday said that reading habit would sharpen the mind of children and make them understand many things within no time. It would also help them keep away from social media and smartphones. At the valedictory of Grandhalaya Varotsavalu at the District Library, he advised parents to provide good books to children so that they would enjoy leisure by reading moral stories and biographies of great personalities. Along with Municipal Commissioner Challa Obulesu, he gave away prizes to the winners of various competitions organised as part of event. Central District Library secretary K. Kumara Raja, INTACH convener Radha Prasad and others were among those present. Earlier, students performed cultural programmes which depicted Indian history and freedom struggle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reading-habit-helps-children-in-many-ways/article37606507.ece
21 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TTD suffers Rs. 4 crore loss’||Chairman Y.V. Subba reddy on Saturday said that the TTD suffered a loss of more than Rs. 4 crore due to the torrential rains in Tirumala in the last couple of days. The town has never witnessed a rainfall of such magnitude in the last 30 years. All the major drinking water projects and check-dams are full to their capacity. The excess water cascading down through the Kapiltheertham and Malvadigudem falls inundated several areas in Tirupati. The compound wall behind the TTD administrative building in Tirupati, along with those existing at Ramnagar, Vinayak Nagar, GMB quarters and Srinvasam Complex, suffered damages. Though landslips were reported at several points on the ghat roads, the TTD officials were quick to restore vehicular traffic. Restoration work along the Srivari Mettu footpath would be taken up on a war-footing, Mr. Reddy said, and added that darshan facility would be provided to all who could not make it despite possessing valid tickets once normalcy was restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-suffers-rs-4-crore-loss/article37606488.ece
21 November 2021||TIRUPATTUR/CUDDALORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Palar, Thenpennaiar in spate, thousands displaced in T.N.||Thousands have been displaced and many villages marooned in the northern districts of Tirupattur, Ranipet, Vellore, Cuddalore and Chengalpattu with the Palar and the Thenpennaiar in spate on Saturday. Vast tracts of agricultural land were submerged in floodwaters and livestocks washed away. With their homes surrounded by water, many residents were rescued and temporarily rehabilitated in relief camps. The otherwise parched Palar river was in full flow owing to the heavy rain in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh as well as in its catchments in Tamil Nadu. A decades-old bridge that connected Madhanur near Ambur and Gudiyatham collapsed after the huge increase in the Palar water level, cutting off many villages in Tirupattur and Vellore. In Ambur alone, the authorities set up 25 relief camps. Water discharge was stepped up from the Poonai and Palar anaicuts into the Palar over the past few days following heavy rain. In Cuddalore and Panruti taluks, over 11,000 persons have been housed in relief camps. Residents of 30 coastal hamlets have been affected by the flooding. The Palar river, known for remaining dry ordinarily, has been witnessing historic flows, thanks to heavy rainfall in its catchment, including parts of Andhra Pradesh. At 5 p.m. on Saturday, the river witnessed the flow of 1.56 lakh cubic feet per second (cusecs), as recorded at the Vayalur checkdam in Chengalpattu district[about 100 km south of Chennai]. The river joins the sea downstream the checkdam. Friday saw a rapid rise in flow from 43,535 cusecs at 6 a.m. to about 87,880 cusecs at 3 p.m., and about 1.65 lakh at midnight. Such flows are considered uncommon. Over 100 years ago, the river had registered a six-digit flow, an official of the Water Resources Department said. Originating from the Nandi Hills in Karnataka, the Palar flows down to Tamil Nadu through Andhra Pradesh. Of its total length of 348 km, 93 km lies in Karnataka, 33 km in Andhra Pradesh and 222 km in Tamil Nadu. The river, having seven tributaries, including Cheyyar, Poini and Veghavati, enters Tamil Nadu near Vaniyambadi. It covers many important towns such as Vellore and Kancheepuram. From November 10 to 20, about 37 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) of water drained into the sea through Vayalur checkdam. This is equivalent to one-and-a-half years’ requirement of Chennai’s water supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/palar-thenpennaiar-in-spate-thousands-displaced-in-tn/article37606000.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concept of child-friendly villages to be promoted||Officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare Department (WD&CW) will notify about 100 child-friendly villages to solve children’s issues at village level and provide protection for them. The villages will be selected from Krishna, West Godavari and other districts, in association with the Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF), and the Village Child Protection Committees (VCPCs) there would be strengthened, officials said. West Godavari Collector Kartikeya Misra, who released the posters as part of the ongoing Child Rights Convention, asked parents to spend more time with children and nurture their wards in good nature. Krishna district Joint Collector (Housing) S. Nupur Ajay Kumar directed the Education, Labour, Juvenile Welfare and WD&CW department officials to take steps to admit children in schools and provide nutritious diet to them. CRAF State programme director P. Francis said the objective of VCPCs and Bala Panchayats was to prevent child abuse, child marriages, sexual harassment and violence against minors. Students would discuss atrocities against children, in VCPCs. Issues related to condition of school buildings, drinking water, toilets, power supply, mid-day meal, vaccination, roads and other infrastructure in schools and other problems would be discussed in the Bala Panchayats, he said. District Child Protection Officer Y. Johnson explained to the mahila police and village and ward secretariat staff about child rights and legal adoption process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concept-of-child-friendly-villages-to-be-promoted/article37606548.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Name of Naidu’s wife not mentioned in House: Perni||I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) said on Saturday that the name of the wife of the Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu was not mentioned in the Assembly on Friday. “No one in the Assembly mentioned her name and spoke anything about her. Unfortunately, Mr. Naidu is trying to politicise something that did not happen,” Mr. Venkataramaiah said while addressing the media. “TDP MLA N. Balakrishna and his family members are attributing the comments to certain MLAs. They may have been influenced by Mr. Naidu,” the Minister said. “Mr. Naidu mentioned the murder of CM’s uncle and his mother and sister deliberately to disturb the session,” the Minister said. ‘Political drama’ Staff Reporter in Kakinada writes: Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu alleged that Mr. Naidu enacted a political drama to gain sympathy. Addressing the media, Mr. Kannababu said that Mr. Naidu wept in the public as a last resort to gain sympathy as his party had lost every election in the recent months. “None of the YSRCP members present in the Assembly uttered anything about Ms. Naidu’s wife,” he said. Responding to Mr. Balakrishna’s appeal to the people to show their strength with their vote, Mr. Kannababu said that the call given by the TDP leader exposed the political conspiracy behind the episode. “TDP leaders and supporters burnt the effigies of our party leaders and took out candlelight rallies. Such activities show the political conspiracy against the YSRCP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/name-of-naidus-wife-not-mentioned-in-house-perni/article37606484.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain toll in three districts rises to 24||The death toll due to incessant rain and flooding in four districts of the southern part of the State increased to 24, while 17 persons went missing as of Saturday evening. A report issued by the AP State Disaster Management Authority on the situation in the affected districts of Nellore, Chittoor, Anantapur and Kadapa said that the casualties were 13 in Kadapa, seven in Anantapur and four in Chittoor. A total of 172 mandals were affected, while 21 villages remained inundated. A total of 23,994 people were affected and 1,549 houses were damaged. Agriculture and horticulture crops in an extent of 2.3 lakh hectares and 0.19 lakh hectares respectively were damaged in the four districts. Kadapa alone suffered damage to agricultural crops in 1.26 lakh hectares. Restoration of damaged roads, power lines and other infrastructure by the R&B, Water Resources, APSPDCL and other departments was under way in the districts, the report said. One helicopter each was deployed in Anantapur and Kadapa districts for rescue operation. Teams of NDRF, SDRF, Air Force and Fire Services rescued several people. Over 64 people, including a Circle Inspector and 35 bus passengers, were rescued. Moderate rain today Meanwhile, the low-pressure area over north interior Tamil Nadu and adjoining Karanataka and Rayalaseema become less marked. As per IMD forecast, light to moderate rain was very likely at many places in Rayalaseema on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-toll-in-three-districts-rises-to-24/article37606482.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinna Jeeyar invites Jagan to ‘Ramanuja Sahasrabdi’ fete||Sri Tridandi Chinna Jeeyar Swami met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his Tadepalli residence on Saturday and invited him to attend the ‘Sri Ramanuja Sahasrabdi’, the 1000th birth anniversary of Ramanujacharya. As a part of the celebrations, Sri Chinna Jeeyar Swami is constructing a statue of Bhagawad Ramanujacharya, called ‘Statue of Equality’, in over 45 acres at Shamshabad on the outskirts of Hyderabad. The celebrations will commence on February 2 and continue up to February 14 at his ashram at Muchintal village, near Shamshabad airport. Sri Chinna Jeeyar Swami was accompanied by Chairman of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Y.V. Subba Reddy and chairman of the My Home Group Jupalli Rameswara Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinna-jeeyar-invites-jagan-to-ramanuja-sahasrabdi-fete/article37606490.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reach out to rain-hit: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday called upon his party leaders and activists to take part in flood relief activities in the affected areas of the State. Referring to the vast sections of people in the Rayalaseema districts and in Nellore, whose houses were marooned in rain water, Mr. Naidu directed the party leaders and cadres to reach out to them with all possible help. In a teleconference with the party leaders in the rain-affected areas, Mr. Naidu said he would soon visit the flood-hit areas as there was a need to provide food, medicines, milk and biscuits to the stranded families. He said the NTR Trust, the TDP, and the iTDP had already started supplying food and medicine in many places. YSRCP blamed Meanwhile, in a statement, TDP State president K. Atchannaidu blamed the YSRCP for the loss of lives and damage to properties on a large scale on account of torrential rains. He alleged that while people and farmers bore the brunt, the YSRCP leaders were busy resorting to poll excesses. Many people had died and crops in vast tracts were lost. In Kadapa district alone, 12 persons had died and 30 others were missing, Mr. Atchannaidu said. Despite prior warning, the State did not do the needful to minimise the losses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reach-out-to-rain-hit-naidu/article37606492.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM mourn MLC’s death||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday expressed shock and profound grief at the demise of MLC Mohammed Karimunnisa. The YSRCP leader died of heart-attack on Friday night. Conveying his condolences to the bereaved family members, the Governor said, “She was a dedicated leader, who had started her political career as a corporator and rose to the position of MLC.” In his condolences, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that Mohammed Karimunnisa had attended the Council session on Friday morning. “Karimunnisa was a leader with enormous talent. She grew from the stature of a corporator to a Member of the Legislative Council due to her leadership qualities,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-mourn-mlcs-death/article37606491.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recognition for Krishna police||Krishna district police stood top in the State in six key performance indicators: Crime and Criminal Tracking Network System (CCTNS), ICJS, e-office, Investigation Tracking System for Sexual Offences, Mobile Security Check Device and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The police verified 1,05,606 persons to trace missing persons, stolen vehicles and offenders in various crimes under Inter-operable Criminal Justice System (ICJS), said SP Siddharth Kaushal. Krishna police verified the history of 16,352 persons through CCTNS, under e-Office 1,098 files were cleared, 100 percent of sexual offence cases were investigated under ITSSO, 771 criminals were traced under MSCD and SC and ST Act cases were investigated in the stipulated crime, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recognition-for-krishna-police/article37606549.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT counselling schedule revised||In view of the inclement weather in the State, the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies(RGUKT)has postponed its admissions counselling schedule by two days from the earlier dates. In a statement on Saturday, the university Vice-Chancellor K. Hemachandra Reddy said for instance, candidates who are called on November 22 need to attend the counselling on November 24. Other days will also shift by two days respectively, he said. Website Prof. Reddy said all the candidates would be informed about their revised dates for attending counselling through SMS and e-mail. The candidates can check the revised schedule on university websitewww.rgukt.infor more information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-counselling-schedule-revised/article37605958.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lone COVID death in State from Krishna||The State reported one death in Krishna district due to COVID-19 and 164 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The cumulative toll and tally reached 14,426 and 20,71,070 respectively. The number of active cases came down to 2,392 as 196 patients recovered in the past day. The test positivity rate of the 25,197 samples tested in the past day was 0.65%. Krishna also reported the highest infection tally of 32 cases in the past day. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (24), Guntur (22), Chittoor (19), West Godavari (18), Kadapa (10), Nellore (10), Srikakulam (8), East Godavari (7), Prakasam (4), Vizianagaram (4), Anantapur (3) and Kurnool (3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lone-covid-death-in-state-from-krishna/article37606550.ece
21 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trains regulated||The South Central Railway (SCR) has cancelled, diverted and rescheduled 11 trains due to heavy rains and damage to railway tracks in the Dharmavaram-Pakala section of Guntakal division on November 20. Train No. 07590 (Guntakal-Tirupati) has been cancelled. Train No. 12077 (Chennai Central-Vijayawada Janshatabdi Express) has been rescheduled by one hour. Train No. 12797 (Kacheguda-Chittoor), Train No.22159 (CST Mumbai-Chennai Central), Train No.12794 (Nizamabad-Tirupati), Train No. 17416 (C Sahumaharaj T- Tirupati) have been diverted via Dharmavaram, Channasandra, Krishnarajapuram, Whitefield, Jolarpettai and Katpadi. Train No. 12245 (Howrah-Yeswatapur) has been diverted via Renigunta, Tirupati and Katpadi. Train No. 07247 (Narsapur-Dharmavaram) has been partially cancelled between Tirupati and Dharmavaram, Train No. 07248 (Dharmavaram-Narsapur) has been partially cancelled between Dharmavaram and Tirupati. Train No.02770 (Secunderabad-Tirupati) has been partially cancelled between Tanakallu and Tirupati, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trains-regulated/article37605957.ece
21 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Additional charge for Jawahar Reddy||IAS officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy took over as Special Chief Secretary, Water Resources Department, at the Secretariat on Saturday. The government issued the transfer orders to him a couple of days ago. Mr. Reddy would hold the additional charge of Executive Officer of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/additional-charge-for-jawahar-reddy/article37606481.ece
21 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Swachh Survekshan-2021: city retains last year’s ninth rank||The ranking of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has seen no improvement in the Swachh Survekshan Ranking -2021, that was announced by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) in New Delhi on Saturday. It has retained its last year ninth ranking as the cleanest city in the country in the cities with over 10 lakh population category. This was also announced by the GVMC officials here. In the year 2020, the GVMC had secured the ninth and 23rd rank in 2019. The best rank the Urban Local Body (ULB) has ever achieved was third and it was in 2017. Apart from it, the city has also received an award under the category ‘Best City in Citizens Feedback’ and 3-Star rating in Garbage Free City (GFC) ratings. GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha, Former Commissioner G. Srijana and Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari have received the awards in New Delhi. Visakhapatnam is the second city from the State to be in the top 10 rankings. Vijayawada was given the third rank in the category. While Vijayawada secured 5,368.37 points for the third position, Vizag secured 4,717.92 points for the ninth position. Indore and Surat secured the top two spots. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Hari Venkata Kumari said that this was possible only with the support of citizens. She said the work of sanitary staff, GVMC officials and NGOs helped the city in securing a spot in the top 10 cleanest cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/swachh-survekshan-2021-city-retains-last-years-ninth-rank/article37606561.ece
21 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed, five injured in three accidents in district||Three persons died and five more were injured in three road accidents in the Visakhapatnam district. In one accident, a 40-year-old woman K. Chinni of Hukumpeta died while five other passengers were injured when the jeep in which they were travelling reportedly overturned near Vanthalamamidi under Paderu Police Station limits on Friday night. The incident occurred when the jeep was heading to Paderu from Ganjigedda village. The injured were shifted to Paderu hospital. In another accident, a 25-year-old sailor from the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) died in a road accident on Telugu Thalli Flyover near RTC Complex in the city on Friday night. The deceased was identified as Dileep Kumar, a native of Rajasthan. Inspector of II Town Police Station, K. Venkat Rao, said that the accident occurred when Dileep Kumar was going towards railway station area from Siripuram on a two-wheeler. Dileep Kumar reportedly hit the median on the flyover at around 10.30 p.m. Despite wearing helmet, he received severe injuries. Fellow commuters rushed him to a private hospital at Ram Nagar for treatment. But he was declared brought dead. II Town Police has registered a case. Further investigation is on. In another accident, a woman aged around 40 years died after the vehicle in which she and another person were travelling was hit by a lorry on NH-16 near Satyam Junction here on Saturday morning. The victim was pillion riding. The other person is safe, say police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-killed-five-injured-in-three-accidents-in-district/article37606557.ece
21 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held, 3,402 kg ganja seized||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials arrested two persons while they were allegedly transporting about 3,402 kg ganja in a vehicle near V. Madugula in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. This is the highest catch by the enforcement agencies in the district ever. The police said that the seized ganja is estimated to be of worth over Rs. 2.5 crore in a few States. Till date, the biggest catch was around 3,060 kg ganja by the Chodavaram police in June 2021 and about 2,700 kg ganja by the Koyyuru police in August 2021. The arrested were identified as P. Srinu (42) and N. Eswara Rao (30) of Butchayyapeta mandal. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Joint Director of SEB, Visakhapatnam Rural, S. Sathish Kumar, said that as part of anti-narcotics drive, ‘Parivartana’, the SEB has been conducting regular checks at several points in the district. Based on credible information, the SEB teams led by Enforcement Inspector, SEB Station, V.Madugula, Simhadri, along with the staff conducted vehicle checks at Konam village in Cheedikada mandal under V.Madugula Police Station limits, on Friday evening. The staff intercepted a van and seized the contraband. According to Mr. Satish Kumar, both the arrested were just transporters. The duo were hired by the smugglers to transport the weed from interior areas of Pedabayulu mandal, for which they were offered a payment of Rs. 1 lakh, said the police. The destination is still unknown, as they were instructed to hand over the ganja to some other persons on NH-16 near Anakapalle. “We have recovered about 81 bags which contains four packets each. Each packet contains 10.5 kg ganja,”said Mr. Simhadri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-persons-held-3402-kg-ganja-seized/article37606508.ece
21 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curbs on Platform No. 1 tomorrow||A new LHB rake with additional Vistadome coaches will be flagged off from Platform no.1 of Visakhapatnam railway station at 11.30 a.m. on November 22. There will be restrictions on the movement of passengers on platform no.1 at the station from early hours to 12.30 p.m. on that day. Other platforms can be accessed through Foot Over Bridge at Gate no.3 of the station and also from Gnanapuram side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/curbs-on-platform-no-1-tomorrow/article37606556.ece
21 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||IT employee found hanging from a tree||A software employee reportedly ended his life by hanging himself from a tree at Erra Matti Dibbalu, under the Bheemili Police Station limits. The incident came to light after the body was found at around 10 a.m. on Saturday. According to the Bheemili police, P. Rahul Kumar (35), a native of Paralakhemundi in Odisha, was working as an IT employee here. A case was registered. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/it-employee-found-hanging-from-a-tree/article37606559.ece
21 November 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joint Collector cleans toilet in ZP High School||Vizianagaram Joint Collector (Revenue) G.C. Kishore Kumar surprised everyone on Saturday by cleaning a toilet in Zilla Parishad High School at Nellimarla in the Vizianagaram district. On the occasion of World Toilet Day, he inspected condition of toilets in various places and told teachers and students to maintain hygienic conditions in the toilets to protect personal health and prevent spread of diseases. Later, he interacted with sanitary workers and lauded their sincerity in doing their job which included cleaning bathrooms and toilets of many educational institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joint-collector-cleans-toilet-in-zp-high-school/article37606502.ece
21 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indukuri Raghuraju files papers for Council poll||Indukuri Raghuraju filed his nomination papers as the YSRCP candidate for local bodies seat of the Legislative Council from Vizianagaram district on Saturday. Sringavarapukota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao submitted the party’s B. Form to Joint Collector (Revenue) and Returning Officer G.C. Kishore Kumar. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said Mr. Raghuraju had been striving hard to strengthen the party in Sringavaraipukota Assembly constituency and other parts of the district. Mr. Raghuraju thanked Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy for recognising his services and offering MLC nomination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indukuri-raghuraju-files-papers-for-council-poll/article37606503.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six die as two buildings collapse||The incessant rain for five days in the town led to the walls of the old building giving way and falling on the adjacent building at 2.45 a.m., which triggered an LPG cylinder blast, and that added to the magnitude of the accident, said Kadiri Circle Inspector Satyababu. The owner of the under-construction building Firoza Bee, 65, too died in the mishap. The other deceased were identified as Saidunnisa, 2, Fariunnisa, 8 months, Banu, 30, Yashika, 3, and Fathima Bee, 65. Another person identified as Raju has been admited to hospital with 50% burns, which the police believe could be from the cylinder blast. Bharatiya Janata Party State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy visited the mishap site and demanded immediate action against the Municipal Town Planning officers for not checking the unauthorised construction without ensuring the safety of the people. He demanded Rs. 50 lakh each to the deceased and Rs. 10 lakh to the nine persons injured. Meanwhile, the strength of other buildings in the street and other areas in the town was being checked to bring out people from unsafe constructions. District Collector Nagamani Selvarajan and Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli were monitoring the rescue operations from Anantapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-die-as-two-buildings-collapse/article37606480.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nandamuri family counters ‘insult’||Describing the proceedings of the Andhra Pradesh Assembly on Friday, he said it felt like entering a “cow shed”, and blamed the Assembly Speaker for allegedly failing to maintain the decorum of the House by allowing personal character assassination of a woman who was carrying on her own business and never made any political comments. He took objection to the comments made by Dwarapudi Chandrasekhar Reddy, Ambati Rambabu, Kodali Nani, and Vallabhaneni Vamsi, and asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to rein in his party leaders. “I am fine with issue-based discussion, criticism, or counter-criticism in the Assembly. But just to humiliate the Opposition leader by dragging in women in their house when he gives some suggestions for the good of the people of the State, is not acceptable,” Mr. Balakrishna added. If the YSRCP leaders failed to mend their ways, people know how to change them, said the Hindupur MLA. “Let the YSRCP not play mind games by dragging in apolitical women into their discussions and power is not permanent,” he quipped. ‘We will fight unitedly’ Members of the Nandamuri family —Nandamuri Vasundhara Devi, Garapati Lokeshwari, Kumudini, Nara Brahmani, and others — too expressed their displeasure at the way Mr. Naidu was allegedly humiliated, and promised to fight unitedly to protect their self-respect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nandamuri-family-counters-insult/article37605951.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada third cleanest city||Vijayawada has also been declared as “Garbage Free City” with a five-star rating. It is the only city in Andhra Pradesh to receive a five-star rating. The city also found a place in the “Water Plus Cities” list consisting of only nine cities across the country and bagged the “Prerak Dauur Samman Award” in Gold category for various practices, including segregation of waste, processing and recycling wet waste and dry waste, processing construction and demolition waste, landfill management and overall sanitation of the city. Mr. Venkatesh congratulated all the public health workers, ward sanitation secretaries, sanitary inspectors, supervisors, health officers and other staff concerned. “It is a proud moment for the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation. The awards were a result of the hard work of the VMC personnel as a team,” he said. He also thanked the public for their cooperation and support in keeping the city clean.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vijayawada-third-cleanest-city/article37606547.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A stunning show||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-stunning-show/article37606552.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Our govt. will buy entire paddy, says KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has assured farmers that the entire paddy grown during the rainy season would be procured by the State government. Farmers need not worry about that, he said at a press conference on Saturday. He also urged farmers not to harvest the crop in a hurry as there would be more rains in the next few days. Harvested crop gets damaged easily, he said. Speaking to reporters at Telangana Bhavan along with other TRS leaders, KCR said that about 6,600 paddy procurement centres were established across the State and if necessary, a few more would be opened depending on the requirement. Alleging that some political parties were creating unnecessary ruckus over the issue, the Chief Minister said that the government has been making arrangements for payment under Rythu Bandhu for summer crop. “We will let you know what crops have to be sown in the next season after our visit to Delhi. We will get a clarity on the issue soon,” he said, demanding that BJP leaders should apologise to the people of the country for their ‘words’ and ‘actions’ as “what they said proved to be wrong” with the statement issued by none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi after repealing the three farm laws. KCR demanded the Central government to accord permission to provide reservations to tribals on the lines of Tamil Nadu, stating that they had appealed more than 50 times but there was no response. He also asked for SC categorisation and counting of BCs on the basis of caste adding that there was nothing wrong in making the figures public as caste certificates were being issued by the government itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/our-govt-will-buy-entire-paddy-says-kcr/article37606321.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police suspect data of SBI, Axis is at risk||It was not just the confidence of RBL Bank customers that certainly took a hit following the breach of the ‘classified’ data of credit cardholders, but the data of State Bank of India and Axis Bank is also at risk. Sources in the Cyberabad police commissionerate have confirmed that certain groups of cyber fraudsters operating their country-wide network from the national capital, were constantly updated with the ‘fresh’ credit cardholders data by their ‘partners’ in the banks. “We are getting bank fraud cases from the customers of SBI and Axis Bank also. It is yet to be verified whether the data has been leaked or not. There might be data loss or it could be some social engineering fraud,” crime police said. Flaws exposed After Cyberabad police unearthed Delhi-based fake call centres and arrested 16 persons from Delhi and Ujjain, it had exposed the flaws in customer data security and also in the issuing of SIM cards by the network providers without any proper verification. The gang was involved in nearly 35 cases in Cyberabad, and 166 cases across the country. Police said that the fraudsters had updated data of the thousands of customers who received new credit cards and it was a bank’s insider who is the architect of this whole fraud. The investigators are racking their brains to know how exactly and from where the data leak had taken place in the banking company and how did the mobile service provider company issued over 1,000 SIM cards without any verification by accepting forged Aadhaar cards and PAN cards. Meanwhile, police are still clueless about the insider (bank employees) who constantly went on leaking the updated data of their credit cardholders to the arrested kingpins of the frauds, Deepak Chaudhary and his associate Vishal Kumar alias Vishal Chouhan, both residents of Uttam Nagar, New Delhi. Deepak had previous experience with the banking sector and had a well-oiled network within the bank to get his things done. Police teams are also on the job to arrest Deepak’s two sisters and three more women from Delhi who were part of the fraud. “As of now, we could not track him/them. The bank is also helping us with leads to know from where the database was leaked. Even they are worried as their customer information got leaked,” Cyberabad’s Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) Rohini Priyadarshini told The Hindu . When asked how the SIM cards were issued on forged/fake identification cards, Ms. Priyadarshini said “like earlier days, there is no robust verification mechanism right now, which is resulting in such several cyber frauds.” She said that the verification process should happen at the highest level where it can be fixed, but not at the vendors end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-suspect-data-of-sbi-axis-is-at-risk/article37606317.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress rally for ‘lost’ farmers||Telangana Congress leaders held a candle rally from People’s Plaza to Indira Gandhi statue on Tank Bund on Saturday to pay homage to farmers who lost their lives during the agitation against the three farm laws. The candle rally was attended by TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy, MLA Seethakka, senior leaders Madhu Yaskhi Goud, Geetha Reddy, Mahesh Kumar Goud, G. Chinna Reddy, and Sunita Rao, among others. They raised slogans against the BJP and TRS government, which they said was equally responsible for the deaths given their support to the farm laws. Mr. Revanth Reddy held the BJP government responsible for the deaths of farmers and sought financial assistance to over 700 farmers who died since the agitation started. He ridiculed the TRS for claiming that the farm laws were repealed after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao staged a dharna and asked that if KCR was so powerful he should ensure that the Central government procured the entire paddy. “KCR’s sincerity is exposed when he failed to pass a resolution against the farm bills in the Assembly despite the Congress demanding it. After supporting PM Narendra Modi in all the Bills over the last 7 years, KCR is now enacting a drama of Opposition,” he alleged. Mr. Revanth Reddy demanded the Chief Minister to procure the entire paddy this season, as promised, rather than trying to divert the issue by raking up the procurement of next season. “Lakhs of tonnes of paddy are lying in market yards and threshing yards of farmers. Congress will ensure that KCR procures this,” he said warning farmers to be cautious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-rally-for-lost-farmers/article37606325.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man returns home after spending half a year in Gandhi Hospital||After over six months of treatment for severe post-COVID complications, a 33-year-old man was discharged from Gandhi Hospital on Saturday. The city resident, M. Suresh Kumar, was bedridden for more than four months and the tertiary care health facility had become his second home of sorts as he spent half a year there. Prior to getting admitted at the government hospital in June, he had exhausted around Rs. 6 lakh of savings for his treatment at a corporate hospital. Gandhi Hospital doctors performed lung surgery on Mr. Suresh Kumar as part of his treatment for sepsis with multi-organ dysfunction. Since his health condition did not allow him to even take a step on his own, patient care providers and ward boys constantly attended him by feeding him, changing his diapers, and helping him with every other thing. A resident of Ramnathapur, Mr Suresh Kumar worked in administrative positions at night clubs in the uptown part of Hyderabad. Superintendent of the hospital, M. Raja Rao said the patient got infected with COVID in April this year, got hospitalised and partially recovered after two weeks. Cost comparison “After experiencing breathlessness, I went to a private hospital and spent around Rs. 6 lakh of my savings for treatment. Thereafter, I got admitted at Gandhi Hospital in June,” said Mr Suresh Kumar after reaching home. Gandhi Hospital doctors said the surgery that he underwent would have cost nearly Rs. 15 lakh in a corporate hospital. For treatment of sepsis and multi-organ dysfunction in ICUs, the patient would have had to shell out Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh a day. Altogether, the six-month treatment would have easily cost him over Rs. 1 crore. Critical condition “During the hospital stay, he was very serious. The patient was on CPAP for several weeks along with ICD (intercostal drainage) tubes in both lungs. At one point, he was in sepsis with multi-organ dysfunction and was very critical. Dr Ravinder and team from CT surgery performed a lung surgery on him too,” said Dr Raja Rao. The patient was monitored for 20 days after post surgery. Mr Suresh Kumar said he is now able to walk by himself and hopes to resume work in a month. He was off the job for over seven months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-returns-home-after-spending-half-a-year-in-gandhi-hospital/article37606301.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doctor dragged to consumer forum gets respite after 16 years||About 16 years after he was dragged to a consumer forum and directed to pay Rs. 1.98 lakh as compensation for ‘medical negligence’, a government doctor got relief when the Telangana State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission set aside the forum’s order terming it ‘obnoxious’. The commission comprising president M.S.K. Jaiswal and member Meena Ramanathan was dealing with an appeal filed by Dr. Shankerlal Lahoti and nurse Kalavathi, both working at the Government Civil Hospital, Chennur mandal in Adilabad. The respondents were Naseemunnisa Begum, the original complainant in the case, Government of AP, and Professional Protection and Welfare Scheme of the IMA. On September 17, 2005, Ms. Begum had filed a complaint stating that she was taken to the hospital from school when she fell sick, and a nurse there administered a shot. Soon, she developed a swelling on her arm and was taken to another hospital. Later, she had approached the Adilabad District Forum claiming medical negligence, and the matter was disposed of in November 2010. Dr. Lahoti preferred an appeal, after which the case was sent back to the forum and was disposed of in June 2018. This time, the consumer forum, which had dwelt on whether Ms. Begum was a consumer and opined that her parents were taxpayers for which government hospitals were offering treatment, stated that the respondents could not escape liability. Dealing with circumstances under which the Consumer Protection Act can be invoked, the commission stated that in the absence of any payment, the opposite parties are not liable to pay any compensation. Coming down heavily on the district forum, the commission stated there was ‘no application of mind’. The commission also stated that “we have no hesitation in holding that the first respondent/complainant was treated in a government hospital, where no kind of fees was collected either from the complainant or any other patient”. “The observations of the district forum that since citizens pay taxes to the government and the government is running the hospital, they are liable, is obnoxious,” the commission averred. Apart from setting aside the forum’s order, the commission directed that if the appellant had deposited any amount, it can be withdrawn along with interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctor-dragged-to-consumer-forum-gets-respite-after-16-years/article37606306.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad adjudged Best Self-Sustainable Mega City||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has bettered itself in the annual Swachh Survekshan rankings awarded by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, by improving its position over the previous year, and also by standing a winner as the Best Self-Sustainable Mega City in the category of cities with population over 40 lakh. By coincidence, Secunderabad Cantonment Board has also received the recognition as the ‘Best Self Sustainable Cantonment’. The survey results were announced by the MOHUA on Saturday. In the rankings awarded to cities with over 10 lakh population, GHMC has secured 13th rank against the 23rd awarded in 2020. Overall among the 4,320 urban areas chosen for the rankings, the city stood in the 37th order, which is a great improvement over the 65th position secured last year. The city scored 4,551 out of the 6,000 marks distributed among the categories Service Level Progression, Citizens’ Voice and Certification. Telangana as a state has stood at 11th order, when it came to state rankings, improving over its rank at 18 in 2020. Karimnagar, at 74th rank, is the only city from Telangana to find place in the first 100 cities with population below 10 lakh. In the South Zone, Telangana’s Sircilla has been adjudged the cleanest city, followed by Siddipet. They also secured the top two positions among cities with population between 50,000 and one lakh. Badangpet Nagar Panchayat has scored overall fifth rank in the South Zone, and fourth in the category of towns with population between 50,000 and one lakh. Siddipet has also been adjudged ‘Best Self-Sustainable City’ in the category of population between 50,000 and one lakh in South Zone. Among cantonments, Secunderabad Cantonment has secured seventh overall position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-adjudged-best-self-sustainable-mega-city/article37606312.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nandamuri family stands with Naidu, flays YSRCP||The entire Nandamuri family, led by Hindupur MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna, on Saturday launched a scathing attack on the YSR Congress Party leaders, who allegedly ‘insulted’ Nara Bhuvaneshwari, wife of TDP president Nara Chandrababu Naidu, and warned them of ‘befitting’ counter/ reply if they tried this yet again. At a joint press meet in his house, Mr. Balakrishna took strong objection to dragging the name of his sister Ms. Bhuvaneshwari and making of some ‘unpalatable’ comments in the AP Legislative Assembly on Friday, which he said had emotionally disturbed Mr. Chandrababu Naidu to such an extent for the first time. He condemned the YSRCP leaders resorting to a personal attack on a woman, who was apolitical and never interfered in politics. Describing the proceedings of the A.P. Assembly on Friday, he said it felt like entering a ‘cow shed’ and blamed the Assembly Speaker for allegedly failing to maintain the decorum of the House by allowing personal character assassination of a woman, who was carrying on her own business and never made any political comments. The MLA from Hindupur, in A.P., took objection to the comments made by YSRCP legislators Dwarapudi Chandrasekhar Reddy, Ambati Rambabu, Kodali Nani, and Vallabhaneni Vamsi and asked Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to rein-in his party leaders. “I am fine with issue-based discussion, criticism, or counter-criticism in the Assembly, but humiliation of the Opposition leader by dragging in the names of women in his household, when he gives some suggestions for the good of the people of the State, is not acceptable,” Mr. Balakrishna added. If the YSRCP leaders fail to mend their ways, people know how to change them, said the Hindupur MLA. “Let the YSRCP not play mind games by dragging in apolitical women into public discussions and let them also remember power is not permanent,” he said. Nandamuri Vasundhara Devi, Garapati Lokeshwari, Kumudini, and Nara Brahmani too, expressed their displeasure over the remarks. Jagga Reddy condemns remarks Meanwhile, Sangareddy legislator Jayaprakash Reddy expressed serious concern over targeting the family members of Chandrababu Naidu in the AP Assembly and said that Telangana Assembly is more decent in its functioning. Sharing his views with reporters here on Saturday, he said that it was sad to see a senior politician who served as the CM being humiliated. Such incidents were not seen in combined AP and there was always a check on such behaviour by seasoned politicians. In one of the incidents, late CM Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy himself asked the Speaker to remove the remarks from the record after expressing his apology. Mr. Reddy also found fault with MLA Roja releasing a video making ‘humiliating’ remarks against Mr. Naidu. “If she was personally targeted by the TDP government, it was condemnable but open support to such remarks is not in good taste,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nandamuri-family-stands-with-naidu-flays-ysrcp/article37606329.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No trace of ward committees a year after GHMC polls||Almost a year after GHMC elections, and nine months after the first meeting of the civic body’s freshly elected council, ward committees are yet to be constituted. Ward committees need to be constituted for every division of the corporation under the Section 8-A of the GHMC Act, for effective representation and funding in the spirit of the amendments 73 and 74 of the Constitution of India. Earlier, as per the Act, each ward committee should be chaired by the corporator of the respective ward/division, and not more than 10 electors representing the civil society from the ward, to be nominated by the civic body. If the population in a ward is below 10,000, the committee should have four members, with one additional member for every 4,000 population or part thereof. Thus, for 150 wards in GHMC, the number of ward members should not exceed 1,500. However, after promulgation of amendments to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) Act last year, the number of ward committees has been increased to four per ward, and the maximum number of members has been enhanced to 25. Thus, the maximum extent of “citizens’ participation” has been increased tenfold, to 15,000. The members should consist of residents from the ward and from among the residents, representatives of the welfare associations, community-based organisations and other such groups and individuals by rotation annually. They shall be entrusted with the responsibility to take up issues pertaining to each of the groups pertaining to the ward. Half the members to be nominated to the ward committees should be women. The committees are expected to bring forth and monitor resolution of civic issues pertaining to sanitation, maintenance, distribution of water supply, working of street lights, road repairs, maintenance of markets, parks, and playgrounds, implementation of poverty alleviation programmes, and the functioning of schools, health centres and such facilities. They are endowed with the responsibility also to facilitate tax collection, prepare list of beneficiaries for various schemes and benefits, prepare annual ward development plan, map the ward’s infrastructure, prepare inventory of municipal assets, and assist in the implementation of all government schemes. Officials said guidelines for their constitution as per the new amendments are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-trace-of-ward-committees-almost-a-year-after-ghmc-polls/article37606314.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress in Catch 22 situation on MLC elections||Power tussle within the Telangana Congress continues and the MLC elections under the Local Authorities Constituencies, to be held soon, have emerged as another platform where the leaders are trying to undermine each other’s supremacy than winning a seat, the chances of which are almost nil given their insufficient numbers. A recent meeting of the party saw a section strongly arguing for putting up the party candidates despite slim chances of winning even one to ensure they are not out of people’s mind in the contests. Slim chances “I am all for a contest even though we have slim chances of bagging any seat,” a senior leader argued in the meeting. The party leadership was apparently of the opinion that they don’t have the sufficient numbers to win a seat in any district due to the poor representation of the party at the local body elections. With the pressure mounting from a section, TPCC president Revanth Reddy constituted a committee led by former Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajanarasimha and former Minister G. Chinna Reddy for eliciting opinions of all stakeholders to take a final decision. Mr. Rajanarasimha said on Saturday that the issue has been discussed and also how the ruling party had snatched nearly 50% of its elected representatives with power and money. “A report would be submitted in two days for the high command to take a final decision.” 12 MLCs to complete term Twelve sitting MLCs under the Local Authorities Constituencies will complete their term on January 3, 2022, including pro-tem chairman V. Bhoopal Reddy, Patnam Mahender Reddy, K. Damodar Reddy, Shambipur Raju, Kasireddy Narayana Reddy, Kalvakuntla Kavitha, Tera Chinnapa Reddy, Pochampally Srinivas Reddy, T. Bhanu Prasad, Balasani Laxminarayana, Puranam Satish and Naradasu Laxman. All these MLCs represent the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi. With its strong numbers, TRS is all set to retain the 12 seats unless there is a huge cross-voting by the elected representatives of local bodies who form the electorate. Out of the 142 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), 130 are in the TRS kitty. The party has also won 449 of the 538 ZPTCs, 431 of 537 MPPs, 3,571 of 5,816 MPTC posts. Way ahead The ruling party is way ahead of others bagging 1,679 out of the 2,849 municipal wards and 117 of 125 municipal chairpersons’ posts. The party also secured 333 of 661 municipal corporator posts across the State and also 13 municipal mayor posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-in-catch-22-situation-on-mlc-elections/article37606323.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doctors’ association seeks restoration of in-service quota||Members of Telangana Public Health Doctors Association (TPHDA) have demanded that the in-service quota, which was effective up to 2017, to be restored and the recently-issued GO no.155 to be struck down. They said GO no.27 issued in April 2017 stated that 30% of seats in clinical broad specialities and 50% of seats in pre and para clinical specialities in degree and diploma courses are reserved for in-service candidates. This was applicable in both government and private medical colleges. “However, GO 155, issued a few days ago, states 20% seats in postgraduate clinical broad specialities and 30% seats in postgraduate pre and para clinical broad specialities for degree and diploma courses are reserved for in-service candidates in government medical colleges,” the members said at a press conference on Saturday. TPHDA president Kathi Janardhan has demanded that GO 155 be struck down and GO 27 be restored. TPHDA members said they got to know about GO 155 through the prospectus issued by Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences on Friday. The members said if quota is not provided, one would not be keen to join as medical officers in rural areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctors-association-seeks-restoration-of-in-service-quota/article37606302.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth arrested on charge of robbing actor Shalu Chourasiya||Hyderabad police on Saturday announced the arrest of a youngster who attacked and robbed Shalu Chourasiya while she was on a walk at KBR Park at Banjara Hills on the evening of November 14. The sleuths of Task Force (West and North Zone) made consistent efforts and solved a clueless robbery case by apprehending Kommu Babu (21), a resident f Indira Nagar, who worked at movie sets as a helper, Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said. Babu is a native of Kulkacharla of Mahabubnagar district. Police also recovered the actor’s mobile phone from his possession. Earlier, he was arrested by Golconda police in e-petty case and was remanded to judicial custody. He was also involved in mobile phone snatching offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-held-for-robbing-actor/article37606315.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two-day renewable energy expo concludes||A two-day renewable energy trade expo RenewX featuring various solutions and services of several firms concluded at Hitex here on Saturday. Manufacturers, EPC firms, supplier and distributors across categories, including PV modules, hybrid systems, materials and equipment, inverters, charge controllers, batteries, testing and monitoring systems, component makers, bioenergy equipment manufacturers, back sheet manufacturers and system integrators participated in the fifth edition of the expo. Concurrently, a South India Energy Conclave focused on innovations and technologies in the renewable energy space was also held. Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd CMD G.Raghuma Reddy, British Deputy High Commissioner Andrew Fleming and Special Chief Secretary to the Energy Department Sunil Sharma were among those who had participated in the expo inauguration, said Informa Markets, which organised RenewX.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-day-renewable-energy-expo-concludes/article37606299.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||134 more COVID cases logged in Telangana||A total of 134 new cases of COVID-19 were detected in the State on Saturday, taking the virus tally to 6,74,452. As many as 32,621 samples were tested with 1,193 reports awaited. One fatality was also reported, putting the death toll at 3,980. The case fatality rate stands at 0.59%. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region accounted for the highest number of cases at 44, followed by Rangareddy (14). Four districts — Jangaon, Mulugu, Narayanpet and Vikarabad — did not log a single positive case. The remaining districts recorded single-digit infections. On the day, a total of 164 persons were declared recovered. The recovery rate in the State is now 98.87%. As of Saturday evening, Telangana had 3,626 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/134-more-covid-cases-logged-in-telangana/article37606308.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two held for ponzi two-wheeler schemes||Jawahar Nagar police in the Rachakonda commissionerate on Saturday arrested two persons for allegedly defrauding customers in the name of selling two-wheelers under its various schemes. Police said that the accused persons, K. Pallavi Reddy of Medipally and P. Sanjay of Jawahar Nagar, together had opened multi-brand two-wheeler stores in 2019 at Dr. A.S. Rao Nagar, at Dammaiguda in 2020 and other outlets at Maheshwaram, Mansanpally X roads and Domadugu. The duo encouraged customers to buy two-wheelers, while making them invest in unreliable schemes, to make easy money. Schemes included pyramid model, where a customer needed to pay only 60% of the vehicle cost and join four new customers to avail full loan clearance in 12 payments. Reddy and Sanjay would pay only 20% towards down payment and siphon off the remaining after arranging bank finance. Their other game plans were waiting period scheme, in which vehicles were offered at 50% price if paid upfront, but with a compulsory 100-day wait, and the investment scheme, where customers were lured with double returns after 100 days. Police said that there were close to 300 aggrieved customers and the fraud amounts were to the tune of Rs. 2 crore. The two persons were was booked on the charge of cheating and under various provisions of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act and the AP Protection of Depositors of Financial Establishments Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-ponzi-two-wheeler-schemes/article37606310.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 held for chain-snatching||A transwoman and her associate from Bengaluru who were involved in chain snatching cases in the city were apprehended by the Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) team. The accused Anjum, 39, and Basavaraju, 25, were involved in two snatching cases reported in Punjagutta and Mahankali police station limits. While Anjum asks for a lift to a certain destination and robs the commuter, her associate would sell the stolen property, Officer on Special Duty (Task Force) P Radhakishan Rao said. He said that a team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao apprehended the accused from whom they recovered two gold chains weighing 40 grams, a laptop and three mobile phones. “To make a quick buck and lead a lavish lifestyle, the duo hatched a plan to commit chain snatching from commuters on the guise of vehicle lift,” Mr. Rao said. In another case, Task Force team members apprehended five members of an inter-State gang on the change of drug peddling. They seized 12 kg of ganja, an auto-rickshaw and five mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-for-chain-snatching/article37606294.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman killed in accident||A woman riding a scooter was killed after she came under the wheels of a water tanker at King Koti here on Saturday morning. The victim, Nisha Thaman, was a resident of Kachiguda. According to Narayanaguda police, the accident took place near Eden Garden at King Koti. “While riding the scooter, she suddenly lost control and came under the tanker wheels,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-killed-in-accident/article37606296.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmers not in Rythu Bandhu list can also sell crops||In a move that would benefit more farmers, the State government has issued orders to procure paddy even from ryots whose land do not figure in the Rythu Bandhu list. Similarly, farmers whose cultivation is not in the records can bring their produce to procurement centres and sell it. The only condition is that it should be certified by Agriculture Extension Officers (AEOs). Once certified, a token will be issued to the farmer and he can go to either an Indira Kranthi Patham (IKP) or Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society (PACS) and sell the produce by showing it. “Farmers have to submit land records, bank account details and Aadhaar details to the AEO. Then, officials with the coordinator of Rythu Samanvaya Samithi in the village will ascertain the facts at the ground level. The agriculture officer will upload details of the farmer in the Online Procurement Management System (OPMS) and pass on the token to the AEO. While the token will be handed over to the farmer, a copy will be sent to the in-charge at the concerned procurement centre,” said an officer involved in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-not-in-rythu-bandhu-list-can-also-sell-crops/article37606319.ece
21 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||4-year-old boy bashed to death||A four-year-old boy died of head injuries after being repeatedly bashed to the ground by a family member over a dispute, in Pahadi Shareef police limits on Saturday. The boy was identified as Lakshmi Narasimha, familiarly Lucky, near Indira Society at Sriram colony. The incident reportedly took place in the afternoon, between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. The boy, bleeding, was found dead at the house. Investigation was launched. While the police said the details were still inconclusive, they were firm that the killing was over a family dispute, the police said. Family members were being questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-year-old-boy-bashed-to-death/article37606313.ece
21 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Job mela held||Hyderabad police on Saturday organised a job mela for women for 265 vacancies in five companies at Women’s police station in the south zone. Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT) Shikha Goel and DCP (South zone) Gajarao Bhupal inaugurated the job mela and gave away offer letters to the selected candidates. “This women job mela is a good programme. There is a lot of activity going on in the Society for Women Empowerment,” Mr. Kumar said. Over 18,600 youngsters got employment through this job mela since 2018 and this year alone 9,168 people got employment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/job-mela-held/article37606295.ece
21 November 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BJP behind paddy issue, says Gutha||Senior TRS leader Gutha Sukender Reddy observed that many of the ongoing problems around paddy procurement being faced by farmers in the State, even as cyclonic weather prevails, were deliberate plans of the BJP and the Food Corporation of India (FCI). “There is no clarity on how much the Centre will buy. FCI willingly stopped transporting the paddy it had procured last season. So, there is no procurement of vaana kalam produce now, and hence farmers are stranded,” he said. Mr. Sukender Reddy addressed the media at his residence in Nalgonda on Saturday. He conveyed his thanks to Chief Minster K. Chandrasekhar Rao for nominating him for the Council the second time. He also observed that November 19 would remain a historic day as the Centre repealed all the three farm laws on that day. He credited the announcement as the ‘cause and effect’ of TRS and KCR’s dharna in Hyderabad the previous day. The senior leader added that the paddy impasse would ease if Telangana BJP leaders mount pressure on the Central leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-behind-paddy-impasse-gutha/article37606318.ece
21 November 2021||Pochampally,TELANGANA||Pochampally’s hour of glory||Pochampally, a 28-square km weavers’ hamlet on the outskirts of Hyderabad, has been catapulted onto the global stage after bagging the 'Best World Tourism Village’ tag awarded by United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO). The village is a shimmering pleats of colour with billboards of silk sarees, cotton fabrics and phone numbers. As vehicles turn left from the Hyderabad highway and enter the MG Road leading to the Pochampally village, signs of development are immediately apparent. Farm lands have been filled up, hills have been cleared for housing plots, layouts dot the landscape. Shoppers’ paradise The main street is lined with shops advertising Pochampally Ikat, bedspreads, and the street doesn’t seem to end. Outside the shops are swanky cars and SUVs driven from Hyderabad and other places. “This is nothing. On Saturday and Sundays, we cannot even talk. People come from other States too for festival and wedding shopping,” says Satyanarayana, secretary of the biggest shopping complex in the village. While some shoppers are happy to pick and choose at the shops, the more fashion conscious seek out the weavers as they work their magic in the looms inside their homes. At the end of the main street is the rented home of Tahira Begum. While a majority of weavers are from the Padmashali community, Tahira represents what the intervention of government can do. “I learnt at the Dantur Handloom Park about 12 years ago. I manage to weave seven sarees a month. I earn Rs. 10,000. Men weave more sarees as they don’t have to run a home,” says Tahira. Though her house is a rented one, it comes equipped with a pit-loom in the living area. What is drawing the tourists/buyers to the village is the sheer craftsmanship that goes into creating each saree. Raw silk is sourced from Bengaluru or China. How these ultrafine off-white threads gets transformed into exquisite silk sarees is what draws the tourists to the artisanal village. Once the threads are mounted on the loom, Rapolu Srinivas gets to work. He draws designs that will become visible once the saree is woven. Before that, there are just black lines. Another artist Siddhu picks up the bundle and ties rubber bands at certain places and leaves some other places exposed. These bundles with rubber bands are then dipped in bright colours and boiled, to give the unique geometric identity of the Pochampally Ikat. Srinivas owns one of the landmark ikat workshops, Mahathishwari Sarees, in the village. It is his mother Pramila who strings 3,600 coloured threads to the frame which the workers then mount to weave sarees. She has been doing this work for the past 35 years, from 8 a.m. till 8 p.m, every day. There is an attached showroom for buyers. Exhibition While most visitors are day tourists, the Tourism department has a 16-bed facility with an exhibition of the process from beginning till the end. “Due to COVID-19 lockdown people stopped coming. After this recognition by the UNWTO, we are expecting more tourists, and are sprucing up the place,” said a tourism official working at the site. The tourism department’s facility is exactly at the place where Acharya Vinoba Bhave received a donation of 100 acres land to begin a land distribution programme known as bhoodan and the village came to be called Bhoodan Pochampally. Two decades ago, there were 3,000 looms; now there are about 2,000. But the cluster of artisanal villagers has grown and the Pochampally Ikat is produced in about 50 villages. The tidings of good news is a far cry from the days when the village made national headlines due to spate of suicides in early 2000. Now, Bhoodan Pochampally basks in the glory of a world tourism village tag.  Due to COVID-19 lockdown people stopped coming. After this recognition by the UNWTO, we are expecting more tourists, and are sprucing up the place. A tourism official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pochampallys-hour-of-glory/article37606305.ece
21 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. bid to woo voters in Himachal||Buoyed over its performance in the recently concluded Assembly and Parliamentary bypolls, the Congress party in Himachal Pradesh has set the ball rolling by up-swinging the tempo of its electioneering for the Assembly elections due next year The party, led by State unit president Kuldeep Singh Rathore, has kick-started a State-wide ‘padayatra’ and ‘jan jagran’ programme to consolidate its support base across all 68 Assembly constituencies. In an attempt to strengthen the party, especially in the constituencies where it is relatively weak, Mr. Rathore has started ‘padayatra’ to understand the pain-points of the party and prepare strategy. As a part of the ‘jan jagran’ programme, the party MLAs and ex-MLAs have started reaching out to people and make aware them of the Congress’s ideology and policies, besides exposing the misdeeds of the BJP Governments in the State and at the Centre. “The Congress has won the ‘semi-final’ by defeating the BJP in the bypolls. Now, we will win the Assembly election in December next year. The party workers are excited after the recent win. We are making people aware about the ill-conceived policies of the BJP, which has caused inflation, unemployment, corruption creating hardships for the people of the State,” said Mr. Rathore. ‘Cadre motivated’ “The people of the State have rejected the BJP and acknowledged the Congress in the recent bypolls. The cadre is motivated and wants to ensure that the BJP is defeated in 2022. I have already started a ‘padayatra' to visit all those constituencies where we have not been winning for the past few years, the aim is to understand the reasons for our weakness and then prepare the strategy. There are around 22 Assembly constituencies where we are a little weak and I’ll be visiting all these constituencies in a phased manner over the next few months,” Mr. Rathore told The Hindu . “We have started membership drive from today (Friday). The focus would be to increase the membership of the party and a mechanism will be developed to ensure that the membership is genuine,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-sets-the-ball-rolling-for-hp-assembly-elections/article37606148.ece
21 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Leopard attacks 2; villagers alerted||Two people, including a forest guard, were injured when a leopard attacked them near Masuri police station here on Saturday, according to an official. The injured have been identified as forest guard Sunil Rathi and Chandan, who is a cook. They were rushed to the district Government hospital for treatment, SP (Rural) Iraj Raja said. Police teams have swung into action and alerted people through a public announcement system. Villagers have been asked to stay alert and keep their children and cattle safe. Official teams are trying to trace the leopard along the Ganga canal and Hindon river. The leopard was spotted jumping from a house’s roof by locals around 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/leopard-attacks-2-villagers-alerted/article37606141.ece
21 November 2021||Jammu,||Anti-encroachment drive sparks protest||An anti-encroachment drive by the Jammu Municipal Corporation on Saturday sparked protests by the business community at different markets here, officials said. A JMC team removed a shutter of a hardware showroom at Shivaji Chowk and pasted a notice informing the owners that the building has been sealed, they said. The officials said the action triggered protests by businessmen of the area who observed the shutdown, accusing the JMC of high-handedness. “This is a 40-year-old store which was targeted by the JMC without any prior notice or intimation. If they had any problem with the structure, they should have followed the law and served the business a notice before taking any action,” Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Arun Gupta said. Mr. Gupta said the business community is already suffering badly due to the COVID-19 situation and such actions have a crippling impact on a number of families. “We will not tolerate such type of hooliganism,” he said and warned of agitation if “such type of unjust” action is not stopped forthwith. A senior civil officer met the agitated businessmen and assured them that he would look into the matter. Shopkeepers in Shastri Nagar, Gandhi Nagar and Moti Bazar in the city also staged protests against the JMC for its anti-encroachment drive, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/anti-encroachment-drive-sparks-protest/article37606406.ece
21 November 2021||Kolkata,||‘Bring White Paper on investments received’||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday asked Amit Mitra to come out with a White Paper on details of investments received from five editions of the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS), alleging that the former State Finance Minister’s “misplaced eloquent economic optical illusions have been a heavy drain on development”. He also questioned why were the BGBS details hidden after assertions of “resounding success”. Mr. Mitra, who has been appointed the Chief Economic Advisor to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee after he relinquished the Finance portfolio recently, had refuted Mr. Dhankhar’s accusation that he had not responded to queries on investments proposed in the five editions of BGBS, saying he had given details of these in a letter to the Governor. “Your reliance on four-page communication is misplaced as it does not in the least even advert to the five issues flagged, much less render response,” Mr. Dhankhar wrote in a letter to Mr. Mitra on Friday. Mr. Dhankhar and Mr. Mitra have been engaged in a verbal duel over the success of business summits. “There just can be no rationale for not rendering details of the much projected investment of over Rs. 12.30 lakh crore in five BGBS editions. Why hide BGBS details after assertions of ‘resounding success’!” Mr. Dhankhar wrote. “Why not reveal achievements and expenses qua each BGBS event since 2016 as regards actual investment made, and jobs created?,” Mr. Dhankhar said.  Expresses concern He asked Mr. Mitra to come out with “full disclosure on BGBS” at the earliest by way of a White Paper. “Sought response @DrAmitMitra as his misplaced eloquent economic optical illusions have been a heavy drain on development, transparency and accountability in the State,” Mr. Dhankhar tweeted on Saturday along with a copy of the letter to Mr. Mitra. For investment, governance must be in “accord with constitutional norms and with respect to democratic values and human rights”, he wrote on the microblogging site. Mr. Dhankhar had on November 9 called upon the Mamata Banerjee Government to come out with a White Paper on BGBS with details of investments attracted from the business summits and expressed concern at the alleged lack of response from the then State Finance Minister on the information sought by him in August last year. He had attached a copy of his letter to the Chief Minister dated August 25, 2020, along with his tweet. Mr. Mitra too posted the copy of his four-page letter written on September 24, 2020, in the reply to the Governor’s queries and questioned whether he was “suffering from amnesia”. Mr. Mitra described the Governor’s tweet on business summits as “a classic case of Dr Jekyll & Mr Hyde”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bring-white-paper-on-investments-received/article37606410.ece
21 November 2021||Korba,||SECL gives Rs. 16 cr. to worker for daughter’s treatment||South Eastern Coalfields Limited has handed over a cheque of Rs. 16 crore to an employee whose two-year-old daughter is suffering from a rare ailment called Spinal Muscular Atrophy and requires an imported injection Zolgensma, an official said on Saturday. The cheque was handed over on Friday to Satish Kumar Ravi, who works as an overman, said SECL Dipka project mining general manager Shashank Shekhar Dewangan. The child was diagnosed with SMA in December last year, and is on portable ventilator support at her home in Dipka after undergoing treatment in Delhi and Bilaspur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/secl-gives-rs-16-cr-to-worker-for-daughters-treatment/article37606407.ece
21 November 2021||Latehar/Medininagar/ Chaibasa,||Maoists blow up rail tracks in Jharkhand||Suspected members of the banned CPI (Maoist) blew up portions of railway tracks in Jharkhand’s Latehar and West Singhbhum districts in the early hours of Saturday, disrupting train services on the Barkakana-Garhwa and the Howrah-Mumbai routes, police said. A rail track between Sonua and Lotapahar stations in West Singhbhum, under the Chakradharpur Division of South Eastern Railway (SER), was damaged on Friday night in a blast that was allegedly triggered by the Maoists. The banned outfit has called for a nationwide bandh on Saturday to protest against the arrest of its top leader Prashant Bose alias Kishan Da, who was carrying a bounty of Rs. 1 crore on his head, by the Jharkhand Police. Bose was the mastermind behind more than 100 incidents of attack and arson in Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. District Superintendent of Police Ajay Linda told PTI that suspected ultras have triggered a low-intensity blast between Sonua and Lotapahar and damaged some sleepers laid underneath the tracks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maoists-blow-up-rail-tracks-in-jharkhand/article37606147.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Two municipal corporations fare poorly in Swachh ranking||Two of Delhi’s three municipal corporations finished in the bottom 10 among 48 cities of the country in the Swachh Survekshan 2021 — the Central Government’s annual cleanliness survey. The survey results were announced on Saturday. According to the survey, in which the three civic bodies have been ranked in the category of cities with a population of over 10 lakh, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) was ranked at 40 — a marginal improvement from the 2020 rankings when the civic body was ranked at 46. SDMC retains position The North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s ranking slipped from 43 to 45 this year, while the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) ranked at 31, retaining its spot from the previous year’s rankings. With the civic body polls nearing, the rankings come as a blow for Delhi’s municipal corporations despite implementing various initiatives — in areas of waste collection, segregation and installing Fixed Compactor Transfer Systems (FCTS) for waste processing — to improve their rankings. East body Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that he was “happy with the marginal improvement in rankings”, and that the civic body “is working to improve its rankings for next year’s cleanliness survey”. “The Corporation is focusing on all aspects of the survey to encourage largescale civil participation, ensure sustainability of initiatives towards waste-free and open defecation-free cities and provide reliable results, which will be validated by third-party certification. The existing systems will be institutionalised through online portals and at the same time, various parts of the society will be sensitised and encouraged to work together to make their cities beautiful and liveable,” said, SDMC spokesperson Sanjay Sahai. The New Delhi Municipal Council ranked first in the category of cities with a population between 1  lakh  to 10 lakh. The rankings for the annual cleanliness survey was based on parameters that include citizens’ feedback and engagement, service level progress — based on data provided by urban local bodies — and certification based on ratings for open defecation-free certification, garbage-free cities and water ratings. The North Corporation secured the top spot for the ‘Citizens Feedback’ category, while the South and East civic bodies secured ODF certifications. The survey was launched in 2016 with 73 cities being covered. A total of 4,320 cities were covered for this year’s survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-municipal-corporations-fare-poorly-in-swachh-ranking/article37606129.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Will end extortion of street vendors if elected’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday said that if elected to power in the municipal corporations, the party will mark vending zones for street vendors and will eliminate the practice of the corporation and police officers allegedly extorting money from them. “Currently, the corrupt officers of the municipal bodies and the Delhi police are shamelessly exploiting this situation. If you speak to any rickshaw driver or street vendor in Delhi, they will tell you that a monthly total of Rs. 500 is taken from them by a police officer, and another Rs. 500 by a civic inspector. In a few places, the extorted sum is Rs. 500 a month, in other places it is Rs. 500 a week. In some places, they even go as far as extorting a heavy sum of Rs. 2,000 a day, depending on the market and locality,” said Aam Aadmi Party chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj. The AAP leader alleged that the threat of extortion is always looming over the vendors. If they do not pay, the corrupt officers will easily shut down the vendor’s business. He said that ‘vasooli’ amounts paid by the street vendors is in the end translated to the price of a product, which is paid by the customers. Progressive policy Mr. Bharadwaj said that the Delhi Government will introduce a highly progressive policy to identify all vendors and help them conduct business without disruption. He said that surveys have identified 71,371 street vendors across the city and the rest can register themselves by December 7, 2021. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the concern shown today by the AAP for street vendors is “politically motivated”. “During the last five years, the Kejriwal Government extended no help in setting up of street vendors, committees, etc. and today when civic elections are less than six months away, the AAP leader is floating schemes, that too without giving any time. The three municipal corporations have already identified over 71,000 street vendors and the civic leadership is issuing them certificates,” Mr. Kapoor said. He said that the scheme under which certificates are being issued is transparent and even AAP councillors are getting certificates issued to vendors in their wards through it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/will-end-extortion-of-street-vendors-if-elected/article37606137.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. betraying city’s farmers for years, says BJP||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repealing of the three farm laws, the BJP accused the Delhi Government of betraying the city’s farmers for years in addition to attacking it on the issue of air pollution. Marking the birth anniversary of Major Vikram Yadav, who was martyred on the Indo-Pak border, Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said farmers’ sons were protecting the borders but due to the discriminatory policies of the Delhi Government, farmers of Delhi were not satisfied. False promises “The Delhi Government completely forgot the promises made to the farmers. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal himself had announced that the farmers of Delhi would be given 50% additional price over the minimum support price, but this amount has not been given to them yet,” Mr. Bidhuri said. Similarly, neither electricity nor subsidy was being given to agricultural plants, Mr. Bidhuri said, adding that this year, crops in 100 villages were submerged during the rains in Delhi. The Chief Minister had announced a compensation of Rs. 50,000 per hectare, but this too, had not been distributed yet, he said. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta expressed concern over the increasing pollution level in Delhi and said that the Kejriwal Government had failed to keep its word given to Supreme Court on pollution control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-betraying-citys-farmers-for-years-says-bjp/article37606134.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Court grants interim bail to convict in Uphaar case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted two-day interim bail to a man awarded a seven-year jail term for tampering with evidence in the 1997 case of Uphaar cinema fire which had claimed 59 lives, noting there was no elderly male member in the family to make arrangements for his niece’s engagement ceremony. Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil granted relief to Dinesh Chand Sharma, a former court staff, sent to jail along with real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal and others by a magisterial court earlier this month. The relief was granted on Sharma’s application that claimed that there was no elderly male member in the family to make arrangements for already scheduled ceremony and he be released for a limited period of seven days to attend the same. It had claimed that the woman’s father passed away last month and her grandfather also expired. The court had called for a status report along with verification report regarding the engagement ceremony as well as death verification report of the persons concerned from the investigating officer. The IO filed a report verifying the claims. The prosecution submitted that it had no objection if the permission was granted for only a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-grants-interim-bail-to-convict-in-uphaar-case/article37606142.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Woman stabbed 17 times; 3 held||Two days after a 33-year-old woman was stabbed 17 times in south Delhi's Malviya Nagar, the police arrested her husband and two contract killers hired by him on Saturday. Naveen Kumar Gullaiya, 36, decided to kill his wife with the help of contract killers, Rahul and Sonu, after she found out about his affair with another woman, the police said. The incident occurred in Sheikh Sarai area of Malviya Nagar on Thursday and a hospital informed the police that a woman with stab injuries was brought there by her husband and was declared dead. When the victim’s husband was questioned, he initially tried to mislead the police. DCP (South) Benita Mary Jaiker said the accused left the house with his son to visit a homeopathic doctor on Thursday while his wife was at home. While leaving, he locked the gate and gave the key to Rahul, who along with his accomplices Sonu and Chandu entered the house and stabbed Reena, the officer said. Rahul and Sonu were arrested along with Gullaiya, while Chandu is on the run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-stabbed-17-times-3-held/article37606130.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality remains ‘very poor’ in Delhi||The air quality of the city continued to remain in the “very poor” category on Saturday. It is likely to improve but will be in the same range till Monday. “Local surface winds also are low with moderate ventilation of near-surface pollutants. From 21st to 23rd, surface winds are likely to be strong resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality,” Centre-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research) said in a statement. On Saturday, the contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to PM2.5 — a chief air pollutant — in Delhi was negligible and the effective fire counts in the region came down to 752, as per SAFAR. The effect of stubble burning is expected to further reduce over the next week, as per experts. The Air Quality Index (AQI) was 374 on Saturday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin.Delhi’s air quality entered the “severe” level for the first time this winter on November 5 with an AQI of 462. A higher value of AQI indicates more air pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-remains-very-poor-in-delhi/article37606138.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi CEO encourages students to vote||To raise voter awareness among young electors for the ongoing special summary revision (SSR), Delhi’s Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Ranbir Singh on Saturday organised an online interaction with students from various educational institutions. “An Electoral Literacy Club (ELC) has been established in schools and colleges to sensitise students about electoral rights and the electoral process of registration and voting through engaging activities and games. These ELCs play a pivotal role in facilitating the enrolment of young voters during the ensuing SSR period,” Mr. Singh said. He said, “No citizen should stay away from electoral participation.” He emphasised the special voter registration camps to be held at all polling stations across the city on November 27 and 28. At the interaction, held in collaboration with the Directorate of Education, Mr. Singh requested students to “pledge to raise voter awareness and actively participate in the electoral process”. Mr. Singh had earlier directed 11 District Election Officers to ensure enrolment of young electors to address the issue of their under-representation in the electoral roll. “All applications received are being processed on a war footing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-ceo-encourages-students-to-vote/article37606131.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||DJB defamation case: BJP leaders summoned||A court here has summoned Delhi BJP leaders Adesh Gupta, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, Vijendra Gupta and Harish Khurana on a criminal complaint filed by the Delhi Jal Board for allegedly defaming it. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Dharmender Singh said there were sufficient grounds for proceedings against the leaders. “This court is prima facie satisfied that there are sufficient grounds for summoning of all respondents as accused qua offence punishable u/s 500 (defamation) read with Section 34 of IPC,” the judge said in an order passed on November 18. The court has directed the accused persons to appear before it on November 27, the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/djb-defamation-case-bjp-leaders-summoned/article37606135.ece
21 November 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 32 new COVID infections||The city reported no new COVID-19-related deaths in the last 24 hours for the fifth consecutive day and the death toll stood at 25,095, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Saturday. Thirty-two new cases were reported, taking the caseload to 14,40,637. So far, 14,15,217 people have recovered and there are 325 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-32-new-covid-infections/article37606139.ece
21 November 2021||Raipur,||Chhattisgarh: Three dead, one injured as motorcycles collide||Three persons were killed and another suffered injuries after two motorcycles collided on the outskirts of Raipur, the police said on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Raju Lal Nishad, Bhola Nishad and Shiv Kumar Sahu, the Mujgahan SHO said. The injured, Udalchand Yadav, is undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chhattisgarh-three-dead-one-injured-as-motorcycles-collide/article37606404.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Still images of rousing performances||Electric, spirited and earnest are some of the adjectives we readily associate with a qawwali performance. Can these emotions be captured through static images? An ongoing photo exhibition at Delhi’s India International Centre showcases the moments when qawwals become the voice of the hundreds of devotees who throng the shrine, seeking grace. Capturing the artistes at traditional performance sites reminds one of how deep and profound are also the words that we relate with this art form. Conceptualised by Kathak exponent Manjari Chaturvedi, who has done extensive research on Sufi music as part of her decade-old Qawwali Project, the images capture practitioners with their families, in their everyday lives, and in their interactions with audiences. Manjari describes the project as the first-ever photo documentation of the dwindling art form. “The qawwals of the subcontinent have largely remained faceless. Of course, people associate with their names and the music, but not the faces of the artistes. This is what led to the launch of this project, to show the real faces behind this music,” says Manjari. Talents like Sonu Qadri and Niyaz Warsi share the wall with stalwarts like Sabri Brothers, the Warsi Brothers, and Chanchal Bharti. Manjari has roped in three top photographers — Dinesh Khanna, Leena Kejriwal and Mustafa Quraishi — who bring an outsider’s perspective to the art form that migrated to India from Central Asia but, as Manjari says, was soaked in the colours of Indian diversity in more ways than one. Common appeal The images reflect how, over the years, musical instruments became an integral part of qawwali, drawing audiences from a cross-section of society. Qawwali appeals to not just the well-heeled who throng the Nizamuddin Dargah, it reaches out to those living on the margins in shrines across the country. Manjari points out that the images of the qawwali practitioners have been shot amidst people, in an organic, non-commercial milieu. Dinesh says he discovered there is much more to qawwali than what he had seen in cinema and popular culture. “It took me to my roots in Punjab, where most mazaars (tombs) are patronised by Sikhs and Bulleh Shah’s kalam (verses) in Punjabi seamlessly finds its way into qawwali.” In fact, one of his most abiding images is that of Ustad Ranjhan Ali performing at Baba Hussain Shah Qadri’s shrine in Raja Sansi town of Amritsar, where temple bells could be seen in the background. Leena recounts the first qawwali she covered at the Nizamuddin Dargah and how “the beautiful mahaul (ambience) and energy” inspired her as a photographer. “I realised that I didn’t want to make my images too static. The air is charged, especially during the Urs (death anniversary of a Sufi saint),” says Leena, known for her seminal work, ‘Calcutta: Repossessing the City’. Dinesh, who is the co-founder of Delhi Photo Festival, admits he has still not found an answer to how such an energetic art form can be turned into a static image, but notes that instead of one photo, one should observe it as a series of images forming a photo story. Khanna says he was conscious about the fact he was documenting “somebody’s else’s art” and hence, while bringing in his experiences, he shouldn’t “impose his supposed art” on it. Women performers Women performers have been traditionally kept out of qawwali, and Manjari cites the legend of Dhai (two-and-a-half) Qalandar involving three Sufi saints – Hazrat Lal Shahbaz, Hazrat Bu Ali Sharfuddin and Hazrat Rabia Basri. “So it is important to document the work of women artistes, who are breaking barriers to perform qawwali.” Leena brings this aspect out through her vibrant images. She followed Chanchal Bharti to Muzaffarpur in Bihar. In another instance, one morning, Leena photographed young girls, with scarves around their necks and wearing lipstick, performing at Hazrat Inayat Khan Dargah in New Delhi. Technology, as Manjari says, at times dehumanises the music, makes us forget the artiste and remember only the sound. This exhibition removed some of that anonymity that surrounds the qawwali singers. (The Qawwali Photo Project is on view at India International Centre, New Delhi, until November 28.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/still-images-of-rousing-performances/article37606133.ece
21 November 2021||Manama,||U.S. ‘committed’ to West Asia security||The United States warned on Saturday it was capable of deploying “overwhelming force” in West Asia as it faced questions about its willingness to use its military power in the region. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin told the Manama Dialogue in Bahrain’s capital that all options would be open if diplomacy fails to halt Iran’s nuclear programme, but he was also forced to rebut claims the U.S. has become reluctant to use force. The Pentagon chief was asked why Washington did not respond to last month’s drone-and-artillery attack on a base used by the U.S.-led coalition fighting the Islamic State group in Syria. “The United States of America maintains the right to defend itself. And we will defend ourselves and our interests, no matter what, at the time and place of our choosing,” he replied. Iran nuclear weapons “And let no country, let no individual be mistaken about that. We are committed to defending ourselves and our interests and that includes our partners as well,” said Mr. Austin. “And we’re also committed to not allowing Iran to get a nuclear weapon.” Iran and world powers are set for talks on November 29 aimed at reviving an accord that placed restrictions on its nuclear programme in exchange for sanctions relief. Tehran has always denied it is seeking nuclear weapons. Mr. Austin said Washington’s major goal was to strengthen its “unmatched” alliances in West Asia, but said military force remained an option with tens of thousands of its troops stationed in the region. After ending its 20-year occupation of Afghanistan in August, the U.S. is poised to withdraw its combat troops from Iraq by the end of the year. This month, Iraq’s Prime Minister escaped an assassination attempt two days after security forces clashed with supporters of Iran-backed parties that lost support in recent elections.  Since February, Iran and Israel have been engaged in a “shadow war” in which vessels linked to each country have come under attack in waters around the Gulf. The U.S. and Israel accuse Iran of using drones and missiles to destabilise the region. In brief remarks to the forum, senior Saudi figure Turki bin Faisal Al Saud called for “demonstrative action” in the region, including the “total enforcement” of the arms embargo on Yemen’s Iran-supported Houthi rebels, who are fighting a Saudi-led coalition. Mr. Austin said that America’s commitment to security in West Asia is “strong and sure”. “Ultimately, our mission is to support diplomacy and to deter conflict and to defend the United States and our vital interests,” he said. “If we’re forced to turn back aggression, we will win and we will win decisively.” Mr. Austin’s visit comes days before Iran returns to talks with world powers on resuming a nuclear deal which has been stalled since 2018, when former U.S. president Donald Trump walked away.  “We remain committed to a diplomatic outcome of the nuclear issue,” Mr. Austin said. “But if Iran is not willing to engage seriously, then we will look at all the options necessary to keep the United States secure.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-committed-to-west-asia-security/article37605827.ece
21 November 2021||Kenosha,||U.S. teen cleared over protester deaths||Kyle Rittenhouse, the American teenager who shot dead two men during protests and riots against police brutality in Wisconsin last year, was acquitted of all charges on Friday after a high-profile and politically divisive trial. A jury found Rittenhouse, 18, not guilty of reckless and intentional homicide and other charges stemming from the shootings that took place in August 2020 in Kenosha, Wisconsin. The case drew national attention, in part because it arose from the Black Lives Matter demonstrations that swept the country last year and featured a controversial mix of guns, racial tensions and vigilantism. Rittenhouse, who claimed he acted in self-defence, sobbed and shook as the verdict was read, sank into his chair and embraced his lawyer before rushing out of the courtroom. President Joe Biden warned against violence following the verdict in the closely watched trial and appealed for calm. Respect the jury: Biden “While the verdict in Kenosha will leave many Americans feeling angry and concerned, myself included, we must acknowledge that the jury has spoken,” Mr. Biden said in a statement. “I urge everyone to express their views peacefully, consistent with the rule of law. There were scattered cheers and clapping from supporters of Rittenhouse outside the Kenosha courthouse after the verdict. Several opponents marched around beating drums and chanting “Guilty, guilty, the whole system is guilty as hell”. Protesters also marched in Chicago and New York, while in Portland demonstrators clashed with law enforcement and damaged buildings. Rittenhouse testified during the two-week trial that he shot dead two men and wounded another with his AR-15 semi-automatic rifle after being attacked. Prosecutors dismissed the self-defence claim, saying it was the then 17-year-old Rittenhouse who “provoked” the events during a night of unrest in Kenosha. Rittenhouse faced five charges — one count of intentional homicide, one count of reckless homicide, one count of attempted intentional homicide and two counts of recklessly endangering safety. The most serious charge — intentional homicide — carried a mandatory sentence of life in prison. The jury deliberated for a total of 26 hours over four days before delivering a unanimous verdict of not guilty on all counts. Civil unrest erupted in Kenosha, a city of 1,00,000 on the shores of Lake Michigan, in August 2020 after a white policeman shot a black man, Jacob Blake, in the back several times during an arrest, leaving him paralysed. In right-wing and pro-gun circles, Rittenhouse, who claimed he went to Kenosha to protect businesses from looters and act as a medic, was hailed as a heroic figure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-teen-cleared-over-protester-deaths/article37605836.ece
21 November 2021||Zrenjanin,||Protests cast spotlight on Chinese factories in Serbia||When Dung Nguyen left Vietnam to work abroad, the 37-year-old said he had been assured he would be employed by a German company in Serbia, only to have his passport taken away upon arrival at a Chinese-run factory where conditions were dire. The situation at the factory and the alleged deception used to lure employees has made headlines in Serbia after Mr. Nguyen and hundreds of other Vietnamese went on strike this week. The strike that started on Wednesday was a rare show of defiance by labourers at a Chinese-backed enterprise in the country. Beijing has invested billions in Serbia and neighbouring Balkan countries in recent years, hoping to expand its economic footprint in central Europe. Serbia has been quick to cash in on China’s interest, as it seeks to court a range of investors amid the ongoing tug of war between the East and West over influence in the Balkans. But Belgrade has repeatedly been accused of giving Chinese-owned companies a free hand in how they run their operations. Critics from civil society, human rights groups and in the media say the government has turned a blind eye to environmental concerns and potential human rights violations. The Vietnamese workers were employed to build a factory for the Chinese tyre company Linglong in the small northern city of Zrenjanin, considered a centrepiece of Beijing-backed investment in Serbia. But according to Nguyen, the living and work conditions were untenable and not what he had been promised. “We are living as if we were in jail... all our passports were kept by the Chinese when we arrived at the airport,” he said in a video message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protests-cast-spotlight-on-chinese-factories-in-serbia/article37605831.ece
21 November 2021||THE HAGUE,||Protests against COVID curbs turn violent in Netherlands||The police opened fire on protesters in rioting that erupted in downtown Rotterdam around a demonstration against COVID-19 restrictions late on Friday night. The Dutch city’s Mayor called it “an orgy of violence”. The police said that two rioters were hospitalised after being hit by bullets and investigations were under way to establish if they were shot by police. The condition of the injured rioters was not disclosed. Officers arrested 51 people, about half of them minors, the police said on Saturday afternoon. One police officer was hospitalised with a leg injury sustained in the rioting, another was treated by ambulance staff and “countless” others suffered minor injuries. Mayor Ahmed Aboutaleb told reporters in the early hours of Saturday morning that “on a number of occasions the police felt it necessary to draw their weapons to defend themselves” as rioters ran rampage through the port city’s central shopping district, setting fires and throwing rocks and fireworks at officers. “They shot at protesters, people were injured,” Mr. Aboutaleb said.  The country has seen record numbers of infections in recent days and a new partial lockdown came into force a week ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protests-against-covid-curbs-turn-violent-in-netherlands/article37605838.ece
21 November 2021||Khartoum,||Sudanese call for mass anti-coup protests as death toll rises to 40||Sudanese anti-coup activists called for mass protests on Sunday, as hundreds held fresh demonstrations denouncing the deadly crackdown which left 40 people killed since last month’s military takeover. The United States and the African Union have condemned the deadly crackdown on protesters and called on Sudan’s leaders to refrain from the “excessive use of force”. Sudan’s top General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan on October 25 declared a state of emergency, ousted the government and detained the civilian leadership. The military takeover upended a two-year transition to civilian rule, drew international condemnation and punitive measures, and provoked people to take to the streets. Protests on Wednesday were the deadliest so far, with a toll of 16 killed after a teenager who had been shot died, medics said. The independent Central Committee of Sudanese Doctors said the 16-year-old had been shot “by live rounds to the head and the leg”. Most of those killed on Wednesday were in North Khartoum, which lies across the Nile river from the capital, medics said. On Saturday, hundreds of protesters rallied against the military in North Khartoum, putting up barricades and setting tyres on fire. They chanted “no, no to military rule” and called for “civilian rule”. During the unrest, a police station was set on fire, an AFP correspondent said, adding that there were no police agents in the vicinity. Security forces and protesters traded blame for the incident. Police spokesman Idris Soliman accused an unidentified “group of people” of torching the station. But North Khartoum’s resistance committee claimed the police was responsible. “Police forces withdrew from the station... and after members of the police carried out acts of sabotage,” it said in a statement.  On Saturday, pro-democracy activists made online calls for mass anti-coup protests with a “million-strong march on November 21”. Dozens of protesters also rallied on Saturday to mourn the latest deaths in North Khartoum, demanding “retribution” and a transition to civilian rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudanese-call-for-mass-anti-coup-protests-as-death-toll-rises-to-40/article37605833.ece
21 November 2021||Washington,||U.S. seeks balance as fears grow Russia may invade Ukraine||The build-up of Russian troops near Ukraine has left U.S. officials perplexed, muddying the Biden administration’s response. Some Republican lawmakers have been pressing the U.S. to step up military support for Ukraine. But that risks turning what may be mere muscle-flexing by Russian President Vladimir Putin into a full-blown confrontation that only adds to the peril for Ukraine and could trigger an energy crisis in Europe. But a weak U.S. response carries its own risks. It could embolden Mr. Putin to take more aggressive steps against Ukraine as fears grow he could try to seize more of its territory. And it could cause more political damage for President Joe Biden at a time his popularity is dropping. Knowing how to strike the right balance would be easier if the U.S. had a better understanding of what Mr. Putin was trying to accomplish. But top officials admit they don’t know. “We’re not sure exactly what Mr. Putin is up to,” Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said on Wednesday. A week earlier, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said, “We don’t have clarity into Moscow’s intentions, but we do know its playbook.” Rep. Mike Quigley, an Illinois Democrat and member of the House Intelligence Committee, said better understanding Mr. Putin’s intentions was critical “to avoid the mistakes that have started great wars”. Any U.S. response must be calibrated to avoid being “an appeaser or a provocateur”, he said. “This is a tough, tough area to try to gain information,” he said. “It’s a challenge that’s as tough or tougher than it’s ever been. It has a pretty serious impact on our ability to make the correct decisions.” Russia seized Ukraine’s Crimean Peninsula in 2014 and an ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine between Kyiv and Russian-backed rebels in the region known as Donbas has left an estimated 14,000 dead. Now, Ukraine says an estimated 90,000 Russian troops have massed near the border. The build-up could be a prelude to another Russian invasion. Speaking to Ukraine’s Foreign Minister this month, Mr. Blinken said Mr. Putin’s “playbook” was for Russia to build up forces near the border and then invade, “claiming falsely that it was provoked”. Though U.S. officials don’t believe an invasion is imminent, Mr. Putin has ramped up his dismissal of an independent Ukraine. An essay the Kremlin published in July said Ukrainians and Russians are “one people” and the “true sovereignty of Ukraine is possible only in partnership with Russia.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-seeks-balance-as-fears-grow-russia-may-invade-ukraine/article37605841.ece
21 November 2021||Kabul,||Taliban begin paying salaries to govt. staff||Afghanistan’s Taliban authorities said on Saturday they had begun paying government employees who had not received a pay cheque since the Islamists seized power and triggered a major financial crisis. Most government employees have yet to return to work and many had not been paid for months even before the Taliban captured power, especially rural workers. “We are going to start paying salaries from today. We will pay three months’ salaries,” Ahmad Wali Haqmal, spokesman for the Finance Ministry said at a press conference. Haqmal said salaries will be paid for the period starting August 23, adding that some government employees will be paid even for the month before the Taliban took power. ‘Needs time’ The payment will be made through the country’s banking system which Haqmal said had not been “paralysed” since the fall of the previous government. “It just needs time to operate normally,” he said. The government employees will still be unable to access their full salaries. Since August, Afghanistan’s banking sector has collapsed, and those with money in the bank have struggled to access their funds as branches curtailed withdrawals to $200 to $400 a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-begin-paying-salaries-to-govt-staff/article37605834.ece
21 November 2021||Beijing,||China fines tech giants over old deals||Chinese tech giants, including Alibaba Group and Tencent Holdings, were fined on Saturday for failing to report corporate acquisitions, adding to an anti-monopoly crackdown by the ruling Communist Party. The companies failed to report 43 acquisitions that occurred up to eight years ago under rules on “operating concentration”, according to the State Administration for Market Regulation. Each violation carried a penalty of 500,000 yuan ($80,000), it said. Beijing has launched anti-monopoly, data security and other crackdowns on tech companies since late 2020. The ruling party worries the companies have too much control over their industries and has warned them not to use their dominance to gouge consumers or block entry to new competitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-fines-tech-giants-over-old-deals/article37605839.ece
21 November 2021||Beijing,||China’s Xi flags challenges to BRI projects||The global environment for building projects under China’s BRI is becoming increasingly complex, President Xi Jinping has said, encouraging officials to seize the strategic opportunities and actively respond to challenges facing his multi-billion-dollar pet initiative, which is set to face competition from the U.S.’ B3W plan. Mr. Xi on Friday called for efforts to continue promoting the high-quality development of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) thro- ugh joint efforts and the initiative should aim for high-standard, sustainable and people-centered progress. He asked officials to maintain determination, seize strategic opportunities, actively respond to challenges and move forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-xi-flags-challenges-to-bri-projects/article37605923.ece
21 November 2021||Vienna,||Thousands take to streets in Austria||Thousands of protesters gathered in Vienna on Saturday after the Austrian Government announced a nationwide lockdown beginning on Monday to contain the country’s skyrocketing coronavirus infec tions. The Government also said it will make vaccinations mandatory. The far-right opposition Freedom Party was among those who have called for the protest and vowed to combat the new restrictions. Chanting “Resistance!” and blowing whistles, protesters moved slowly down the city’s inner ring road. Many waved Austrian flags and carried signs mocking government leaders like Chancellor Alexander Schallenberg and Health Minister Wolfgang Mueckstein.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thousands-take-to-streets-in-austria/article37605840.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Reaping dividends||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/reaping-dividends/article37605882.ece
21 November 2021||Tehran,||Iran Guards seize 'foreign' diesel-smuggling boat||Iran’s Revolutionary Guards said Saturday they had seized a boat smuggling diesel in the Gulf and arrested its 11 foreign crew members. “Thanks to our intelligence services and in a coordinated operation, our navy seized a foreign vessel with 11 crew members in our territorial waters,” said Guards’ Colonel Ahmad Hajian, according to state television’s Iribnews website. Col. Hajian did not specify either the date of the seizure, the nationality of the boat or its crew, or further details about the vessel and its origin. “After the inspection, more than 150,000 litres of contraband diesel were seized and the 11 foreign crew members were brought before a court, he said”AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-guards-seize-foreign-diesel-smuggling-boat/article37605829.ece
21 November 2021||BEIJING,||AS--China-Tennis-Peng||Shen Shiwei, an employee of Chinese state TV has posted photos of missing tennis star Peng Shuai online, to dispel concern on her disappearance after she accused a senior Communist party leader of sexual assault. Mr. Shen said the “recent” photos are from Ms. Peng’s account on the WeChat message service.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-china-tennis-peng/article37605925.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. puts on sale MTNL, BSNL assets at base price of Rs. 970 cr.||The government has listed for sale real estate assets of state-run telecom firms MTNL and BSNL at a reserve price of about Rs. 970 crore, according to documents uploaded on the DIPAM website. BSNL properties located in Hyderabad, Chandigarh, Bhavnagar and Kolkata have been posted for sale at a reserve price of about Rs. 660 crore. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) website has listed MTNL assets located in Vasari Hill, Goregaon in Mumbai for sale at a reserve price of about Rs. 310 crore. “This is the first stage of asset monetisation at MTNL and BSNL,” BSNL Chairman and Managing Director P. K. Purwar told PTI. “Bids have been invited for BSNL assets worth Rs. 660 crore and MTNL assets worth Rs. 310 crore. We plan to complete the entire process within one-and-a-half months.” MTNL’s 20 flats located in Oshiwara have also been put up for sale as part of the asset-monetisation plan of the company. The flats include two units of 1-room set, 17 units of 1 bedroom hall and kitchen (BHK) and one unit of 2 BHK. Their reserve prices range from Rs. 52.26 lakh to Rs. 1.59 crore. E-auction for MTNL The e-auction for MTNL assets will take place on December 14. The asset monetisation is part of the Rs. 69,000 crore revival scheme for MTNL and BSNL which was approved by the government in October 2019. Both the public sector firms were to identify and monetise assets worth Rs. 37,500 crore by 2022. “We will proceed as per market demand for asset monetisation,” Mr. Purwar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-puts-on-sale-mtnl-bsnl-assets-at-base-price-of-rs-970-cr/article37605965.ece
21 November 2021||Mumbai,||Reliance, Saudi Aramco to ‘re-evaluate’ O2C proposal||Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) and Saudi Aramco have mutually decided to disengage from a major investment proposal concerning the Oil to Chemicals (O2C) business of the Indian conglomerate. The deal was estimated to be about $15 billion. “Due to the evolving nature of Reliance’s business portfolio, Reliance and Saudi Aramco have mutually determined that it would be beneficial for both parties to re-evaluate the proposed investment in O2C business in light of the changed context,” RIL said in a late night statement on November 19. “Consequently, the current application with NCLT for segregating the O2C business from RIL is being withdrawn,” it added. Both companies had signed a non-binding Letter of Intent in August 2019 for a potential 20% stake acquisition by Saudi Aramco in the O2C business of RIL. In the media release, RIL referred to recently-unveiled plans for the new energy and materials businesses with the announcement on the development of the Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy Giga Complex at Jamnagar. It is planned to be among the largest integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities in the world. ‘Net zero commitment’ “Jamnagar, which accounts for a major part of the O2C assets, is envisaged to be the centre for Reliance’s new businesses of Renewable Energy & New Materials, supporting the Net Zero commitment,” RIL said.  “RIL shall continue to be Saudi Aramco’s preferred partner for investments in the private sector in India and will collaborate with Saudi Aramco and SABIC for investments in Saudi Arabia,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-saudi-aramco-to-re-evaluate-o2c-proposal/article37605975.ece
21 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Go Airlines’ Rs. 3,600-crore IPO likely in Dec.||Go Airlines (India) Ltd. is expected to open its Rs. 3,600-crore IPO in early December. The proceeds will be used to settle outstanding dues and debt. Go Airlines’ total revenue more than doubled to Rs. 1,202.90 crore in the first half of this fiscal year (FY22) compared with the year-earlier period. It posted a 53.6% growth in total revenue to Rs. 752.86 crore in the second quarter of this fiscal, compared with a year earlier, as per a filing. Passenger revenue rises Total passenger revenue more than doubled to Rs. 866.71 crore in the first half this fiscal and grew 76% to Rs. 555.85 crore in the second quarter of FY22. The initiatives and strategic steps to bring down costs on a sustainable basis have reflected in the results where the company has reported positive EBITDAR for the six months, according to the filing. As per the filing, the company’s ancillary revenue surged almost fourfold to Rs. 192.7 crore in the first half . It more than trebled to to Rs. 111.74 crore in the second quarter, compared with the year-earlier period. ‘Low cost model’ The company had rebranded itself from GoAir to Go First with a focus on the Ultra Low Cost Carrier (ULCC) business model. As per papers filed with the SEBI, part of the proceeds of the initial public offer (IPO) will be used for prepayment or scheduled repayment of all or a portion of certain outstanding borrowings availed of by the company, amounting to Rs. 2,015.81 crore. The funds would also be used for replacement of letters of credit, which are issued to certain aircraft lessors towards securing lease rental payments and future maintenance of aircraft, with cash deposit of Rs. 279.26 crore; repayment of dues to IOC in part or full, for fuel supplied to the company, worth Rs. 254.93 crore and general corporate purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/go-airlines-rs-3600-crore-ipo-likely-in-dec/article37605963.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Uber mobility demand rising as lockdowns end’||Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said the firm’s partnership with Zomato had been a “great bet” and that he was pleased about how the model had grown and gained share, and about the Indian entity’s IPO. He said Uber is witnessing a rise in demand as cities open up after COVID-induced lockdowns, and also expects the driver shortage easing. “The India food delivery market has been incredibly competitive and... [our] partnering up with Zomato was a bet on Deepinder Goyal, the founder and CEO there,” he said in a media interview. In 2020, Zomato had acquired the Uber Eats’s India unit in an all-stock deal that gave Uber 9.99% stake in the Indian food delivery platform. On ride-hailing, Mr. Khosrowshahi said: “Our mobility business continues to improve. There are many countries where mobility is actually higher than pre-pandemic levels.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/uber-mobility-demand-rising-as-lockdowns-end/article37605981.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Zydus gets USFDA nod for cancer drug||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Saturday said it had received approval from the U.S. health regulator to market Decitabine injection, used to treat certain types of cancers, in the American market. The company has received final approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) for its Decitabine for Injection in the strength of 50 mg/vial single-dose vial, Zydus Cadila said in a statement. Decitabine is used to treat myelodysplastic syndromes, certain types of blood or bone marrow cancer. It will be manufactured at the group’s injectables manufacturing facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/zydus-gets-usfda-nod-for-cancer-drug/article37605961.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Investors pave way for IRB to raise Rs. 5,347-cr.||IRB Infrastructure Developers on Saturday said that its shareholders have passed a resolution which will enable capital inflow of Rs. 5,347 crore into the company. IRB Infrastructure Developers convened an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders online on November 20, the company said in a statement. “This will now enable the company to issue shares to the tune of Rs. 5,347 crore to Cintra Global S.E. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Ferrovial S.A) and the Bricklayers Investments Pt. Ltd. (an affiliate of GIC, Singapore Sovereign wealth fund),” it said. The statement added that overall 95% of the votes cast had favoured the resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/investors-pave-way-for-irb-to-raise-rs-5347-cr/article37605966.ece
21 November 2021||GANDHINAGAR,||Sitharaman clears 2 GIFT City proposals||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the clearance of two proposals worth Rs. 469 crore of the International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) at GIFT City here during her one-day visit on Saturday. Ms. Sitharaman announced the formal clearance of Rs. 269.05 crore for supervisory technology fund for IT infrastructure and Rs. 200 crore for headquarter building, the Ministry of Finance said. She also underlined the Central government’s commitment to make GIFT City a world-class fintech hub as stated in the Union Budget 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sitharaman-clears-2-gift-city-proposals/article37605967.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||TN & Karnataka to cross swords in final||As anticipated, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka will cross swords in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground on Monday. Karnataka kept calm, struck at regular intervals and subdued a fighting Vidarbha to make its third final in four editions after defending champion TN raced past Hyderabad. Another close call For the third time in the knockout phase, Karnataka faced a close call. After beating Saurashtra by two wickets and Bengal in the Super Over, Karnataka just about managed, by four runs, to survive Vidarbha’s splendid resurgence. With Vidarbha needing 14 runs off the last over from Vidyadhar Patil, Karnataka ensured victory with a ball to spare after a wicket and five runs came off the first five deliveries. Patil, who dropped two simple catches, could afford a smile and a final-ball boundary to Darshan Nalkande. Earlier, Karnataka posted 176 for seven despite offering four wickets off successive deliveries to Nalkande in the 20th over. Looking for big hits, Annirudha Joshi, B.R. Sharath, J. Suchith and Abhinav Manohar became Nalkande’s victims. The total was built on a 132-run foundation laid by Rohan Kadam (87, 56b, 7x4, 4x6) and skipper Manish Pandey (54, 42b, 2x4, 3x6). Kadam, dropped by skipper-wicketkeeper Akshay Wadkar on four in the first over, hurt Vidarbha in a big way. Pandey played the way he does. The idea to promote Abhinav Manohar also worked as he kept the run-rate up with a 13-ball 27 (2x4, 2x6). However, Karnataka failed to finish with a flourish. A no-contest The Tamil Nadu-Hyderabad match never rose as a contest. From winning the toss to finishing the job with a six, skipper Vijay Shankar got everything right. Asked to bat, Hyderabad paid the price for lacking the application needed to survive in testing conditions and folded for 90. Medium-pacer Saravana Kumar’s disciplined bowling fetched him four wickets in the PowerPlay before Murugan Ashwin reduced Hyderabad to 39 for five in 6.2 overs. Only No. 8 Tanay Thyagarajan (25, 1x4, 1x6) reached double figures before Saravana, who once had figures of 2-2-0-3, returned in the 19th over to finish with five for 21. TN’s catching stood out in accepting all 10 offerings, mostly inside the 30-yard circle, as Hyderabad’s search for big hits resulted in only four boundaries and three sixes. In reply, after the openers exited early, Vijay Shankar (43 n.o., 40b, 4x4, 1x6) and Sai Sudharsan (34 n. o., 31b, 4x4) did not put a foot wrong. They raised 76 runs without taking undue risks to cross the finish-line.  The scores:   Hyderabad 90 in 18.3 overs (Saravana Kumar 5/21) lost to Tamil Nadu 92/2 in 14.2 overs (Vijay Shankar 43 n.o., Sai Sudharsan 34 n.o.).   Karnataka 176/7 in 20 overs (Rohan Kadam 87, Manish Pandey 54, Darshan Nalkande 4/28) bt Vidarbha 172/6 in 20 overs (Atharva Taide 32, Ganesh Satish 31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-karnataka-in-title-clash/article37605972.ece
21 November 2021||Kolkata,||India may test bench strength||With the series wrapped up 2-0, India can use the third T20I against New Zealand here on Sunday as an opportunity to test its bench strength. The likes of Avesh Khan, Ruturaj Gaikwad and Ishan Kishan will fancy their chances of getting a game. This could also give a much-needed break to the senior players, who surely must be reeling under the hectic schedule. Gaikwad, in particular, will hope to get a look in, given that he finished as the highest run-scorer in IPL 2021. The Maharashtra opener also put up great numbers in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy. Gaikwad could replace K.L. Rahul, who could use some down time ahead of the upcoming Test series. Chahar may be dropped Pacer Deepak Chahar, who has leaked 84 runs in two outings, may make way for Avesh. After a mighty impressive debut, at Ranchi on Friday, pacer Harshal Patel will be averse to the idea of sitting this one out. His two for 25 spell was instrumental in restricting New Zealand to a small total. The Kiwi batters failed to read his cutters, and were tied up in knots. Even as dew made it tough to grip the ball, Harshal stayed in control. Quick realisation When he did err on a couple of occasions, the correction came almost immediately. “When dew is present, it is difficult to execute difficult deliveries like the slow yorker and fast yorker. I attempted a slow yorker, but it ended up as a low full toss and was hit for six. “My attempted fast yorker resulted in a beamer. I realised that these deliveries will not work in these conditions. “While it was difficult to lose two main death-over weapons, I had to adapt,” Harshal said after his Man-of-the-Match performance. On occasion, the erudite Harshal turned the media interaction into a deep discussion on life lessons. “It is important to figure out what my talent will and will not allow me to do. “One must remain cognizant of the fact that there are certain things that your talent will not allow you to do. “There are certain things that work really well, so you need to make it so good that it compensates for your limited talent. “The second and most important lesson is patience. Progress does not happen overnight. If you want to get better at something, you must allow yourself time. “If you keep jumping from one place to another in your mind, it will never work,” Harshal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-may-test-bench-strength/article37605817.ece
21 November 2021||Chennai,||CSK celebrates a special triumph||There was joy and happiness in the air. And the applause was resounding. “Dhoni, we want you to lead CSK for many more years,” said Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, addressing the former India captain, at the Kalaivanar Arangam here on Saturday. The occasion was special. To celebrate Chennai Super Kings’ IPL triumph this year on the franchise owner India Cements’ 75th anniversary. Stalin, who was the chief guest, revealed he had come to the event as a Dhoni fan. “My grandsons and granddaughters, all admirers of Dhoni, are sitting here.” More clapping of hands and chants of ‘Dhoni, Dhoni” followed. In a momentous moment, Dhoni and N. Srinivasan, India Cements vice-chairman and managing director, presented Stalin with the IPL trophy won by CSK in 2021, “for the people of Chennai.” “Dhoni is the heartbeat of CSK. Though he is from Ranchi, I consider him a Chennaiite,” said Stalin. Stalin was also presented miniature replicas of all the trophies won by CSK, and Dhoni’s No. 7 shirt bearing the CM’s name and signed by all players. Sharing his memories, former ICC and BCCI chief N. Srinivasan said, “Before the first auction in IPL, I told the late V.B. Chandrasekar, who was managing the team then, ‘I want Dhoni at any cost’. “It was one of the best decisions I have made.” On how the name Chennai Super Kings came about, Srinivasan said, “The picture appeared in The Hindu in early 2008... K. Srikkanth throwing up the ball and asking people for names for the new franchise. The maximum number of names received was Chennai Super Kings.” Calling Dhoni ‘Captain Cool,’ Srinivasan recalled how CSK bounced back this year to win the IPL after being written off by many. “Dhoni is an intense student of the game and the players. There are times when he has told me ‘This player won’t fit in the CSK team.” Srinivasan stated, “The journey of CSK is a journey of faith and leadership.” Dhoni had everyone rooting for him when he said, “I hope to play my last IPL game in Chennai. Maybe next year, maybe five years from now!” Calling CSK a family, Dhoni said, “It has grown beyond Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India and has fans throughout the world.” Dhoni noted, “I am a wanderer, lived in different places. When I came to Chennai, I was struck by its tradition and the sporting nature of the crowd.” The legendary Kapil Dev said Chennai held some of his fondest cricketing memories. He praised CSK for its ability to buck the odds. Kapil observed, “Srinivasan has done so much for the players. Why was there no Srinivasan during my playing days?” IPL chairman Brijesh Patel said, “Srinivasan and India Cements have looked after the players, provided them employment. And CSK is so popular. When CSK wins, TRPs go up.” Rupa Gurunath, TNCA president, said her father Srinivasan’s passion for the game drove CSK, an attribute that was also mentioned by BCCI secretary Jay Shah. It was an evening when giants rubbed shoulders. An occasion to remember.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-celebrates-a-special-triumph/article37605813.ece
21 November 2021||WATFORD,||Watford stuns United||Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was on the brink of getting sacked after Watford registered a stunning 4-1 win over the Red Devils on Saturday. United crashed to a fourth defeat in its last five Premier League games, leaving it languishing 12 points behind leader Chelsea, a 3-0 winner at Leicester. Josh King put Watford ahead at Vicarage Road and Ismaila Sarr doubled the lead. Donny van de Beek pulled one back for the visitors, but United defender Harry Maguire was sent off before Joao Pedro and Emmanuel Dennis put the issue beyond doubt. Antonio Rudiger’s opener and N’Golo Kante’s long-range blast put Chelsea in control before Christian Pulisic came off the bench to score in the second half. Borussia Dortmund captain Marco Reus scored late to cut the gap on Bundesliga leader Bayern Munich to a point with a 2-1 win against Stuttgart. Bayern had crashed to a shock 1-2 defeat at struggling Augsburg on Friday.  Important results: Premier League: Leicester 0 lost to Chelsea 3 (Rudiger 14, Kante 28, Pulisic 71); Watford 4 (King 28, Sarr 44, Pedro 90, Dennis 90) bt Manchester United 1 (Van de Beek 50); Wolves 1 (Jimenez 58) bt West Ham 0.   Bundesliga: Borussia Dortmund 2 (Malen 56, Reus 85) bt VfB Stuttgart 1 (Massimo 63); On Friday: Augsburg 2 (Pedersen 23, Hahn 35) bt Bayern Munich 1 (Lewandowski 38).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/watford-stuns-united/article37605821.ece
21 November 2021||Coimbatore,||Maiden Formula LGB4 win for Amir Sayed||Some drivers have a nice day. Amir Sayed of Ahura Racing was one of them. The youngster from Kottayam surprised a field full of champions to bring home a maiden victory in the premier Formula LGB4 class on the opening day of Round 2 of the 24th JK Tyre National Racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway here on Saturday. He tried hard in the opener at the same venue last month but failed to clinch a place on top of the podium.“It’s such a great feeling to win. We got a pretty good start and held it all the way to finish line,” he said. Championship leader Vishnu Prasad finished fifth. It was a creditable finish nevertheless as his car lacked the pace and the power right through the day. Ruhaan Alva made it memorable for Team MSport finishing on top in the JK Tyre Novice Cup. Anish sizzles Anish Damodar Shetty was the master of the JK Tyre presents Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup. After ruling the road in the first round, he came back to show why he is the king of the big bikes. The Hubli hero not only dominated the practice and the qualifying sessions but kept his cool when it mattered to win the opening race of the weekend. He expected it to be a bit easy but Allwin Xavier of Thrissur challenged him like never before. He enjoyed a great start along with Anish and after a stiff fight managed to overtake the leader. Anish fought as much to snatch the lead back in the first turn of the final lap to emerge a clear winner.  The results (provisional):   JK Tyre Formula LGB4: Race 1: Amir Sayed (Ahura Racing) 26:03.085; 2. Tijil Rao (Dark Don Racing) 26:03.524; 3. A. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don Racing) 26:04.623.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: Ruhaan Alva (MSport) 14:33.431; 2. Jaden R. Pariat (MSport) 14:36.442; 3. Aadithya Parasuram (Hasten Performance) 14:42.833.   JK Tyre presents Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup: 1. Anish Damodara Shetty (Hubli) 13:54.772; 2. Allwin Xavier (Thrissur) 13:55.503; 3. Anfal Akdhar (Thrissur) 14:00.130 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maiden-win-for-amir/article37606112.ece
21 November 2021||Pune:,||Parisian primed to deliver in feature event||Trainer Pesi Shroff’s Parisian, who is in great heart, should win the Serum Institute Of India R.W.I.T.C. Ltd Gold Cup (Gr. 2), the feature event of Sunday’s (Nov. 21) races. Rails will be announced one hour before the start of the first race. Meanwhile, the State government has granted permission to to conduct the Pune races with spectators. “The gates will open on Sunday (Nov. 21) for our patrons who are vaccinated with double dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Our endeavour to resume racing activities in Mumbai with spectators is underway and is expected to come soon,” said RWITC chairman Zavaray S. Poonawalla.  ASSESSED PLATE (1,800m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 1.30 p.m.: 1. Charming Star (1) Dashrath 61.5, 2. Chieftain (8) T.S. Jodha 61.5, 3. Sunlord (6) Kirtish 61.5, 4. Lightningonmyfeet (9) Zervan 61, 5. Brazos (7) Parmar 60.5, 6. Alpha Gene (3) Shelar 59, 7. Kamaria (2) Bhawani 59, 8. Hot To Trot (5) Zeeshan 57.5 and 9. Walk The Talk (4) Kaviraj 51.  1. CHIEFTAIN, 2. SUNLORD, 3. BRAZOS   GLASNOST PLATE (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 2.00: 1. Botero (4) C. Umesh 56, 2. Willy Wonkaa (1) Akshay 56, 3. Zuccarelli (5) P.S. Chouhan 56, 4. Animous (3) Bhawani 54.5 and 5. Esfir (2) Zeeshan 54.5.  1. ZUCCARELLI, 2. BOTERO   GULAMHUSEIN ESSAJI TROPHY (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 2.30: 1. Raechelles Pride (1) Mudassar Nazar 59, 2. Immeasurable (5) P.S. Chouhan 56.5, 3. Brave Eagle (9) Kaviraj 55.5, 4. Seminole (11) T.S. Jodha 55, 5. Flash Force (3) Shelar 54.5, 6. Winter Storm (4) P. Dhebe 54, 7. Feel Lucky (10) Zeeshan 52.5, 8. Princess Snow (7) Parmar 52.5, 9. Bold Advance (8) Dashrath 52, 10. Marlboro Man (2) Sandesh 51.5 and 11. Wafy (6) Ayyar 51.  1. IMMEASURABLE, 2. SEMINOLE, 3. MARLBORO MAN   PARTY WHIP PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 3.00: 1. Connaught (1) Kaviraj 56, 2. Jughead (4) Akshay Kumar 56, 3. Nord (5) S. Amit 56, 4. Perfect Man (3) T.S. Jodha 56, 5. Red Riot (8) Ayyar 56, 6. Angels Trumpet (2) Bhawani 54.5, 7. Camden Town (7) P. Dhebe 54.5 and 8. Kinnara (6) P.S. Chouhan 54.5.  1. KINNARA, 2. PERFECT MAN, 3. JUGHEAD   SERUM INSTITUTE OF INDIA R.W.I.T.C. LTD. GOLD CUP (Gr. 2) (2,000m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over, 3.30: 1. Parisian (2) Chouhan 59, 2. Caprisca (1) Yash Narredu 57, 3. Truly Epic (3) Sandesh 57 and 4. Apsara Star (4) C. Umesh 55.5.  1. PARISIAN   GULAMHUSEIN ESSAJI TROPHY (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46, 4.00: 1. Northern Lights (7) Kirtish 61, 2. Red Carnation (11) Aniket 60.5, 3. Evangeline (3) Akshay 58, 4. Sergio (8) Zervan 57.5, 5. Multistarrer (1) Sandesh 56.5, 6. Magic In The Wind (9) Parmar 56, 7. Winter (10) T.S. Jodha 56, 8. Stars For You (2) Shahrukh 55.5, 9. Chancellor (6) Yash Narredu 55, 10. Noble Lord (5) Ayyar 54 and 11. Power Of Thor (4) Dashrath 51.  1. NORTHERN LIGHTS, 2. MULTISTARRER, 3. WINTER   VILLOO C. POONAWALLA PUNE CITY GOLD CUP (Gr. 3) (1,600m) (Terms), 3-y-o & over, 4.30: 1. Born Queen (2) Sandesh 59, 2. Alluring Silver (8) P.S. Chouhan 56, 3. Augustus Caesar (5) to be declared later 54, 4. Flying Visit (3) Parmar 54, 5. Grand accord (4) Bhawani 54, 6. Sultan Suleiman (7) Akshay Kumar 54, 7. Victorious Sermon (6) Zervan 54 and 8. Rambunctious (1) C. Umesh 51.  1. ALLURING SILVER, 2. BORN QUEEN, 3. SULTAN SULEIMAN   ALLIED FORCES PLATE (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 5.00: 1. Carlos (11) S. Amit 60.5, 2. Timeless Deeds (8) Dashrath 60.5, 3. Grand Architect (5) Kaviraj 59.5, 4. Sandra’s Secret (1) Sandesh 59, 5. Power Of Neath (3) Shelar 58.5, 6. Istanbul (10) P. Vinod 55.5, 7. Tough Cop (6) Ayyar 53.5, 8. Smart Choice (2) A. Prakash 51.5, 9. Arabian Storm (4) P. Dhebe 50.5, 10. Arabian Muktar (7) T.S. Jodha 50 and 11. Grey Falcon (9) Aniket 50.  1. SANDRA’S SECRET, 2. TIMELESS DEEDS, 3. GRAND ARCHITECT  Day’s Best: ZUCCARELLI  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parisian-primed-to-deliver-in-feature-event/article37606459.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Jamshedpur will look to put its best foot forward||The third match of the ISL pits two opponents who are unified in not realising a knock-out berth so far in the tournament — Jamshedpur FC and SC East Bengal, who open their campaign at the Tilak Maidan on Sunday. Jamshedpur FC, which narrowly missed the semifinals last season, is looking to better its performance by retaining the nucleus of the side under head coach Owen Coyle East Bengal, which made a last gasp entry last season, would be looking to put behind the forgetful outing that saw it finishing ninth. The fans of the legacy club are quite keyed up about the team’s performance under new coach Spaniard Manolo Diaz. East Bengal had a smooth pre-season where it did not lose a match. This will be one of the factors motivating the side to make a good start. Coyle, who is likely to miss forward Farukh Choudhary owing to injury, will have to marshal his side well considering that the opponent possesses a team that boasts of a good mix of Indian and foreign recruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jamshedpur-will-look-to-put-its-best-foot-forward/article37606475.ece
21 November 2021||JHAJJAR,||Narendra wins title||Narendra Singh Choudhary beat Kamlesh Shukla 4-6, 6-2, 10-8 to win the over-40 men’s title in the ITF seniors tennis tournament.   The results (finals): Men: Over-35: Aditya Khanna bt Girish Mishra 6-3, 5-7, [10-2]. Doubles: Narendra Singh Choudhary & Vikas Choudhary bt Swarandeep Singh Dhodi & Dilip Mohanty 6-3, 6-2;   Over-40: Narendra Singh Choudhary bt Kamlesh Shukla 4-6, 6-2, [10-8]; Doubles: Mandar Wakankar & Yati Sushil Gujarathi bt Narendra Singh Choudhary & Avinash Kunwar 6-4, 3-6, [10-5]; Over-45: Jagdish Tanwar bt Himanshu Bhatia 6-2, 6-2. Doubles: Himanshu Bhatia & Nikhil Rao bt Dinesh Laungani & Sunil Lulla 6-3, 6-2; Over-55: Chandra Bhushan bt Sanjai Kumar 6-3, 6-2. Doubles: Raveen Choudhary & Pawan Jain w.o. Ajeet Bhardwaj & Chandra Bhushan;.   Over-60: Mayur Vasant bt Ajeet Bhardwaj 6-1, 6-0. Doubles: Meher Prakash & Mayur Vasant bt Ajeet Bhardwaj & Rakesh Kohli 6-2, 6-0; Over-65: Yogesh Shah bt Murthati Suresh 6-1, 6-1. Doubles: Bhag Nand Singh Negi & Yogesh Shah bt Vinayak Gujrathi & Murthati Suresh 6-2, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/narendra-takes-honours/article37606113.ece
21 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Athul, Pavithra enter pre-quarterfinals||Palakkad’s Athul John Mathew and Ernakulam’s Pavithra Naveen, the top-seeded boy and girl in the under-19 section, posted easy wins and entered the pre-quarterfinals of the Kerala State junior badminton championships at the Fr. Joseph Paikada Stadium, Devagiri, on Saturday.  Important results (second round): Boys: U-19: Athul John Mathew (Pkd) bt B. Harikrishnan (Idk) 21-7, 21-5.   U-17: S. Akshit (Alp) bt Surya Prasad (Tvm) 21-10, 21-1; Joseph Dilraj (Tsr) bt Thej Krishnan (Pkd) 21-9, 21-5; Rajatraj Ramesan (Tvm) bt K. Ridithya (Koz) 21-13, 21-10; O.P. Muhammed Razal (Pkd) bt Athul Krishna (Alp) 21-16, 21-16; Bharath Latheesh (Tsr) bt Thejas Ram (Pkd) 21-11, 21-15; A.V. Akshay (Tvm) bt T.K. Ebij (Knr) 21-8, 21-12; Aman Suresh (Tvm) bt C.M. Titus (Tsr) 21-10, 21-6; Shuhaibu Malik (Koz) bt Kevin J. Xavier (Tsr) 16-21, 21-19, 21-12.   Girls: U-19: Pavithra Naveen (Ekm) bt K.S. Anamika (Pkd) 21-13, 21-10; Aparna Sajeev (Tsr) bt Niharika M. Nambiar (Mlp) 21-4, 21-4; Pavithra Jayaraj (Alp) bt Archana Varghese (Ekm) 21-13, 21-8; Saniya Baby (Ekm) bt Sreeya K. Menon (Ktm) 21-12, 21-9; Gayathri Nambiar (Koz) bt Saniya George Maijo (Ekm) 21-19, 10-21, 21-18; Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) bt Tia S. Pillai (Pta) 21-10, 21-12; Anaswara Ajai (Ekm) bt K. Sangeetha (Mlp) 21-2, 21-5; P.G. Alakananda (Ekm) bt Zainaba Reem Siraj (Koz) 17-21, 21-16, 21-19; C.H. Keerthika (Knr) bt Nayonika Rajesh (Tvm) 21-8, 21-12.   U-17: S. Megha (Alp) w/o Gayathri B. Kumar (Tvm); Amrita Kumar (Pkd) bt B. Sreeveni (Tvm) 21-14, 15-21, 21-19; Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) bt Sreeyuktha Sreejith (Knr) 21-19, 21-13; Nayonika Rajesh (Tvm) bt Delna Sara Biju (Wyd) 21-8, 21-7.   P.G. Alakananda (Ekm) bt Sanjana Prasad (Ksd) 21-12, 21-2; Pavithra Jayaraj (Alp) bt Devika Anoop (Knr) 21-9, 21-8.   Farza Nazrin (Tvm) bt Saniya George Maijo (Ekm) 21-12, 21-13; Meenakshi Vinu (Tvm) bt K. Sangeetha (Mlp) 21-3, 21-5; Aparna Sajeev (Tsr) w/o S. Shimiyon (Tvm); C.H. Keerthika (Knr) bt Tia S. Pillai (Pta) 21-5, 21-7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athul-pavithra-enter-pre-quarterfinals/article37606412.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Poorvika in quarterfinals||C.R. Poorvika (Erode) bt E. Sandhiya (MTTTA) 11-5, 11-6, 11-6 in a girls’ u-13 pre-quarterfinal match of the TNTTA-WIN News TN State table tennis championships, organised by Chennai Table Tennis Foundation, here on Saturday.  Other results (U-13 pre-quarterfinals): Boys: Nikhil Menon (MST) bt Vibhu (DTTA) 11-1, 11-1, 11-3; R. P. Srikrishna (SSHI) bt R. Nilesh (MVM]) 11-5, 11-3, 11-6; Badrineyan Nandhagopal (DTTA) bt L. Arunachalam (Vinwin) 9-11,11-9, 8-11, 11-9, 16-14; R. Akash Rajavelu (MST) bt A. B. Tharoon (DTTA) 11-6, 11-1, 11-6; Vijay Guru Sanjith (MST) bt Eshanth (FCTTA) 11-2, 7-11, 11-9, 11-3; P. Siddarth (Vinwin) bt Aman Gadiya (AKG) 11-5,12-10, 3-11, 7-11,11-6; K. S. Suriya (Erode) bt Vishvesh (DTTA) 11-8, 11-7, 11-5; Vishruth Ramakrishnan (MST) bt K. Akshay Bhushan (ITTC) 11-2, 11-2, 11-4 .   Girls: B. R. Nandhini (MVM) bt Mira Raghunath (ITTC) 11-5, 11-6, 11-6; M.R. Moksha (MVM) bt T. Lakshana (MVM) 11-7, 11-6, 11-9; S. Samyutha (Paddlerz) bt Keerthana (MTTTA) 14-12, 10-12, 11-8, 11-7; M. Hansini (MST) bt A. Aarudhra (CBE TTFA) (11-3, 11-4, 11-3; N. Kaviya (Vinwin)bt P. S. Harini Shree (SSHI) 11-4, 11-5, 11-3; Kaniha (Coronation)bt K. Ananya (ITTC) 11-3, 11-4, 11-6; S. Mogana (Vinwin) btS. D. Mahathi (ITTC) 11-7, 16-14, 11-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/poorvika-in-quarterfinals/article37606151.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||BFC begins with a bang||Bengaluru FC shrugged off a chaotic opening few minutes to beat NorthEast United FC 4-2 in the first match of its 2021-22 Indian Super League campaign on Saturday. On a rainy and slippery night at the Bambolim stadium, some slick play and fine goals sat comfortably alongside a surfeit of mistakes and a sumptuous own goal. Cleiton Silva opened the scoring for BFC in the 14th minute, going around the NEUFC goalie to finish off a perfectly weighted through ball from Udanta Singh. Khalid Jamil’s side equalised soon, with Deshorn Brown, formerly of BFC, outmuscling centre-back Musavu King to turn in a fine cross from the left by V.P. Suhair. A bizarre own goal by Mashoor Shereef in the 23rd minute put BFC in the lead again. Udanta’s shot on goal, after Ashique Kuruniyan’s cross bounced off the bar, was saved by Subhasish Roy Chowdhury, only for Mashoor to smash it, like a hungry striker would, into his own net. But NEUFC was soon back threatening, with winger Suhair taking full advantage of make-shift right-back Ajith Kumar’s faulty positioning. NEUFC’s second came on one such occasion, with Mathias Coureur slotting the ball home after some fine work from Suhair. Jayesh Rane, though, ensured that BFC would go into the break ahead, driving a low ball past Roy’s outstretched right hand from the edge of the penalty box. The rain relented after the break and with that BFC’s play became more cohesive. In the 81st minute, Congolese striker Prince Ibara scored on debut, five minutes after replacing Silva, to shut the contest down.  The result: Bengaluru FC 4 (Cleiton 14, Mashoor-og, 23, Rane 42, Ibara 81) bt NorthEast United FC 2 (Brown 17, Coureur 25).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bfc-begins-with-a-bang/article37605808.ece
21 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Unstoppable Arjun takes sole lead in blitz event||Arjun Erigaisi is taking the Tata Steel Chess by storm. A day after his stunning triumph in the rapid section of the tournament, he has launched a strong bid for the blitz title, too. He will go into the final day at the National Library as the sole leader. The 18-year-old, who has been called the new star of Indian chess by Viswanathan Anand, was on 6.5 points at the end of the ninth round on Saturday. With as many rounds remaining, there is, of course, still a long way to go. Following Arjun half-a-point behind is second seed Levon Aronian of Armenia. On 5.5 points are top seed Le Quang Liem of Vietnam and Iran’s Parham Maghsoodloo.  The results (Indians unless specified): Ninth round: Sam Shankland (USA) bt Raunak Sadhwani; Parham Maghsoodloo (Ira) lost to Nihal Sarin; Arjun Erigaisi drew with Le Quang Liem (Vie); Levon Aronian (Arm) bt Dronavalli Harika; D. Gukesh bt Vidit Gujrathi.   Eighth round: Sadhwani bt Gukesh; Gujrathi lost to Aronian; Harika lost to Arjun; Liem bt Maghsoodloo; Nihal bt Shankland; Seventh round: Nihal lost to Sadhwani; Shankland bt Liem; Maghsoodloo bt Harika; Arjun bt Gujrathi; Aronian drew with Gukesh; Sixth round: Sadhwani lost to Aronian; Gukesh lost to Arjun; Gujrathi lost to Maghsoodloo; Harika drew with Shankland; Liem drew with Nihal; Fifth round: Liem bt Sadhwani; Nihal bt Harika; Shankland bt Gujrathi; Maghsoodloo bt Gukesh; Arjun drew with Aronian.   Fourth round: Sadhwani drew with Arjun; Aronian lost to Maghsoodloo; Gukesh drew with Shankland; Gujrathi bt Nihal; Harika lost to Liem.   The standings: 1. Arjun 6.5; 2. Aronian 6; 3-4. Liem and Magshsoodloo 5.5; 5-6. Gukesh and Nihal 4.5; 7. Shankland 4; 8. Sadhwani 3.5; 9. Gujrathi 3; 10. Harika 2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unstoppable-arjun-takes-sole-lead-in-blitz-event/article37605810.ece
21 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Railways triumphs||Some drivers have a nice day. Amir Sayed of Ahura Racing was one of them. The youngster from Kottayam surprised a field full of champions to bring home a maiden victory in the premier Formula LGB4 class on the opening day of Round 2 of the 24th JK Tyre National Racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway here on Saturday. Ruhaan Alva made it memorable for Team MSport finishing on top in the JK Tyre Novice Cup.  The results (provisional): JK Tyre Formula LGB4: Race 1: Amir Sayed (Ahura Racing) 26:03.085; 2. Tijil Rao (Dark Don Racing) 26:03.524; 3. A. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don Racing) 26:04.623. JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: Ruhaan Alva (MSport) 14:33.431; 2. Jaden R. Pariat (MSport) 14:36.442; 3. Aadithya Parasuram (Hasten Performance) 14:42.833. JK Tyre presents Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup: 1. Anish Damodara Shetty (Hubli) 13:54.772; 2. Allwin Xavier (Thrissur) 13:55.503; 3. Anfal Akdhar (Thrissur) 14:00.130 .    Defending champion Novak Djokovic and all other players will have to be vaccinated against COVID-19 to play the Australia Open next January, tournament chief Craig Tiley said on Saturday. The World No. 1 has declined to disclose whether he is vaccinated and said that he would await until Tennis Australia revealed the health protocols before he made a decision about playing at Melbourne Park.   Railways came up with a dominant performance to defeat Karnataka by eight wickets to lift the women’s senior One Day Trophy at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here on Saturday.  The scores (final): Karnataka 74 in 38 overs (Renuka K. Singh 4/14) lost to Railways 76/2 in 22.2 overs (S. Meghana 36) .      Sriram Balaji and Divij Sharan were beaten 6-4, 6-2 in the semifinals by top seeds Harri Heliovaara and Jean-Julien Rojer in the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here.  Other results: €44,820 Challenger, Helsinki: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Nikola Milojevic (Srb) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 3-6, 6-1, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, East Lansing: Doubles (semifinals): Ozan Colak & Jackson Winkler (USA) bt Matt Kuhar (USA) & Dhruv Sunish 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/railways-triumphs/article37606016.ece
21 November 2021||Melbourne,||Vaccination is mandatory||All players at the Australian Open must be vaccinated, tournament chief Craig Tiley confirmed on Saturday, piling more pressure on World No. 1 Novak Djokovic, who has refused to reveal if he has been inoculated. The government of the State of Victoria, where the host city Melbourne is located, made clear last month there would be no concessions for unvaccinated players. Tiley said the playing group know they must get the jab to compete at Melbourne Park. “All the playing group understands it, our patrons will need to be vaccinated, all the staff working at the Australian Open will need to be vaccinated. This includes nine-time champion Djokovic,” he said. Djokovic said this month he would await official confirmation on the requirements from Tennis Australia before making a decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vaccination-is-mandatory/article37606267.ece
21 November 2021||Bali,||Sindhu and Srikanth out||World champion P.V. Sindhu and K. Srikanth crashed out of the Indonesia Masters Super 750 badminton tournament after suffering straight-game defeats in the semifinals to bring the curtains down on the Indian campaign here on Saturday. Sindhu lost to Japanese top seed Akane Yamaguchi while Srikanth was outplayed by third seed Anders Antonsen of Denmark. Sindhu lost 13-21, 9-21 in a one-sided duel that lasted just 32 minutes. Srikanth went down 14-21, 9-21 to Antonsen in 41 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-and-srikanth-out/article37606013.ece
21 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Saketh-Vishnu triumph||The Indian challenge was snuffed out in the semifinals of singles, but Saketh Myneni and Vishnu Vardhan did well to clinch the doubles title in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament on Saturday. Second seed Sidharth Rawat put up a good fare before being beaten 7-6(5), 6-2 by Philip Sekulic of Australia, who had made the final last week in Indore.  Sidharth played solid and competed well, but the Aussie youngster, ranked 25 in the world among juniors, stepped up his game to pull ahead. In the other semifinal, third seed Valentin Vacherot of France was far too strong with his explosive game and conceded just two games in outclassing Vishnu Vardhan. Tall and wiry, serving big and hitting the forehand with telling effect, Vacherot raced through in an hour, dropping only six points in all on his serve in the whole match.  Vishnu combined well with Saketh Myneni to win the doubles final, as the pair beat Julian Cash and Zsombor Velcz [13-11] in the super tie-break.    The results: Singles (semifinals): Philip Sekulic (Aus) bt Sidharth Rawat 7-6(5), 6-2; Valentin Vacherot (Fra) bt Vishnu Vardhan 6-1, 6-1.   Doubles (final): Saketh Myneni & Vishnu Vardhan bt Julian Cash (GBr) & Zsombor Velcz (Hun) 6-3, 3-6, [13-11] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saketh-myneni-vishnu-vardhan-duo-triumphs/article37606117.ece
21 November 2021||LOSAIL,||Hamilton takes pole||Seven-time Formula One World champion Lewis Hamilton put his Mercedes on pole position for the inaugural Qatar Grand Prix on Saturday. Red Bull’s championship leader Max Verstappen, 14 points clear with three races to go, will join him on the front row after being nearly half a second slower in the floodlit evening session. Valtteri Bottas will start third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-takes-pole/article37605814.ece
21 November 2021||Chennai,||IPL 2022 in India: Jay Shah||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) secretary Jay Shah on Saturday confirmed that the 2022 season of the Indian Premier League (IPL) will be held in India. Speaking at a function organised by Chennai Super Kings to celebrate its 2021 triumph, Shah said, "I know that you all are waiting to see CSK play at Chepauk. The moment is not very far. The 15th season of IPL will take place in India and it will be more exciting than ever with two new teams joining. “We have a mega auction coming up. It will be interesting to see what the new combination looks like,” said Shah. Earlier this year, the 2021 season of the IPL started in India in April but had to be stopped midway through the season after members of the various teams tested positive for COVID-19. The second half of the season was completed in the UAE between September and October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-2022-in-india-jay-shah/article37605815.ece
21 November 2021||TURIN,||Medvedev strolls into the final||Defending champion Daniil Medvedev booked his place in the final of the ATP Finals after cruising to a 6-4, 6-2 win over Casper Ruud on Saturday.  Medvedev dropped just five points on his own serve on his way to claiming the first set, three of those coming in game four after he had already broken Ruud in the previous game. Breaking the resistance Medvedev ended Ruud’s brave resistance when he broke serve at the third attempt in a long game five of the second set, a 13-point exchange which put him in the perfect position to close out the match. He then cruised through his service game to make it 4-2 in the set and again piled the pressure on Ruud in the next game, eventually breaking again to set up an easy service game and close out the match.  The results: Semifinals: Daniil Medvedev bt Casper Ruud 6-4, 6-2.   Green Group: Novak Djokovic bt Cameron Norrie 6-2, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medvedev-strolls-into-the-final/article37605819.ece
21 November 2021||DHAKA,||Pakistan takes 2-0 lead||World champion P.V. Sindhu and K. Srikanth crashed out of the Indonesia Masters Super 750 badminton tournament after suffering straight-game defeats in the semifinals to bring the curtains down on the Indian campaign here on Saturday. Sindhu lost to Japanese top seed Akane Yamaguchi 21-13, 21-9 while Srikanth was outplayed by third seed Anders Antonsen of Denmark 21-14, 21-9.     Sriram Balaji and Divij Sharan were beaten 6-4, 6-2 in the semifinals by top seeds Harri Heliovaara and Jean-Julien Rojer in the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament.  Other results: €44,820 Challenger, Helsinki: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Nikola Milojevic (Srb) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 3-6, 6-1, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, East Lansing: Doubles (semifinals): Ozan Colak & Jackson Winkler (USA) bt Matt Kuhar (USA) & Dhruv Sunish 6-3, 6-1 .      Amir Sayed won a maiden victory in the premier Formula LGB4 class on the opening day of Round 2 of the 24th JK Tyre National Racing championship here on Saturday.  The results (provisional): JK Tyre Formula LGB4: Race 1: Amir Sayed (Ahura Racing) 26:03.085; 2. Tijil Rao (Dark Don Racing) 26:03.524; 3. A. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don Racing) 26:04.623.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: Ruhaan Alva (MSport) 14:33.431; 2. Jaden R. Pariat (MSport) 14:36.442; 3. Aadithya Parasuram (Hasten Performance) 14:42.833.   JK Tyre presents Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup: 1. Anish Damodara Shetty (Hubli) 13:54.772; 2. Allwin Xavier (Thrissur) 13:55.503; 3. Anfal Akdhar (Thrissur) 14:00.130 .    Pakistan defeated Bangladesh by eight wickets in the second Twenty20 International to take an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series here on Saturday.  The scores: Bangladesh 108/7 in 20 overs (Najmul Hossain 40) lost to Pakistan 109/2 in 18.1 overs (Fakhar Zaman 57 n.o.).   MoM: Fakhar Zaman.   Pakistan won by eight wickets, leads three-match series 2-0 .    All players at the Australian Open must be vaccinated, tournament chief Craig Tiley confirmed on Saturday, piling more pressure on World No. 1 Novak Djokovic, who has refused to reveal if he has been inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-takes-2-0-lead/article37605968.ece
21 November 2021||HELSINKI,||Balaji and Divij lose in semifinals||Sriram Balaji and Divij Sharan were beaten 6-4, 6-2 in the semifinals by top seeds Harri Heliovaara and Jean-Julien Rojer in the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament.  Other results: €44,820 Challenger, Helsinki: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Nikola Milojevic (Srb) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 3-6, 6-1, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, East Lansing: Doubles (semifinals): Ozan Colak & Jackson Winkler (USA) bt Matt Kuhar (USA) & Dhruv Sunish 6-3, 6-1 .    Amir Sayed won a maiden victory in the premier Formula LGB4 class on the opening day of Round 2 of the 24th JK Tyre National Racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway here on Saturday.  The results (provisional): JK Tyre Formula LGB4: Race 1: Amir Sayed (Ahura Racing) 26:03.085; 2. Tijil Rao (Dark Don Racing) 26:03.524; 3. A. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don Racing) 26:04.623.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 1: Ruhaan Alva (MSport) 14:33.431; 2. Jaden R. Pariat (MSport) 14:36.442; 3. Aadithya Parasuram (Hasten Performance) 14:42.833.   JK Tyre presents Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup: 1. Anish Damodara Shetty (Hubli) 13:54.772; 2. Allwin Xavier (Thrissur) 13:55.503; 3. Anfal Akdhar (Thrissur) 14:00.130 .      Railways defeated Karnataka by eight wickets to lift the women’s senior One Day Trophy at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here on Saturday.  The scores (final): Karnataka 74 in 38 overs (Renuka K. Singh 4/14) lost to Railways 76/2 in 22.2 overs (S. Meghana 36) .    Pakistan defeated Bangladesh by eight wickets in the second Twenty20 International to take an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series here on Saturday.  The scores: Bangladesh 108/7 in 20 overs (Najmul Hossain 40) lost to Pakistan 109/2 in 18.1 overs (Fakhar Zaman 57 n.o.). MoM: Fakhar Zaman.   Pakistan won by eight wickets, leads three-match series 2-0 .    All players at the Australian Open must be vaccinated, tournament chief Craig Tiley confirmed on Saturday, piling more pressure on World No. 1 Novak Djokovic, who has refused to reveal if he has been inoculated. The government of the State of Victoria, where the host city Melbourne is located, made clear last month there would be no concessions for unvaccinated players.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balaji-and-divij-lose-in-semifinals/article37606115.ece
21 November 2021||Kolkata,||ABD’s advice had a ‘massive impact’: Harshal||Fast bowler Harshal Patel credited A.B. de Villiers for having a “massive impact” on his career. De Villiers, who on Friday retired from all forms of cricket, was Harshal’s teammate at Royal Challengers Bangalore. “ABD has had a massive impact on my career. I’ve always been a silent observer of him. During the UAE-leg of the IPL, I sought his advice on how to reduce expensive overs. “He said that when a batsman hits your good deliveries, you should not change your bowling. He believes that a bowler should constantly force batsmen to hit his good deliveries. That is something that will stay with me throughout my career,” Harshal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abds-advice-had-a-massive-impact-harshal/article37605969.ece
21 November 2021||Chennai,||Inbarasu’s spell sets up Purasawalkam’s win||Medium-pacer S. Inbarasu (8/25) enabled Purasawalkam defeat MUC by eight wickets in the fourth division A zone of the TNCA cricket league recently.  The scores:   II div.: CromBest RC 159 in 45 overs (G. Surender 53, Ravi Prakash Jangid 35, B. Rocky 3/32, M. Suresh Babu 3/18) lost to Alwarpet 160/5 in 45 overs (J. Syed Mohammed 52 n.o., Swapnil Mansukh Gugale 38, P. Shijit Chandran 30).   Sir M.Ct. M. Old Boys 216 in 46 overs (P. Hemcharan 75, G. Rajesh 68) bt Egmore RC 214/8 in 47 overs (Jhathavedh Subramanyan 63 n.o., T. Shakthi Eshwar 57, K. Varun Kumar 30 n.o., S. Manigandan 4/50).   IV-A: CCL 102 in 34.5 overs (M. Prethivirajan 48, V. Vignesh Raja 3/31, Rahul Azariah 3/33) lost to Twentieth Century 105/4 in 32.2 overs (P. Harshaa 39).   Hunters XI 223/5 in 50 overs (T. Madhu Aravind 65, Vijay 56 n.o., Vrishank Karthik 42, R. Magesh 3/61) bt Kamyuth Club 166 in 42.2 overs (Sudhir Rishabh 46 n.o., K. Surendar 41, E. Anbumani 4/32, M. Pratheep Raj 3/34).   MUC 120 in 36.5 overs (Pravin Venkatakrishnan 39, S. Inbarasu 8/25) lost to Purasawalkam 123/2 in 19.4 overs (K. Rushil Kumar 42, R. Prasanth 35 n.o.).   V-B: C. Appaiah Chettiar MCC 159/8 in 50 overs (H. Sriram 30, V. Varshwin 30 n.o., S. Balaji 4/36) lost to Netaji 161/7 in 37.4 overs (S. Harish Babu 56, A. Madhavan 52 n.o.) .    C.R. Poorvika (Erode) bt E. Sandhiya (MTTTA) 11-5, 11-6, 11-6 in a girls’ u-13 pre-quarterfinal match of the TNTTA-WIN News TN State table tennis championships, organised by Chennai Table Tennis Foundation, here on Saturday.  Other results (U-13 pre-quarterfinals): Boys: Nikhil Menon (MST) bt Vibhu (DTTA) 11-1, 11-1, 11-3; R. P. Srikrishna (SSHI) bt R. Nilesh (MVM]) 11-5, 11-3, 11-6; Badrineyan Nandhagopal (DTTA) bt L. Arunachalam (Vinwin) 9-11,11-9, 8-11, 11-9, 16-14; R. Akash Rajavelu (MST) bt A. B. Tharoon (DTTA) 11-6, 11-1, 11-6; Vijay Guru Sanjith (MST) bt Eshanth (FCTTA) 11-2, 7-11, 11-9, 11-3; P. Siddarth (Vinwin) bt Aman Gadiya (AKG) 11-5,12-10, 3-11, 7-11,11-6; K. S. Suriya (Erode) bt Vishvesh (DTTA) 11-8, 11-7, 11-5; Vishruth Ramakrishnan (MST) bt K. Akshay Bhushan (ITTC) 11-2, 11-2, 11-4 .   Girls: B. R. Nandhini (MVM) bt Mira Raghunath (ITTC) 11-5, 11-6, 11-6; M.R. Moksha (MVM) bt T. Lakshana (MVM) 11-7, 11-6, 11-9; S. Samyutha (Paddlerz) bt Keerthana (MTTTA) 14-12, 10-12, 11-8, 11-7; M. Hansini (MST) bt A. Aarudhra (CBE TTFA) (11-3, 11-4, 11-3; N. Kaviya (Vinwin)bt P. S. Harini Shree (SSHI) 11-4, 11-5, 11-3; Kaniha (Coronation)bt K. Ananya (ITTC) 11-3, 11-4, 11-6; S. Mogana (Vinwin) btS. D. Mahathi (ITTC) 11-7, 16-14, 11-8 .    Eswar Cricket Academy will conduct the T20 league-cum-knock-out tournament from December 1 at Eswar CA ground, Manivakkam, Vandalur. Entries close on November 25. For details, contact E. Chinraj at 9944137361 or V.P. Giri Narain at 9094066288.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inbarasus-spell-sets-up-purasawalkams-win/article37606015.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Aqib, Kishan star for Karnataka||Aqib Jawad (55) and Kishan S. Bedare (54 n.o.) helped Karnataka beat Hyderabad by three wickets in a BCCI under-25 one day trophy match in Rajkot on Saturday.  The scores: Hyderabad CA 157 in 41.5 overs (Abhirath Reddy 65, B.U. Shivakumar 3/23) lost to Karnataka 158/7 in 38.3 overs (Aqib Jawad 55, Kishan S. Bedare 54 n.o., Kartikeya Kak 3/59, C. Hitesh Yadav 3/23) .      Railways came up with a dominant performance to defeat Karnataka by eight wickets to lift the women’s senior One Day Trophy at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here on Saturday.  The scores (final): Karnataka 74 in 38 overs (Renuka K. Singh 4/14) lost to Railways 76/2 in 22.2 overs (S. Meghana 36) .    A. Samuel, a former hockey player for the erstwhile Mysore state and MEG, passed away on Saturday after a brief illness. He was 85. Samuel, who was active in the 1960s and 70s, was known for his stylish play, speed and dribbling skills. He made it as far as the Indian National team’s probables list, but was unlucky to miss out on the final squad. He was the captain of the Rest of India hockey team which played the Indian Olympic team in Bengaluru prior to its departure for the 1968 Mexico City Olympics. The Karnataka State Hockey Association condoled his death.     Bengaluru Hawks topped the table at the end of Round 2 and moved into the knockout round of the 3rd Karnataka Open Trios tenpin bowling tournament being held here. Led by international medallist Akaash Ashok Kumar, Bengaluru Hawks finished with a total pinfall of 7043 (avg: 195.64). Gujarat Rollers was second with a total pinfall of 6755 (avg: 187.64), followed by Telangana Pin Busters (6642, avg: 184.5) and Xtreme Strikers Bengaluru (6600, avg: 183.33).     Vedansh Reddiyar and Charmi Gopinath clinched the boys’ and girls’ singles titles respectively at the FSA AITA CS& U-18 tennis championship at the Fortune Sports Academy courts.  The results (finals): Boys: Vedansh Reddiyar bt Sehaj Singh Pawar 1-6, 6-3, 6-4; Girls: Charmi Gopinath bt Vanya Srivastava 6-4, 6-4 .      Abhinav K. Murthy and Neeti Agrawal emerged the boys’ and girls’ under-15 singles champions respectively at the Karnataka State-ranking table tennis tournament in Dharwad.  The results (finals): Boys: Abhinav K. Murthy bt Varun B. Kashyap 11-9, 12-10, 11- 8; Girls: Neeti Agrawal bt A. Niharika 5-11, 12-10, 11-9, 12-10 .      Bowring Institute-A defeated East Cultural Association 2-0 in a Group-G match of the M. Chenniappan Memorial inter-club snooker tournament.  Other results: Group-F: HBCC-A bt Bangalore City Institute-A 2-1; Bangalore Club bt Kings Club 2-0; HBCC-A bt Bangalore Club 2-0; Group-G: KSBA-C bt Bowring Institute-A 2-1; KGS bt East Cultural Association 2-0; KSBA-C bt KGS 2-1; Group-H: BSA-B bt Cosmo-A 2-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aqib-kishan-star-for-karnataka/article37605979.ece
21 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Aditya, Vaishnavi win||Aditya Nandal and Vaishnavi Adkar won the boys and girls’ titles in the ITF grade-5 junior tennis tournament here.   The results:   Boys (final): Aditya Nandal bt Yuvan Nandal 6-4, 6-7(3), 6-4; Semifinals: Yuvan bt Bushan Haobam 1-6, 6-0, 6-2; Aditya bt Jaishnav Shinde 6-0, 6-1. Doubles (final): Yuvan & Saheb Sodhi bt Bushan Haobam & Nikhil Mukherjee 6-1, 6-3.   Girls (final): Vaishnavi Adkar bt Ruma Gaikaiwari 6-2, 6-1; Semifinals: Vaishnavi bt Kristi Boro 6-0, 6-1; Ruma bt Sonal Patil 6-4, 2-6, 6-4. Doubles (final): Ruma & Riya Sachdeva bt Kristi & Aarni Reddy Yellu 6-7(3), 6-3, [11-9] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aditya-vaishnavi-win/article37606114.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 07:25 IST,||Sudoku — November 21, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-21-2021/article37606577.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Quest for a story||Lingusamy is busy executing something he is doing for the first time in his 20-year-old film career: writing a story. “Honestly, most of my hits, be it Anandham, Run or Paiyaa , never had any solid stories,” says Lingusamy, in a candid interaction at his Valasaravakkam office in Chennai. “They all had a collection of good sequences and a screenplay. Now, for the first time, I feel like there is a strong storyline in my current film with Ram Pothineni [RAPO19].” This comes after a couple of not-so-favourable outings for the filmmaker; his Suriya-starrer Anjaan (2014) was among the most-panned films of the decade. “I have been enjoying my shoot time with Ram, who is a big star in Telugu. Our camaraderie is very warm and along the lines of the working relationship I enjoyed with the likes of Suriya, Vikram and Madhavan,” he says, adding that he is shooting a whistle-based montage song composed by Devi Sri Prasad at the moment. Ram might be his hero, but Lingusamy is very gung-ho about the villain, played by Aadhi. “After the release, he will reach greater heights,” promises Lingusamy, who singles out Vijay Sethupathi’s villain performance in Vijay-starrer Master among his recent favourites. Big screen craze The last couple of years have been slow for the director, who has patiently worked on his upcoming Tamil-Telugu bilingual, unlike some of his peers who have got busy with OTT projects. Lingusamy admits that he is yet to warm up to the OTT craze. “I can only see myself as someone who makes films for the theatres. Even as a viewer, I find it very hard to watch content on OTT platforms.” He has made just three exceptions in the last year and a half, watching Soorarai Pottru , Sarpatta Parambarai and Malayalam film Home . “For me, theatre-going has always been a fun, happy experience, like indulging in a wholesome meal, while OTT comes across like a quick snack at a fast food joint.” The road travelled Many Tamil directors from the 2000s have fizzled out, but Lingusamy continues to soldier on, despite both hits and failures. “I believe that over the years, my cinematic taste and the ability to spot good cinema is still intact. That is what has kept me in the industry till now.” That taste, he believes, is not just a result of reading and watching: it is from being in good company. Lingusamy’s struggling years in Kollywood saw him staying in mansions populated by aspiring directors, teeming with ideas. “Everybody staying in those rooms would be connected with cinema,” he recalls with a smile, referring to names like Vasantha Balan, Balaji Shaktivel, Nanda Periyasamy, Brinda Sarathy, Nagulan Ponnusamy and Mani Bharathi, all of whom were aspirants back then. “We would discuss each others’ scripts for days. I have even contributed ideas for Shankar’s Kadhalan , even without his knowledge, through his assistant directors. Back then, if one of us had a spark, 10 others would contribute to it, and we would keep fine-tuning it. We didn’t have money or luxury, but our dreams were big. That is why the first films of all these directors are their best work; it contains inputs from so many people who have contributed inputs unknowingly to it, without any jealousy or motives.” It is those friendships he has harboured from then till now that has kept him in good stead. “I am not extremely intelligent nor do I possess great cinematic knowledge, but when you land in good company and are enthusiastic, you will get things done. If you put in 51% effort, the world will conspire to give you the other 49% for a film project to materialise,” he adds philosophically. Whenever he is not thinking of scenes or is busy with meetings, Lingusamy’s favourite activity is not binge-watching but comfort films.“I watch evergreen classics like Sholay , Mother India , Lagaan and Titanic . I watch them like I’m watching them for the first time, and it gives me great happiness. Whenever I watch Nayagan, I think to myself: Will I ever make a subject like this someday? At the same time, whenever a Ranjith or a Vetri Maaran makes a great film, I watch them in awe. There is still so much to do...”   For me, theatre-going has always been a fun, happy experience, like indulging in a wholesome meal, while OTT comes across like a quick snack at a fast food joint Lingusamy Filmmaker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/quest-for-a-story/article37606398.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A super deluxe ride||‘Tum Tum’ is everywhere. The wedding dance number from Tamil film Enemy , released for Deepavali, has been trending this holiday season. Composer Thaman’s energetic beats, coupled with choreography, seem to have clicked among audiences. At the centre of this hit number is Mirnalini Ravi. “‘Tum Tum’ was the perfect opportunity for me. I’m not an expertly-trained dancer, but I do love to indulge in it, and that it has become such a success is quite overwhelming,” she says. For someone who is the definition of a modern-day star — she made it into the industry thanks to the the fleeting fame that TikTok and Dubsmash videos provide — Mirnalini is even more thrilled that now people are dancing to her song on social media platforms, with ‘Tum Tum’ going viral on Instagram Reels. She says, “I wouldn’t even have dared to dream of this a few years ago, when I just started recording videos for fun. All I can say is that I’m grateful and lucky.” She admits that not every content creator can make it to the very top. “I was patient with my choices. I could have signed more projects, but I waited for the right scripts. The fact that I started posting TikTok videos well before others caught on to the trend also helped.” Social media led to her being cast in Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s 2019 flick Super Deluxe . Mirnalini’s debut stands out as among the most unique of her characters: she played an alien. “I still remember the director telling me about my role... I was gobsmacked,” she laughs. “But now that the film has attained cult status, I am very happy about my role. It was way better than debuting as a conventional girl-next-door.” The Puducherry native, who featured in both Enemy and MGR Magan recently, is excited for the release of Jango , touted as a time-loop sci-fi thriller. “After two years of waiting, it is fantastic to have three releases back-to-back. But the pressure of waiting to see if people like me in them is intense,” she says. Mirnalini is looking forward to films that portray her as lively and vivacious. Next up, she will be seen in Vikram’s Cobra . She says, “From the teaser, people would have understood that it’s a serious film. My character in it comes as a breath of fresh air and adds emotional quotient.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-super-deluxe-ride/article37606476.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Wall of fame||Durga Santhanam, D. Rajakumari and S. Venmathi from Mayiladuthurai had a memorable Ayudha Pooja and Deepavali this year. As members of a group of seven homemakers who are certified wall painters, they were felicitated by local organisations alongside male professionals during festivals. Wall painting, which used to once be a male-dominated field in the construction sector, has emerged as a new employment opportunity for women in rural areas. Under its Nshakti training programme, Japanese company Nippon Paints has trained over 500 women in Tamil Nadu, in places such as Mayiladuthurai, Ocheri, Ramasamypatti and Anaimalai. This has led to the rise of small clusters of women painting contractors equipped with the skills to bring a new look to schools, homes and temples in their vicinity with a swipe of their brushes. “We never had a job before this,” says Venmathi, who brought her three-month-old daughter for the orientation. “Most of our family discouraged us, because they feared for our safety, and also doubted our ability to take up such a strenuous profession.” But the homemakers stuck to their guns, and went ahead with the course in 2019. After a lull caused by the lockdown, they are back at work, and are among the most active painting contractors in their area, earning up to Rs. 650 per day. “Videos of our paintwork shot on our phones helped us convince our families to let us take it up professionally,” says Durga. “The videos also acted as electronic business cards for us, and got us new assignments.” There is an easy camaraderie between women. “After a lifetime of wearing saris, it was awkward to wear T-shirts and slacks to work,” Venmathi says with a laugh. “Now we feel like working only in uniform: it is better than a sari when you are scaling a high wall. Some of us have modified it to suit our dress code, but we ensure that we wear protective gear like harness and headwear,” she says. The women have also travelled outside Mayiladuthurai for painting contracts on their own expense. “We painted buildings in Chidambaram, and have also gone to Vellore and Veppampattu in Chennai, where we stayed for two months to complete assignments,” says Durga. They are enjoying their new financial independence. “I was able to buy a two-wheeler. It helps me get to my assignment faster,” says Rajakumari, adding “and I can repay the vehicle loan with my earnings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wall-of-fame/article37606477.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Sometimes I feel I have to be completely invisible as a poet’||An interview is an artificial conversation between two people. It is shaped in three tenses — the future expectant, the present imperative and the past perfected — so it is a revenant with more than the usual freight of inequity and mischance. Things get even more complicated when you have known someone for nearly 30 years and are trying for cogency. In his 18th floor eyrie, Adil Jussawalla looks at home. This is a good sign, for his uncertain health had meant he rarely made too many forays to the ground level even before the pandemic began. During the lockdown he lost his wife of 50 years, Veronik. But as William Blake reminded us, “Joy and woe are woven fine”, and out of this weaving comes news of new work and new accolades. The Magic Hand of Chance (Paperwall) completes a trilogy of prose anthologies, which began with Maps for a Mortal Moon: Essays and Entertainments (Aleph) which I edited, and went on to I Dreamt a Horse Fell from the Sky: Poems, Fiction and Non-Fiction (1962-2015) (Hachette). Then came Gulestan (Poetrywala) a chapbook of extraordinary power, a lament for spaces defiled and chances lost. His first book Land’s End was reissued by Copper Coin, followed by meditations on the liminal spaces of Shorelines (Poetrywala). And now we have another collection of poems for those who are young at heart, The Tattooed Teetotaller and Other Wonders (Poetrywala). Meanwhile, the Mumbai lit fest, Tata Literature Live! declared Jussawalla its poet laureate for 2021. Excerpts from our conversation (expletives deleted): Let’s begin with this line from the brief introduction toThe Magic Hand of Chance: “As readers go through what follows and wonder what’s happening, it’s partly what my words intend: wonder’s a good state to get lost in, and for many is often enough.” Wonder has at least these two meanings. One might say, ‘I wonder what’s happening?’ thereby suggesting the openness of curiosity, whether about a sound in the street or the arrival and disappearance of a shooting star. The other is an attempt to see things afresh with a sense of wonder. Even if the content of what I write, whether prose or poetry, is dark or grim, I’d like to believe that there’s still a sense of openness about it. I want to present what I have discovered, not what I set out to discover. I hope that with wonder there is a sense of questioning. Each encounter sets off questions: can this be true? Can what s/he is saying be true? In that sense, there’s inquiry and the root of inquiry is curiosity. I think it was Pound who famously said that there could be no literature without curiosity. This wonder then has a measure of curiosity in it. Gulestandraws on an archive of memory and the desecration of intimate spaces of shared history: I think of crushed petals and blood. I think of publishing poems in the form of books, linked in terms of themes — history, family history. There are more poems like Gulestan which might find their way into print one day but right now, consider the pandemic, which seems to have affected everyone in one way or the other. Writing about that crisis I find I have to balance the personal with the general. While my point of view may be personal, it has to be slightly more expansive than that. I find myself then speaking in generalities. I  find what Eliot said about poetry more and more correct. You have to find the objective correlative of what you are going through. Putting this in a corny way, you could say I am going through an inner flowering. It would be banal to say that, but it is what I am experiencing. Now I have to find something that would relate to that state — it need not have flowers, need not even be a tree, but it would have to correspond to this feeling. Does the relentless, ruthless self-examination required by poetry ever exhaust you? Yes. But there’s always the danger that the self-inquiry is narcissistic and that it indicates a self-absorption which really interferes with what you’re crafting, what you’re trying to say, what you want to say. The self is not just exhausting but it is also very easily exhausted. So, the subject has to be outside the poet, outside the self, observed by the poet naturally, but not leading them to be self-referential. Not that I am suggesting that I succeeded in doing this in all my work; just that this has been what I am trying to do more and more. One way of doing that is not to use the pronoun ‘I’ too much in one’s work, to think instead of a ‘we’. There’s so much that any particular ‘I’ is going through which is shared by others. Sometimes I feel I have to carry it to an extreme, to be completely invisible as a poet. This feeling is not unique to me, it has happened to others. There is an ongoing preoccupation with family. And with the passing of the family. Whether it’s parents or a spouse or even other family members who have made an impression on me, they continue to haunt me. You now live alone. Veronik’s gone and you’ve not left your home for several months now. Is solitude better for your poetry? Veronik and I were together for more than 50 years. But through this, there have been many times when I have been alone. The solitude has been conducive to writing more drafts, yes. Whether these drafts will ever become poems is another matter. Before I close, I would like to have three more books of poems published but that depends on a lot of things. Anyone who thinks that living alone leads to more creativity is mistaken. What happens to the body, what happens to friends, to surviving relatives, not to mention the effect of pandemics and accidents, can take its toll. A certain mindfulness is called for, a certain alertness, if I want to continue to live a productive life. I see the attractions of another way of being: to withdraw and to say, ‘Let me just enjoy the day’ and stop bothering to reply to letters, stop making poems. That is the way of the hermit. But there is a sense in which I am a hermit, I am willing now to make do with much less. When one is part of a family, things pile up, they accumulate because one acquires them and because others acquire things too. Now these may be shed. Can we talk about the late flowering of Adil Jussawalla. There were 35 years betweenMissing Person(1976) and the next book of poems. I thought up something clever about myself just a few hours ago. I began writing verse during my teens in school. So I thought, since I still see myself as a student — or a bhikshu, to use a Buddhist term — that I was an early beginner but a late learner. At this stage of my life I don’t think I would like to publish anything that hasn’t taught me something about myself and the world I live in. I’d like to try not to give in to the temptation of producing showy stuff which may just be clever. Right now it has to be poetry. I find I no longer have a choice. I find I can’t really write a long piece of prose. People keep saying, ‘write a memoir,’ but that seems out of the question. And although my poetics have changed, my lines have a different feel about them, I have to continue in that way. You must have seen Tarkovsky’s Solaris with its sea of memory. Strong memories of Veronik do come back. I need to put them down in a way that makes sense to someone else, not just to me, not just as catharsis and as healing. I have to write them as poems, to make poems.  Read the full interview online.  The interviewer is a poet and novelist.  I want to present what I have discovered, not what I set out to discover. I hope that with wonder there is a sense of questioning. Each encounter sets off questions: can this be true? Can what s/he is saying be true? In that sense, there’s inquiry and the root of inquiry is curiosity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sometimes-i-feel-i-have-to-be-completely-invisible-as-a-poet/article37605768.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||For a few pieces of silver||Now is as good as any time to talk about what everyone is thinking — drugs. Specifically, opium. Journalist and playwright Thomas Manuel’s damning Opium Inc: How A Global Drug Trade Funded the British Empire, airdropped in the midst of a hazy, disproportionate, drug-related moral panic, gives us the history to gird the hysteria. Through 11 chapters, Manuel reaches as far back and far beyond as Greek myth, and culls from reports as recent and home-grown as the 2019 Ministry of Social Justice’s ‘Magnitude of Substance Use in India’ , which shockingly noted that 2.1% of the country uses opioids, which is around 77 lakh people — more than the entire population of Scotland. Roots of a business The canvas is grand, but the format is intentionally choppy. Each chapter reads like a separate essay, propelled by its own immediate logic, completed by its own bibliography. For example, there is a chapter on literature floating without context in between — how the Romantics produced some of the most lasting images of poetry in an opium-fuelled daze, and how modern Indian writers like Amitav Ghosh and Jeet Thayil milked opium as a literary muse in the Ibis Trilogy and Narcopolis respectively. But the thrust of the book, which Manuel spends most of his time plotting, is the opium trade that was necessitated, executed, and rationalised by the British. In 1662, the Portuguese parcelled and bowtied Bombay as a wedding present to the British, when Catherine of Braganza married the “serial adulterer” Charles II. It was Catherine who popularised the bitter tea — popular in Portugal — among English high society. Soon, the introduction of sugar into the British diet made the bitter tea not just palatable but delectable. The demand for tea rose, which until then was only produced in China. China wanted only silver in return, having no interest in British manufactured goods, and soon the balance of payments looked lopsided, and the British treasury empty. The solution was opium — the sticky gum collected from the poppy plant, a narcotic that produced opiates like heroin. (Opioids, like fentanyl, are synthesised from a number of different drugs but have the same effect as opiates on the brain.) Soon, opium harvested in Bengal and Bihar would travel in mango wood boxes to China, and this would pay for the tea, which now with slave labour on sugarcane plantations, was sweetened per taste. Manuel paraphrases historian Tan Chung, “The Chinese got opium, the British got tea, and the Indians got colonialism.” The two opium wars, 1839-1842 and 1856-1860, waged by the British to keep this robust opium trade going, left the Chinese on their knees, weak and addicted. The drug would continue to circulate per the virtues of “free trade”, while anti-opium advocates screamed at walls. Industrialists in Bombay like Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy, company officials, and smugglers in Canton padded their purses, while the farmers languished, forced to produce opium, sometimes weakened by addiction to the very thing they were flowering. (To harvest ripe opium, the farmer has to pierce the opium pod with a needle which has to be kept wet, so the farmer keeps licking the needle, getting unwittingly addicted overtime.) Manuel calls the East India Company a “drug cartel masquerading as a joint stock corporation masquerading as a government.” Moving between centuries Manuel’s writing has a sweet, conversational tone (“pun intended”, “but cynicism aside”). This is understandable given that India Ink, the public history project he is part of, is also attempting to blur the barrier between a historical factoid and an ice-breaker. But he stacks up too many details which are hard to parse apart. He will assume the reader walks in knowing certain things, like prior knowledge of the Battle of Plassey which he won’t recount. He is lazy with dates, often assuming full knowledge of the reader. Within the flip of a sentence he moves between centuries. The chapters, too, don’t progress with a linear thrust, often floundering through time. Thus, the story of opium, which is complicated in its unfolding, retains that problem in its telling. Then, there is also the issue of semantics. Can you call the British Empire a “narco-state” when opium was, at its height, the third-highest source of income for the British in India, after land and salt? Or is it just a flashy marketing ploy? How does Manuel want to define a joint stock company, a colony, as a narco-state? Story of capitalism But there is something captivating and grotesque which Manuel captures perfectly with the judgement the reader feels, but a historian would not want to give voice to so easily. He notes that the ability of “the mercantile community” — of which he includes Jejeebhoy, philanthropy apart, and David Sassoon — “to negotiate and profit in their dealings with this narco-state was built on an ability to ignore the morality of their actions.” The story of opium, after all, is the story of capitalism — to produce a self-fulfilling machine that creates its own demand, with the moral consequences not considered central to the moral problem it creates. After all, it employs so many people, and keeps the coffers warm. In an 1889 editorial this very paper noted, “Opium may be a great evil, but national bankruptcy is a greater evil.”  The writer is a critic with a weekly online newsletter titled prathyush.substack.com  Opium Inc.: How a Global Drug Trade Funded the British Empire Thomas Manuel HarperCollins  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/for-a-few-pieces-of-silver/article37605788.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A sailing tale||Sailing is a part of Sapper training. Among other things, it calls for a certain skill to find the direction of the wind, by observing a thin string ( dhaga ) tied at one end, streaming in the wind — a skill which failed me. This tale relates to 1967 when I was on a training course at the College of Military Engineering in Poona, now Pune. In the sailing competitions, each course fielded three Enterprise class boats in the races. We had three good sailors who had earlier led our sailing team to victory. However, for one race, one of them was ill and could not sail. A boat dropping out would mean disqualification of the team, and so our course-conclave scraped the bottom of the barrel and found me! I was aghast, because the Enterprise boats were more delicately balanced than the learners’ Wagtail boats, and I already had the distinction of ditching a supposedly un-ditchable Wagtail boat. I refused. But I was “ordered” to helm a boat, and warned of getting ducked in the river if I sullied our reputation by ditching it and disqualifying the team. On the day of the race, I prayed for gentle winds, and entered the boat with trepidation. When the start gun went off at the announced time, the sailors, consulting their wrist watches, had manoeuvred their boats to be just short of the start line. I was having enough difficulty catching the wind in my sails and avoiding collision with other boats, so when the start gun was fired, I was pointing the wrong way. By the time I had turned about and joined the race, other boats were over 50 metres ahead, and they kept increasing the lead since I was concentrating more on staying afloat than on competing for a position. When I was reaching the buoy at the turnaround point, the other boats were well on the home run. It was soon after that I noticed that the next race had started, because boats were sailing on the outward run. I had got myself mixed up in the next race! When I was approaching the finish line at the Sailing Clubhouse, a boat was about 20 metres behind and gaining, and I heard cheering and clapping from the spectators. When I crossed the finish line, the Clubhouse gong announcing the winner was struck amid more cheering. The actual winner (of the next race) finished just after me, and received applause for the runner-up. Relieved that I had finished the race, my course-mates were rolling with laughter at my having confused the officials by “winning” the next race. They came up to me as I climbed out of my boat onto the jetty, picked me up, carried me like they would carry a winner ... and ducked me in the river!  sg9kere@live.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-sailing-tale/article37605763.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The lightbulb moment||Anjali Joseph’s latest novel begins with the familiar premise of strangers meeting in an airport waiting lounge. It also involves a semi-magical lightbulb called the Everlasting Lucifer and references to Phiringoti Devi, the goddess of sparks. There is a connection. The masculine half of the would-be pair is a British “venture capitalist” of Indian origin called Ved Ved. According to the enthusiastic jacket blurb, Ved is “something of a toxic bachelor,” whose latest project is to oversee the production and marketing of the lightbulb. The manufacturing unit of this new challenger of the CFL and LED is in rural Upper Assam, and Ved is on his way to visit the plant. The other half is Keteki, a smoulderingly beautiful freelance art curator from Guwahati, returning home from an exhibition in London. The novel tells the story of how, in spite of commitment issues on both sides, the lightbulb moment brings them together. Local flavour This hip and happening Bollywood formula, perfectly enjoyable in its own terms, is rendered impotent by Joseph’s narrative ambition. The novel seeks to break the pattern without breaking the mould. It is a strange hybrid, and not in a witty intertextual kind of way. It references global high culture at every turn in a bid for sophistication but remains decidedly adolescent in its philosophical moorings. In terms of scope, it weaves drunkenly across months, countries and continents, tossing the narrative all over the place in unfortunate mimicry of Keteki’s desperate flings into random male beds until she finds her Ved. The scale of the story would be epic if it had a little more style. The reader struggles to keep up with what is going on with whom and when and where. It is also a challenge to keep track of the endless minor characters who parade across the narrative landscape without impact or consequence. If this is slice-of-life fiction one might as well crowd-watch a shopping mall. There is, of course, the mandatory local flavour. Crisp lessons in the history of Assam are delivered by the locals, including Keteki’s eccentric and widely read uncle who holds the ancestral fort in Jorhat. Tribal unrest threatens to sabotage the Lucifer plant and government corruption casts sinister shadows on the dream of cheap, long-lasting illumination for the great Indian rural public. But Keteki finds her life’s purpose in transferring her curating talents to ethnic entrepreneurship and we have resolution in sight. There is even some yoga, ashram life and Shankaracharya teachings thrown in for self-knowledge. Adding garnish to the proceedings is the inscrutable Tuku, who comes out of nowhere into Keteki’s family and vanishes into thin air, only to appear again transformed into a T-shirt wearing spiritual metaphor. Aesthetic limbo The book attempts The Calcutta Chromosome kind of magic realism but lacks the exuberance and erudition of Amitav Ghosh’s imagination. The real half of Keeping in Touch seems uneasy about the magic half, and the book hangs in a kind of aesthetic limbo. Exacerbating this is the problem of Keteki. She is whimsical or aloof or downright rude with her peers. She is so intent on being emotionally disentangled that it becomes difficult to see why people are regularly smitten by her. We hardly see the joy that supposedly defines Keteki, although the sadness that is said to also define her is very much present. Indeed, for all the globetrotting between London, Oxford, Bombay, Delhi and Guwahati, both our protagonists show us the world in grayscale. Could this be the result of trauma, or is it the ennui of privilege? While Joseph is competent in a certain kind of fashionable articulation, the language of the book is too flat too often. Deadpan description coupled with deliberately jarring dialogue may be good technique in a screenplay, it does not necessarily work in a novel. And so, despite being full of self-conscious symbolism and thematic networking, the book remains curiously half formed. It seems to be a novel ardently waiting for the film contract to come and make it complete. The reviewer is Assistant Professor, English, at IIT-Guwahati.  Keeping in Touch Anjali Joseph Context  Rs. 599    For all the globetrotting, both our protagonists show us the world in grayscale. Could this be the result of trauma, or is it the ennui of privilege?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-lightbulb-moment/article37605773.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The disappearance of a way of life in the Valley||The narratives of ‘rosy introspection’ in the form of personal memoirs or historical documentation, though sometimes belied, create a feeling of optimism for the future especially in times of gloom. Travelling down memory lane, Khem Lata Wakhlu evocatively narrates moments of the past from the end of the 19th century in the Kashmir Valley, giving readers a sense of a world of charm, innocence and leisure which has now withered away. Everyday gloom We are presented with everyday lives of people, their tales of joy and sorrow in the background of a changing political environment, perhaps not as contentious and full of bloodshed that have become synonymous with Kashmir today. Though a personal memoir based on happenings over four generations in Wakhlu’s Kashmiri Pandit family — the Dhars and their ancestral home, Rishi Vihar — the narrative also tells a story about Kashmir’s enduring legacy of culture. The bonhomie and conviviality during festivals and marriages, the embroidered pherans (a long tunic) and jewellery, the bucolic environment with unique flaura, fauna and waterways, the snow covered landscape, and flowing cups of hot kehava (Kashmiri tea) — all that is quintessentially Kashmir are woven into a story of the Kashmiri Pandit community. Although readers are treated to a somewhat stereotypical characterisation in terms of their bonding, movement to and from the Valley, their erudition and positions of influence, there is an emphasis on the notion of a shared space. The camaraderie between the Dhars and their Muslim neighbours, the Peers, the intervention of a Muslim friend in resolving a family crisis of the Dhars, the participation of Kashmiris irrespective of their religion in mourning the loss of a Muslim religious relic, syncretism and several other instances highlight the vibrant cosmopolitanism in the Valley.  The most enjoyable parts of the book are the tales of family reminiscences replete with subtle tensions and a pervasive amiability to which a reader can easily relate because of their universal appeal. Despite placing the Kashmiri Pandit community at the centre of her narrative, Wakhlu does not lose sight of the diverse demographics of the Kashmir Valley. Sensitive portrayal Though the book is primarily on the lifestyle and politics of the elites and does not reflect much upon the hardships of ordinary people, it tries to delineate the Kashmiri ethos. Wakhlu documents the interconnected histories of Kashmir with the rest of the sub-continent and Central Asia marking out a geographical and cultural continuum with the circulation of people.  The political details are sensitively presented and care has been taken not to reduce the complexities into simplistic binaries. We are told that the travails the Valley has braved have affected everybody in Kashmir, irrespective of his or her religious affiliations and social status. However, the tenacious will to survive against all odds and move on in life has been the survival strategy and essentially the Kashmiri spirit. The memoir represents a realistic interface between history and memory that does not attempt to whitewash the unpleasantness of the past. Being a native Kashmiri who has been residing there since her birth, Khem Lata Wakhlu has been a social worker and held important positions in various political organisations. She can be credited with a first-hand account due to her direct personal experiences and in her own words has ‘delved deeply into the sociological and human sides of living in the Valley.’ For a reader who does not belong to the region, this coping mechanism and constant reorientation against challenging circumstances on the part of entire Kashmir collectively or individually is a story that cannot be forgotten.  The reviewer teaches medieval and early modern history at the Centre for Historical Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University.  A Kashmiri Century: Portrait of A Society In Flux Khem Lata Wakhlu HarperCollins  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-disappearance-of-a-way-of-life-in-the-valley/article37605785.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 The United Nations celebrates November 21 as World Television Day as TV remains the single largest source of video consumption globally. On October 2, 1925, Scottish inventor John Logie Baird successfully transmitted the first television picture with a greyscale image in a 32-line vertically scanned image, at five pictures per second. What could be seen on TV was ‘Stooky Bill’, a prop made of plaster of paris with bright coloured make-up. What was stooky bill, something you’d see in children’s parties? 2 A university study showed that due to a certain genre of television dramas, jurors in a trial have unrealistic expectations and expect more categorical proof than forensic science is capable of delivering. They expect instant answers from techniques such as DNA analysis and fingerprinting, when actual forensic processing often takes days or weeks. This gulf between reality and fiction was amplified by a certain American TV show that ran for 15 seasons and followed detectives in the Las Vegas police department. What show is this after which this effect is named? 3 In 1969, under orders of President Richard Nixon, the U.S. government wanted to cut Public Television funds to a meagre $10 million. A then unknown TV host called Fred McFeely Rogers spoke before the senate. His testimony was “considered one of the most powerful pieces of video presentation ever filmed” which led to an unprecedented jump in the funding from $9 to $22 million and cemented his legacy as a model on how to use TV to help children and families. In 2019, a movie was made about him starring his cousin Tom Hanks. How better do we know Fred? 4 Earl Wild was an American jazz and classical pianist who in 1939 became the first pianist to perform a recital live on television. The small studio was lit by so many bright and hot lights that the ivory piano keys started to warp. In 1997, he became part of history again when he became the first pianist to do something else which we all now are familiar with, thanks to the pandemic. What did Wild become the first to do which many musicians do nowadays? 5 On the TV show Buffy the Vampire Slayer , on October 15, 2002, in the fourth episode of the show’s final season, the character Willow turns to Buffy and asks if she has done something to find out more information about a certain female character. When the other character doesn’t understand, Willow tells her that it is in fact a search engine. This is the first instance of a certain noun being used as a verb onscreen. What was the word? 6 Nancy Cartwright is an award-winning American voice actress who has been on a particular show for 31 years where she has voiced multiple characters but is most identifiable with a certain lead character. Which iconic TV show does she work with and which lead character known for being a brat does she voice? 7 In 1990, music manager Benny Medina was marketing a TV show based on his life which revolved around a poor black kid growing up in East LA but becoming friends with a rich white kid in Beverly Hills. He pitched it to legendary producer Quincy Jones but changed it to a rich black family instead. Jones offered the role to a young rapper who had got into financial distress, but he, having never acted before, was apprehensive. The show was called The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air and went on to become iconic and launched the rapper’s acting career. Which box-office star owes his career to this show? 8 In 1993, Matthew, an aspiring actor and writer, pitched to NBC a comedy TV show he had co-written about a group of adolescents living together called Maxwell’s House . The network turned him down because they already had a similar TV show in the works. He eventually went on to star in that show to critical acclaim. What show did Matthew end up in? 9 This is a British anthology television series that explores near-future dystopias utilising a speculative science fiction technology. Its 22 episodes have been credited with making the anthology format popular and being prescient of the times. The name of the show is a reference to the reflection of an individual that is created by the effect of a TV or computer screen when switched off. What is the name of the show? 10 ER was an American TV series which followed the medical drama in the emergency room at a general hospital in Chicago for 15 years. ER was actually written by author Michael Crichton to be a movie and he took the script to Steven Spielberg to see if he might be interested, but instead they got to talking about a new book Crichton was writing. Eventually, he agreed to sell the film rights to his upcoming book to Spielberg and they never talked about ER . What is the name of the movie which started a multi-billion dollar franchise  ? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37605799.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from Copenhagen||After a gap of almost a year, I stepped outside the borders of Sweden for the first time. No, it wasn’t a giant leap, rather I opted for the country next door — Denmark, and its famed capital Copenhagen. Copenhagen is hands-down my favourite city and I missed coming to it. My last experience of visiting Copenhagen wasn’t great, when I was there a year back, in the midst of the COVID crisis. The streets were empty, the shops had their doors shut, the colourful NyHavn district was left bare without any tourists. Moreover, no rides ran in Tivoli, the famed amusement park. This time though, things were different. The city seemed to be back on its feet. The vaccine drive and the reduced number of cases have brought the confidence back. There is even a talk of people having acquired the elusive herd immunity. When I heard that the city is alive again, I decided to take a train ride from the Swedish town of Malmö where I live. No checking A 45-minute train ride took me to Copenhagen Central Station. Though anyone planning to come to Denmark is required to bring COVID-negative test results (not older than 72 hours) or a vaccine pass, there was nobody at the border to check the incoming passengers in the train. I wondered. “Four years back, when Denmark had implemented border checks to avoid refugees coming in the country, the common man suffered a lot,” said a neighbour, “it was a major loss for the economy for it significantly increased the commute time and many of those who were coming from Sweden to work in Denmark decided not to anymore. Perhaps that’s why they want to loosen the controls this time.” As I stepped outside Copenhagen Central Station, at once I noticed that the situation was fast becoming normal. The evidence lay right in front in Tivoli, from where shrieks of kids on amusement rides filtered outside. People have started flocking back to Tivoli. I walked past to the walking street. This narrow corridor connects the heart of the city to Nyhavn district known for its colourful buildings and the bars that nestle in them. The walking street was crowded, though I could bet that those who formed the crowd were mostly Danes, sprinkled with a few outsiders such as me who had managed to get in the country. These are summer months in the Nordic region and during this vacation period many locals usually go on a three-to-four-week break to the beaches in southern Europe. However, this time, given the uncertainty related to travel, many decided to stay home. That explained why I was seeing more locals than tourists in these touristy parts of Copenhagen. Shops open I had no fixed destination in mind and just revelled being in the midst of the crowd. Though very few were wearing masks, everyone kept a safe distance. The shops were all open, including small gelato shops and bakeries. I wondered how these small businesses survived the crisis but then was reminded that most of these got financial support from the government to stay afloat. For once, I was grateful for the high taxes that we pay here for that’s the money that has found its way into these small businesses that would have otherwise struggled. I grabbed a cup of coffee from my favourite cafe and continued walking ahead to NyHavn. The bars at NyHavn were spilling with people and there was a cheer in the air. I couldn’t find a place to sit at any of the bars and decided to cross the bridge to the other side. Up on the bridge, I stopped and looked around. The sun was still out and would remain so till late in the night. The noise from the bars filtered in all the way to the bridge. Below me I could see several boats dotting the dark Nordic water. Standing here, for once everything looked normal, as if we had left the dark times of the pandemic behind. I knew I was perhaps crafting too good a story to be true, but in that moment I chose to believe it. The adrenaline rush-seeking travel writer lives in Malmö, Sweden.  These are summer months in the Nordic region and during this vacation period many locals usually go on a three-to-four-week break to the beaches in southern Europe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-copenhagen/article37605806.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Lost marbles||We see children playing many games these days, but there is one notable absence — the game of marbles. Back then, it was the first game you grew up with. Cricket as a serious pursuit came later. What set marbles apart from other games was its simplicity. All you needed was a blue sky, a patch of green and a pocketful of marbles. Somewhere, in the past few decades, we lost this game. A game of marbles sharpened a variety of basic skills. Like billiards and carom, it took a combination of concentration and finger-skill to master it. The champion marble player could strike a tiny marble into the far distance with unerring accuracy. The rest of us were not so dexterous and stumbled to strike a target even a few inches away! Regardless of your proficiency in the game, you maintained a marble collection. A marble was a collector’s delight, exquisitely crafted, shiny and glassy. When viewed against the sun, a kaleidoscope of colours filled its interior! Like a crystal ball, the more you gazed, more secrets it revealed! A second variety of marbles was the opposite. These were stone-like in a grey monotone. When you dug your hands into a boxful of marbles, its tinkling sound lit up a smile! Hawkers set up shop outside the school gate and enticed students with an attractive marble display. The box of marbles came handy when the class got too monotonous. No one knew who was the bigger prankster — the boys or the marbles! From time to time, the box jumped out of the school bag and came crashing to the floor! Marbles scattered and bounced in all directions! Right under the glare of the irate teacher, there was a complete riot! Students ran helter-skelter in pursuit of the marbles which were equally mischievous and evaded attempts to catch them! It was just the distraction you needed to liven up the day. Marbles was not just a game. It was a means to bonding between friends, much like Golf for today’s elite. When you spoke about a particular celebrity as though you knew him very well, someone cut you with this oft-quoted phrase, “Did you play marbles with him?” Such was the camaraderie shared between marbles pals! Back then, children stayed outside and played marbles the entire day. Ironically now, children are at home the whole day, busy with virtual games and gadgets! shankar.ccpp@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lost-marbles/article37605765.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The discovery of love||In J.M. Coetzee’s The Lives of Animals , the novelist and philosopher Elizabeth Costello scandalises everyone by saying that slaughterhouses embody “an enterprise of degradation, cruelty and killing which rivals anything that the Third Reich was capable of.” Costello, a passionate advocate of animal rights, has been consumed by her beliefs in her old age — she cannot meet in the eye any meat-eating human, who looks like a criminal to her. Her son is embarrassed by her militant vegetarianism while his wife scoffs at it as a display of moral superiority. All the criticisms directed against Costello are valid — perhaps as valid as her position that humans who kill animals for consumption are devoid of humanity. Painful memory Mahadevi Varma is a child when she realises for the first time that the chicks she cares for as her “children” are meant for the Miss Saheb’s dinner table. The little girl cannot wrap her head around this fact and bawls in outrage as she is overcome by a “nameless fear” — “If I could not keep track of the numbers and identifying marks of my non-human friends, anyone could take them away.” One can imagine adults laughing at her — as they do at Costello in her dotage — but here the child Mahadevi has arrived at one of the profoundest moral dilemmas, which she, like Costello, solves at the individual level by staying vegetarian for life. She has also discovered love — the acknowledgement of the reality of other creatures, whose pain she now feels as her own — and that turns her into a poet and writer. Mahadevi Varma (1907- 1987) is considered the greatest 20th century woman poet in Hindi. She was also a novelist, translator, educator, editor and painter. My Family , translated from the Hindi Mera Parivar (1972), is a series of sketches of her animal friends — ranging from Neelkanth the Peacock, Gillu the Squirrel, Durmukh the Rabbit to Neelu the Dog and several others. Inspired by Gandhi and Buddhism, she spoke out against subjugation — whether of India under the British, of women in marriage or of animals — and put her beliefs into practice by educating girls and rescuing animals, often to release them back into the wild. She was obviously thought of as an eccentric and in My Family she can be found laughing at herself and others. Understanding the other But what stands out the most is the way she immerses herself in the lives of the animals. They are not cutesy buddies meant for entertainment but distinct personalities in their own right — Mahadevi raises them, names them, perceives them objectively and loves them as they are. They can be friendly, cantankerous or jealous, but all are documented with the seriousness one usually reserves for humans. In this if there is implied criticism of our callousness towards animals, Mahadevi keeps it subtle. When her cow Gaura dies of a needle probably fed to her by the milkman — apparently it is a common practice among milkmen to kill rival milch cows this way — she sighs, “Alas, my cow-protecting country!” While Ruth Vanita’s introduction is superb, her translation is middling. But then, Mahadevi Varma’s unique Hindi, with its mythopoetic imagery and soft, musical words borrowed from Khari Boli, is difficult to replicate in English.  My Family Mahadevi Varma, trs Ruth Vanita Hamish Hamilton  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-discovery-of-love/article37605781.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Ding Dung Bell||Dear Agony Akka,  My neighbours, one middle-aged couple with no children, are the worst. They are constantly spying on me and my brother and reporting to parents. If my class boys are coming for notes, she is reporting. If brother’s friends are talking loudly, he is complaining. If you listen to them, you will think we are last remains of Roman Empire lingering behind to do leftover orgy. Last week they became super nuisance. We did one small party at home and cooked mutton biriyani, prawn fry, chicken 65. Since then neighbours are complaining non-stop — too much non-veg, offensive smells, inconsiderate, hurting sentiments, on and on and on. It is unbearable. Please suggest some solutions. —Going Almost Loony   Dear GAL,  I amalways sympathetic to neighbour problems because I also hate neighbours. Both my top floor and second floor neighbours are unbearable. Always wanting to visit. Or calling me for walks. Or giving me unsolicited advice. I want to ask them, I am Agony Akka or you two, please keep quiet. In your case, however, perhaps you have made one basic error. You did not invite couple to Diwali party. If you had and if you could have persuaded your parents to give them a drink or two, all might have been sunshine between you all. Now it is too late. Now naturally they will complain about food smells. This complaint seems to be peculiar speciality of Indian landlords. Once I met prospective landlord who is living in Boston and eating fully non-veg burger and pizza but he was insisting that his flat in Kasturba Nagar is for 100% vegetarian tenant only. So I asked him if his flat was veg and he was non-veg but he was unable to give me any suitable reply. Another prospective landlady was living in Seoul for many years where you know they put fish oil even into salads. All her neighbours were strictly omnivorous, following the principle that if something moves, they will eat it. Landlady is a very tolerant person over there, not bothered by any smells whatsoever that emanate from next-door window. But if you cook eggs in her flat in Chennai, approximately 5,000 km away, the smells are bothering her and so she wants fully vegetarian tenant. Indian vegetarian people be like, we are so sensitive everybody must respect our nose. Yet, funnily enough, asafoetida or hing is considered one of the most offensive smells in the cuisine world. In fact, it is called Devil’s Dung and people claim it stinks of rotten garlic. Or sweat. One whole Agatha Christie novel was solved because of its bad smell giving away the killer. Yet, ask your neighbour aunty to cook without hing and she will swoon in horror. The only way to tackle is to get on the low horse. Please see if you can somehow order durian fruit. It is strictly vegetarian, like most fruits. But the smell it emits has been variously described as that of raw sewage or rotting flesh. Keep it casually on the dining table and invite your neighbours over. Or try and get someone to bring you some natto from Japan. These are sticky, fermented soya beans and they stink of dirty gym socks. Again, 100% veg. As your nice neighbours turn sickly green, you can quietly inform about fish fingers on next week’s menu. They will beg you to cook non-veg for rest of your life. Next time uncle-aunty beef about something, remind them that the stakes are equal — one person’s Devil’s Dung is invariably on another person’s tongue.  — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ding-dung-bell/article37605797.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Letters||India’s freedom struggle and Nehru’s contribution to it are all the more relevant now when values like secularism, pluralism and constitutional democracy, preached by Nehru, are fast eroding. (‘Nehru, the revolutionary’; Nov. 14) Dewang Ganesh Thosar nNehru’s concept of revolution is an invitation for us to live in real freedom. The country’s development is dependent on it. Praveen Babu nAs a firm believer in timely reforms, Jawaharlal Nehru ensured universal adult suffrage, guaranteed fundamental rights to citizens, and accorded protection to minorities while institutionalising electoral party politics on the ground. M. Jeyaram nThe article unveils many truths about Nehru and is also a wake-up call to those who think violence is the means to an end. M. Vineshragul nPerhaps the ideal way to understand Nehru’s role in nation-building is to analyse his legacy of writings, which can be interpreted as prescriptive texts. Ranganathan Sivakumar   After COVID-19, nature thought we would learn from our mistakes, but I guess we still haven’t. (‘The banyan trees and a highway plan’; Nov. 14) We’ve lived through countless floods, cyclones, droughts and famines. Yet, we continue making the same mistakes. Avighnaa Venkatesh nIt’s unfortunate that a massive highway expansion project near Hyderabad could spell doom to hundreds of very old banyan trees that canopy the road. The authorities should look for alternatives to save the trees. Mahalakshmi Shankarnarayanan nAt a time when we are crying hoarse about climate change, this news comes as a shock. The NHAI should redo the alignment in such a way that these great banyan trees are part of the centre median, and trans-located along the highway itself. R.V. Baskaran   It was interesting to learn about the cute-looking marmots but sad to note that as the planet warms and winters shorten, these critters may not have enough flora to feed on, leading to shorter lifespans and fewer numbers. (‘In the den of marmots’; Nov. 14) Naman Ravi Argekar   Agony Akka hit the nail on the forehead of the administration by lampooning the ‘ roti, kapda aur makaan ’ slogan of political parties. ( ‘What a water everywhere...’; Nov. 14) The fact is, if a person fails to close his bathroom tap, there will be a flood in his locality in five minutes. This is the sorry spectacle of cities today. K. Pradeep   I lived in Car Nicobar in 1984-87 and saw first-hand the tribal way of life. Their huts, made with local material and hoisted up on bamboo poles, were best suited to offer protection from both wild animals and heavy rains. The people caught plenty of fish, which was shared by the whole village. Things are vastly different now. Mainlanders and their policies have led to unsustainable commercialisation and destroyed a peaceful way of life. B. Sundar Raman nThe interview sensitised readers to the plight of the Nicobarese. The government should stop imposing its views. Local leaders like Ayesha Majid are better positioned to decide what works for their fellow citizens. Varsha V. Shenoy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/letters/article37605761.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s a puzzlement||This is another bridge problem posed by Australian Tim Bourke. The defence continues with a second club at trick two, ruffed by South. How should South continue? Should South play the ace, king, and jack of spades, West will win and lead another club. South can ruff and draw the last trump, but that exhausts his last trump also. When he plays the ace, king and jack of hearts, East will win and cash a club for down one. South can abandon trumps after the ace and king and go after hearts. In that case, East will win and give West a heart ruff with the eight of spades. West will still have the queen of spades, so down one again. Can you spot the solution? South must lead the jack of spades at trick three! Should West win and lead a club, South can ruff and lead the jack of hearts! Should East win and lead another club, dummy can ruff with the nine of spades. A diamond to his hand and South can draw trumps and claim the rest. West can duck the jack of spades, but that is no better. South will cash the ace and king of spades and start on hearts. East will win but can do no damage. South will ruff another club and cash the 10 of hearts. West can take his trump queen whenever he likes. Making four!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/its-a-puzzlement/article37605802.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Long live||If to the West and parts of the colonial-minded East, Africa still conjures images of big game, the savanna and hunters armed with Remington rifles, a sizeable chunk of the credit can go to Zambian-born South African novelist Wilbur Smith. This prolific author of adventure novels, who died on November 13, reserved his best stories for Africa, creating a magic formula of success with swashbuckling men, voluptuous women, wildlife hunting, some dubious archaeology, and lots of blood. The novels were instant hits, selling 140 million copies and being translated into 30 languages. Their appeal was undiminished even when Smith started writing them in collaboration with a team of co-authors. “I wove into the story chunks of early African history. I wrote about black people and white. I wrote about hunting and gold mining and carousing and women,” he said. Incidentally, this has been a great year for African writing in general, with Abdulrazak Gurnah getting the Nobel, Senegalese novelist Mohamed Mbougar Sarr winning the Prix Goncourt, and South African author Damon Galgut bagging the Booker. The Africa in the works of these writers is very different from Smith’s, peopled with characters drawn from unglamorous real life, and the contrast tells us a lot about the changing mores of world literature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/long-live/article37605760.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The Book of Passing Shadows||C.V. Balakrishnan, trs T.M. Yesudasan  Niyogi Books Rs. 350 Set in a Malabar village of Christian settlers, this is the story of a family’s fall from grace. In the course of his journey to a ruined adolescence, Yohannan loses everyone he knows as family, finding his only solace in the companionship of a grieving widow who has been equally wronged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-book-of-passing-shadows/article37605770.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The Exile of Mukunda||Arpit Bakshi  Aleph Book Company Rs. 395 In this second part of the Maha Vishnu trilogy, Krishna’s son Mukunda is trapped in a kingdom governed by evil forces on planet Prithvi. He is surrounded by the enemy and betrayed by the girl he loves. Will Mukunda be able to escape? Can he find his father?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-exile-of-mukunda/article37605775.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Poison for Breakfast||Lemony Snicket  Oneworld Publications Rs. 499 This true story — as true as Lemony Snicket himself — begins with a puzzling note under his door: You had poison for breakfast. Following a winding trail of clues to solve the mystery of his own demise, Snicket takes us on a thought-provoking tour of his predilections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/poison-for-breakfast/article37605777.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A Bird from Afar||Anshul Chaturvedi  Pan Macmillan India Rs. 399 Nazi Germany, 1942. Subhas Bose works furiously to build an army that will be able to fight for Indian independence. Bose is confronted with dilemmas: in order to free India from the clutches of the British, he must ally with Hitler’s forces, the Japanese army and Mussolini’s troops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-bird-from-afar/article37605779.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Watershed||Mridula Ramesh  Hachette India Rs. 699 From stories of ancient water-engineering marvels in the Indus Valley and Tamil Nadu to the forests of Kanha and dams in Arunachal Pradesh, this book uncovers why India faces an acute water crisis. Ramesh also lays out solutions for the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/watershed/article37605783.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||India Reckoning: Politics, Economy, Governance and Beyond||Bimal Jalan  Bloomsbury Rs. 599 The former Reserve Bank of India Governor offers a blueprint for the government to launch reforms to reduce corruption. He seeks an improvement in the role of the legislative, executive and judiciary in policymaking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-reckoning-politics-economy-governance-and-beyond/article37605790.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The New Climate War: The Fight to Take Back Our Planet||Michael E. Mann  Penguin Rs. 999 A scientist draws the battle lines between the people and the polluters ― fossil-fuel companies, right-wing plutocrats, and petro-states ― and outlines a plan to force governments and corporations to wake up and make a real change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-new-climate-war-the-fight-to-take-back-our-planet/article37605792.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sovereign Lives of India and Pakistan: Post-Partition Statehood in South Asia||Atul Mishra  Oxford University Press Rs. 1,315 This volume explores what it has meant for India and Pakistan to act as sovereign states entangled at birth by an unsatisfactory partition. It argues that for both, sovereignty has become an end in itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sovereign-lives-of-india-and-pakistan-post-partition-statehood-in-south-asia/article37605795.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3177||Across  1 Potato I coated in chocolate and seed put before Queen (5,5) 6 Noisy scene, mass online chat (4) 9 Concede around New Year: ‘Florida’s where retiree might live’ (6,4) 10 Goes spearing, we’re told, in hellish river (4) 12 About time pilots returning, each a long way off (7,5) 15 Pronounced a little slaver ‘redeemable’ (7) 16 Help to oversee French swine, not on air (2-5) 17 Hot liquid state (7) 19 Author’s two automobiles? Almost (7) 20 Being successful, UN had pop tune composed (2,3,2-3-2) 23 Expensive ducks (4) 24 Palace where ninth stanza read aloud? (10) 25 Nasty infestation tormenting scalps, primarily! (4) 26 Upset that dodgy actress secures vehicles (6,4)  Down  1 Faces simpletons (4) 2 Read 1,000, not 500 + 500 sheets of paper (4) 3 The son shrugs off noisy creatures (4,8) 4 Toward wicket, one lacking faith died down (7) 5 The last ictodosaur, somewhat resilient (7) 7 Cowboy may be seen here, avoiding saloon? (2,3,5) 8 Adjusted sound of quiz with plenty of meat (5,5) 11 Ruin anecdote about some choreography (5,7) 13 Where those who are harmless are said to have no weapons? (4,6) 14 Everyman has pound, wanting a drink and a snack (5,5) 18 Unopened body of work describing he who went to Hell and back? (7) 19 Second time for drive in Trudeau’s land: it’s a pastime (7) 21 Regularly pulling at bone (4) 22 Goddess brought about emphatic agreement in Mexico (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3177/article37605805.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Paxlovid may be huge advancement for all coronaviruses’||Treatment of people infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus to prevent death and hospitalisation got a shot in the arm when Pfizer announced encouraging results of an interim analysis of a phase-2/3 trial of the antiviral drug paxlovid. The drug showed 89% efficacy in preventing hospitalisation and death in certain high-risk groups when treatment was started within five days of symptom onset. The announcement comes about a month after Merck’s antiviral was found to have 50% efficacy in preventing COVID-19 death and hospitalisation.   In an email, Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore explains the significance of paxlovid antiviral for treatment, its mode of action, and the need for a combination therapy to reduce the chances of the virus developing resistance.  Compared with Merck’s molnupiravir, will Pfizer’s antiviral oral drug paxlovid be better at sharply reducing the death toll and strain on the health-care system? Both molnupiravir and paxlovid are likely to have a role to play in prevention of hospitalisations and deaths. What we have at the moment are very early data in a few hundred people with each drug showing that the drugs reduce the chances of progression to severe disease. Both trials chose people with at least one risk factor for progression to severe disease which means that they were focused on individuals most likely to need higher levels of care. The fact that both drugs worked well is an advantage to the health-care system, of course, but is a complement to vaccines, which also play a critically important role in protecting the health-care system. Where these drugs will especially matter is for those people in whom (i) an immune response to infection or vaccination is not mounted because of immunocompromise and (ii) for infection in the unvaccinated or breakthrough infection in the vaccinated. Pfizer is currently testing another drug molecule that can be used by people belonging to low-risk groups. If this candidate drug too shows similar efficacy, can we positively say that COVID-19 is a completely treatable disease for all categories of people? No drug is 100% safe or 100% efficacious. The more drugs we have, the more tools we can use to treat those who acquire infection. Since both clinical trials were in individuals with risk factors and the drugs worked well, it is likely that they will also work well in people without risk factors, but this will need to be evaluated. Besides higher efficacy, is there any major advantage of using paxlovid than molnupiravir? Will molnupiravir with a possibility, even if slim, of causing mutagenesis be a differentiating factor? The point estimates for paxlovid are higher than for molnupiravir, but the two drugs have not been directly compared in a clinical trial, so stating that one has an advantage over the other based on two headline numbers is inappropriate at this early stage. With more independent trials we will be better able to compare performance. So far, we have no evidence that molnupiravir has significant side-effects, but as with all drugs, safety monitoring will be critical throughout the lifecycle. What is the precise mechanism by which paxlovid prevents viral replication? How is inhibiting a particular protease better than molnupiravir that causes many point mutations that prevent the virus from replicating? Pfizer’s oral antiviral is a protease inhibitor, originally called PF-07321332, or just 332 for short, given in combination with ritonavir. A protease is an enzyme that cuts a protein at a specific sequence of amino acids. The SARS-CoV-2 virus has a protease which allows it to cut one polyprotein into smaller segments that it needs for its life cycle. This protease called Mpro or the 3CL protease is targeted by 332, Pfizer’s protease inhibitor, which can stop that cleavage, as was shown in Pfizer’s initial publication in Science . With the viral protease out of action, SARS-CoV-2 cannot make more of itself to infect other cells. You cannot compare two drugs that have different mechanisms of action as being better or worse except in a direct head-to-head clinical trial with the same outcome. How does the use of an HIV drug ritonavir, which is also a protease inhibitor, improve the efficacy of paxlovid? Since ritonavir is generally used in combination with other HIV protease inhibitor drugs, was it natural to test it in combination with paxlovid to increase efficacy? Ritonavir extends the duration for which 332 [paxlovid] can act on the 3CL protease. Essentially, ritonavir slows down the metabolism of 332 [paxlovid]. Ritonavir and lopinavir, which are used in combination for HIV, were evaluated for treatment of SARS-CoV-2 in several large and small early clinical trials and shown to be ineffective. For any evaluation of enzymatic activity, the general principle is to prolong the duration of action so that the number of doses that need to be given can be reduced. Paxlovid is given twice a day, but without ritonavir’s inclusion, 322 [paxlovid] would have needed to be given much more frequently, which is a key factor in reducing compliance with any treatment. Since paxlovid is a protease inhibitor, can the virus develop resistance faster than when molnupiravir is used? Would it be prudent to use both drugs together to reduce the chances of drug resistance? With most antivirals it makes sense to combine them to reduce the chances of resistance developing. However, with molnupiravir’s mode of action being the induction of mutations through the random replacement of cytidine or uridine with NHC-TP, a molecule generated by metabolism of molnupiravir, resulting in lethal mutagenesis or error catastrophe, the chances of development of resistance are believed to be low. With paxlovid, it targets an essential protease, so if the virus mutates the protease in order to escape the antiviral drug it is likely to have a fitness cost to the virus. One of the advantages of an oral antiviral that targets viral replication is that the spike protein mutations that we worry about with vaccine induced immunity or with monoclonal antibody therapy will not matter, because the drug has a different target. Though Pfizer has been developing and testing protease inhibitors against SARS virus, is the development of a novel drug molecule in a short time to specifically treat COVID-19 be seen as a major advancement? Pfizer originally started its work on SARS-CoV-2 by synthesising and pre-clinically evaluating protease inhibitors years ago as a potential treatment. The data published by the Pfizer team reported that the Mpro inhibitor showed potent antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 and all the human coronaviruses. Testing in human cells and mouse models of SARS-CoV-2 suggest that the treatment could limit damage to lung tissue. This is a major advancement for SARS-CoV-2 and potentially for all coronaviruses.  Testing in human cells and mouse models of SARS-CoV-2 suggests that the treatment could limit damage to lung tissue. Gagandeep Kang CMC Vellore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/paxlovid-may-be-huge-advancement-for-all-coronaviruses/article37605902.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Can this portable robot end septic tank deaths once it is deployed?||A statement by the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry in the Lok Sabha, which was reported in The Hindu, conveyed that in the five years till December 31, 2020, there have been 340 deaths due to manual scavenging in sewers and septic tanks in 19 States and Union Territories, with Uttar Pradesh (52), Tamil Nadu (43) and Delhi (36) leading the list. Maharashtra had 34 and Gujarat and Haryana had 31 each, according to the statement. This is despite bans and prohibitory orders. A group from Mechanical Engineering Department and Center for Non-Destructive Testing (CNDE) of IIT Madras has developed a robot that can, if deployed extensively, put an end to this practice of sending people into septic tanks. The robot, named HomoSEP (“homogeniser of septic tanks”) has taken the group about three years to develop.  Inverted umbrella HomoSEP has a shaft attached to blades that can open like an inverted umbrella when introduced into a septic tank. This is helpful as the openings of the septic tanks are small and the tank interiors are bigger. The sludge inside a septic tank contains faecal matter that has thickened like hard clay and settled at the bottom. This needs to be shredded and homogenised, so that it can be sucked out and the septic tank cleaned. The whirring blades of the robot achieve precisely this. Further, the latest version of the robot is a lightweight model that can be attached to a tractor and wheeled off to remote and inaccessible areas. The robot is attached to the axis of the tractor and can be run using the power from the tractor’s engine. When needed, it can be detached from the tractor. “The first version [of the robot] was very bulky and entirely made of steel. It was also a stationary unit and needed external power… from the mains or a battery source. It had to be lifted using a fork lift, placed on top of a tank and then you could perform the operation,” says Divanshu Kumar, an alumnus of the Mechanical Engineering group of IIT Madras and CEO of Solinas Integrity Private Limited, which is a startup that develops the robot. “At the time, we did not understand about the nature of the contents of the septic tanks so the blade profile was quite simplistic.” Key innovations Over the three years since 2019 and the pandemic with its associated hurdles, the group worked on this zeroth model, honing its properties, spiralling from concept to computer design, to simulation, to trials and back to the drawing board, until they developed the latest version. “We made some significant innovations to the first proof of concept model: we first improved the blade design to suit the fluid in the septic tank; then we achieved a miniaturisation so that just two people can carry the robot; lastly, we integrated it with a tractor so that it can be portable and run using the power of the engine,” says Prabhu Rajagopal, from the Department of Mechanical Engineering at IIT Madras and the Principal Investigator who has anchored the development of the robot. Feedback and validation To mimic the qualities of the contents of the septic tank, they generated material with similar properties which they tested with the help of Prof. Abhijit Deshpande of the Chemical Engineering Department. In the process of development, they also took along with them members of Safai Karamchari Andolan, asking for feedback and validation.  The present model has been tried in a set of septic tanks near the department, in a campaign of field trials in March. One more set of field trials is due, after which plans are afoot to deploy the robot following a pilot testing by the workers themselves. The project has been carried out with Corporate Social Responsibility funding from GAIL foundation, CapGemini, WIN foundation, and more recently from National Stock Exchange foundation. The researchers plan to distribute eight units in Tamil Nadu, and are in touch with Safai Karamchari Andolan to identify the locations. They are also considering locations in Gujarat and Maharashtra. “Many people ask me why manual scavenging is still there 70 years after independence… It is not sufficient to sit in your homes and wish it will go away. Pious intentions are good, but beyond that we need someone to actually do the work of developing a solution, and people who will support those who do this.,” says Prof. Rajagopal. “I am not saying our group will solve the problem. Our country is too vast and the challenges are too many. But what I hope is to set an example.” “It may not win rewards in the short term, such as a paper in Nature, or being feted for groundbreaking technology, but this is a problem that needs people to stick their neck out and develop a practical, viable technological solution. It is a question of intention,” he concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/can-this-portable-robot-end-septic-tank-deaths-once-it-is-deployed/article37605896.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19: Restrictive voluntary licence compromises access||On the face of it, the agreement signed between the Medicines Patent Pool and the two pharmaceutical companies Merck and Pfizer appear to be making it easy to access COVID-19 antiviral drugs molnupiravir and Paxlovid, respectively. Yet, the voluntary license that will be handed out by the two companies to generic drug producers in low- and middle-income countries excludes many countries that are categorised upper middle-income. In an email, Leena Menghaney, South Asia Head of Médecins Sans Frontières’s Access Campaign, says that the voluntary license will exclude India from even supplying raw materials (active pharmaceutical ingredients) to generic manufacturers in upper middle-income countries, thus compromising their options for securing affordable access.  As per Medicines Patent Pool listing, India is categorised as a lower middle-income country, and so will be able to produce and make available both Merck’s and Pfizer’s antivirals for use in India. How do you compare India with Brazil, which can manufacture the drugs but will have to pay a higher price to access them as it is an upper middle-income country? World over, leaders called for COVID-19 drugs and vaccines to be treated as public goods accessible to all countries. There are no granted patents yet on Pfizer’s antiviral candidate PF-07321332, and ritonavir has been off-patent since last year. India is going to play a vital role in the supply of raw materials and finished formulations of the drug. The MPP-Pfizer license on this new antiviral is business as usual, with supply restricted to just 95 countries, excluding many upper-middle-income countries in Latin America, Central Asia, South East Asia from benefiting from affordable generic supply or using their established generic capacity based on supply of raw materials (API) from countries like India. Using the chilling effect of patent filings, and restrictive license terms and conditions, pharmaceutical corporations like Pfizer set limitations on where and to whom a low-cost generic product can be sold, control the supply of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and impose other restrictions on licensees. Pfizer’s business strategy has set a negative precedent by offering a voluntary license that excludes nearly half of the world’s population during a global pandemic. According to the agreement signed by the two companies and MPP, access to these drugs will be available to low- and middle-income countries. But the MPP website distinguishes middle-income countries into lower-middle-income and upper-middle-income countries. Except for a few upper-middle-income countries, most do not qualify for access of these two drugs at a cheap price. Your comments. In the current practice of voluntary licenses, most high- and upper-middle-income countries are excluded, including many with a high burden of COVID-19. Almost 50% of the upper-middle-income countries are excluded from the Merck license and more than 70% of the upper middle-income countries are excluded from the Pfizer license. When countries are excluded from voluntary licenses on lifesaving medicines or vaccines, their options for securing affordable access are compromised. Technically, manufacturers in excluded countries can take a sub-license from the MPP to produce the medicine or its raw material, but they cannot supply it domestically. China is one such country. This licensing practice raises ethical questions about harnessing the capacity of developing countries to develop, produce and supply quality medicines while at the same time prohibiting generic companies from responding to considerable unmet medical needs domestically. Considering that Pfizer has not signed any non-exclusive agreement with manufacturers to produce its vaccine, is it not welcome that people in 95 countries (53% of the world population) will benefit from easy access to drugs at a cheap price? The regulatory pathway for drugs like antivirals is straightforward. Companies with GMP certificates and showing bioequivalence can develop and register low-cost generic versions within months. This has happened in the case of baricitinib, molnupiravir in India and Bangladesh. It is in the business interest to restrict such generic competition. Through the license terms and conditions, pharmaceutical corporations like Pfizer set limitations on where and to whom a low-cost generic product can be sold, control the supply of API and impose other restrictions on licensees. In the case of vaccines, in the absence of access to the regulatory dossier and different kinds of IP, including trade secrets, pharma corporations can delay competition for much longer. Pharma corporations take advantage of these complexities to avoid negotiations on sharing of data, know-how, and IP.  Can India at least supply API to countries like Brazil which are categorised as upper middle-income countries? Voluntary licenses include restrictive terms on active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), which are an indispensable part of formulating the final products of medicines and constitute a significant percentage of the total cost of production. The ability to procure API from India plays an important role in ensuring affordable prices for finished products. This license prohibits Indian companies who may sign the license from supplying API to independent manufacturers in countries like Thailand, Brazil and all other countries which are excluded from the list of territories. Effectively restricting the sources of API blocks potential producers in countries excluded from the license from producing and supplying their health ministries and in their region. Can’t countries manufacture the two antivirals through the compulsory licensing route? Yes, they can but compulsory licensing takes time, and we need a speedy response in the pandemic. It is crucial that governments continue to use all means, including refusing to grant any patents on this treatment — and the adoption of the IP waiver at the upcoming WTO Ministerial Conference at the end of November — to ensure that there are no restrictions on generic production of this and other COVID-19 treatments anywhere, in order to ensure true global access and save as many lives as possible.  India is going to play a vital role in the supply of raw materials and finished formulations of the drug. Leena Menghaney Médecins Sans Frontières||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/covid-19-restrictive-voluntary-licence-compromises-access/article37605892.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Physics of a finger snap||How high is the force of snapping fingers? Researchers from the Georgia Institute of Technology studied the physics of a finger snap and determined how friction plays a critical role. Using an intermediate amount of friction, not too high and not too low, a snap of the finger produces the highest rotational accelerations observed in humans, even faster than the arm of a professional baseball pitcher (Journal of the Royal Society Interface).  Using high-speed imaging, automated image processing, and dynamic force sensors, the researchers analysed a variety of finger snaps. According to a press release, the researchers explored the role of friction by covering fingers with different materials. For an ordinary snap with bare fingers, the researchers measured maximal rotational velocities of 7,800 degrees per second and rotational accelerations of 1.6 million degrees per second squared. The rotational velocity is less than that measured for the fastest rotational motions observed in humans, which come from the arms of professional baseball players during the act of pitching. However, the snap acceleration is the fastest human angular acceleration yet measured, almost three times faster than the rotational acceleration of a professional baseball pitcher's arm. Optimum friction Reducing both the compressibility and friction of the skin make it a lot harder to build up enough force in your fingers to actually snap. Surprisingly, increasing the friction of the fingertips with rubber coverings also reduced speed and acceleration, says the release. The researchers concluded that a Goldilocks zone of friction was necessary — too little friction and not enough energy was stored to power the snap, and too much friction led to energy dissipation as the fingers took longer to slide past each other, wasting the stored energy into heat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/physics-of-a-finger-snap/article37605894.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||What are the ramifications of the Biden-Xi summit?||The story so far: U.S. President Joe Biden and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping held a virtual summit earlier this week touching upon a range of policy concerns in the bilateral space. The meeting was long overdue given the lack of in-person contact between the two leaders, as Mr. Xi has not travelled outside China since early 2020, the time when Mr. Biden entered the Oval Office, owing to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, tensions have soared between Washington and Beijing across issues of global and regional interest, including trade, Taiwan and the South China Sea, and technology, including 5G. At a meeting of senior officials from the two countries in March 2021 in Anchorage, Alaska, a heated exchange followed U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s comment that without the rules-based international order there would be a “much more violent world” and that Chinese activities in Xinjiang, Hong Kong, and Taiwan threaten that order and were, therefore, not internal matters. As a key meeting following that encounter, the latest summit exchange saw the two Presidents articulate their views on each of these subjects; yet there was no breakthrough announcement. This suggests that the task ahead for both nations would be to manage conflicts so that they do not spill over and affect the global economy. What are the core areas of tension now?   Trade and tariffs are at the top of the agenda of policy matters causing bilateral friction. After the globally damaging trade war with China through 2019 and 2020, a dispute that was exacerbated by former President Donald Trump’s tariffs on a vast swathe of Chinese exports — including solar panels, washing machines, steel and aluminium, and numerous food products — a temporary reprieve came with the Phase One Trade Agreement. Under it, China was mandated to buy $380 billion worth of American goods by the end of 2021, yet has failed to do so, according to analysts, owing to a shortfall in orders from Beijing for Boeing aircraft following the slowdown in commercial aviation during the pandemic. However, unlike the escalating tensions between Beijing and the Trump administration, this time a compromise may yet be hammered out, as U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai recently hinted that the exemptions for certain goods from trade tariffs may be permitted. A second key area of tension is the question of Taiwan’s independence, a topic that was likely writ large in the discussions between Mr. Biden and Mr. Xi this week. The U.S. post-summit readouts suggests that Washington is holding firm to its long-standing policy on this complex subject, that it acknowledges but does not recognise Beijing’s claim to Taiwan under the One China policy. In contrast, the Chinese delegation has indicated that Mr. Xi said, “It is playing with fire, and if you play with fire, you will get burned” — a comment that signals that China will likely respond aggressively to any moves by Western powers seen as strengthening Taiwanese independence, including direct arms sales to Taipei and visits by Western lawmakers to the island territory. A third major bilateral subject that has proved to be contentious is technology. On the one hand, since the administration of Mr. Trump, the White House used the trade war with China to bluntly accuse Beijing of “unfair trade practices for technology and intellectual property”, and U.S. policymakers relied on a matrix of export restrictions to target China’s semiconductor supply chain in a bid to safeguard critical infrastructure in the telecommunications sector. On the other, the arrest and subsequent release of Meng Wanzhou, CFO of Chinese telecommunications equipment and consumer electronics giant Huawei, after China counter-arrested two Canadian nationals, demonstrated the extent of suspicion that Western nations have of 5G technology rolled out by China. Such suspicion, overlaid with the string of indictments served to Chinese nationals in the U.S. on allegations of industrial espionage, hint at the deep chasm between the U.S. and Chinese governments on the broad question of technology and surveillance. What led the two Presidents to engage in a dialogue? Although the 2021 U.S.-China virtual summit meeting yielded no breakthrough announcement, Beijing wasted little time in claiming a diplomatic victory, with Chinese state media proclaiming, “Biden reiterates he doesn’t support Taiwan independence.” For Mr. Biden, whose job approval rating has slumped to 36%, according to the Quinnipiac University national poll, a win with China would have gone some way towards uplifting his prospects. But no quick victory has come out of the latest dialogue.  Trade and tariffs are at the top of the agenda of policy matters causing bilateral friction. Other bones of contention are Taiwan and the South China Sea, and technology including 5G||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/what-are-the-ramifications-of-the-biden-xi-summit/article37605823.ece
21 November 2021||Panaji,||GFP working president quits party||Goa Forward Party (GFP) working president Kiran Kandolkar quit the party on Saturday in protest against a possible alliance with the Congress in the upcoming Assembly polls and joined the Trinamool Congress. Mr. Kandolkar was welcomed in TMC by the party MP Mahua Moitra and TMC national vice president Luizinho Faleiro. Mr. Kandolkar, a former BJP MLA, had joined GFP in 2020. Incidentally, he was declared the GFP candidate from the Aldona seat for the Assembly polls scheduled early next year. “But the Congress has already started campaigning there. I feel Congress will ditch the Vijai Sardesai-led party at the last minute. I feel that parties like Congress and AAP are not serious about defeating BJP,” he told reporters. Mr. Kandolkar said the Mamata Banerjee-led party is only capable of defeating the BJP in next year's polls. “Rahul Gandhi or Arvind Kejriwal can't defeat Narendra Modi. But Mamata Banerjee has shown in West Bengal that she can fight back and hand BJP a drubbing,” he added. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House restricting the BJP at 13. However, the BJP allied with regional parties — GFP and MGP — to form a government under the late Manohar Parrikar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gfp-working-president-quits-party/article37606405.ece
21 November 2021||Howrah (W.B.),||Howrah ex-Deputy Mayor’s daughter-in-law arrested||The daughter-in-law of former Howrah Deputy Mayor Minati Adhikari and a State Government official were among the 10 people arrested from West Bengal’s Salkia for allegedly selling newborn babies from an adoption centre, the police said on Saturday. Acting on complaints, Howrah City Police Commissioner C. Sudhakar led a raid on Cradle Baby Centre late on Friday night and arrested 10 people, including the woman, who was running the adoption centre for the last five years, and the West Bengal Civil Service official, a senior officer said. Several babies were removed from the private home by the police during the raid, he said. “We had received several complaints against this NGO, including allegations of selling babies in the guise of running the home and that there were incidents of molestation of the infants. An investigating team had been constituted to probe the matter. They found several discrepancies, following which we made the arrests and registered a case under the POCSO Act,” the officer told PTI. He said further investigation is underway to ascertain whether the NGO has links with any inter-State child-trafficking rackets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/howrah-ex-deputy-mayors-daughter-in-law-arrested/article37606144.ece
21 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Court unhappy over slow probe into murder case||A local court in Cuttack district has expressed strong displeasure over the sluggish pace of investigation into a murder case involving Odisha Law Minister Pratap Kumar Jena, who is alleged to be an accused. The case pertained to the murder of Kulamani Baral, a BJP leader and former chairperson of Mahanga block in Cuttack, and his associate Dibyasingh Baral, who were brutally hacked to death in their village Nrutanga in January this year. Ramakant Baral, son of Kulamani, had filed case in Mahanga police station against 13 persons including the Minister alleging their involvement in the murder. After investigation, police had filed a chargesheet against 14 accused, but dropped Mr. Jena’s name. Subsequently, Mr. Ramakant moved Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC), Salipur alleging that the investigating officer had carried out a hasty probe overlooking the allegation against the Minister even when he was named in the first information report and statement recorded under Section 161 of the CrPC. The JMFC on August 25 this year had directed the inspector in charge of Mahanga police station to take up further investigation of the case against Mr. Jena as expeditiously as possible. While hearing the case afresh, the JMFC said that the inspector in charge of Mahanga police station “has not submitted any case diary or report intimating this court about the action taken by him in pursuance of the August 25 order directing him to take up further investigation in the case”. ‘Take immediate steps’ The court directed the police to take immediate steps for collection and preservation of call detail records of key persons related to the case as directed and to intimate it by November 25 and also submit an up-to-date case diary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-unhappy-over-slow-probe-into-murder-case-with-minister-link/article37606149.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Publish list of free land allottees: panel||The Tamil Nadu Information Commission (TNIC) has directed the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Director to publish the list of beneficiaries of free house site pattas online. The order follows a number of petitions received by the Commission from across the State seeking to know the list of beneficiaries. Passing orders on a petition seeking details of such beneficiaries in Ambattur, State Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj asked the State authorities to publish the entire list online within two months. The case arises out of a petition filed by E. Kumar of Ayapakkam here, who sought to know under the Right to Information Act (RTI) the list of Adi Dravidar and tribal beneficiaries who received free house site pattas in Pothur village of Ambattur Taluk. No response With no desired response from the public information officer (PIO)/special tahsildar, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare, Tiruvallur district, he filed an appeal before the First Appellate Authority and then moved the Commission. The PIO who appeared for the telephonic inquiry informed the State Information Commissioner that the information called for by the petitioner would be provided soon. Next hearing in January Directing the official to provide the information within seven days, Mr. Muthuraj directed the State authorities to publish the entire list of free house site patta beneficiaries on the official website of the Department of Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare, and asked the PIO to appear for the next hearing posted for January 19, 2022. Multiple allegations The Information Commission order, according to sources in the Department of Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare, assumes significance against the backdrop of allegations and several petitions that a huge land parcel allotted to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes was not in their possession due to a variety of reasons and publishing the list of beneficiaries would throw some clarity on the actual names of allottees and their legal heirs. The move comes at a time when the Tamil Nadu Government has launched a programme for district-wise enumeration of Narikuravas, tribals and other marginalised communities across the State to assess their living conditions and provide basic infrastructural facilities at the earliest, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/publish-list-of-free-land-allottees-panel/article37606019.ece
21 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Slain Armyman’s wife now an officer||Three years ago, Jyoti Nainwal was left devastated when her husband, Deepak Nainwal, died during the Army’s counter-terrorist operation in Jammu and Kashmir. On Saturday, this mother of two became a newly commissioned Army officer at the Officers’ Training Academy (OTA) in the city. “He suffered a gun shot in April 2018 during a terrorist encounter, was hospitalised for 40 days and died in May. He gifted us a life of pride and I’m trying to carry it forward,” Ms. Nainwal said, in an video released by the Press Information Bureau. She was among the 178 cadets who were commissioned into the Army in the ceremonial passing-out parade of the OTA. Of the 178, 124 were gentlemen cadets of the SSC-112 and 29 women cadets of SSC (W). Twenty-five cadets from friendly foreign countries too finished their training here, according to a press release.  Among those who passed out were seven Afghan National Army cadets. They will soon report to their embassy in New Delhi. One of the officers commissioned was Dimple Bhati. “When we were in school, we used to go for sports practice. Our neighbours would stop us and ask [our parents] why girls are going for hockey and other games. To that my parents would respond by saying daughters are no less than sons,” she said. Her sister Captain Divya Bhati was present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/slain-armymans-wife-now-an-officer/article37606021.ece
21 November 2021||Mumbai,||Study reveals pollution in waterbodies around power plant||A new study has revealed extensive and rampant pollution in the areas around Maharashtra State Power Generation Company (Mahagenco) 2400 MW Koradi and 1340 MW Khaparkheda thermal power plants. Incidentally, the Ministry of Environment, Forests & Climate Change (MoEF&CC) has given terms of references (ToRs) for the further expansion of two units (660 megawatt) of Koradi TPS. Toxic metals The study has found surface and groundwater contaminated with toxic metals like mercury, arsenic, aluminium, lithium etc. and has recorded widespread contamination of air, water and soil due to fly ash. The report of the study, titled “Polluted Power: How Koradi And Khaperkheda Thermal Power Stations Are Impacting The Environment” has called for an immediate halt to the discharge of pollutants from the power plants and ash ponds. The research also strongly suggests that all prior pollution-related harm be cleaned up under the supervision of a commission comprising local community and civil society members, as well as independent experts. The study was carried out by the Centre for Sustainable Development (CFSD), Nagpur, Manthan Adhyayan Kendra, Pune, and ASAR Social Impact Advisors Pvt. Ltd. with the involvement of the local communities. Water samples were collected from 25 locations including surface and groundwater (across rivers like Kanhan and Kolar) and treatment facilities. Fly ash samples were collected from five locations including ash ponds of the two power plants and a couple of households. Detailed village-level surveys were done for 21 villages, as well with a similar number of individual households and farmers. BIS standards As per the study, almost every water sample, in every season including monsoon, failed to pass the standards set for drinking water by the Bureau of Indian Standards, the IS 10500: 2012 (acceptable limits) and other relevant standards, with the sole exceptions of samples from Water ATM output (an automatic water dispensation system). The study found several water samples with toxic elements like mercury, arsenic, lithium, aluminium etc. exceeding the safe limits by 10-15 times. High levels of turbidity, hardness, alkalinity, and total dissolved solids have been discovered in both surface and groundwater sources. “We initiated this study given the long history of pollution due to these power plants and their related infrastructure like ash ponds and the complete failure of official agencies in addressing the problem,” said Leena Buddhe, Director, CFSD and co-author. Shripad Dharmadhikary, co-author and coordinator, Manthan Adhyayan Kendra, said the study has revealed how badly the water resources of the area have been polluted by the Koradi and Khaparkheda power plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/study-reveals-pollution-in-waterbodies-around-thermal-power-plant/article37606121.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-in-arms/article37606146.ece
21 November 2021||November 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Flaws in the system||The story so far: The transfer of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee from the Madras High Court to the Meghalaya High Court has given rise to a controversy over the question whether judicial transfers are made only for administrative reasons or have any element of ‘punishment’ behind them. In 2019, Justice Vijaya K. Tahilramani, another Chief Justice of the Madras High Court who was transferred to Meghalaya, chose to resign. What does the Constitution say on the transfer of judges? Article 222 of the Constitution provides for the transfer of High Court judges, including the Chief Justice. It says the President, after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, may transfer a judge from one High Court to any other High Court. It also provides for a compensatory allowance to the transferred judge. This means that the executive could transfer a judge, but only after consulting the Chief Justice of India. From time to time, there have been proposals that one-third of the composition of every High Court should have judges from other States. What is the Supreme Court’s view on the issue? In Union of India vs. Sankalchand Himatlal Sheth (1977), the Supreme Court rejected the idea that High Court judges can be transferred only with their consent. It reasoned that the transfer of power can be exercised only in public interest; secondly, the President is under an obligation to consult the Chief Justice of India, which meant that all relevant facts must be placed before the Chief Justice of India; and thirdly, that the Chief Justice of India had the right and duty to elicit and ascertain further facts from the judge concerned or others. In S.P. Gupta vs. President of India (1981), also known as the ‘Judges’ Transfer Case’ and, later, the First Judges Case, the Supreme Court once again had an opportunity to consider the issue. Among other issues, it had to consider the validity of the transfer of two Chief Justices as well as a circular from the Law Minister proposing that additional judges in all High Courts may be asked for their consent to be appointed as permanent judges in any other High Court, and to name three preferences. The Minister’s reasoning was that such transfers would promote national integration and help avoid parochial tendencies bred by caste, kinship and other local links and affiliations. The majority ruled that consultation with the Chief Justice did not mean ‘concurrence’ with respect to appointments. In effect, it emphasised the primacy of the executive in the matter of appointments and transfers. However, this position was overruled in the ‘Second Judges Case’ (1993). The opinion of the Chief Justice of India, formed after taking into the account the views of senior-most judges, was to have primacy. Since then, appointments are being made by the Collegium. What is the current procedure for transfers? As one of the points made by the ‘Second Judges Case’ was that the opinion of the Chief Justice of India ought to mean the views of a plurality of judges, the concept of a ‘Collegium of Judges’ came into being. In the collegium era, the proposal for transferring a High Court judge, including a Chief Justice, should be initiated by the Chief Justice of India, “whose opinion in this regard is determinative”. The consent of the judge is not required. “All transfers are to be made in public interest, i.e., for promoting better administration of justice throughout the country.” For transferring a judge other than the Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of India should take the views of the Chief Justice of the court concerned, as well as the Chief Justice of the court to which the transfer is taking place. The Chief Justice of India should also take into account the views of one or more Supreme Court judges who are in a position to offer their views in the process of deciding whether a proposed transfer should take place. “In the case of transfer of a Chief Justice, only the views of one or more knowledgeable Supreme Court judges need to be taken into account.” The views should all be expressed in writing, and they should be considered by the Chief Justice of India and four senior-most judges of the Supreme Court, which means, the full Collegium of five. The recommendation is sent to the Union Law Minister who should submit the relevant papers to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister then advises the President on approving the transfer. What makes transfers controversial? Transfer orders become controversial when the Bar or sections of the public feel that there is a punitive element behind the decision to move a judge from one High Court to another. As a matter of practice, the Supreme Court and the government do not disclose the reason for a transfer. For, if the reason is because of some adverse opinion on a judge’s functioning, disclosure would impinge on the judge’s performance and independence in the court to which he is transferred. On the other hand, the absence of a reason sometimes gives rise to speculation whether it was effected because of complaints against the judge, or if it was a sort of punishment for certain judgments that inconvenienced the executive.   Transfer orders become controversial when the Bar or sections of the public feel that there is a punitive element behind the decision to move a judge from one High Court to another||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/flaws-in-the-system/article37605825.ece
21 November 2021||Mumbai,||Antilia bomb scare case: Court grants bail to bookie Naresh Gaur||A Special NIA Court here on Saturday granted bail to cricket bookie Naresh Gaur, arrested for his alleged role in the Antilia bomb scare and the Mansukh Hiran murder case. Dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze is a prime accused in the case. Special NIA Court Judge A.T. Wankhede allowed Mr. Gaur’s bail plea. Mr. Gaur, in his plea filed through advocate Aniket Nikam, had said procuring SIM cards for Mr. Vaze was the only role attributed to him. In the plea, he claimed to be ‘innocent’ and alleged that he was ‘falsely implicated’ in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-grants-bail-to-bookie-in-antilia-case/article37606143.ece
