22 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Cabinet expanded; 15 Ministers take oath of office||A total of 15 Ministers were sworn in on Sunday as the Ashok Gehlot Ministry in Rajasthan was expanded, taking the strength of the Council of Ministers to the maximum permissible limit of 30. Eleven of the legislators who took oath were inducted as Cabinet Ministers and four as Ministers of State. Governor Kalraj Mishra administered the oath of office to the new Ministers on the Raj Bhavan lawns here. This was the first Cabinet expansion and reshuffle of the Gehlot Government since it came to power in 2018. The expanded Cabinet has three women and four Dalit community members. The Ministry now has 19 Cabinet Ministers and 10 Ministers of State, besides the Chief Minister. The new Cabinet Ministers include Mamta Bhupesh, Bhajan Lal Jatav and Tikaram Jully, who were elevated from the rank of Minister of State. Two former Ministers, Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena, who were sacked along with then Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot after his rebellion in July 2020, made a triumphant comeback to the Cabinet. The other Cabinet Ministers are Hemaram Choudhary, Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Ramlal Jat, Mahesh Joshi, Govind Ram Meghwal and Shakuntla Rawat. Independents not in The new Ministers of State are two-time Kaman MLA Zahida Khan, Jhunjhunu MLA Brijendra Singh Ola, Dausa MLA Murari Lal Meena and Udaipurwati MLA Rajendra Singh Gudha, who joined the Congress after getting elected to the Assembly on Bahujan Samaj Party ticket. None of the Independent MLAs, who had extended support to the Congress Government during the political crisis last year, was inducted as a Minister. Though Mr. Gehlot had collected resignation letters from all the Ministers on Saturday, he handed over the papers of only three of them to the Governor for acceptance. Govind Singh Dotasra, Harish Chaudhary and Raghu Sharma were dropped in accordance with the “one man, one post” formula in the Congress; the three hold official positions in the party. Mr. Gehlot told presspersons after the swearing-in that while an attempt had been made to give representation to all sections in the Cabinet, the portfolios would be allocated keeping in mind the preparations for the 2023 State Assembly election. Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot, whose rebellion had threatened the Congress Government’s stability, said at a press conference that the Cabinet reshuffle had sent across a “positive message”, and denied that there was any factionalism in the party. He said the issues raised by him, such as an adequate representation to Dalits, had been addressed with a “comprehensive approach” in the Cabinet expansion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajasthan-cabinet-expanded-15-ministers-take-oath-of-office/article37618137.ece
22 November 2021||KALABURAGI,||Harvested maize going waste due to incessant rain in Ballari district||A large quantity of harvested maize in Ballari district is getting destroyed owing to incessant rainfall and the excessive moisture in the weather. In the Ballari APMC market yard alone, over 1,200 bags of maize were found to be going waste. As per information provided by farmers, rainfall has hit not only maize harvesting but also destroyed the crop that was harvested and kept in heaps across the district. Though many farmers have somehow managed to transport the harvested crop to the nearby markets, they are finding it very difficult to sell it. “I brought around 80 quintals of maize to the market about a week ago but I could not sell it as no one turned up for purchase. The crop kept in heaps is getting destroyed as it has contracted fungus. I tried to dry it in the sun. But, the cold weather failed my attempt. The APMC market doesn’t have facilities to keep the farm produce safe,” Rahul, a farmer from Hosalli village in Sandur taluk, told The Hindu . The farmer, an engineering graduate, cultivated maize in around 40 acres of land spending over Rs. 8 lakh. He has harvested the entire crop but bought a portion of it to the APMC market. The remaining crop is kept in his field covered with protective plastic sheets. “I have spent Rs. 20,000 on every acre for cultivating maize. I borrowed money from friends, relatives and traders to meet the cultivating expenditure. With the harvested crop getting destroyed in the market and fields with no takers, I am worried about the repayment of loans,” Mr. Rahul said. Mr. Rahul also complained of little cooperation from the APMC authorities for protecting the crop in the market yard. “They [APMC authorities] did not provide me with plastic sheets to cover the crop. Nor did they give any space in the warehouse to keep my crop. I had to spend nights in an open area protecting the crop from cattle. The godowns meant for farmers are being used by businessmen to keep their commodities,” he said. Acknowledging the problems that the farmers were facing in selling their produces, APMC authorities, however, pleaded their helplessness. “Due to continued rainfall, maize purchase was not made on midweek. Fresh crop has also not arrived in the market because of rainfall. Keeping farmers interests in mind, we have ensured that traders purchased crop even if it has 20% moisture content,” Maharudragouda, president of Ballari APMC Traders Association, said. According to him, traders would not come forward to purchase crop if it has more than 20% moisture. “If maize grain has more than 20% moisture, it develops fungus and turns poisonous. It cannot be used as feed in poultry farms. That is why traders are not coming forward to purchase the produce,” Mr. Maharudragouda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/harvested-maize-going-waste-due-to-incessant-rain-in-ballari-district/article37618384.ece
22 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Central nod for six-laning of NH-66||The Central Government has sanctioned six-laning of the arterial NH-66 stretch linking Kodungalloor in Thrissur to Edappally in Kochi. The project outlay is estimated at Rs. 3,465 crore. It would decongest the NH-66, trigger development and bring Kerala a step closer to the ambition of six-laning the 600 km NH-66 from Thalapady in Kasaragod to Karode in Thiruvananthapuram. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan tweeted “thank you, @nitin_gadkari Ji, Hon'ble Minister of Road Transport & Highways, Govt of India for sanctioning the 6-Laning work from Kodungalloor to Edappally section of NH-66 (Old 17) with a budget of Rs. 3465.82 cr. on HAM under Bharatmala Pariyojana". The six-laning is the Centre's Hybrid Annuity Model (HAM), part of the Union Government’s ambitious Bharathmala Pariyojana initiative. Agreement signed Earlier, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had signed an agreement with the State Government to six-lane 16 out of the 20 critical segments on the NH-66. It has also undertaken to expedite the six-laning of the Panavel-Kanyakumari stretch of the NH-66. The State Government would underwrite 25% of the land acquisition cost. Mr. Vijayan had assured landowners that they would get the best market price for their plots. He had appointed special tahsildars to expedite land acquisition and disbursal of compensation as per the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 2013. Mr. Vijayan had ordered that the Government compensate people who gave up their land for six-laning within six months. Riyas extends support Meanwhile, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said in Thrissur: “The State Government will support the NHAI for the NH development. Necessary interventions will be made for the time-bound completion of the project. Meetings will be convened to review the progress of the project.” The NH development will energise the Muziris heritage project in Ernakulam and Thrissur districts. The development of Kochi city too would be expedited, he said. Once the project is completed, people from northern districts as well as neighbouring States such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka would have easy access to Kochi. It would become a major coastal corridor in the country. The land acquisition and distribution of compensation in connection with National Highway development were progressing fast, the Minister said. It was expected that distribution of compensation would be completed in six months, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-nod-for-six-laning-of-nh-66/article37618456.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||SKM seeks legal backing for MSP, repeal of electricity Bill||Meeting for the first time after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal the contentious farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday said the umbrella body of farm unions would write an open letter to the Prime Minister mentioning the pending demands of farmers and wait for the formal withdrawal of the farm laws in Parliament. Meanwhile, farmers will continue with their pre-decided programme. It was decided that farmers would showcase their strength at the Lucknow mahapanchayat on Monday. They have also decided to observe the anniversary of the agitation on November 26 at the Delhi borders, and march to Parliament on November 29. Addressing presspersons after a meeting of the core committee at the Singhu border, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “We will write an open letter to PM seeking clarification on the committee to be formed on granting statutory status to MSP.” He said, in his Friday address, that the PM was not clear about the rights, duties, and time frame of the committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-open-letter-to-pm-skm-to-press-for-pending-demands/article37618139.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,||24 rain-related deaths in State||The State Government has estimated the extensive damage in South-Interior Karnataka region due to untimely rains in November in which 24 persons have died and crops on 5 lakh hectares have been destroyed. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who held an emergency meeting on Sunday night, has ordered a joint survey to assess the exact extent of damage. As much as Rs. 689 crore, available with Deputy Commissioners, will be utilised for relief work and Rs. 1 lakh will be released as first instalment for those who lost their homes. Finance Department has been directed to release Rs. 500 crore for repair of roads to PWD and RDPR Departments. As per preliminary estimate, over 2,200 km of road network, 165 bridges, 1,225 school buildings, 39 public health centres have been damaged due to rains across the State. As many as 658 houses have been damaged completely and 8,495 homes have suffered partial damage. Mr. Bommai has directed release of Rs. 25 lakh to each zone in BBMP limits for pothole filling and irrigation tank repair would be taken up on war footing. Government sources said that Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Tumakuru, Ramanagaram, Hassan, and Chickballapur districts have suffered extensive damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/24-rain-related-deaths-in-state/article37618174.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Report favours setting up Blue Economy Training Institute and Research Centre||A report titled Rapid Assessment of Blue Economy Potential in Karnataka prepared by the College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, under contract to the World Bank, has recommended setting up a Blue Economy Training Institute and Research Centre to conduct market analysis and engage in skilling and capacity building programmes for every blue economy sector recommended by the report. Blue economy refers to a number of economic opportunities related to ocean and marine ecosystems which can generate livelihoods while preserving the health of ocean eco system. The over 500-page report was released during the World Fisheries Day programme organised by the college on Sunday. The report was prepared by a team of experts headed by Director, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru and a former Secretary, Union Ministry of Earth Sciences, Shailesh Nayak. According to Dean and Professor of the college A. Senthil Vel, it took about one-and-half years to prepare the report by consulting over 500 experts. “The report is the first of its kind for the State on Blue Economy that provides for a new engine for economic growth in the State,” Mr. Vel said. Blue Economy is the new emerging area which provides for harnessing the vast untapped potential of aquatic resources in a sustainable manner, the Dean said. The report said that sustainable water-based tourism (coastal and inland), ecotourism, homestays, house boats, water sports such as kayaking, surfing, stand-up-paddling, white water rafting have an enormous potential to spur economic growth, generate employment and improve socio-economic conditions of communities. The policies to encourage these avenues need serious revamp efforts in consultation with subject matter experts. “An extensive marketing campaign to popularise these avenues in the domestic and international for a by using public relation strategies in the need of the hour,” it said. The report has identified new emerging sectors such as blue-biotechnology, integrated fish farming, renewable ocean energy, mining of sea bed minerals, etc., which can create jobs and which have the ability to significantly and positively impact the economy. It said that the preliminary evaluation has ruled out techno-economic feasibility, viability and potential of offshore wind energy, solar energy, osmotic power and ocean thermal energy in the State considering the present technologies. But ocean current energy that needs to be explored. The report said that frontier aquaculture, offshore energy, blue biotechnology need to be well planned and implemented in a phased manner. It said that in addition to Integrated Coastal Zone Management, managing the coastal and marine areas by preparing a Marine Spatial Plan and Coastal Master Plan in consultation with various stakeholders is also essential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/report-favours-setting-up-blue-economy-training-institute-and-research-centre/article37618556.ece
22 November 2021||MYSURU,||State to meet Uttar Pradesh weavers’ requirement of raw silk by Dec.-end||Karnataka is expected to meet the requirement of raw silk for weavers of Banarasi silk saris in Uttar Pradesh by making the Karnataka Silk Marketing Board (KSMB) unit operational in Varanasi by the end of December. Minister for Sericulture and Youth Empowerment K.C. Narayana Gowda, who led a delegation of Sericulture Department officials to Varanasi recently, revealed that the Uttar Pradesh Government had responded positively to the State Government’s proposal to set up the KSMB unit. The U.P. Government had provided space at Sarang Talab in Varanasi for the unit. Soon, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) would be signed between the U.P. Government, the National Handloom Development Corporation (NHDC), and the Karnataka Government, which will clear the decks for starting work, he said. Mr. Gowda and the delegation held discussions with representatives of U.P.’s Sericulture Department and reelers and weavers at Banaras Hindu University on November 18, said a statement. The weaving industry of Varanasi is the source of livelihood to an estimated 18,189 families, But, the State produces only 258 tonnes of raw silk every year against a total requirement of 3,000 tonnes. Also, mulberry, source of feed for silkworm, is cultivated only on 7,984 acres of land, the statement said, before adding that the weavers of Varanasi were heavily dependent on silk from outside. Officials from Karnataka explained to their counterparts about the technology used for silk production, including facilities extended to sericulture farmers, reelers, use of byproducts, and the marketing system. Mr. Gowda also assured the U.P. Government that Karnataka would extend all technological assistance to boost raw silk production. During his stay in Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Gowda also visited Allapur town, famous for the Banarasi saris, and held discussions with the weavers. Informing them about the proposed setting up of KSMB unit in Varanasi, he urged them to purchase the superior silk from Karnataka. Mr. Gowda was accompanied by KSMB chairperson Savita Amarashetty, KSMB managing director K.N. Anuradha, and Commissioner, Sericulture, R.S. Peddappayya during his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-meet-up-weavers-need-for-raw-silk-by-dec-end/article37618206.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Good response to Kannada medium engg. course||When a handful of engineering colleges in the State decided to offer undergraduate courses where Kannada was the medium of instruction, faculty members and heads of departments were expecting a tepid response, at best. After all, such an initiative had never been undertaken before. But much to their surprise, and joy, they were wrong. Many students have applied for Kannada medium engineering courses in the mock counselling session for this academic year. Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) said that as per data provided by Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA), 17 students so far have applied for the 30 government quota seats in two colleges in the civil engineering stream in the mock round. That’s more than half of the available seats. VTU is expecting good demand in the counselling session that will be held later this month. However, one college offering mechanical engineering in Kannada has no takers. So far three colleges have decided to offer courses in Kannada for the 2021-22 academic year. “While VTU had initially stated that five colleges would offer Kannada-medium courses from the next (2022-23) academic year, several institutions were keen on launching it this year itself,” said a varsity official. The three engineering colleges that will offer courses in Kannada are: Bheemanna Khandre Institute of Technology (BKIT), Bhalki in Bidar district; S.J.C. Institute of Technology, Chickballapur; and Maharaja Institute of TechnologyMysore, Srirangapatna. While the first two colleges will offer civil engineering courses, MIT has a mechanical engineering programme in Kannada. This is for the first time this year that engineering colleges in the State will offer programmes in the Kannada medium in line with the National Education Policy. While a total of 45 seats are up for grabs under the government quota, another 45 seats are available under other quotas. Karisiddappa, Vice-Chancellor of VTU, said that such programmes will immensely help students who have studied in Kannada medium at the pre-university level. “Many such students will do well in these courses as they have high subject aptitude but used to fare poorly only because they could not understand the language,” he said. Textbooks and study material are being translated into Kannada. “The university has also found experts who are coming forward to write books in Kannada,” Mr. Karisiddappa added. Nagshetteppa Biradar, principal of BKIT, Bhalki said even if five out of their 30 seats were filled, they would start the course. “This year, we got the approval late. But we are keen on starting the course in Kannada for civil engineering and want to prove that one can be proficient in engineering by learning in the mother tongue,” he said.  Such programmes will immensely help students who have studied in Kannada medium at the pre-university level. Karisiddappa,VTU Vice-Chancellor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-response-to-kannada-medium-engg-course/article37618178.ece
22 November 2021||Srinagar,||Mehbooba leads rally to Raj Bhavan||Former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday led a rally from her residence on Gupkar Road to the Raj Bhavan in Srinagar in protest against the alleged “killings of civilians” during an operation by the security forces in the capital’s Hyderpora area on November 15. Four persons — three “civilians” and a non-local militant — were killed in a joint operation of the Army and the police in the Hyderpora area.  A magisterial inquiry has already been ordered into the incident by the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mehbooba-leads-rally-to-raj-bhavan/article37618515.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||Cabinet to okay repeal of laws on November 24||The Union Cabinet, at its next meeting on November 24, will take up for approval the repeal of the three farm laws announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 20. The proposal to repeal will then be taken up by Parliament at the start of the Winter Session on November 29. Government sources confirmed to The Hindu that the Union Cabinet’s agenda reflected the same. “The repeal of the three farm laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — will be taken up for approval at the Union Cabinet meeting to be held on Wednesday,” said the sources. The Government’s move may deflate the “aggression” of the Opposition against the BJP as States such as Uttar Pradesh and Punjab go to the polls in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-to-okay-repeal-of-laws-on-november-24/article37618140.ece
22 November 2021||Vijayawada,||CM tells MLAs, Ministers to camp in flood-hit areas||As the swollen Chitravathi, Papagni and Penna rivers continued to pose grave danger at various places in the Rayalaseema region, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday directed the in-charge Ministers and the Ministers and MLAs of Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore districts to camp there and personally monitor the relief operations. He said they need not attend the Assembly in view of the contingency. The Chief Minister said the Ministers and MLAs should visit the flood-ravaged towns and villages and ensure that the affected people got essential supplies and immediate financial assistance to withstand the nature’s fury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-tells-mlas-ministers-to-camp-in-flood-hit-areas/article37618135.ece
22 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,||SSI murdered by duo stealing goat||A special sub-inspector of police attached to the Tiruchi rural police was murdered in the early hours of Sunday by two unidentified persons when he chased them on his motorcycle after finding them in possession of a stolen goat. C. Boominathan, 50, of the Navalpat station, was doing the night round at Poolangudi Colony on the outskirts of Tiruchi when he noticed two persons stealing a goat and leaving the spot on a two-wheeler. He chased them on his motorcycle and intercepted them at Pallathupatti near Tiruchi-Pudukottai National Highway in the Keeranur police station limits between 2.30 a.m. and 3 a.m, police sources said. Even as he was trying to contact the police station, the unidentified persons attacked him with sharp weapons on the head, killing him on the spot, and escaped. On information, Tiruchi Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan, who is the in- charge Inspector-General of Police, Central Zone, and Deputy Inspector of Police (Tiruchi Range) V. Saravana Sundar rushed to the spot and conducted inquiries. Mr. Karthikeyan told The Hindu that four special teams had been constituted to apprehend the accused. The body of Boominathan was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Government General Hospital for post-mortem. Later, it was laid to rest with police honours. Additional Director-General of Police (Law and Order) P. Thamarai Kannan said some clues had been obtained, and the assailants would be arrested soon. Accompanied by Mr. Karthikeyan, Mr. Saravana Sundar and Superintendent of Police (Tiruchi Rural) Sujit Kumar, he inspected the scene of crime and visited the residence of Bhoominathan at Navalpattu on the outskirts of Tiruchi. Mr. Thamaraikannan told reporters that Bhoominathan and another policeman had chased the culprits but the latter had fallen behind. The police have recovered a cell phone and a walkie-talkie that was carried by Boominathan from near the scene of crime. The gadgets allegedly thrown away by the accused before fleeing were recovered from a pool of water nearby, police sources said. Condoling the death of Bhoominathan, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced Rs. 1 crore as solatium to the bereaved family from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). He also announced that one family member would be given a government job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ssi-in-tiruchi-murdered-by-duo-stealing-goat/article37618244.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi schools to remain shut till further orders||The Directorate of Education on Sunday said all schools in the Capital will remain shut till further orders as the air quality in the city remained in the “very poor” category. The DoE had on November 14 announced closure of schools till November 20. However, online teaching activities and examinations for Board classes would be conducted as per guidelines issued earlier. AQI in ‘very poor’ zone The air quality on Sunday remained in the “very poor” zone with a 24-hour average AQI reading of 349 at 4.30 p.m., based on the readings from 36 monitoring stations. But with wind speeds picking up, there was visible improvement in the air quality. Further enhancement in the AQI has been forecast for the coming days. Air quality and weather bulletin for Delhi issued by the Ministry of Earth Sciences said: “The relatively stronger winds are favourable for better dispersion of pollutants and the air quality is likely to improve further and remain in poor to moderate category on November 22 and November 23.” Sources said Environment Minister Gopal Rai will on Monday review the curbs imposed in the city to contain high levels of pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-schools-to-remain-shut-till-further-orders/article37618285.ece
22 November 2021||BELAGAVI,||Savadi says don’t give in to influences while voting||Laxman Savadi, former Deputy Chief Minister, asked gram panchayat members not to lose their self-respect, while exercising their franchise. “You should all retain your self-respect and not give in to influences,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/savadi-says-dont-give-in-to-influences-while-voting/article37618379.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Rivers from Nandi Hills Range back to life||Heavy rains in October and November have brought rivers to life in the historically arid regions of Kolar, Chickballapur  and surrounding areas. Six rivers that originate in the Nandi Hills Range on Bengaluru’s outskirts are flowing bountifully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rivers-from-nandi-hills-range-back-to-life/article37618176.ece
22 November 2021||Agartala,||Women’s police station attacked in Agartala||Several people, including some journalists, were injured in a spate of organised attacks at different places, including a women’s police station, in the capital of Tripura, Agartala, on Sunday. The tensions are linked to elections to the Agartala Municipal Corporation and 12 other municipal bodies slated for November 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/womens-police-station-attacked-in-agartala/article37618287.ece
22 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. launches slew of ‘cow welfare’ measures||With an eye on the 2023 Assembly elections, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan Government has decided to set up a tax plan for “cow welfare” in the State where gau kalyan (cow welfare) has been at the heart of politics for years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-launches-slew-of-cow-welfare-measures/article37618513.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,||8.13 lakh children to get de-worming tablets||As many as 4.96 lakh children aged between one and 19 will receive de-worming tablets in Dakshina Kannada, while 3.16 lakh children will receive them in Udupi district, November 23 and 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/813-lakh-children-to-get-de-worming-tablets/article37618559.ece
22 November 2021||Gurugram,||Jumma Namaz: move to reclaim Waqf property||Amid growing opposition to Jumma Namaz in the open by Hindu right-wing groups, the Muslim community is focussing on getting encroachments cleared around two dozen Waqf Board properties in Gurugram with the help of the local administration, and procuring institutional land from the Government for construction of a mosque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jumma-namaz-gurugram-muslims-to-build-mosque/article37618284.ece
22 November 2021||Pune,||BJP urged to exercise restraint in Amravati case||Urging the Opposition BJP to maintain peace, Maharashtra Minister Yashomati Thakur accused former CM Devendra Fadnavis of giving “half-baked” information at a time when the ruling party was already conducting an impartial probe into the violence of November 12-13. Mr. Fadnavis had alleged that only those with an affinity to Hindutva outfits were being targeted by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-urged-to-exercise-restraint-in-amravati-case/article37618514.ece
22 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Ministers to tour rain-hit areas after EC nod||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that he had sought permission from the Election Commission of India for Ministers to hold meetings with officials in the districts and also to conduct damage surveys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ministers-to-tour-rain-hit-areas-after-ec-nod/article37618380.ece
22 November 2021||BELAGAVI,||‘We’ll all work together to ensure party’s win’||BJP leaders took out rallies as part of Jana Swarajya Yatre in Chikkodi and Belagavi on Sunday, where they campaigned for Mahantesh Kavatagimath, party candidate for the Legislative Council polls. The former Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa addressed the two rallies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/well-all-work-together-to-ensure-partys-win/article37618382.ece
22 November 2021||MYSURU,||Concern over fate of heritage structures||The recent spell of incessant rains that lashed the region has raised concern over the fate of some of the heritage structures that lack maintenance and are crying for attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/concern-over-fate-of-heritage-structures/article37618589.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Jai Bhim director expresses regret||Jai Bhim ’s director T.J. Gnanavel on Sunday sought to put an end to the controversy over the film, saying he “sincerely regrets” having hurt the sentiments of a section and stressing that he did not have the slightest intention to do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jai-bhim-director-expresses-regret/article37618233.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Post-COVID, positive change in police attitude towards public’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a police meet on Sunday that post-COVID-19, there had been a positive change in police attitude towards the general public. The Prime Minister addressed the valedictory session of the three-day annual DGPs’ conference that was held in Lucknow in a hybrid format this year. The conference was inaugurated by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on November 19 where on stage he was accompanied by the three Ministers of State for Home — Nityanand Rai, Nisith Pramanik and Ajay Kumar Mishra. Mr. Mishra, whose son is accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh last month, was conspicuously absent from the group photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the senior police officers on Sunday. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, Director, Intelligence Bureau Arvinda Kumar, Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and the three Ministers were there for the photo session. Though Mr. Mishra attended the conference on Friday and Saturday, he was not there on Sunday. A day ago, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wrote to PM Modi to sack Mr. Mishra and not share stage with him at the conference. ‘Earned trust’ Mr. Modi told the officers that he had, in previous conferences, observed that the police used force and curfews to resolve issues but this time he saw the police leadership serving the citizens professionally and had also earned their trust, a senior official who attended the conference said. Mr. Modi also called for an analysis of all police related incidents and developing case studies, to make it an institutionalised learning mechanism. “He called for constituting a high-power police technology mission, under the leadership of Union Home Minister to adopt future technologies for grassroots policing requirements. Citing the importance of technology in the lives of the general public, the Prime Minister gave examples of CoWIN, GeM and UPI,” a Home Ministry statement said. The conference was attended by 62 DGPs and IGPs, DGs of the Central Armed Police Forces. More than 400 officers of various ranks attended it virtually from the Intelligence Bureau (IB) offices. SMART policing In the run-up to the conference, various core groups of DGPs were formed for holding discussions on key aspects of national security such as prison reforms, terrorism, Left Wing Extremism, cyber crimes, narcotics trafficking, foreign funding of NGOs, drone-related matters, development of border villages, among others, the statement said. “He suggested development of inter-operable technologies which would benefit police forces. …He also suggested positive use of drone technology. He stressed on review of SMART policing concept introduced in 2014 and suggested development of a roadmap for its continuous transformation and institutionalisation. To tackle some of the routine challenges, he urged involvement of highly qualified youth to look for technological solutions through hackathon,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/post-covid-positive-change-in-police-attitude-towards-public/article37618057.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||Five MPs likely to move dissent notes to Data Bill panel report||At least five of the 30 members of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill are expected to move dissent notes to the panel’s report on the legislation. Sources said that at least three of these were directed at the controversial clause that allowed the Union Government to exempt any agency under its purview from the law. According to informed sources, Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh, Manish Tewari and Gaurav Gogoi; Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien; and Biju Janata Dal MP Amar Patnaik will move the dissent notes. Sources said that more members could join this list. The panel is meeting on Monday to adopt the long-pending report. The panel has been studying the Bill since 2019. Clause 35, in the name of “sovereignty”, “friendly relations with foreign states”' and “security of the state”, allows any agency under the Union Government exemption from all or any provisions of the law. Pegasus case This clause assumes importance against the backdrop of recent revelations in the Pegasus spyware case, where both private and public citizens were allegedly snooped upon by the Government. The panel reached a middle path on the clause by agreeing that the Government had to record in writing the reasons to give exemption to any agency. Demands that this clause be suitably amended so as to include the provision to seek approval from Parliament for seeking such exemptions were not accepted. Mr. Ramesh was one of the members who argued that the Government should table the recorded reasons in Parliament for providing exemption to any Government agency to bring in greater transparency and accountability. ‘Privileged class’ In his dissent note against Clause 35, Mr. Ramesh said the design of the Bill assumes that the Constitutional right to privacy arises only where operations and activities of private companies are concerned. “Governments and government agencies are treated as a separate privileged class whose operations and activities are always in the public interest and individual privacy considerations are secondary,” he wrote. He added that the idea that the August 2017 Puttaswamy (privacy) judgment of the Supreme Court is relevant only for “a very, very, very tiny section of the Indian population” is in his view “deeply flawed and troubling”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-mps-likely-to-move-dissent-notes-to-data-bill-panel-report/article37618071.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Singapore flights to resume from Nov. 29||Commercial flights between Singapore and India under the Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) programme will begin from November 29, with six daily designated flights from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai. This was announced by the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) on Sunday after reaching an agreement with the Ministry of Civil Aviation of India on the resumption of scheduled commercial passenger flights. The announcement comes a few days after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met Singapore Transport Minister S. Iswaran in the city state, and said he “discussed enhancing travel arrangements”. “This will facilitate quarantine-free travel on the Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) from India to Singapore, which will start from November 29 with six designated VTL flights daily from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai,” the CAAS said in a statement. It said airlines can also operate non-VTL flights. However, travellers will be subject to the health requirements based on the Singapore Ministry of Health’s Country/Region Classification for Border Measures. The airlines will announce the schedules for the VTL and non-VTL flights when ready, it said. Short-term visitors and long-term pass holders will need to apply for a Vaccinated Travel Pass (VTP) to enter Singapore under the VTL. Applications for the VTP for short-term visitors and long-term pass holders for travel from Malaysia, Indonesia, India, Finland and Sweden to Singapore will open on November 22. “Under the VTL, fully vaccinated travellers from VTL countries may enter Singapore without quarantine and just need to undergo COVID-19 testing,” the CAAS said, adding that children aged 12 and below who are not vaccinated will be allowed to travel under the VTL if they are accompanied by a VTL traveller who meets all requirements. It said all VTL travellers will need to take two COVID-19 tests — a pre-departure test and an on-arrival PCR test at the Changi Airport — and remain self-isolated until their test result is confirmed to be negative. Children aged two and below in the calendar year are not required to undergo these tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/singapore-flights-to-resume-from-nov-29/article37618092.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Some nations stalling maritime order: Rajnath||Stating that global security reasons, border disputes and maritime dominance have forced countries to move towards strengthening their military power, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday that some “irresponsible nations”, for narrow partisan interests, keep on giving “new and inappropriate” interpretations to international laws. These are creating obstacles in the path of a “rule-based maritime order”, the Minister said. Speaking at the commissioning ceremony of the first Project-15B class stealth guided missile destroyer INS Visakhapatnam , in Mumbai, Mr. Singh said, “In the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) of 1982, territorial waters of nations, exclusive economic zones and the principle of ‘Good order at sea’ have been propounded. Some irresponsible nations, for the sake of their narrow partisan interests, keep on giving new and inappropriate interpretations to these international laws from hegemonic tendencies. The arbitrary interpretations create obstacles in the path of a rule-based maritime order.” Freedom of navigation “We envision a rule-based Indo-Pacific, with freedom of navigation, free trade and universal values, in which the interests of all the participating countries are protected,” Mr. Singh stated. Asserting that India’s interests are directly linked with the Indian Ocean and the region is crucial for the world economy, Mr. Singh said challenges such as piracy, terrorism, illegal smuggling of arms and narcotics, human trafficking, illegal fishing and damage to the environment are equally responsible for affecting the maritime domain. “Therefore, the role of the Indian Navy becomes very important in the entire Indo-Pacific region,” he said. Describing the development of indigenous aircraft carrier Vikrant , which is undergoing trials, as an important milestone in indigenous development, Mr. Singh said: “The carrier will increase our reach from the Indian Ocean to the Pacific and Atlantic Ocean. Its commissioning will be a golden moment in the history of the Indian defence. It will be the best occasion to celebrate the 75th anniversary of India's independence and the 50th anniversary of India's victory in 1971 war.”  INS Visakhapatnam is the first of four P-15B ships designed by the Navy’s Directorate of Naval Design and constructed by Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited, Mumbai. It measures 163m in length, 17m in breadth with a displacement of 7,400 tonnes and is propelled by four powerful gas turbines, in a Combined Gas and Gas (COGAG) configuration, capable of achieving speeds in excess of 30 knots. The ship has enhanced stealth features resulting in a reduced Radar Cross Section (RCS) and is packed with sophisticated state-of-the-art weapons and sensors such as BrahMos Surface-to-Surface missiles and Barak-8 Surface-to-Air missiles. Named after the historic city of Andhra Pradesh on the east coast, Visakhapatnam, the ‘City of Destiny’, the ship has a total complement of about 315 personnel, the Navy said in a statement. The ship will be under the command of Captain Birendra Singh Bains, a Navigation and Direction specialist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/some-nations-stalling-maritime-order-rajnath/article37618052.ece
22 November 2021||Srinagar,||Mehbooba leads rally to Raj Bhavan||Former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday led a rally from her residence on Gupkar Road to the Raj Bhavan in Srinagar in protest against the alleged “killings of civilians” during an operation by the security forces in the capital’s Hyderpora area on November 15. Her supporters were seen raising slogans and demanding “an end to the bloodshed of innocents”. “The bloodshed should be brought to an end in J&K, especially the Valley. Justice should be delivered to the victims’ families. Amir’s body should also be handed over back to the family,” Ms. Mufti said. Amir Magray was working as an office boy in the building where the operation was carried out. His family hails from Jammu’s Ramban area. “Where is the body of the militant? Where is the picture of the dead militant?” Ms. Mufti asked, saying it seemed as if no militant had been killed. Ms. Mufi also demanded an apology from Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha over the incident. PDP leaders accompanying Ms. Mufti also demanded justice for the three civilians allegedly found dead at the encounter site. So far, the police have handed over the bodies of two civilians to their families for burial in Srinagar. Inquiry ordered Earlier this week, Ms. Mufti claimed that she had been placed under house arrest when she decided to join the protesting families. Four persons — three “civilians” and a non-local militant — were killed in a joint operation of the Army and the police in Srinagar’s Hyderpora area. “An incident has taken place regarding law and order and those found guilty will not be spared,” Lieutenant-Governor Sinha said in Jammu on Saturday. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the Hyderpora incident by the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mehbooba-leads-rally-to-raj-bhavan/article37618068.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM likely to join Joe Biden’s Democracy Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to take part in U.S. President Joseph Biden’s “Summit for Democracy”, officials said, confirming that the Government has received an invitation for him to take part in the conference in virtual format on December 9 and 10. Mr. Modi’s participation, along with leaders of more than 100 countries invited, is expected to include “individual and collective commitments to defend democracy and human rights at home and abroad”, according to the White House announcement on the summit, in a manner akin to the climate change “goals” leaders at the Glasgow summit spelt out. Mr. Biden, who had promised the Summit during his election campaign, also wants the grouping to send a message to the U.S.’s chief rivals China and Russia, who are not invitees, though both countries refer to themselves as democracies. The summit will follow close on the heels of Mr. Modi’s annual summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and the 2+2 meeting of Indian and Russian Foreign and Defence Ministers on December 6, when the two countries are expected to announce a number of bilateral agreements and defence deals. Russia has been sharply critical of the Democracy Summit, which Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov called an attempt to divide the world to garner “maximum loyalty” from invitees, while excluding other countries such as Russia and China. According to lists of invitee countries reported in U.S. media, leaders of 108 countries have been invited, including four in the South and Central Asian (SCA) region: India, the Maldives, Nepal and Pakistan. It is unclear whether other democracies in the region such as Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Bhutan are also being invited, but the omission of those countries is just one of a number of aspects of the conference that is raising eyebrows in New Delhi. Afghanistan and Myanmar, two countries in the region where democratic governments were overthrown forcibly this year, are likely to be on the agenda instead, as a key point of discussion. The White House has outlined three key themes: “Defending against authoritarianism”, “Addressing and fighting corruption”, and “Advancing respect for human rights”. Another point of concern would be the extent of commentary about the quality of democracy amongst the conference invitees. India has traditionally regarded issues of democracy and human rights an “internal matter” for the country, and in the past few years, the Ministry of External Affairs has rejected attempts by the U.S., the European Union and the U.K. legislature to pass resolutions on issues such as restrictions in Jammu and Kashmir, and protests over the farm Bills and the Citizenship Amendment Act. Conversely, the Modi Government has also spoken quite strongly about promoting democracy and full representation in the Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka, while expressing concerns about the rights of minorities in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, and it remains to be seen whether Mr. Modi will raise any of these issues during the summit. The summit follows months after an attempt by the U.S. and the U.K. to expand the G-7 meeting into a “D-10” or group of 10 democracies that would represent 60% of the global population, including Australia, India and South Korea, along with the G-7 group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-likely-to-join-bidens-democracy-summit/article37618073.ece
22 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram Muslims to build mosque||Amid growing opposition from Hindu right-wing groups to Juma Namaz in the open, the Muslim community is focusing on getting encroachments cleared on around two dozen Waqf Board properties in the district with the help of the local administration, and procuring institutional land from the Government for construction of a mosque. “Around two dozen Waqf Board properties are lying unused due to encroachment or opposition by locals across the district. The exact number of properties could be even higher. We are seeking details from the Waqf Board on this. Some of these properties, especially those falling in New Gurugram, could be used for offering of Juma Namaz,” said Altaf Ahmad, co-founder, Gurgaon Muslim Council. Detailed analysis The council is now in the process of carrying out a detailed analysis of the kind of structures and encroachment on these Waqf Board properties, their exact locations and the claims of ownerships being made on them. “Since the urgent need for land for Juma Namaz is in New Gurugram, we are focusing on properties in this part of the city. As per local Muslim religious leaders, there are five sites with remnants of mosques in Jharsa village near Rajiv Chowk. Also, there are a few plots partially encroached, including a large parcel of land for cemetery, in and around Sector 40. Some of these properties, if cleared from encroachment, can be used for offering namaz ,” said Mr. Ahmad. Fear of attacks Maulana Abdul Hasib said not all mosque sites in Jharsa were encroached upon by the locals, but the fear of backlash by the locals prevented them from holding Juma Namaz at these sites. “These mosque sites range from 1,000 sq.ft to around 10,000 sq.ft and are big enough to accommodate a large number of devotees. But a couple of these sites are deep inside the village and there is a fear of backlash. Similarly, a 10,000 sq.ft cemetery plot with remnants of just two graveyards in Sector 40 could also be used for offering namaz . I spoke to a few locals and took them into confidence on this matter. We might hold a Juma Namaz at this site in coming weeks. Since these sites are closer to places that have witnessed opposition to Juma Namaz, it can help tackle the issue to some extent,” said Maulana Hasib. Mr. Ahmad said the council was working in tandem with the Waqf Board since the properties belonged to it. Govt. inaction The Waqf Board had handed over the list of 19 mosques/properties in Gurugram to the local administration three years ago seeking help to clear the encroachment following opposition to offering of namaz in the open spaces in the city for the first time. As per the list, seven mosques were allegedly encroached upon in Wazirabad, Daulatpur-Nasriabad, Dhankot, Naurganpur, Jharsa, Badshahpur and Farrukhnagar villages. Similarly, six mosques were not being used for offering prayers at Bhondsi, Khurampur, Dhankot, Meoka and Garhi Harsaru villages due to alleged opposition by the locals. The attempts to build a mosque on Waqf Board plots in Jharsa, Jharsa-Fazilpur, Naurangpur and Meoka were thwarted by the locals. Estate Officer of the Gurugram Waqf Board Jamaluddin told The Hindu that no headway could be made on the matter even after three years and the properties were still encroached upon. “The Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran to provide alternate land to the Board in return for over two-acre plot acquired by them in Chauma village in Palam Vihar. We had written to the administration on this as well three years ago, but no action was initiated. We have now filed a contempt of court plea in this matter,” said Mr. Jamaluddin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muslims-in-gurugram-plan-to-build-a-mosque/article37618049.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP gets new office-bearers; Tawde is general secretary||The BJP on Sunday made some organisational appointments including promoting Maharashtra leader Vinod Tawde to the post of national general secretary from his previous position of national secretary. The party inducted Rituraj Sinha, son of Rajya Sabha member R.K. Sinha, and Asha Lakra as national secretaries, and appointed Shehzad Poonawalla and Bharti Ghosh as party spokespersons. Mr. Tawde’s elevation, it is said, is to fill the vacancy created by the exit of Bhupendra Yadav, who was inducted into the Union Cabinet as Environment and Labour Minister in July. The promotion for Mr. Tawde is significant in the context of Maharashtra politics as he is not considered part of former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis’s inner circle. When he was appointed national secretary a few months earlier, his position was not considered strong either in the State unit or with the high command in Delhi. But the promotion to general secretary indicates that he has made inroads in the Delhi power structure, with implications for Maharashtra BJP. Ms. Lakra has been a two-time Mayor of Ranchi and her appointment is indicative of the fillip being given to representation to tribal leaders in the party. The BJP, in the last couple of years, lost power in the tribal-dominated States of Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. The Union Government recently declared November 15 (birth anniversary of tribal icon Birsa Munda) Tribal Pride Day. While these appointments will bolster the organisational structure, BJP president J.P. Nadda is yet to fill the four big vacancies in the party’s Parliamentary Board, the most important decision-making body in the party. With the passing away of Union Ministers Sushma Swaraj, Arun Jaitley and Ananth Kumar and the elevation of M. Venkaiah Naidu as Vice-President, there are now significant vacancies in the Parliamentary Board. Front runners for these posts are Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Piyush Goyal and Nirmala Sitharaman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-gets-new-office-bearers-tawde-is-general-secretary/article37618066.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||Life expectancy lower for urban poor, says study||Life expectancy among the poorest is lower by 9.1 years among men and 6.2 years among women from the corresponding figures for the richest in urban areas, noted a report released recently by Azim Premji University in collaboration with 17 regional NGOs across India. The report, “Healthcare equity in urban India”, explores health vulnerabilities and inequalities in cities in India. It also looks at the availability, accessibility and cost of healthcare facilities, and possibilities in future-proofing services in the next decade. It notes that a third of India’s population lives in urban areas, with this segment seeing a rapid growth from about 18% (1960) to 28.53% (2001) and 34% (in 2019). Close to 30% of people living in urban areas are poor. The study also draws insights from data collected through interactions with civil society organisations in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Surat, Lucknow, Guwahati, Ranchi and Delhi. This also included an analysis of the National Family and Health Surveys, the Census, and inputs from State-level officials on the provision of healthcare. The report, besides finding disproportionate disease burden on the poor, also points to a chaotic urban health governance, where the multiplicity of healthcare providers both within and outside the Government without coordination are challenges to urban health governance. The other key findings include a heavy financial burden on the poor, and less investment in healthcare by urban local bodies. Steps to be taken The report calls for strengthening community participation and governance; building a comprehensive and dynamic database on the health and nutrition status, including comorbidities of the diverse, vulnerable populations; strengthening healthcare provisioning through the National Urban Health Mission, especially for primary healthcare services; and putting in place policy measures to reduce the financial burden of the poor. It also advocates for a better mechanism for coordinated public healthcare services and better governed private healthcare institutions. “As urbanisation is happening rapidly, the number of the urban poor is only expected to increase. A well-functioning, better coordinated and governed healthcare system is crucial at this point,” the report says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/life-expectancy-lower-for-urban-poor-says-study/article37618085.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||Prolonged school closures pose threat to gender equality: study||Educational disruption due to prolonged closure of schools across the globe will not only have alarming effects on learning loss but also poses threat to gender equality, a new study by UNESCO has pointed out. The global study, titled “When schools shut: Gendered impacts of COVID-19 school closures”, brings to the fore that girls and boys, young women and men were affected differently by school closures, depending on the context. “At the peak of the pandemic, 1.6 billion students in 190 countries were affected by school closures. Not only did they lose access to education, but also to the myriad benefits of attending school, at an unparalleled scale,” said Stefania Giannini, UNESCO, Assistant Director-General for Education.  Drawing on evidence from about 90 countries and in-depth data collected in local communities, the report shows that gender norms and expectations can affect the ability to participate in and benefit from remote learning. “In poorer contexts, girls’ time to learn was constrained by increased household chores. Boys’ participation in learning was limited by income-generating activities. Girls faced difficulties in engaging in digital remote learning modalities in many contexts because of limited access to Internet-enabled devices, a lack of digital skills and cultural norms restricting their use of technological devices,” the report said. The study pointed out that digital gender-divide was already a concern before the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prolonged-school-closures-pose-threat-to-gender-equality-study/article37618079.ece
22 November 2021||Agartala,||Tensions spread in Agartala; women’s police station attacked||Several people, including some journalists, were injured in a spate of organised attacks at different places, including a women’s police station, in the capital of Tripura, Agartala, on Sunday. The tensions are linked to the elections to the Agartala Municipal Corporation and 12 other municipal bodies slated for November 25. The Tripura police had on Sunday evening arrested actor-turned-politician Saayoni Ghosh and charged her with attempt to murder among other Sections of the IPC in an alleged hit-and-run case. Miscreants wearing helmets and masks injured several people, including some journalists, outside the police station. Almost simultaneously, the residence of the State convener of the Trinamool Congress, Subal Bhowmik, was attacked and vandalised in the evening, leaving two party workers injured. The State’s ruling BJP distanced it from the incidents, including two attacks on the premises of the East Agartala Women Police Station in the old Central Jail area here. The bike-borne miscreants created a ruckus at other places in the city later in the evening. Police officials said they were taking appropriate action, but no arrests have been made so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tensions-spread-in-agartala-womens-police-station-attacked/article37618129.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||Centre to review vaccine drive in northeast and Puducherry||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting on Monday to review the progress and planning of COVID-19 vaccination in Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Puducherry where the first dose coverage is less than 70%, official sources said. The first dose coverage in Meghalaya was 56.7%, Manipur 54.2%, Nagaland 49% and Puducherry 65.7%, they said quoting government data updated on Sunday. The Government has launched a month-long ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign for house-to-house COVID-19 vaccination of those who are yet to take the first dose and those whose second dose is overdue. According to officials, more than 12 crore beneficiaries are overdue for their second dose of vaccine after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two jabs. “Mandaviya will hold a meeting to review the progress and planning of COVID-19 vaccination in Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Puducherry on Monday where the first dose coverage is less than 70%. The aim is to encourage vaccination there,” a source said. According to officials, around 82% of the eligible population in India has received the first dose of vaccine while around 43% have been fully inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-review-vaccine-drive-in-northeast-and-puducherry/article37618075.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC grants bail to 4 accused of hoarding, selling COVID drugs||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to four men accused of hoarding life-saving medicines to treat COVID-19 patients and selling them at exorbitant rates during the second wave of the pandemic. Justice Subramonium Prasad said, “The object of bail is neither punitive nor preventative and the person who has not been convicted should be held in custody pending trial only to ensure his attendance at trial; and to ensure that the evidence is not tampered with and the witnesses are not threatened”. Court’s permission Granting bail to Mohan Kumar Jha, Mohd Shoiab Khan, Pushkar Chandrakant Pakhale and Aditya Gautam, who had been in custody for the last seven months, Justice Prasad ordered them not to leave the Capital without prior permission of the court. The court also directed the four accused to report to the police station concerned thrice a week and not to tamper with the evidence or contact any witnesses. According to the prosecution, during the second wave of COVID-19 in April, the Delhi Police Crime Branch received inputs of illegal hoarding and supply of life-saving medicines, including Remdesivir, to treat COVID-19 patients. Police officers got a tip-off that two of the accused were going to supply Remdesivir injections near Batra Hospital. The two were apprehended along with the medicines and were unable to give any prescription of doctor or bills or satisfactory answers. The other accused were arrested subsequently. The police said that empty vials and a batch-coding machine, apparently used for the production of the fake injection labels, were seized from one of the accused. The prosecution opposed the bail plea contending that there had been a nexus of these individuals to dupe the needy people whose family members were ill and these people exploited their gullibility by selling fake Remdesivir injections at exorbitant prices. The accused sought bail on the grounds that they had been in judicial custody for the last seven months. A chargesheet had been filed and that no useful purpose would be served by keeping them in jail, their plea said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-grants-bail-to-4-accused-of-hoarding-selling-covid-19-drugs/article37618062.ece
22 November 2021||Pune,||Rs. 15 lakh compensation for kin of forest guard killed by tigress||A day after a woman park ranger was mauled to death by a tigress in the core area of the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in Chandrapur district of Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced an ex gratia compensation of Rs. 15 lakh for the family of the deceased. Swati Dhumane, in her mid-40s, was doing a sign survey in the tiger reserve under the All India Tiger Estimation (AITE) 2022 programme when the tigress, Maya , attacked and killed her on Saturday morning. The survey is a process of charting the signs, such as pugmarks and scratch marks on trees, that indicate tiger presence in the area. Mr. Thackeray added that Ms. Dhumane’s husband would be given a job in the State Forest Department. Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav on Sunday condoled Ms. Dhumane’s death. “Deeply saddened by the demise of Smt Swati Dumane. Our forest frontline heroes are doing a great job, fraught with risks. My condolences to Smt Dumane's family. May her soul rest in eternal peace,” Mr. Yadav tweeted. Ms. Dhumane had joined TATR a year ago, and this was her first wildlife posting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-15-lakh-compensation-for-kin-of-forest-guard-killed-by-tigress/article37618089.ece
22 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Order exposes BJP’s anti-quota mindset’||Attacking the Haryana Government over its notification regarding the creamy layer for the reservation of Backward Classes, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said the new norms would deprive the children of Group “D” Government employees, farmers and skilled workers of the benefits of reservation. Also, the order did not adhere to the norms laid down by the Central Government. Charging that it was an “attempt to re-publish the notifications cancelled by the Supreme Court”, Ms. Selja said that according to the new creamy layer norms notification, the annual income from all sources had been fixed at Rs. 6 lakh, taking away the right of reservation of children of Group “D” employees, farmers and others. “It is not only against the law, but also different from the norms laid down by the Centre on the guidelines of the Supreme Court judgment in the Indra Sawhney case, according to which the salary of socially backward employees and agricultural income of the farmers are not included in the annual income,” Ms. Selja said. The Congress leader said the State Government was following the creamy layer norms of the Central Government from the year 1995 to 2016, but the BJP Government brought new notifications in 2016 regarding the new creamy layer criterion to divide the backward classes and deny them the benefits of reservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/order-exposes-bjps-anti-quota-mindset/article37618063.ece
22 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. launches a slew of ‘cow welfare’ measures||With an eye on the 2023 Assembly election, the Shivraj Singh Chouhan Government has decided to set up a tax plan for “cow welfare” in the State where gau kalyan (cow welfare) has been at the heart of politics for years. “A tax plan should be prepared to mop up funds for cow fodder. Similarly, cow products should be promoted and cow phenyl should be used in Government offices,” Mr. Chouhan said during a review meeting of the ‘Madhya Pradesh Gaupalan and Livestock Promotion Board’ on Thursday. He directed officials to build 2,200  gaushala s (cow shelters), develop six gaushala s as training centres, restart eight Gau Sadans that were shut down, develop the Salaria Gau Sanctuary of Agar-Malwa district as a model sanctuary, and set up a Gauvansh Van Vihar in Jabalpur district for which 530 acres of land is available with the Animal Husbandry Department, an official said. Two months ahead of the crucial bypoll in October, two Ministers in the Chouhan Cabinet suggested that rearing of cows be made mandatory for contesting elections. The plan to set up a tax plan for cow welfare resulted in signs of restlessness in the Congress, with party spokespersons and MLAs declining to comment on it. Observers say Mr. Chouhan’s Gau Rakshak (cow saviour) directives will play a role in the 2023 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-launches-a-slew-of-cow-welfare-measures/article37618047.ece
22 November 2021||GUWAHATI/ NEW DELHI,||Anti-CAA protests gather fresh steam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on repealing the three contentious farm laws has revived groups against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Assam with a protest planned on December 12. The CAA seeks to fast-track the granting of citizenship to non-Muslims who fled religious persecution in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan and took refuge in India till December 31, 2014. A few organisations have decided to revive the anti-CAA protests that turned violent and claimed the lives of at least five people in police firing in December 2019. These organisations include the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU), the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), led by activist-turned-MLA Akhil Gogoi, and the Asom Jatiya Parishad, a political party. AASU adviser Samujjal K. Bhattacharya said the farmers’ persistence with protests had been a lesson for those at the forefront of the anti-CAA protests, which had to be paused after the COVID-19 pandemic. “We must make the Centre scrap the CAA, which is a serious threat to the identity of the indigenous communities in the northeast, besides being against the Constitution,” he told presspersons on November 20. Appreciating the resilience of the farmers of northern India, Mr. Gogoi appealed to all the organisations to relaunch the anti-CAA movement together. The Coordination Committee Against CAA, an umbrella body that had steered the protests in 2019 and the pre-lockdown months of 2020, has scheduled a protest on December 12 to mark two years of the anti-CAA stir. The Assam groups are not the only ones asking for a roll back of CAA. The Jamaat-e-Ulema-e-Hind and Amroha MP Danish Ali have also asked for the same. Reacting to such demands, Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said “communal politics” had begun again on the issue. Speaking at a mass wedding programme in Rampur, the Minister said the Act had nothing to do with removing citizenship from Indians and was about providing citizenship to oppressed minorities from neighbouring countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-caa-stir-gathers-fresh-steam/article37618179.ece
22 November 2021||Junagadh,||12 booked for illegal lion show in Gujarat||The Gujarat Forest Department has registered an FIR against 12 persons after a viral video showed a group of people gathered to watch an “illegal show” in which a lion is seen killing and feasting on a cow, which was used as bait by being tied to a pole at a village in the Gir forest of Junagath, an official said on Sunday. As per the investigation conducted into the incident so far, this illegal show was organised at a village in the Devaliya range on November 8, he said. The Gir forest national park and wildlife sanctuary is known as the ‘last abode’ of Asiatic lions. “We have filed an FIR against 12 unidentified persons and three persons have been detained for questioning. The action was taken on the basis of a video showing a group of people watching an Asiatic lion kill a cow tied to a pole. The organiser used the cow as bait for the illegal show,” Deputy Conservator of Forest (Junagadh) S.K. Berwal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/12-booked-for-illegal-lion-show-in-gujarat/article37618128.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||SKM seeks legal backing for MSP, repeal of Bill||However, it noted that “after 11 rounds of talks, you [the Prime Minister] chose the path of unilateral declaration rather than a bilateral solution” and hoped that the Government would fulfil the promise at the earliest and in full. Hannan Mollah, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha and a member of the core committee of the SKM, said from the very beginning of the talks with the government, the Morcha had raised three additional demands, including legal entitlement to Minimum Support Price based on the comprehensive cost of production (C2+50%) for all agricultural produce. “Without the guaranteed MSP, the farmer would not survive. It is one of the primary reasons for the farmers suicides across the country,” he told The Hindu, adding that the PM had taken the decision [to repeal the laws] in his own “dramatic style without first taking clearance from the Cabinet. Mr Mollah further said the SKM hoped that the farmers would be called for a discussion. “We have always said that dialogue and discussion is the only way to break the impasse. If the PM doesn’t respond, we will review the situation in the November 27 meeting,” Mr. Mollah said. Meanwhile, he added, farmers would continue with their pre-decided agitation programme. This includes holding a mahapanchayat in Lucknow on Monday, observing the anniversary of the agitation on November 26 and marching to Parliament on November 29. Addressing the media after a meeting of the core committee at the Singhu border, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “In his Friday address, the Prime Minister was not clear about the rights, duties, and time frame of the committee to be formed on granting legal status to MSP.” In a press note, the SKM said the farmers, who have been protesting peacefully for about a year now, are the ones who did the “true tapasya (penance) with faith”. The SKM pointed out that while the Modi Government didn’t acknowledge the “heavy and avoidable sacrifices by around 700 brave farmers of the Kisan Andolan”, the Telangana government had stepped forward “to provide support to the kin of the martyrs.” While announcing support of Rs. 3 lakh rupees each per martyr family, the Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has also demanded that the Government of India pay Rs. 25 lakhs for each farmer family and also withdraw all cases. The note also highlighted how BJP Ministers and MLAs had been facing the ire of farmers. In Haryana, when State Agriculture Minister J.P. Dalal reached Tosham for the inauguration event of a Court complex, farmers gathered in large numbers for a black flag protest. In eastern U.P., Maharajganj's MLA Jai Mangal Kanojiya had to face the wrath of the locals on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-letter-to-pm-skm-to-press-for-demands/article37618059.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. asks PM to address Chinese ‘intrusion’||The Congress on Sunday accused the BJP Government of deception and deliberate distortion over alleged Chinese intrusions in Arunachal Pradesh and questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “silence” on the issue. The Opposition party also accused the BJP of giving lessons on national security to the entire country while digressing from addressing the serious issue that affected India’s integrity and sovereignty. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi shared satellite images to claim that China has built another village six to seven kilometres inside Indian territory in Arunachal Pradesh with over 60 structures. He also claimed that the Chinese president had visited a few kilometres north of this spot a few days ago. There was no response from the Government on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-asks-pm-to-address-chinese-intrusion/article37618061.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Anti-CAA protests gather fresh steam||A few organisations have decided to revive the anti-CAA protests that turned violent and claimed the lives of at least five people in police firing in December 2019. These organisations include the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU), the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), led by activist-turned-MLA Akhil Gogoi, and the Asom Jatiya Parishad, a political party. AASU adviser Samujjal K. Bhattacharya said the farmers’ persistence with protests had been a lesson for those at the forefront of the anti-CAA protests, which had to be paused after the COVID-19 pandemic. “We must make the Centre scrap the CAA, which is a serious threat to the identity of the indigenous communities in the northeast, besides being against the Constitution,” he told presspersons on November 20. Appreciating the resilience of the farmers of northern India, Mr. Gogoi appealed to all the organisations to relaunch the anti-CAA movement together. The Coordination Committee Against CAA, an umbrella body that had steered the protests in 2019 and the pre-lockdown months of 2020, has scheduled a protest on December 12 to mark two years of the anti-CAA stir. The Assam groups are not the only ones asking for a roll back of CAA. The Jamaat-e-Ulema-e-Hind and Amroha MP Danish Ali have also asked for the same. Reacting to such demands, Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said “communal politics” had begun again on the issue. Speaking at a mass wedding programme in Rampur, the Minister said the Act had nothing to do with removing citizenship from Indians and was about providing citizenship to oppressed minorities from neighbouring countries. “Somebody says CAA should be repealed and Article 370 should be restored. These people know very well that CAA isn’t about taking away citizenship but providing citizenship to Hindus, Sikhs and other oppressed minorities in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh,” Mr. Naqvi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-caa-protests-gather-fresh-steam/article37618060.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||People not ready to believe Modi’s words, says Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said people who “suffered false rhetoric” in the past are not ready to believe the words of the Prime Minister on repealing the farm laws. He said this as farmer unions had decided to continue their year-long agitation at Delhi’s borders even after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the decision to withdraw the three farm laws. “People who have suffered false rhetoric are not ready to believe the words of the PM. Farmers’ satyagraha continues,” Mr. Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag “#FarmersProtest continues”. Farmers have been protesting on Delhi’s borders for the past year seeking the withdrawal of the three laws. The farmer unions have said that they will continue their agitation till the three central laws are repealed by Parliament and legislation on a legal guarantee of MSP is brought in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-not-ready-to-believe-modis-words-says-rahul/article37618069.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||70,000 Indian sellers gear up for Black Friday sale||Amazon India on Sunday said more than 70,000 Indian exporters, who are part of its global selling programme, will showcase millions of “Made in India” products to global customers during the annual Black Friday and Cyber Monday (BFCM) sale. The exporters, it said, are launching over 52,000 new products, across categories, including home and kitchen, STEM Toys, apparel, jewellery and beauty on Amazon’s global websites for the upcoming holiday season. The sale marks the holiday season in the U.S which starts on November 25 and ends on November 29. “In 2020, Indian exporters on global selling saw a 50% YOY growth in sales with more than 300 sellers crossing Rs. 10 lakh,” the company said. Abhijit Kamra, director of Global Trade, Amazon India, said, “The sale marks the beginning of the global holiday season. Coming right after the festive season in India, it has traditionally been a key growth period for our selling partners and with more and more people relying on e-commerce for products globally, we believe that the 2021 BFCM sale period will help accelerate the exports business for our sellers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/70000-indian-sellers-gear-up-for-black-friday-sales/article37618091.ece
22 November 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Centre must extend free rice distribution: Patnaik||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has urged the Union Government to consider extending additional allocation of rice under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for at least eight months for its free distribution among beneficiaries of the National Food Security programme. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he pointed out that vulnerable sections of population required free foodgrains as the impact of COVID-19 was yet to fully fade away. Mr. Patnaik thanked Mr. Modi for providing free rice from May to November under the PMGKAY. “Provision of foodgrains free of cost to people at this critical juncture ensured that not a single needy and vulnerable person was deprived of foodgrains during the pandemic,” he said in the letter circulated on November 21. Stating that the effect of COVID-19 had not yet waned completely, Mr. Patnaik said that “other economic activities are yet to reach the pre-pandemic level as a result of which people still struggle to lead a normal life with sustainable means of livelihood”. “Under the prevailing situations, it is felt highly necessary that the Government must provide relief to the vulnerable during these critical hours. A serious cause of concern in this pandemic scenario is the challenge of food security to the needy and vulnerable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-must-extend-free-rice-distribution-patnaik/article37618086.ece
22 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Protest against steel project in Odisha||Hundreds of villagers on Sunday opposed setting up of integrated steel project proposed by JSW Utkal Steel Limited led by industrialist Sajjan Jindal near port town of Paradip in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district. The JSW group has proposed to establish the 13.2-million tonne per annum (MTPA) capacity plant at an estimated investment of around Rs. 55,000 crore on land previously acquired for the project of the South Korean steel major, POSCO. “We have been opposing the industrial project on our land, which is suitable for the lucrative betel leaf farming, for the past 17 years. Most of these land parcels come under forest category. The Government should first take steps to provide us the record of rights (RoR) of our forestland ,” said Debendra Swain, a resident of Dhinkia village, who is spearheading the movement. “During the forcible acquisition of land for the POSCO project, officially 1.79 lakh trees were felled. Persons and agencies involved in the unauthorised felling should be taken to task,” said Mr. Swain. Villagers are staging protests at the public hearings held for garnering support for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protest-against-steel-project-in-odisha/article37618050.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over Rs. 100 cr. illegal income detected||The Income-Tax Department has detected unaccounted income of over Rs. 100 crore during the searches on 20 premises linked to a prominent group engaged in the manufacture of chemicals and development of real estate. The searches have been carried out in Vapi and Sarigam in Gujarat, Silvassa in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Mumbai. “A large number of incriminating evidence in the form of documents, diary notes and digital data showing earning of huge unaccounted income by the group and its investment in assets have been found and seized,” it said, adding that they clearly indicated evasion of taxable income. Papers about cash transactions pertaining to investment in immovable properties and cash loans were also seized, apart from Rs. 2.50 crore in cash, jewellery worth Rs. 1 crore. Sixteen bank lockers were put under restraint for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-rs-100-cr-illegal-income-detected/article37618053.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pratham gets Indira Gandhi Peace Prize||Pratham, a civil society organisation dedicated to improving the quality of education among underprivileged children in India and across the world, has been selected for the Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development for 2021. The international jury of the Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development, chaired by the former Chief Justice of India, Justice T.S. Thakur, announced the award of the prize to the organisation. “The 2021 Prize is awarded to Pratham for its pioneering work over more than a quarter century in seeking to ensure that every child has access to quality education, for its innovative use of digital technology to deliver education, for its programmes to provide skills to young adults, for its regular evaluation of the quality of education, and for its timely response in enabling children to learn during the COVID-19 related school closures,” said the Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust in a statement. Mumbai slums Set up in 1995 in Mumbai by Dr. Madhav Chavan and Ms. Farida Lambay, Pratham started work in Mumbai slums, setting up community based “Balwadis” or pre-schools and offering remedial education for students lagging behind their grade level curriculum. “Its Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), based on surveying 6,00,000 rural Indian children, is now used as a model to assess education outcomes and learning deficiencies in 14 countries over three continents,” said the Trust. In basic education, Pratham develops low-cost and replicable innovations, working with the Government and community to improve learning outcomes. Its programmes now cover children and young adults in 21 States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pratham-gets-indira-gandhi-peace-prize/article37618064.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||SBI yet to refund Rs. 164 cr fee charged from Jan Dhan accounts||The State Bank of India is yet to return Rs. 164 crore of undue fee charged from the account holders of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana towards digital payments during April 2017 and December 2019, a report said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sbi-yet-to-refund-rs-164-cr-fee-charged-from-jan-dhan-accounts/article37618077.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||With concessions still suspended, almost 4 cr elderly forced to travel on full fare since Mar ‘20||Nearly four crore senior citizens have been forced to pay full fare for their travel since the Railways suspended their concessions due to the COVID-19 outbreak in March 2020, an RTI by Madhya Pradesh-based Chandra Shekhar Gaur has revealed. While women are eligible for 50% concession, men can avail 40% in all classes.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/with-concessions-still-suspended-almost-4-cr-elderly-forced-to-travel-on-full-fare-since-mar-20/article37618080.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||52% turnout in Kannada Sahitya Parishat polls||Elections to the Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP), the Kannada literary body, were held on Sunday. Rain seemed to have dampened spirits, with the turnout at 52.09% — over 5% lower than in the 2016 polls. However, with the voter base expanding since 2016, in absolute numbers, the turnout of voters on Sunday stood at 1.59 lakh. At the time of going to the press, counting was still under way and results were expected to be announced early on Monday. “The votes are cast using ballot papers and each voter would have voted for both the district committee and the State committee,” said an office-bearer, explaining the elaborate process of counting of votes. Under a cloud The elections this time, held after more than a year since the term of the previous office-bearers ended amid the pandemic, were controversial with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party openly supported one of the candidates, Mahesh Joshi, a former Doordarshan official. Mr. Joshi, however, denied the allegation. Several writers, including Marulasiddappa and S. G. Siddaramaiah, had publicly condemned the interference of “party politics” in the KSP polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/52-turnout-in-kannada-sahitya-parishat-polls/article37618096.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Agencies take baby steps to integrate e-services, plan permission||Planning agencies and local bodies are set to have consultations with stakeholders to improve the process of granting planning permission for building construction in Chennai and suburbs. The need for obtaining multiple NOCs (no objection certificate) from line agencies, duplication of process and inadequate work done in the past to integrate the e-services with planning permission applications online have been the main reasons for a delay in approval. Officials said people had started submitting representations pertaining to delay in approval of building construction projects in Chennai. Former Greater Chennai Corporation Council floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said various stakeholders and residents had demanded a proper study of the issues in measurements given in land records by the Revenue Department. Procedural delays CREDAI Tamil Nadu president Suresh Krishn said the approval process had been delayed because of the requirement of physical copy for record available online. The average time taken for approval of a building construction is six months. “Now the existing challenge in the approval process is that whatever records are available online, the officials are asking us to get a physical copy certified by respective authorities. This is not necessary. We have been talking to the CMDA, the DTCP and other agencies. Now, the government is taking initiatives. One of the biggest request from CREDAI is to have online single window approval in 30 days with deemed approval. This is our single demand to the government as of now. We want the approval process to be as simple as possible. There are so many NoCs we get from various authorities. It is delaying the process. Single window online system is implemented in other States also. We should not be lagging behind,” said Mr. Krishn. “Deemed approval is very important because there is a likelihood of some delay which we will not be able to take up with the government. We need to get NoC starting from PWD, traffic police, highways, airports authority, environment agencies for high-rise buildings. These things are delaying the approval in a big way. As soon as we apply online, we want all departments to process our applications and each of them should have a time to react. If it is traffic NoC, they have to say yes or no in 15 days. Otherwise, it should be deemed approved. Only if we have a cut-off time we will see things improve in India,” said Mr. Krishn. Records not updated Registered Engineer Welfare Association (CMA) president A. Balasubramani said the process of obtaining approval had been delayed by more than three years in some cases. “The records in the taluk offices have not been updated. Many details about Outer Ring Road and Inner Ring Road in Chennai have not been proper in the records maintained by the Revenue Department. It is not possible to integrate the e-services with planning permission applications in such a condition with incomplete records of line agencies,” said Mr. Balasubramani. Former president of Chennai Corporation License Surveyor Association P.S.J. Palanirajan said most data such as field measurement book were not properly available online with the Revenue department. “The CMDA and the Corporation have improved services in the past few months. More than 10,000 applications for building construction are processed by Corporation every year. The number is higher in the suburbs. We expect quicker services after the integration of the e-services with planning permission applications,” said Mr. Palanirajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agencies-take-baby-steps-to-integrate-e-services-plan-permission/article37618249.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||756 test positive for COVID-19 in T.N.||With 756 more people testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, 8,722 people are under treatment in Tamil Nadu. So far, 27,20,271 people have tested positive. They include 22,23,162 people aged 13-60; 3,93,646 senior citizens; and 1,03,463 children. Coimbatore reported 130 fresh cases, Chennai, 112, Erode, 80, and Chengalpattu, 56. More cases were reported from the western districts of Tiruppur (49), Salem (44) and Namakkal (42). However, no fresh infection was reported in Tenkasi and Tirupattur. Fewer than 10 fresh infections were reported in 28 districts. As many as 847 people were discharged, and the total number of recovered people went up to 26,75,174. In Chennai, 1,299 people are under treatment and Chengalpattu has 693 active cases. Fourteen deaths were reported from eight districts. While one of the dead had no co-morbid conditions, the others had pre-existing health issues. So far, 36,375 people have died of the infection. Chennai on top Chennai, with five deaths, recorded the most number of fatalities. Two persons each lost their lives in Tiruppur and Thanjavur. One person each died in Tiruchi, Madurai, Krishnagiri, Cuddalore and Coimbatore. The youngest person to die was a 24-year-old woman from Chennai who tested positive on November 13. Said to be morbidly obese, she was admitted to a private hospital in Chengalpattu on the same day with complaints of difficulty in breathing. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia on November 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/756-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tn/article37618241.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Call to restore Last House on Snob’s Alley inside Fort St. George||Historians and heritage enthusiasts have called for urgent steps to restore the Last House on Snob’s Alley or St. Thomas’s Street, a heritage structure, inside Fort St. George. The building is said to have the same vintage as the Old Port House that dates back to 1690. The building, according to historian V. Sriram, is located on the street where the affluent lived. “It even survived the bombing in the 1740s, but lack of maintenance and necessary repairs has led to it being reduced to a rubble now. When I visited the house some 10 years ago, I could enter the building, climb upstairs and see the Fort wall. But during my recent visit, I was shocked to see it in such a sorry state,” he said. Heritage enthusiast Padmapriya Baskaran said that when one talks of heritage structures, especially for a building that is so old, what is needed is preventive maintenance. “There is no point in buildings being declared as protected monuments if repairs are taken up after the structure caves in. Buildings inside the Fort ought to be given better care since they are what that are left of the foundations of our city and its past,” she said. A former engineer with the Public Works Department said the need of the hour was a comprehensive plan to repair and maintain all the buildings inside the Fort. “The King’s Barracks is also in a poor condition and several portions of the ceiling have fallen. Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the Army have had issues over ownership of buildings and due to this, the heritage structures are affected. Many times, financial constraints prevent work from being taken up. The Centre and State government must join hands and create a fund for regular maintenance of these buildings,” he said. ‘Slow process’ Superintending Archaeologist of ASI M. Kalimuthu said that they had inspected the building and that it was in a dilapidated condition already. “We have provision for restoring the structure and that of King’s Barracks and will take up the work shortly. Restoration of buildings is a slow process and cannot be done in a hurry,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-restore-last-house-on-snobs-alley-inside-fort-st-george/article37618254.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Publish list of free land allottees, says TNIC||The Tamil Nadu Information Commission (TNIC) has directed the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Director to publish the list of beneficiaries of free house site pattas online. The order follows a number of petitions received by the Commission from across the State seeking to know the list of beneficiaries. Passing orders on a petition seeking details of such beneficiaries in Ambattur, State Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj asked the State authorities to publish the entire list online within two months. The case arises out of a petition filed by E. Kumar of Ayapakkam here, who sought to know under the Right to Information Act (RTI) the list of Adi Dravidar and tribal beneficiaries who received free house site pattas in Pothur village of Ambattur Taluk. With no desired response from the public information officer (PIO)/special tahsildar, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare, Tiruvallur district, he filed an appeal before the First Appellate Authority and then moved the Commission. The PIO who appeared for the telephonic inquiry informed the State Information Commissioner that the information called for by the petitioner would be provided soon. Directing the official to provide the information within seven days, Mr. Muthuraj directed the State authorities to publish the entire list of free house site patta beneficiaries on the official website of the Department of Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare, and asked the PIO to appear for the next hearing posted for January 19, 2022. Multiple allegations The Information Commission order, according to sources in the Department of Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare, assumes significance against the backdrop of allegations and several petitions that a huge land parcel allotted to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes was not in their possession due to a variety of reasons and publishing the list of beneficiaries would throw some clarity on the actual names of allottees and their legal heirs. The move comes at a time when the Tamil Nadu Government has launched a programme for district-wise enumeration of Narikuravas, tribals and other marginalised communities across the State to assess their living conditions and provide basic infrastructural facilities at the earliest, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/publish-list-of-beneficiaries-of-free-house-site-pattas-tnic/article37618340.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crop insurance attracts more farmers in non-delta districts||Non-Cauvery delta districts have posted more than 45% increase in the enrolment of farmers under the revamped Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana this year over the previous year. As on November 15, about 6.65 lakh farmers joined the scheme, about 2.1 lakh more than what it was on the corresponding date last year. Around 35% of the farmers enrolled this year are from Tiruvannamalai, where 2.33 lakh farmers have joined the scheme as against 33,356 in 2020. The other two districts with a high rate of enrolment are Ramanathapuram, which has 1.07 lakh farmers, and Villupuram, which has 63,125 farmers, around 72% more than the previous year’s tally. As for the delta districts, Cuddalore accounts for more than 40% of the enrolled farmers. Over 3.73 lakh farmers have joined the scheme this year, 1.06 lakh more farmers than in 2020. The total number of farmers having been covered is approximately 9.07 lakh against 7.86 lakh last year. Though Tiruvarur comes next with 1.09 lakh farmers, the figure is lower than that of the previous year when around 1.37 lakh farmers joined the scheme. However, the neighbouring district of Nagapattinam, which is the third, has shown a considerable increase, with about 20,000 more farmers taking the cover. So far, 1.01 lakh farmers have joined the scheme. In terms of the coverage of the gross cropped area, the non-Cauvery delta districts account for 10.77 lakh acres and the delta districts, 16.27 lakh acres. A senior official of the Agriculture Department attributes the increase in the coverage in Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Ranipet districts to enhanced awareness among farmers who had suffered crop loss a year ago in the Nivar and Burevi cyclones and in the subsequent unseasonal rain. Madurai is among the districts that have shown a fall in the coverage. This year’s coverage is only 44% of what it was a year ago. It is because “the crops are in good condition”, the official explains. The neighbouring Virudhunagar, too, has seen a drop, but the coverage is expected to go up gradually, with the cut-off date being December 15. Though Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai have reported a fall, about 96% of the area sown this year has been insured, which is “a good achievement”, said the official, pointing to the Union Government’s direction to cover 50% of the area sown. As on November 19, the area insured rose to 27.44 lakh acres and the number of enrolled farmers to 20.81 lakh. The official said the entire State had been divided into 14 clusters to enable smaller insurance companies to take part in the scheme. The risk-sharing ratio between the State and the companies is 80:20. The Government has set apart Rs. 2,327 crore towards the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crop-insurance-attracts-more-farmers-in-non-delta-districts/article37618235.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health Minister slams former CM||Former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should issue statements after ascertaining facts, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian has said. The Minister was referring to Mr. Palaniswami’s statement that the DMK government was planning to wind up Amma pharmacies. According to Mr. Subramanian, the Cooperative Department had issued a release stating that the DMK government had opened more medical shops in the past six months. The previous government had opened an Amma clinic in a crematorium in West Saidapet and another in Tiruvottiyur by demolishing a public toilet under the National Health Mission. It had appointed 1,500 doctors, but not even one nurse, he said. “I would like the former Chief Minister to give information on how many nurses were appointed. When the funds from NHM dried up, the government could not take it forward. The DMK government has redeployed them for COVID-19 work under the Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme. We have reached out to one crore people,” he said. Under the initiative, over 41 lakh persons who had conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, or requiring physiotherapy and dialysis have benefited, he added. He wanted the opposition leader to provide a break-up of diseases treated through Amma clinics during their rule. “Our department is trying several methods to ensure people get vaccinated. We have introduced free vaccination scheme, door-to-door campaigns and 24-hour service. We reached out to differently abled at their home and vaccinated pregnant women. There was hesitation due to the death of actor Vivekh. We had to reverse the trend. As we wanted all people to be vaccinated we brought a new rule,” he said. Dengue cases Mr. Subramanian said so far this year 4,381 persons had contracted dengue and 544 persons were under treatment. They would get well and return home, he assured. However, dengue infection was lower this year. In 2017 as many as 20,000 people had been infected, he added.  We have introduced free vaccination scheme, door-to-door campaigns and 24-hour service. Ma. Subramanian Minister for Health||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-minister-slams-former-cm/article37618236.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jai Bhim director regrets hurting sentiments||Jai Bhim ’s director T.J. Gnanavel on Sunday sought to put an end to the controversy over the film, saying he “sincerely regrets” having hurt the sentiments of a section and stressing that he did not have the slightest intention to do so. The film released on Amazon Prime Video in November 2 to rave reviews for its portrayal of the life and struggles of the Irular community in Tamil Nadu. It tells the story of the custodial death of Rajakannu and how his wife Sengani fights for justice with the help of advocate Chandru. In a statement, Mr. Gnanavel also regretted having caused discomfort to actor Suriya whose only intention, he said, was to ensure that the story of the tribals reached a wide audience. “After we voluntarily removed the calendar in the background, I hoped the change would show we didn’t have any ulterior motive. It is unfortunate that responsibility was placed on Mr. Suriya when I should be the one answerable as the director.” He said, “I didn’t think that a calendar hung in the background would be interpreted as referring to a community. The aim was to show the story was happening in 1995. The image appears for a few seconds and none of us noticed it during the shooting or post-production. Had the audience flagged it when the film was shown on the big screen before the release on Amazon Prime Video, we would have changed it. When the film released on Amazon Prime Video and the issue was pointed out, we immediately made every effort to change it on November 2.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jai-bhim-director-regrets-hurting-sentiments/article37618259.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 18.21 lakh people vaccinated at mega camp||A total of 18,21,005 beneficiaries were vaccinated at the mega vaccination camp held on Sunday. As many as 6,72,580 people received the first dose and 11,48,425 got the second dose, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. So far, 75.75% of the population have received the first dose, 39.53% have received the second dose. “We want to reach 100% coverage of the first dose and 60% of the second dose by November-end,” he said. In the two mega camps held on Thursday and Sunday, 40,15,485 persons were vaccinated. “We plan to conduct mega camps on next Thursday and Sunday, too. We had targetted 50 lakh people today, but the rain and floods stood in the way,” he said. Mr. Subramanian, who inspected vaccination in parts of north Chennai, said that in Chennai 1,600 camps were held with the aim of vaccinating two lakh people. Across the State 50,000 camps were held. “Until Saturday night, we had administered 6,49,18,466 doses, including 4,31,81,499 first doses. As many as 2,17,36,967 people were given the second dose,” he said. On Sunday, the vaccination began with 1,31,90,755 doses, and 72 lakh people required the second dose. The Minister said that between November 7 and 20, two mega camps were being held every week. As many as 9,621 monsoon medical camps were held and 3,36,341 people were screened. In nine mega camps, 1,75,90,883 people were vaccinated. The doorstep vaccination scheme, organised since November 10, had benefited 48,76,047 people, and the vaccines were administered at 2,77,775 places. The vaccines would not be administered on Monday, he said.  So far, 75.75% of the population have received the first dose, 39.53% have received the second||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1821-lakh-people-vaccinated-at-mega-camp/article37618239.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Justice still a long way away for four Tirukoilur rape survivors||It has been 10 years since four women belonging to a Scheduled Tribe (ST) community were allegedly raped by five police personnel attached to Tirukoilur police station in then Villupuram district on November 22, 2011 but the case has not even reached the trial stage as yet. Though a charge-sheet was filed, it has not been taken on file in the special court for exclusive trial of cases registered under SC/ST (Prevention Of Atrocities) Act in Villupuram. Though the charge-sheet was filed in the court a few years ago, it was returned for some corrections and so far, summons to the accused has not even commenced, alleges P.V. Ramesh of Pazhangudi Irula Padhukappu Sangam, who has been assisting the women. One of the accused even attempted to coax him into withdrawing his complaint in connection with the case, a few months ago, he said. After the initial compensation announced by the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, the women have not received any justice as yet, he said. Though the policemen who were accused in the cases were placed under suspension, they moved the High Court and got the order revoked on the ground that the charge-sheet was not filed at that time. “We only hope that the case is taken up for trial so that the affected women can get justice. We hear that the policemen accused in the case are still serving but in other districts,” alleges Mr. Ramesh. Advocate S. Freeda Gnanamani, who has been appearing for the rape survivors in the case, said the case had not been assigned a number since the police were yet to file a corrected charge-sheet in the case. “A communication was sent to DSP and Inspector, Tirukoilur, in July this year in this regard but there is no development yet,” she said. Charge-sheet filed When contacted, Inspector Babu of Tirukoilur Police Station said: “The charge-sheet has been filed but it has not been taken on file since some bail copies are missing.” Ms. Gnanamani says: “If the bail copies are missing, the police could get them and submit them within a few days. The court cannot keep sending them reminders. The police should take steps so that these women can get justice.” Advocate D. Nagasaila, a member of the People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL), said, “From the fact that the case has not come for trial even after 10 years, it is clear that the concerted effort of the investigating agency is to defeat the investigation process and to ensure that the accused are never brought to justice. That seems to be the intention.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/justice-still-a-long-way-away-for-four-tirukoilur-rape-survivors/article37618263.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Passengers want more amenities in Tambaram||Passengers of long-distance trains have sought more amenities at the Tambaram Railway Station, particularly for easier access and hassle-free boarding. The Southern Railway had announced the development of a third railway terminal at Tambaram station a few years ago to provide better connectivity to residents of south Chennai. The news about Tambaram, which had become a multi-modal transport hub, being made a third terminal and the operation of a few direct trains, was welcomed by residents. This meant that the passengers need not go to Egmore or Chengalpattu to board long-distance trains. The Southern Railway started developing a number of passenger amenities to make the station on par with other railway terminals by installing escalators, building parking yards on both sides and passenger reservation counters. However, passengers, particularly those travelling by long-distance trains, want more amenities on platforms. Pandiaraja, a railway activist, said thousands of people board south-bound trains at the Tambaram railway station. While the railway authorities have created better access in the form of escalators and lifts for suburban commuters, long-distance passengers, particularly senior citizens and pregnant women, face severe difficulties in boarding trains on platforms 5 to 8. No digital boards Also, there is no digital board displaying the coach numbers on these platforms leaving the passengers stranded. The commuters want the railway authorities to install digital display boards. B. Guganesan, Chief Public Relations Officer, Southern Railway, said a proposal to redevelop the Tambaram railway terminal with all passenger amenities is being studied and will be executed soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-want-more-amenities-in-tambaram/article37618258.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aptel directs TNERC to fast-track tariff determination||The Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (Aptel) has directed the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) to take up the determination of tariff on a fast-track mode and pass order within three months. Lacking merit The direction came in an order relating to a plea filed by the Tamil Nadu Spinning Mills Association (TASMA) against the permission given by TNERC to Tangedco for levy of additional surcharge of Rs. 0.70 per unit on open access consumers. Aptel rejected the plea and dismissed it, stating it was devoid of merit. No ARR The methodology adopted by the Electricity Regulatory Commission in its order allowing levying of additional surcharge was correct as it clearly demonstrated continuous stranding of the capacity on account of open access consumers resulting in non-recovery of fixed cost, it noted. One of the arguments put forth by the Tamil Nadu Spinning Mills Association was that there were no aggregate revenue requirements (ARR) and true-up petitions filed by Tangedco after 2017 and therefore there was no prudent way to verify the requirement of revenue by way of additional surcharge, as allowed by TNERC. “During the course of hearing Tangedco assured us that the petitions for approval of ARR for all the pending years shall be filed by them by the end of November, 2021, “ Aptel said, in its order pronounced on November 15. Aptel added, “We direct Tangedco to expeditiously file the petitions for approval of ARR for all the pending years by the end of November, 2021.”  Tangedco assured us that the petitions for approval of ARR for all the pending years will be filed by November-end. We direct it to expeditiously file the petitions for approval of ARR for all the pending years APTEL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aptel-directs-tnerc-to-fast-track-tariff-determination-and-pass-order-within-3-months/article37618339.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murder accused from city held in Coimbatore||A 30-year-old man who has been accused of murdering his wife in Poonamallee police station limits was arrested in Coimbatore on Saturday. The accused, identified as A. Anandharaj, was brought to the city on Sunday and was remanded in prison after being produced before a judicial magistrate. The police said a complaint was filed on November 14 by Pavithra that her sister Nandini, 27, was murdered allegedly by her husband residing on East Mada Street in Poonamallee. On investigation, the police found the victim’s husband Anandharaj had killed her with a wooden stick after a heated argument. A special team that was formed traced the accused, who was hiding in Coimbatore. During interrogation, the accused admitted to committing the murder, an official at the station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murder-accused-from-city-held-in-coimbatore/article37618251.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMDA takes first step||The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and the Greater Chennai Corporation have planned to integrate e-services with online planning permission applications for building construction in the city. A meeting was held by CMDA member-secretary Anshul Mishra last week in the presence of officials from the Corporation to study the feasibility of integration of the e-services such as patta, ownership documents, and encumbrance certificate with the application for planning permission. According to officials, at least 700 planning permission applications are cleared by CMDA every year. Many applications have been delayed because of problems pertaining to the records in the Registration Department and the Revenue Department. Once the work on integration of the e-services is completed, the time taken for issuance of the planning permission for a building is expected to be reduced to one-tenth of the existing time period. Many projects have been delayed by six months because of issuance of No-Objection Certificate by the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change. But integration of such aspects is expected to be challenging. Similarly, NoC from the Airports Authority of India, the police, the Public Works Department and the Fire and Rescue Services has delayed several projects. Integration of CMDA portal with the Corporation portal is also expected to be studied by officials to quicken the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmda-takes-first-step/article37618245.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Around 125 tmc ft has drained into sea in October and November||Around 125 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) of water, or 1.3 times the Mettur dam’s capacity, drained into the sea through several rivers of Tamil Nadu since October 1 and mostly in November. The highest contribution to the overall quantum has come from the Palar, which accounts for 43.91 tmc ft, as recorded at the Vayalur check-dam in Chengalpattu district. The discharge of surplus water began in the middle of October, but the rate of flow had gone up since November 7, ranging from half a tmc ft a day to nearly 4 tmc ft a day. After 118 years, the Palar anicut, near Ranipet, registered a six digit figure. In November 1903, it recorded 1.2 lakh cubic feet per second (cusecs), says a senior official of the Water Resources Department. A report, published in The Hindu on November 16 that year said, “The Palar Anicut has been washed away.” The official adds that the restoration work was completed two years later. In terms of the surplus water discharge in November this year, the Coleroon comes next to the Palar. According to the recordings done at the Lower Anicut, about 22 km from the Veeranam tank in Cuddalore district, around 38 tmc ft drained into the sea. The quantum varied from 2.21 tmc ft on November 12 to 4.28 tmc ft on November 19. The Pennaiyar released about 26.5 tmc ft into the sea, as measured at the Sornavur Anicut. The Kosasthaliayar accounted for about 13 tmc ft draining into the sea, according to the readings at the Vallur check-dam. The Chembaramapakkam and Red Hills tanks discharged nearly 1.7 tmc ft each. A water expert says one should not get unduly worried about certain amounts of water draining into the sea as this will help to maintain ecological balance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/around-125-tmc-ft-has-drained-into-sea-in-october-and-november/article37618238.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Compensate the rain-hit’||V.K. Sasikala, aide of late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa, on Sunday urged the government to grant compensation to people whose crops and houses have been affected in the recent rain. Speaking to reporters after distributing relief materials to rain-affected people here, Ms. Sasikala cited reports of people being washed away in floods in some districts and said: “It gives an impression that the government, which has the duty to protect people, is not functioning efficiently.” She also pointed out that the rain had severely affected people and farmers in Cauvery delta districts and sought compensation for them. Replying to a query on the farm laws, she said the Centre’s decision to repeal the three contentious laws, is a good thing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensate-the-rain-hit/article37618343.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Old train numbers restored||The Southern Railway has reverted to the original numbers for 314 trains as they existed before COVID-19. The work was completed within a week by CRIS along with five regional data centres of Southern Railway. The restoration of old numbers comes in the wake of the Railway Board, through a circular on November 12, instructing the Southern Railway to operate trains as per pre-COVID schedule and fares. According to a release, the CRIS and the five regional data centres completed the task within six days against the scheduled seven-day period. The Southern Railway has reduced the fares of 39 trains and 47 trains of South-Western Railway. Unreserved coaches would be reintroduced in a phased manner, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-train-numbers-restored/article37618256.ece
22 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||OPS says farmers affected by rain must be given compensation||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday urged the Chief Minister to take steps to grant compensation to rain-affected people in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam alleged that the people cited the DMK government’s inefficiency in administration to be the reason behind the loss of livelihood of many of them, as hundreds of areas still remained flooded by the heavy rain in these districts. Citing reports, he claimed that the unexpected additional release of water in Thenpennai river was the primary reason behind the flooding. People have been left to suffer without electricity and drinking water for two days, the former Chief Minister said. “Though people have been moved to safety, it is the duty of the government to ensure their rehabilitation and to provide compensation for the loss of lives, cattle and property,” the AIADMK leader said. Sasikala comments V.K. Sasikala, aide of late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, on Sunday urged the government to grant compensation to people whose crops and houses had been affected in the recent rain. Speaking to reporters after distributing relief materials to rain-affected people here, Ms. Sasikala cited reports of people being washed away in floods in some districts and said: “It gives an impression that the government, which has the duty to protect people, is not functioning efficiently.” She also pointed out that the rain had severely affected people and farmers in Cauvery delta districts and sought compensation for them. Replying to a query on the farm laws, she said the government’s decision to repeal the three contentious laws was welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-compensation-for-the-rain-affected-ops/article37618260.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only Titagarh Wagons bids for leasing Metro trains||Titagarh Wagons is the only firm that has evinced interest in leasing trains for Chennai Metro Rail’s phase II project. For the phase II project, the Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) will both procure trains and lease them as well. The plan to lease them was mooted only because they had to cut down capital expenditure as the project cost was phenomenally high initially. From Rs. 88,000 crore, the cost was trimmed to Rs. 80,000 crore. Yet, the Centre wanted the CMRL to see how much more it can be reduced. After months of deliberations, the project cost was brought down to Rs. 61,843 crore. One of the elements that helped the CMRL cut cost was leasing trains instead of procuring everything. It was decided to buy 288 coaches (96 trains) and lease the remaining 126 coaches (42 trains). All the trains for the phase II project will have three coaches, and will later be expanded to six coaches based on demand. CMRL has been finalising tenders for procuring 288 coaches. For leasing the coaches, the CMRL invited expression of interest (EoI) a few weeks ago. CMRL officials plan to ask a few other firms in the sector to know why they were not interested, get their feedback and issue another EoI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-titagarh-wagons-bids-for-leasing-metro-trains/article37618255.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NCB team seizes 200 kg of ganja from mini truck, 2 arrested||A special team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) of the Chennai zonal unit seized more than 200 kg of ganja from a transport vehicle on Saturday. A senior official of the NCB said a mini-truck proceeding on Vellore-Krishnagiri Road was intercepted near the Pallikonda toll plaza based on a tip off. On inspection of the vehicle, the NCB officials found 212 kg of ganja packed in bags and concealed under garden products. Two persons in the vehicle were arrested. On immediate interrogation, the accused said two more persons were involved in smuggling and were travelling in a car. The special team immediately identified the vehicle, chased it and arrested two persons. All the arrested were natives of Erode. In two other operations carried out by the NCB zonal teams of Bengaluru, two consignments of contraband material were seized and two persons arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncb-seizes-200-kg-of-ganja-from-mini-truck-2-arrested/article37618252.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wife of slain armyman is now an officer||Three years ago, Jyoti Nainwal was left devastated when her husband, Deepak Nainwal, died during the Army’s counter-terrorist operation in Jammu and Kashmir. On Saturday, this mother of two became a newly commissioned Army officer at the Officers’ Training Academy (OTA) in Chennai. “He suffered a gun shot in April 2018 during a terrorist encounter, was hospitalised for 40 days and died in May. He gifted us a life of pride and I’m trying to carry it forward,” Ms. Nainwal said, in an video released by the Press Information Bureau. Ms. Nainwal was among the 178 cadets who were commissioned into the Army in the ceremonial passing-out parade of the Officers’ Training Academy. Of the 178, 124 were gentlemen cadets of the SSC-112 and 29 women cadets of SSC (W). Twenty-five cadets from friendly foreign countries too finished their training here, according to a press release.  Among those who passed out were seven Afghan National Army cadets. They will soon report to their embassy in New Delhi. One of the officers commissioned was Dimple Bhati. “When we were in school, we used to go for sports practice. Our neighbours would stop us and ask [our parents] why girls are going for hockey and other games. To that my parents would respond by saying daughters are no less than sons,” she said. Her sister Captain Divya Bhati was present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slain-armymans-wife-now-an-officer/article37618341.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Election Commission receives 8.59 lakh forms||A total of 8,59,580 forms were received by the Election Commission during special camps held on November 13, 14, 20 and 21. A total of 6,14,166 persons have applied for the inclusion of their names in electoral rolls, according to a press release from the Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/859-lakh-forms-received/article37618246.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers’ plea on career advancement programme||The Tamil Nadu Government Collegiate Teachers’ Association has expressed anxiety over the delay in providing career advancement benefits to eligible teachers. The association said the teachers were subjected to mental stress as they had been denied promotion and the financial benefits that is due to them. Association president T. Veeramani said the teachers appointed in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011 and 2015 were yet to receive their Career Advancement Scheme (CAS) benefits. “Teachers appointed in 2007 were eligible for CAS in 2011, but were finally issued the order in 2015. However, the benefits were not calculated retrospectively, resulting in them losing four years of financial benefits,” he said. After the then Member of Parliament, Tiruchi Siva, took up the issue with University Grants Commission, the State government issued an order on January 11, a few days before the Assembly election was announced. On May 4, the Director of Collegiate Education issued a letter explaining the procedure, but nothing came of it. In the meantime, misinformation about CAS had resulted in it being shelved adding insult to injury, he charged. “We request the Higher Education Department to conduct transfer counselling at the earliest. We also request it to approve of the required teachers’ and principals’ posts in constituent colleges that were converted into government arts and science colleges so that candidates can be appointed and the institutions can function as full-fledged government colleges.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-plea-on-career-advancement-programme/article37618264.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Farm laws beneficial: Annamalai||BJP Tamil Nadu president K. Annamalai said on Sunday that he still believed that the three farm laws were beneficial to farmers and hoped that the condition would be conducive in future to their implementation in some other form. “I had strongly campaigned across the State in support of the farm laws. As the Prime Minister said, we could not convince some of our farmers of the aims of these laws,” he said, speaking to reporters here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-laws-beneficial-annamalai/article37618237.ece
22 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Residents hope for solutions to long-standing problems from CM||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s visit to the city on Monday has raised the expectations of the people that in his speech there will be announcements providing solutions to long-standing issues concerning civic administration. His visit has also prompted activists like K. Kathirmathiyon to put forward a set of demands. In his appeal to the State Government, he said the first of several issues that the Chief Minister should address is giving building plan approval for additional construction for residents in added areas – 40 wards. After coming under the Coimbatore Corporation limit in 2011, the residents there had faced difficulty in getting building plan approval for additional construction as the Corporation would not recognise as legal the existing construction as the rules based on which the then local bodies gave approval were different from what it followed, Mr. Kathirmathiyon said and sought a solution at the earliest. This was an immediate necessity as several residents were unable to take up construction of first floor or additional structures. The Corporation should stop collecting fee as a percentage of property value to effect name change in property tax assessment. This would set a wrong precedent as other utility providers like Tangedco, Transport Department or Revenue Department could start adopting a similar practise. The right way would be to levy a fixed amount as name transfer fee.  The other expectations were a plan to decongest the city by taking wholesale markets to a place outside the city, a solid waste management project to manage the waste not processed now by the Corporation, an order authorising a government agency to manage traffic lights, order sanctioning additional posts in the Corporation for better administration and funds for maintenance of roads and other civic amenities. Sources said if the Chief Minister were to address at least some of the demands people’s long-standing issues would get resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-hope-for-solutions-to-long-standing-problems-from-cm/article37618272.ece
22 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CM’s visit: traffic regulation announced in Coimbatore||Coimbatore city police have announced traffic regulations in the city on Monday and Tuesday in view of the visit of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. The Chief Minister will attend government functions at VOC Grounds on Monday and at the Coddissia Trade Fair Complex on Tuesday. The police said in a release that large number of beneficiaries and party workers are expected to attend the functions due to which traffic congestion is anticipated on Avinashi Road and adjoining roads on the two days. Alternative routes The police have advised students, office-goers and the public to advance their journey and take alternative routes to avoid traffic congestion. People who visit Coimbatore airport, railway station and major bus stands have also been asked to plan their trips conveniently. Users of heavy vehicles have to get prior permission from the police to enter Coimbatore city limits on the two days. Heavy vehicles not allowed According to the police, heavy vehicles will not be allowed inside Coimbatore city from 6 a.m. on Monday until further notice. Vehicles heading to the city from Avinashi Road should take diversions at Thottipalayam Junction and Goldwins to reach Sathyamangalam Road via Kalapatti. Another diversion will be in place at Nava India Junction to reach Mettupalayam Road via SNR College Road and 100 Feet Road. Buses plying to Gandhipuram from Tiruchi Road should pass through Classic Tower Junction, Lanka Corner, Goodshed Road and Dr. Nanjappa Road. Buses should not take East Club and West Club roads from Sungam to enter Race Course or LIC Junction. Vehicles entering Avinashi Road from the old flyover should take a right turn at Uppilipalayam (JM Bakery junction) to reach Tiruchi Road via Red Cross Junction and Railway Station Road, police said. Vehicles from Avinashi Road are allowed to enter Circuit House Road to reach Sungam and Tiruchi Road. But vehicles from Sungam and Puliyakulam will not be allowed to enter Avinashi Road via Circuit House Road. Such vehicles should take Red Fields Road and Pankaja Mill Road to reach Lakshmi Mills Junction. Vehicles will not be allowed on the stretch between LIC Junction and The Hindu office. Vehicles are not allowed to enter VOC Grounds or LIC Junction from Park Gate Junction and from Dr. Balasundaram Road via ATT Colony. Buses from the central bus stand to Salem, Tirupur, Avinashi and Palladam should reach Avinashi Road via Gandhipuram Junction, Aarvee Hotel roundabout, Women’s Polytechnic College and Mani School Junction and Lakshmi Mills Junction. City buses from Gandhipuram bus stand to railway station, Ukkadam Athupalam and Selvapuram should also take the same route and reach Tiruchi Road via Pankaja Mill Road. While vehicles from the Mani School Junction are not allowed to enter Avinashi Road via GKNM Hospital Road, while vehicles from Avinashi Road can use the route to reach Mani School Junction. Buses from the railway station to Gandhipuram should pass through Huzur Road, Anna Statue Junction and Dr. Balasundram Road. Vehicles will not be allowed to enter LIC Junction from Huzur Road. Buses to Gandhipuram via Ukkadam and the Town Hall area should pass through Oppanakara Street, Old Post Office Road, Avinashi old flyover and Dr. Nanjappa Road, it said. Drones not allowed Due to security reasons, public will not be allowed to fly drones in the city limits on Monday and Tuesday, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-regulations-in-city-on-monday-tuesday/article37618275.ece
22 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 130 new cases in Coimbatore||A total of 130 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday, registering a slight increase from Saturday's 125 cases. The Health Department said that 104 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,230 active cases on Sunday. The district's death toll increased to 2,446 after a 55-year-old woman died of COVID-19 on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 49 new cases. The district had 542 active cases whle 58 persons recovered on Sunday. Two men, aged 79 and 63 from Tiruppur, died of the disease on Saturday, taking the toll to 990.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-130-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article37618276.ece
22 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault on minor girl||The city police on Sunday arrested a 52-year-old man for alleged sexual assault on a five-year-old girl, his neighbour. The police said that the alleged incident took place near Saravanampatti on Friday. The families of the accused and the girl knew each other and the girl used to visit the house of the accused. The accused allegedly assaulted the girl sexually when she came to his house on Friday. A video of the man sitting on a chair outside the house and holding the girl inappropriately on the pretext of playing with her was shot by another neighbour from the terrace. The police examined the video. The man was arrested for offences under Sections 9 (l) (whoever commits sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly), (m) (aggravated sexual assault on a child below twelve years) and 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was produced before a judge and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article37618362.ece
22 November 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Officials inspect flood-hit areas in Cuddalore||Monitoring Officer and Member Secretary of Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) Anshul Mishra, on Sunday, visited areas in the district, which bore the brunt of the floods’ fury. Accompanied by Collector K. Balasubramaniam, Mr. Mishra inspected the work undertaken by the authorities to drain out water from inundated fields in Maruthadu near Cuddalore. Later, they made a visit to Azhagiyanatham and inspected the damage to a causeway on the Thenpennaiar river. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Mishra said the recent spell of heavy rain had left crops inundated in about 5,610 hectares of land in Cuddalore. However, the extent of damage could be assessed properly only after the water is drained. The district administration has taken up the exercise to assess the damage caused to crops and infrastructure. As many as 2,300 houses were damaged and 825 livestock deaths had occurred. The administration will also apprise the inter-ministerial Central team, visiting the district on Tuesday, of the extent of damage caused to roads, infrastructure and crops, he added. Mr. Mishra said restoration and relief works were underway in 17 villages and eight urban areas, affected by the flood in Cuddalore. The affected people were have been provided with relief and Relief was provided and over 1,000 volunteers have been pressed into service to drain water from inundated areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-inspect-rain-hit-areas-in-cuddalore/article37618267.ece
22 November 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Surplus water from dam released||Following rise in water storage level at Athur dam, PWD engineers released the surplus water into Kudaganaru river on Sunday. With the help of revenue authorities, they made announcements in villages through tom-tom asking the residents not to venture near the river. The officials said all arrangements had been made at a relief centre. Five persons arrested Five persons were arrested for trespassing reserve forest area on Sunday. Forest officials said Marikannu, 31, Marimuthu, 40, Veliangiri, 50, Alagar, 60, and a teenaged youth – were held at Kodikatti near Palani. Interrogations revealed they were allegedly hunting wild animals. The anti-poaching squad seized 16 kg of meat from the accused and imposed Rs. 10,000 fine on each of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surplus-water-from-dam-released/article37618357.ece
22 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sabarimala pilgrimage: sale of puja items picks up in Erode||With the beginning of two-month-long Mandala - Makaravilakku pilgrimage season at the Lord Ayyappa temple in Sabarimala, Kerala, sale of dhotis, garlands made of tulasi and rudraksha beads has picked up at the markets here. The Ayyappa temple was opened on November 15 and dhotis, shirts and towels in black and blue colours have come up for sale in the markets.  Bags printed with the name of the lord, audio cassettes with devotional songs are also available in shops. Shopkeepers said devotees had started visiting temples to participate in bhajans and the number was likely to increase in the coming days. “Devotees purchase dhotis and garlands that are essential while visiting Sabarimala,” said a shopkeeper at Panneerselvam Park. But, many shopkeepers point out that COVID-19 restriction would not encourage many to visit the temple in the next two months. “Our business is likely to be limited due to the norms,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sabarimala-pilgrimage-sale-of-puja-items-picks-up-in-erode/article37618366.ece
22 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Teacher held for sexual harassment||A private school teacher here was arrested on Sunday after three students lodged a complaint of sexual harassment against him. According to the police, V. Tirumalaimoorthi (49) was a Biology teacher in the school near Perundurai. Childline alerted S. Gnanasekaran, counsellor, Erode District Child Protection Unit, about the complaint from the Class 12 students in the school. On inquiry, the complaint was found to be true. He was remanded on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-held-for-sexual-harassment/article37618376.ece
22 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Leopard dies in roadkill||A two-year-old leopard died reportedly in a roadkill in Thalamalai reserve forest here on Sunday. According to the Forest Department officials, around 5.30 a.m. on Sunday, the carcass of the female leopard was found in a gorge along the Sathyamangalam-Mysore National Highway in Asanur forest range. The officials said that the animal was hit by an unidentified vehicle. Further inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-dies-in-roadkill/article37618373.ece
22 November 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Inspector suspended||The Inspector of Vengamedu police station in Karur district, who was placed on vacancy reserve on Saturday following claims that he behaved harshly with the mother of a class XII student who was found dead in her house, has been placed under suspension. Police sources said an order placing Inspector Kannadasan under suspension was issued by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, on Sunday. Sources said seven police teams were conducting detailed inquiries. The police recovered a handwritten note implying sexual harassment purportedly written by the girl. Collector T. Prabhushankar called upon students facing harassment to shed inhibition in complaining about the perpetrators, and to realise that there was no need to take drastic decisions with a sense of guilt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-suspended/article37618330.ece
22 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Kerala Govt. lends a hand to a Central PSU||With its empty roads and deserted buildings, the 700-acre property in Velloor on the banks of the Muvattupuzha river now presents a jarring contrast to its glorious past. The industrial township, built around Hindustan Newsprint Ltd. (HNL), a Centrally owned Public Sector Undertaking (PSU), once embodied the region’s industrial stature and working class pride. But inept administration and the consequent revenue losses brought down the colossus and its sprawling township. HNL ceased operations on January 1, 2019. When the Union Government began devising ways to dispose of the bleeding entity, which was facing insolvency, the State Government threw in a lifeline. Taking it over with a Rs. 146 crore bid approved by the National Company Law Tribunal, the State authorities initiated a revival of the unit, which will resume operations as Kerala Paper Products Limited (KPPL) from January 2022. According to P. Rajeeve, Kerala Minister for Industries, the new company will become operational in four phases over 46 months. “The State Government will invest around Rs. 125 crore in the first two stages. The next two phases will require a capital investment of Rs. 1,600 crore, which will be raised from banks. The total turnover at the end of the fourth phase will be around Rs. 2,600 crore,” he said. “Virgin wood fibre will be sourced from the 2,600-hectare plantations assigned for HNL’s use by the Government. The terms and conditions for obtaining forest resources are expected to remain the same,” he added. A land utilisation plan for the 700-acre property too has been prepared. It envisages an eclectic mix of businesses with Kerala Rubber Limited, and industrial projects under Kinfra. As the company looks to start with a clean slate, recruitments will begin on a fresh note, though the Government has, in principle, accorded priority to the outgoing workforce. The prospect, however, has failed to enthuse the 260 regular and 150 contract employees of the previous company, who have not received their monthly salaries from December 2017, except as a percentage of their dues as part of the resolution plan. “The Government disbursed 35% of our salary dues during the takeover but those who retired, or are due to retire, stand to lose much. Most employees have incurred huge debts. Their Provident Fund corpus and gratuity are severely impacted. We want the State Government to pay our dues,” said the leader of a workers’ union at the factory. Responding to the demand, the Minister said the Left Government had the political commitment to help the workers even though it was not legally bound to do so. “It is a fresh start but we will do whatever possible to address their grievances,” said Mr. Rajeeve. Commissioned in 1981, the HNL had up to 1,200 employees on its rolls in its prime. During the period, the streets of this township, which were teeming with commercial establishments, banks and outdoor markets, also supported the local economy of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-govt-lends-a-hand-to-a-central-psu/article37618094.ece
22 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI/ DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||House collapses due to continuous rain, 5 injured||A thatched house at Millat Nagar in Pazhayapettai here collapsed during the late hours of Saturday following continuous rain in Krishnagiri. A seven-year-old boy and four elderly women suffered injuries and were admitted to Krishnagiri Government Medical College Hospital. Krishnagiri district received an average of 5.92 mm rainfall. The highest amount of 33.6 mm rainfall was reported in Uthangarai. Barur received 5 mm, Denkanikottai 1 mm, Krishnagiri town 1.2 mm, Penucondapuram 5.2 mm, Shoolagiri 1 mm, Negungal 1.6 mm, Rayakottai 14 mm and Pochampalli 8.4 mm. An average rainfall of 3.63 mm was recorded in Dharmapuri on Sunday. The highest amount of rainfall was recorded in Palacode 9.4 mm. Marandahalli received 5 mm rainfall, Hogenekkal 5 mm and Harur 6 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-collapses-due-to-continuous-rain-5-injured/article37618347.ece
22 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai in need of Rs. 500 crore to complete projects: CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has sought the State government to allocate Rs. 500 crore to Madurai Corporation for the city administration to expedite various development works on a war footing. A resolution to this effect was passed at the two-day 23rd Madurai urban district unit conference that concluded here on Sunday. M. Ganesan, a former councillor of Madurai Corporation, was elected as party’s urban district unit secretary. The resolution said that the Corporation which was created in 1971 had been expanded to 100 wards, but without any industrial development and collection of the even the limited revenue had been affected due to administrative lapses. Stating that the corporation was struggling even to pay its employees, the meeting said the urban local body could not complete its infrastructure projects. The State government should give more funds, as in Kerala, Karnataka and West Bengal where the governments were devolving around 30% to 40% of States’ revenue with local bodies. Stressing improvement of tourism infrastructure in the district, a resolution sought to set up a zoological park on the foothills of Alagarkoil. Boating facilities could be introduced in big irrigation tanks such as Thenkal, Madakulam and Sellur and walkers’ park could be created around other big tanks, it said. The 28 newly annexed wards should get basic facilities, and roads in the city should be repaired at the earliest to make them safe for people. All the 31 urban primary health centres should be provided scan and ECG facilities, and vacant posts of medical officers and other staff should be filled up. Efforts should be made to prevent atrocities against SC/ST people and stringent action should be taken against perpetrators of crime. Metro rail Among other resolutions are demand for metro rail for Madurai, addtional railway facilities, additional buses with free travel facility for women and prevention of crime against women. Party leaders M. N. S. Venkataraman, A. Laser, K. Kanagaraj, Madhukur Ramalingam, Su. Venkatesan and S. Swaminathan were present.  Kerala, Karnataka and West Bengal governments devolve around 30% to 40% of States’ revenue with local bodies One of the resolutions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-in-need-of-rs-500-crore-to-complete-projects-cpim/article37618550.ece
22 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw cases booked against farmers’||Human Right Defenders Alert - India (HRDA) has welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on the decision to repeal the three farm laws in the upcoming winter session of Parliament. In a statement issued here on Sunday, HRDA national working secretary Henri Tipahgne said farmers across the country had been peacefully protesting against the three farm laws, passed in Parliament in a manner raising several questions on the conduct of the government and severely threatening agrarian economy and lives of millions of farmers. Unique example The year-long nationwide peaceful protest by farmers was a unique contemporary example of free and peaceful assembly globally, reaffirming the significance of people’s collective right to express opinion, dissent, expression, association and assembly in a democracy. Despite harsh weather conditions, the farmers stood united and fought the Union government and hence the actions had to be commended. Loss of lives The HRDA, he said, was anguished as the PM’s announcement failed to acknowledge the loss of lives – close to 700 farmers died in incidents related to the protests, including the recent murder of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. The Centre should withdraw the criminal cases registered against the farmer-protesters and give compensation of Rs. 25 lakh to the family of each of the deceased. The farmers should not be forced to end the protests, he said and urged the Prime Minister to withdraw the laws in the ensuing winter session of Parliament. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) should undertake an independent, transparent and impartial investigation into all incidents of use of excessive force by security forces, acts of harassments by State police and administration such as fabricated First Information Reports (FIR), arbitrary detentions, illegal arrests and custodial torture of protestors, Mr. Tipahgne said in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-cases-booked-against-farmers-forum/article37618547.ece
22 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 141.10 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,104 cusecs and a discharge of 2,250 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.42 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,700 cusecs and a discharge of 2,355 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,765 mcft. Periyar dam recorded a rainfall of 2 mm and Thekkadi 0.6 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37618351.ece
22 November 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||GPS gadgets distributed on World Fisheries Day||GPS gadgets were provided to fishers in Nagapattinam district as part of the World Fisheries Day celebration on Sunday. The GPS gadgets sponsored by ONGC were handed over to the fishers by Collector A. Arun Thamburaj at a function in Akkaraipettai Fishing Harbour. The fishers were provided with training in first-aid. A team of fire and rescue service department personnel trained them in rescue operations at times of emergencies. N. Gowthaman, Chairman of Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation, joined the Collector in honouring fishers who had excelled in swimming and other competitions. The fishers were apprised about the various initiatives taken by the Department of Fisheries and Fisheries Welfare for improving their livelihood. The government was keen on promoting fish as an important source of protein and broad-basing employment opportunities for people in the coastal areas by improving the infrastructure, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gps-gadgets-distributed-on-world-fisheries-day/article37618334.ece
22 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Residents complain of unfinished service lanes on 100 Feet Road||Lack of proper road, waterlogging in the absence of proper drainage, frequent power outages and garbage dumping have become a major worry for a section of residents and owners of around 150 shops on the two sides of the service lanes below the flyover on 100 Feet Road. Even months after opening of the first flyover in the Union Territory on 100 Feet Road, no proper service road has been laid, causing enormous hardship to people. The 1.2-km bridge sanctioned by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways was completed two years ago and opened for traffic recently. The plan was to provide service roads with 5 m wide service roads with proper drainage. “The bridge is thrown open as per the plan but nothing has been done to construct the service roads. No proper drainage facility has been provided so far. The entire road is full of potholes and filled with sewage,” said Vijaya Kumar, general manager of Rooster Automobiles. The recent heavy spell of rain has further damaged the road. “Since there is no proper drainage, sewage mixed with water often enters the electric junction boxes causing power disruptions. On every alternate day, the power goes for a few hours, making the owners of shops depend on diesel-powered generators,” he said. R. Thankamani, a resident, said people find it difficult to travel during night because of the potholes. Two-wheelers skid because of the patchy surface, Mr. Vijaya Kumar added. An employee of a two-wheeler sales outlet said customers find it difficult to reach the shops on the service road. Several people have complained about the condition of the roads, he added. Another major problem, according to Mr. Thankamani, is the dumping of garbage near the railway gate. People indiscriminately dump the waste, and civic authorities take days to clear it. “Apart from lack of civic amenities, the space below the bridge along the service roads has become a safe haven for anti-social elements. Under the cover of darkness, they party, creating public nuisance. The police should increase patrolling during night hours in these areas,” another resident said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-complain-of-unfinished-service-lanes-on-100-feet-road/article37618625.ece
22 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory reports 32 new COVID-19 cases, one death||The Union Territory reported one COVID-19 death and 32 new cases on Sunday. Puducherry recorded the casualty to take the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,870. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,463), Karaikal (250), Yanam (108) and Mahe (49). Puducherry logged 11 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,099 tests, followed by Karaikal (17), Yanam (2) and Mahe (2). With 25 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 323. This comprised of 70 patients in hospital and 253 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.52%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.3%. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,28,663 cases against 1,26,470 patients recovered. Of an estimated 19.63 lakh tests carried out so far, over 16.63 lakh returned negative. Vaccination numbers Meanwhile, 3,358 persons took the COVID-19 jab in the last 24 hours in the Union Territory, taking the total vaccine doses administered to date to 11,75,748.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-reports-32-new-covid-19-cases-one-death/article37618627.ece
22 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry varsity signs MoU with armed forces||The Pondicherry University has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Indian Army (Training Command) to enable Army officers to pursue postgraduate studies and research in various departments of the university. At the MoU signing held recently, Vice-Chancellor of Pondicherry University Gurmeet Singh said the institution would assist the armed forces in any academic research required without any hesitation. The university would be happy to extend maximum help to officers of the Indian Army to enrol in as many departments as possible apart from the departments covered under the MoU in the future, Prof. Singh said. Major General Vivek Kashyap, who represented the Indian Army’s Training Command, while appreciating the efforts taken by Pondicherry University in providing knowledge to the officers, said the Indian Army would try to send more young officers for various courses like nanoscience and technology, artificial intelligence, strategic studies and many other courses as per the requirements of the Indian Army in the forthcoming academic years. Major General Kashyap said the Indian Army looked to collaborate with the academic institutions to utilise young minds and attract them to join the armed forces. He also interacted with Amaresh Samantharaya, registrar i/c, deans and faculties of departments were present at the signing. Major General Kashyap later visited various departments of the University along with Subramanyam Raju, dean of international relations and MoUs, and S.I. Humayun, coordinator (MoU-Defence Services).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pondicherry-varsity-signs-mou-with-armed-forces/article37618378.ece
22 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP lauds 100-day performance of Puducherry’s NDA govt.||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Puducherry on Sunday has endorsed the performance the AINRC-BJP National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the Union Territory in its first 100 days in the office. The BJP State executive meeting, chaired by V. Saminathan, BJP president, passed a resolution endorsing the 100-day performance of the NDA government, especially the steps taken to reopen ration shops, rollback of water tariffs and withdrawal of user charges for garbage collection. The BJP also noted the Union Territory’s positive track record in fully implementing all the Centrally sponsored schemes. In another resolution, the BJP hailed the NDA government at the Centre, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, for the milestone of administering over a billion COVID-19 vaccines and distribution of free rice as pandemic relief to over 80 crore beneficiaries. Addressing delegates, Home Minister A. Namassivayam said the NDA government in Puducherry was a model administration in good governance and implementing pro-people policies. Nirmal Kumar Surana, BJP Puducherry-in-charge, led the discussions on galvanising the party functionaries for the local body polls. Civil Supplies Minister A.K. Sai Saravanan Kumar, S. Selvaganabathy, MP (Rajya Sabha), and MLAs, were among those who addressed the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-lauds-performance-of-puducherry/article37618265.ece
22 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Central team to assess flood damage in U.T.||A four-member inter-Ministerial Central team will arrive in Puducherry on Monday to make an evaluation of the severity of flood damage in recent rains. The team led by Rajiv Sharma, Joint Secretary, National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID), Ministry of Home Affairs, comprises of representatives from the Ministries or Departments of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Finance (Department of Expenditure), Jal Shakti, Power, Roads, Transport and Highways and Rural Development. The team is scheduled to arrive at 2.45 p.m. and survey affected areas and hold discussions with officials. They will return to Chennai on Tuesday and leave for Delhi on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-to-assess-flood-damage-in-ut/article37618630.ece
22 November 2021||RAJAPALAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Water released from dams||Water from Pilavakkal Periyar dam, Kovilar dam and Sasthakoil dam was released for irrigation in various taluks of Virudhunagar district. Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran and Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu opened the sluices of Pilavakkal irrigation system at Watrap on Sunday. Since there is a low storage of 128.40 mcft of water in Periyar dam and 40 mcft in Kovilar dam (water from both dams irrigates ayacut under Pilavakkal irrigation system), as of now 150 cusecs of water would be released for five days. The system has a total of 8,500 acres of ayacut that is served directly through the channels and indirectly through 40 irrigation tanks located in 17 revenue districts in Watrap, Srivilliputtur and Sivakasi taluks. Water from Sasthakoil dam was released by Collector J. Meghanath Reddy in the presence of Rajapalayam MLA S. Thangapandian. Sasthakoil tank serves 3,130 acres of ayacut through 11 tanks. The officials have planned to release 50 cusecs of water for eight days as the dam, which has been overflowing for the last few days, has only 36.47 mcft of water. The Ministers said based on the rainfall in the catchment areas of the three dams and inflow, water release would be continued to fill up all the system tanks. Farmers have been asked to use the water judiciously. Though water was released in a similar situation last year, subsequent monsoon rain helped water reach all the 40 tanks under Pilavakkal irrigation system, according to an official. MLAs A.R.R. Srinivasan and G. Ashokan, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian and Additional Collector M. Birathiviraj were present. Deputy Director of Srivilliputtur Meghamalai Tiger Reserve H. Dileep Kumar, Execuctive Engineer (Public Works Department) Raja, Sattur RDO Pushpa, Joint Director of Agriculture S. Uthandaraman, former MP P. Lingam, former MLA T. Ramasamy, Tahsildars M. Madha (Watrap) and Ramachandran (Rajapalayam), Assistant Engineers (PWD) R. Chandramohan, Malarvizhi, Jhansi, Anitha, Kiran Bedi and Ponguru were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-dams/article37618353.ece
22 November 2021||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Indian High Commissioner to SL visits Dhanushkodi||The problems faced by the fishermen in Tamil Nadu can be permanently resolved only when the governments in India and Sri Lanka arrange for a meeting of fishermen from both countries, according to N.J. Bose, a fishermen leader. The fishermen leaders from various associations in the coastal district of Ramanathapuram had an opportunity to meet Gopal Baglay, India’s High Commissioner to Sri Lanka, when he visited Dhanushkodi, Arichalmunai and other places. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Bose said they explained the problems they faced with Sri Lankan Navy personnel and the humiliation and harassment in the hands of the authorities in the island nation over the last two to three decades to the High Commissioner at a meeting arranged at a hotel in Rameswaram. Thanking the High Commissioner for visiting the coastal town and giving them an opportunity to represent their grievances, which was a first of its kind experience for them, Mr. Bose said there were no problems between the fishermen of Rameswaram and Sri Lanka till the early 80s. ‘Resolution still possible’ “It is still possible to revive and resolve to engage in fishing in the Palk Bay without any threat and insecure feeling if we are allowed to openly talk with the fishermen in the island nation without any conditions by the governments,” he said. The fishermen leaders hoped the visit of the High Commissioner would help them open a new chapter and ensure their livelihood in future. There were at least 66 mechanised boats in anchor in the Sri Lankan waters and the government there should direct the authorities to release them, he demanded. Mr. Baglay told the fishermen delegation that the objective of his visit was to have a look at the infrastructural facilities provided by the Central and State governments for the fishermen. The High Commissioner visited Dhanushkodi, Arichalmunai and Kundugal fish landing centre. The officials, it is said, explained to the High Commissioner the Central government’s project on the deep sea fishing boats for the fishermen. Sajjan Singh R. Chavan, Additional Commissioner of Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare, Ramanathapuram Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat and Additional Director of Fisheries G. Arumugam accompanied Mr. Baglay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-high-commissioner-to-sl-meets-fishermen/article37618262.ece
22 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||The outflow from Mettur Dam was reduced to 55,000 cusecs on Sunday evening. According to officials from the Public Works Department, at 8 a.m. Sunday the water level at the dam was 120.10 ft. The water level has remained at 120.10 ft since November 14. The stored capacity of water was 93,630 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 65,000 cusecs. The outflow was 65,000 cusecs, and the discharge through East-West canal was 500 cusecs. The outflow was reduced to 60,000 cusecs at 12.15 p.m. According to the officials, 17,000 cusecs of water was released through power houses and 43,000 cusecs of water was released through Ellis Saddle surplus gates to River Cauery. Rainfall level An average rainfall of 1.7 mm was recorded in the district on Sunday. Salem received only light showers at a few places on Saturday. Highest amount of rainfall was recorded at Veeraganoor- 14 mm. Rainfall recorded in other areas were Thamampatti - 4mm, Mettur -2.8 mm, Attur - 2.4 mm, Kadayampatti - 1 mm, Gangavalli - 1 mm and Salem -.3 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article37618374.ece
22 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CII organises cyclathon to create awareness on physical fitness||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Young Indians organised a cyclathon here on Sunday. Deputy Police Commissioner M. Madasamy flagged off the cycle rally in the presence of J. Sakthivel, Chair, Yi Salem Chapter, Vel Krishna, Chairman, CII Salem Zone, and Swati, Convenor, IWN Salem Chapter, at the Pioneer Sports Club near Hasthampatti. Over 150 cyclists took part in the awareness event. The rally was taken out to create awareness on physical fitness to lead a healthy life, road safety, child safety and Gift an Organ initiatives of the Young Indians, a release said. Starting at the Sports Club, the team cycled through Hasthampatti junction, Gorimedu, Chinakollapatti, Kurumbapatti Zoological Park and finished at the starting point, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-organises-cyclathon-to-create-awareness-on-physical-fitness/article37618369.ece
22 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 80 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Sunday reported 80 fresh COVID-19 cases and the district has 810 active cases. Salem district reported 44 fresh cases. According to Health Department officials, 36 cases were indigenous and 15 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 42 new cases, all indigenous. Krishnagiri reported seven new cases and Dharmapuri 10 cases. As per bulletin, one COVID-19 death was reported in Krishnagiri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-80-new-covid-19-cases/article37618370.ece
22 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. monitoring level in water bodies||As part of its measures to prevent untoward incidents due to monsoon rain in its ranges, the Forest Department is monitoring water levels in check dams and ponds in its limits. The department has been conducting awareness sessions in tribal villages on precautionary measures and other safety measures to be taken for monsoon. District Forest Officer R.Gowtham said there were 100 active Village Forest Committees in the district and essentials like blankets and torch lights were procured after passing resolutions in the meetings. Though landslips have been reported along the ghat road in Yercaud, there were no landslip-prone areas within the ranges, he said and added forest personnel were constantly monitoring the water levels in check dams and percolation ponds within forest limits. They were also ensuring the channels were clear for flow of water. According to the forest officials, there are 399 check dams and 81 percolation ponds within the forest ranges and almost all water bodies have filled to the brim. Mr. Gowtham said as a precautionary measure, they had ensured trekking routes to all villages were clear for evacuation of people, if there was a need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-monitoring-level-in-water-bodies/article37618371.ece
22 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for burglaries in Salem||The Salem District Police on Saturday arrested two persons in connection with two burglaries reported in the Attayampatti police limits. The police said that special teams were formed to nab the accused who stole eight sovereigns of jewellery in the first case and 900 grams of silver articles, and motorcycle in the second case reported in Attayamaptti limits. A team led by DSP S.Thayalnayagi was on the lookout for the accused. During a vehicle check on Attayampatti-Tiruchengode Road on Saturday, the police intercepted a two-wheeler without number plate that was proceeding to Tiruchengode. Inquiry revealed that the persons on the motorcycle were involved in the two burglaries. The arrested were identified as Arjunan from Thirupathur and Madesh from Dharmapuri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-burglaries-in-salem/article37618375.ece
22 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DIET signs MoU with Rotary International||The District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) at Uthamacholapuram here recently signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the district literacy team of the Rotary International District in the area of teacher education, a release said. A release said that the purpose of the deal was to carry out teacher capacity building programmes, creating Rotary libraries in schools, preparing e-learning kits, developing creative skills among teachers, contributing towards education of girl children and vocational education, and strengthening the talent among students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diet-signs-mou-with-rotary-international/article37618367.ece
22 November 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Symbiosis Law School wins Nani Palkivala Tax Moot at SASTRA||Symbiosis Law School has emerged winner in the 17th Nani Palkivala Tax Moot organised by SASTRA Law School. In the final rounds of the moot judged by P. H. Arvindh Pandian, Senior Advocate and Former Additional Advocate General, Tamil Nadu; and N Venkataraman, Additional Solicitor General of India and Senior Advocate, the team representing University School of Law and Legal Studies, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi, bagged the runners recognition. The winning team and runners up were awarded certificates and a cash prize of Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 25,000, respectively. The Best Speaker award was bagged by Sheshachala S. Joshi from Symbiosis Law School, Pune, the Best Memorial Award by National Law Institute University, Bhopal, and the Best Researcher award by Hritik Kashyap from University School of Law and Legal Studies, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi. These awards constituted cash component of Rs. 5,000. The instant tax moot, on the issue of exemption to charitable organisations, was attended by 18 law schools across the country including premier national law schools. Former Madras High Court Judge Justice B. ajendran, Chairman of Real Estate Appellate Tribunal, Tamilnadu, who headed the finals jury, praised the Moot participants for their intellect and reversing roles in a first of its kind attempt. Delivering the valedictory address at the function, Justice Rajendran said trial advocacy was the foundational stone for judicial competence and jurisprudential evolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/symbiosis-law-school-wins-nani-palkivala-tax-moot-at-sastra/article37618336.ece
22 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen to get Rs. 1,000 more during ban period||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has ordered disbursal of Rs. 1,000 more to all the fishermen during the annual ban period. Consequently, the government would release Rs. 6,000 to the fishermen, said Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Minister Anita Radhakrishnan here on Sunday. Speaking at the World Fisheries Day observed at Punnakayal near here, he said a delegation of fishermen from various districts met the Chief Minister a week ago and urged to him to increase the assistance during the annual ban period of 45 days. The Fisheries Department had been revamped in such a way that welfare of the fishermen would be accorded top priority. The fishermen would get their basic needs fulfilled in their colonies. It had issued modern communication gadgets and more fishermen would get safety gadgets. He said fishing harbours and jetties would be revamped for which Rs. 556 crore had been earmarked. The objective was to protect the natural resources and establish infrastructural facilities so that the produce could be preserved. Later, he gave away assistance to the tune of Rs. 16.26 lakh to 60 fishermen. MLAs and Collector K. Senthil Raj, Joint Director Amal Xavier, Revenue Divisional Officer Kokila and ASP Harsh Singh were present. He also gave away prizes to the children who had participated in various competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-1000-more-for-fishermen/article37618349.ece
22 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) demands arts college for Thoothukudi||The State government should establish a new government arts and science college in Thoothukudi, said a resolution passed on the second day of the two-day 10th district conference of the CPI(M) held here on Sunday. The conference elected K.P. Arumugam as party’s new district secretary.One of the resolutions demanded appointment of more nurses, doctors and conservancy workers at Tiruchendur Government Hospital as there were complaints of shortage of staff. The GH should be given modern scan facilities as road accident victims had to be rushed to Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, another resolution said. The meeting demanded upgrading of the Ettayapuram GH so that it functioned round the clock with adequate staff. The conference resolved that the government should issue community certificates to members of Kattu Nayakan community across the district. Udangudi required government-run educational institutions, another resolution stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-m-meet-ends-in-thoothukudi/article37618342.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination drive elicits good response in central region||The central region inoculated a significant number of people in the tenth round of the mega vaccination camp conducted on Sunday. Thanjavur district stood fourth among all districts in the State, while Tiruchi stood fifth. District administrations were instructed to conduct the camps at places of public interest, while also continuing door-to-door vaccination. Health workers demanded a proof of vaccination from the people who claimed to have taken the jab, and administered it to people who had not taken it yet. The move also benefited people with disabilities, the elderly and people who could not reach the vaccination centres due to lack of transportation. In Thanjavur district, 84,105 people took the jab, of which 51,705 took the second dose. In Tiruchi, 81,508 people took the jab, of whom 42,680 were given the second dose. In Karur, a sizeable population took the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Of the total 41,248 people who took the jab at the various camps organised in the district, 28,472 took the second dose. In Ariyalur district, which had inoculated 88.16% of the population with at least one dose, 38,834 people took the jab. So far, 5,30,760 people had taken the jab in the district. A total of 18,631 people took the jab in the neighbouring Perambalur district. Health workers in Tiruvarur vaccinated a total of 32,929 people, of which 21,119 took the second dose. In Nagapattinam, 20,508 people took the COVID-19 vaccination, in Mayiladuthurai, 21,082, in Pudukottai district, 20,864 and in Aranthangi, 17,299.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-drive-elicits-good-response-in-central-region/article37618327.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mobile app launched to survey quality of schools||In an attempt to enable schools to bring about an all-round development of a child, Solar Trust, a not-for-profit organisation, has, in association with United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), launched Adolescent Responsive Schools (ARS) - a mobile application. The app would serve as a channel through with school authorities could communicate the availability or lack of facilities in government schools in the State. Through ARS, Solar Trust hopes to get consolidated information on the facilities available for adolescent children, specifically focused on high and higher secondary government schools. The five broad domains that the app would cover are - inclusion of all adolescents, effective learning environment for all adolescents, basic minimum standard for safety/protection/health/hygiene, gender sensitivity and participation of students, parents and community in school management. A total of 5,000 government schools- at least 125 in each district will be surveyed. “The head of the school will have to log into the application and answer a total of 66 questions. The questions have all been formulated following ground discussions with children,” said Shiyam Sundar, Director, Solar Trust, an NGO. Through the Chief Education Officers in each district, they hope to collect the data by January 15. With the collected information, and a discussion with all stakeholders in Chennai, the organisers hope to make a representation to the State government by February 2022. Akila Radhakrishnan, Social Policy Specialist, UNICEF, launched the app through a video-call while teacher-representatives from all districts attended the training programme on how to use it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-app-launched-to-survey-quality-of-schools/article37618324.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements under way for Vaikunta Ekadasi festival||Arrangements are under way at the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple ahead of the Vaikunta Ekadasi festival that begins early next month. The thousand-pillar mandapam is being spruced up and decoration works are being carried out inside. Similarly, work on installation of sheets for providing a canopy in the 'Manalveli' between the Thousand Pillar Mandapam and the Sesharayar Mandapam is also being executed by the temple authorities in connection with the festival. Annual festival Temple officials said the works were being carried out ahead of the annual festival which is to be held from December 3 to 24. The festival begins with the ‘Thirunedunthaandagam’ on December 3. The main event of the festival is the opening of the ‘paramapadha vaasal’ at 4.45 a.m. on December 14 through which the processional deity Lord Namperumal will pass through. Ends on December 24 The festival concludes with the ‘Nammazhwar Moksham’ on December 24. Police sources said a separate security scheme would be drafted soon for the upcoming festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-under-way-for-vaikunta-ekadasi-festival/article37618329.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Call for revival of cooperatives||A call was made for revival of a chunk of cooperatives from a state of dormancy during the National Cooperative Week celebrations organised by the Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University, recently. Inaugurating the celebrations, G. Veerakumaran, Professor and Head, Department of Cooperative Management, Kerala Agricultural University, Kerala, said nearly one-fourth of the cooperatives are dormant or under liquidation due to absence of demand-driven members, lack of professionalism among the board members, involvement of politicians with vested interests, restrictive/ punitive regulations, and shortcomings in the competency of employees. Delivering a lecture on ‘Role of Cooperatives in Fostering Innovation, Employment Generation and Bringing in Professionalism’, Prof. Veerakumaran, while tracing the history of Cooperative Movement in the pre-independent and post-independent India, emphasised on creativity, innovation, invention, employment generation and professionalism for the revival of cooperatives. C.Pitchai, Professor and Head, Department of Cooperation, Gandhigram Rural Institute (Deemed to be University), Gandhigram, delivered a special lecture on the topic ‘Role of Youths in Cooperatives: Need of the Hour’. The youth could establish a new business collectively through cooperatives, thereby mitigating risk. The cooperative model suits well the young owing to social engagement, skill transfer and employment generation. Introducing cooperative as a part of curriculum would boost the role of youth in cooperatives, he said. A debate on the topic ‘Better Services to Members: Cooperatives Vs Farmer Producers Companies’ was held. A student team argued in favour of cooperatives by detailing its better performance in providing goods and services, financial support and technical training to its members. Another team reasoned out that Farmer Producer Companies provide end-to-end services to the members, better employment and entrepreneurial support to its members through financial support and technical training. Prof. Pitchai who adjudicated the debate chose as winner the team that spoke in favour of cooperatives. A quiz competition on Cooperative Principles and Practices was also conducted, M. Selvam, Professor and Head, Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-revival-of-cooperatives/article37618335.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases see a dip||The central region reported 88 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. Three patients succumbed to the viral infection, two from Thanjavur district and one from Tiruchi. In Tiruchi, the number of patients who contracted the infection reported a slight dip. A total of 26 patients reported positive. In Thanjavur, 20 patients tested positive while, the other seven districts in the region reported less than 20 cases. Karur reported 16 fresh cases, while Nagapattinam registered 10 and Tiruvarur, nine. Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur all reported three cases each, while Pudukottai district registered one case - the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-see-a-dip/article37618325.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 120.10 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 63,922 cusecs and the discharge was 63,180 cusecs. According to the officials, 17,000 cusecs of water was released through power houses and 43,000 cusecs of water was released through Ellis Saddle surplus gates to River Cauery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37618332.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||CM thanked for starting 10 new colleges||Welcoming the initiative taken by the State to start 10 new government arts and science colleges, the SET/NET Qualified Tamil Nadu Guest Lecturers' Association has thanked Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for sanctioning funds promptly for posting 170 teaching staff and an equal number of non-teaching staff. In a press release, the state president of the association V. Thangaraj requested the State Government to ensure that guest lecturers who were deemed surplus at Annamalai University were absorbed on a priority basis in the newly-started colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-thanked-for-starting-10-new-colleges/article37618333.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Water level in Uppar dam brings cheer to farmers||The increase in water level in Uppar dam located near Dharapuram in Tiruppur district following the recent rain has brought cheer to the farmers in Kundadam, who have been demanding adequate release of water to the dam for nearly a decade. According to the district administration, the water level in Uppar dam was 18.9 feet against its full reservoir level of 24 feet and its total storage was 371.75 mcft. R. Muruganantham, executive committee member of Tiruppur District Uppar Farmers’ Protection Association, this is the highest water level seen in the dam in nearly a decade, during which farmers were urging the Public Works Department to release adequate water from Uppar dam to irrigate crops. On November 18, Kundadam recorded 200 mm rainfall, which was the highest in the State during the 24-hour period. The heavy rainfall in the block, coupled with the increased outflow of water from Thirumoorthy dam following the rain, has led to this rise in water level, Mr. Muruganantham said. “This water now can be used to irrigate 6,060 acres of agricultural land and we expect that it can be used for irrigation till April 2022,” he said. The Public Works Department must ensure in the coming years that the water distribution from Thirumoorthy dam to Uppar dam is adequate and must not force farmers to stage protests for water, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-in-uppar-dam-brings-cheer-to-farmers/article37618361.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||PFI leader booked||The Tiruppur south police have registered a case against Jainulabdeen, Coimbatore zonal secretary of the Popular Front of India (PFI), on charges of making abusive remarks against Hindu Munnani president Kadeswara Subramanian on November 9. According to the police, the PFI leader, while addressing cadre in a meeting, abused Mr. Subramanian and appealed to the cadre to chase him out of Tiruppur. Tiruppur south police, after getting a legal opinion, registered a case against Jainulabdeen for offences under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 504 (whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace or to commit any other offence) and 505 (1) (b) (with intent to cause or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquility) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pfi-leader-booked/article37618363.ece
22 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tight security in Tiruppur||Nearly 1,000 police personnel have been deployed within the limits of Tiruppur city ahead of the Chief Minister’s visit on Monday. Police sources said on Sunday that around 300 police personnel were deployed at Chikkanna Government Arts College, where the Chief Minister will participate in an event. As per a tentative schedule, Mr. Stalin will arrive here around 2 p.m. and will participate at the event at 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tight-security-in-tiruppur/article37618273.ece
22 November 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. extends closure of parks, pools,dams in Tiruvannamalai||With the rising number of COVID-19 cases, parks, swimming pools and dams in Tiruvannamalai and Kattam Poondi will remain closed till December 5, Collector B. Murugesh said on Sunday. However, hotels, bakeries and tea shops can function from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m., a press release said. Owners and staff of these outlets should have taken the second dose of vaccination. Roadside eateries, hawkers and petty traders can operate from 6a.m.to8 p.m. Fine will be imposed for not wearing face masks and maintaining social distance in public places. Only 50% occupancy will be allowed in government buses. Tiruvannamalai municipality has a total of 39 wards covering key areas like Pallavan Nagar, Thenimalai, Samuthivam Kalani and Ajish Colony, with a population of around 8 lakh. The easing of restrictions, especially since July 11, has increased the flow of traffic in the town with key routes like Tiruvannamalai Road, Vellore-Thoothukudi High Road, Perumpakkam Road, Polur Road and Avalurpettai Road witnessing pre-COVID-19 levels of traffic congestion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-extends-closure-of-parks-poolsdams-in-tiruvannamalai/article37618635.ece
22 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||80% of Nilgiris adult population receives both doses of vaccine: Health Department||Around 80% of the Nilgiris’ adult population eligible to be vaccinated has received both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, sources in the Health Department said. According to officials, 4.04 lakh people, out of a total eligible population of 5.17 lakh in the Nilgiris have received both doses of the vaccine. Others have received at least a single dose of the vaccine. On Sunday, COVID-19 mega vaccination camp was held across the district at 256 places. Twenty mobile medical camps were also held to administer vaccines to people in both rural and urban areas between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. The district administration said that a total of 1,104 staff from the Health Department was deployed for the vaccination drive. Tokens to get the vaccine was distributed to all the residents by the local bodies where the camps were conducted. The department and the district administration also cautioned residents about the spread of Nipah virus in neighbouring Kerala, and urged residents to take precautions to stay safe from seasonal infections such as dengue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-of-nilgiris-adult-population-receives-both-doses-of-vaccine-health-department/article37618278.ece
22 November 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.5 lakh vaccinated at mega camps in Vellore, nearby districts||The district administrations in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur have altogether vaccinated more than 1.5 lakh persons in the 10th mega vaccination camp that was held in 3,029 areas on Sunday. Tiruvannamalai set up 1,075 camps, highest among four districts, vaccinating 80,949 persons including 23,132 persons from Cheyyar block. So far, 74% of the total population have been vaccinated in the district. “Apart from the mega camp, our health staff also conduct door-to-door campaign covering around 10,000 persons every day,” said B. Murugesh, District Collector, Tiruvannamalai. In Vellore district, more than 800 camps were organised covering 247 villages, four town panchayats and two municipalities. Tirupattur and Ranipet districts organised 421 and 500 camps covering 17,099 and 20,648 persons respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-15-lakh-vaccinated-at-mega-camps-in-vellore-nearby-districts/article37618632.ece
22 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 11 fresh COVID cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,086 with 11 new cases reported on Sunday. While a total of 48,846 patients have been discharged, the active cases stand at 102. The death toll is 1,138. In Ranipet district, only one case was reported and the total stood at 43,522. In Tirupattur district, no case was reported on Sunday and the total number of cases stood at 29,367. In Tiruvannamalai district, five new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 55,143. Of them, 54,410 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 64.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-11-fresh-covid-cases/article37618633.ece
22 November 2021||Vijayawada,TAMIL NADU||Flood situation remains grave in A.P.||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday directed the in-charge Ministers and MLAs of flood-affected Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore districts to stay in the region and monitor rehabilitation and relief operations. The swelling Chitravathi, Papagni and Penna rivers continue to pose a threat at various places in the Rayalaseema region. Bridge collapses The road bridge across the Papaghni, connecting Kadapa and Tadipatri towns, collapsed on Sunday due to the impact of the floods. The district was severely battered by rain, especially the Kadapa, Rajampet and Kamalapuram constituencies. Amid speculative figures that put the number of deceased at over 50, the district administration has officially pegged the death toll at 15 as on Sunday evening. “We have identified 15 bodies and handed them over to relatives and paid a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of 13 victims. Around 22 persons have been reported missing and a search is on for them”, Kadapa Collector V. Vijayarama Raju told The Hindu . In Punganur, heavy rains led to the crumbling of the darbar hall and the adjoining walls of the 200-year-old zamindari palace. In SPSR Nellore district, normal life was thrown out of gear as rains wrecked havoc. Vehicles were stranded on the Chennai-Kolkata highway for about 12 hours as the highway suffered erosion in Nellore and Kovur. As the Railways cancelled trains due to breaches and damage to tracks, many passengers were stranded in Vijayawada, Nellore, Eluru, Gudur and Tirupati. Many trains originating and operating from Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Kakinada, Guntur and Nellore towards Chennai were cancelled and diverted, the South Central Railway said. In Tirupati, the 500-year-old Rayalacheruvu tank developed minor breaches. The Chittoor district administration issued warning asking people of 16 villages to vacate immediately.  (With inputs from Kadapa, Chittoor, Nellore and Tirupati bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-situation-remains-grave-in-ap/article37618108.ece
22 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks industry warned against flouting SC order||With the fireworks industry getting all set for a fresh production season after Deepavali, Virudhunagar district administration has warned the industry against using barium nitrate and making joint crackers banned by the Supreme Court. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghnath Reddy cautioned the industry of stringent action if the fireworks unit were found flouting the apex court order. Chairing a meeting with the representatives of fireworks manufacturers associations here on November 20, the Collector said that the Supreme Court in its order, dated October 29, had banned fireworks containing barium nitrate and joint crackers that pose danger to the health of people and the environment. Special teams would be formed for inspecting the fireworks units to ensure implementation of the apex court guidelines. “Any unit that is found to violate the Supreme Court order would face stringent action,” he said, adding that no banned fireworks should be manufactured, stocked, sold or burst. District Superintendent of Police M. Manohar; District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian; Sivakasi Additional Collector M. Birathiviraj; Personal Assistant (General) to Collector Kalimuthu; officials from Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation, K. Pandey and Parvesh Kumar, and fireworks manufacturers representatives participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-fireworks-industry-against-flouting-supreme-court-order/article37618269.ece
22 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks industry warned against flouting SC directive||As fireworks industry is all set for a fresh production season after Deepavali, Virudhunagar district administration has warned the industry against using barium nitrate and making joint crackers, which were banned by the Supreme Court. Collector J. Meghnath Reddy warned the industry of stringent action if the fireworks unit were found flouting the apex court order. Meeting  Chairing a meeting with representatives of fireworks manufacturers’ associations here on Saturday, the Collector said the Supreme Court, in its order dated October 29, had banned fireworks containing barium nitrate and joint crackers that posed a danger to the health of the people and the environment. In order to ensure implementation of the Supreme Court guidelines, special teams would be formed for inspecting the fireworks units. “Any unit that is found violating the court order would face stringent action,” he said. “No fireworks that are banned by the court should be manufactured, stocked, sold or burst,” the Collector said. Superintendent of Police M. Manohar; District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian; Sivakasi Additional Collector M. Birathiviraj; Personal Assistant (General) to Collector Kalimuthu; officials from Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation, K. Pandey and Parvesh Kumar, and representatives of various associations of fireworks manufacturers participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireworks-industry-warned-against-flouting-sc-directive/article37618345.ece
22 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Camps for summary revision of poll roll||Virudhunagar district has received over 5,951 forms for inclusion, deletion, correction and change of address in the last two days of additional camps. Among them, over 2,092 forms, including online applications were received on Saturday, and 3,859 offline forms were received at the special camps held at various places on Sunday. So far, 22,150 forms have been received from November 1 when the summary revision of electoral rolls began. Among the total number of forms received so far, 14,259 are for inclusion of names and 28,93 for deletion of names. All those who would turn 18 as on with January 1, 2022 are eligible to include their names in the voter list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/camps-for-summary-revision-of-poll-roll/article37618355.ece
22 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||53,437 COVID vaccine doses administered||Virudhunagar district on Sunday administered 53,437 doses of COVID vaccination during the 10th mega vaccination camp held in the district on Sunday. Among them, 19,344 took the first dose and 34,093 were given the second shot at special camps in 869 locations. The district has so far vaccinated 11.66 lakh first dose and 6.73 lakh second dose, totalling 18.40 lakh doses to 15.60 lakh population. The coverage of first dose is 74.78% and 43.18% second doses. The highest coverage of vaccination per lakh eligible population was registered in Tiruchuli block with 89,835 followed by Vembakottai 88,561.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/53437-covid-vaccine-doses-administered/article37618354.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special Sub Inspector in Tiruchi district murdered by duo stealing goat||Even as he was trying to contact the police station, the unidentified persons attacked him with sharp weapons on the head, killing him on the spot, and escaped. On information, Tiruchi Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan, who is the in- charge Inspector-General of Police, Central Zone, and Deputy Inspector of Police (Tiruchi Range) V. Saravana Sundar rushed to the spot and conducted inquiries. Mr. Karthikeyan told The Hindu that four special teams had been constituted to apprehend the accused. The body of Boominathan was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Government General Hospital for post-mortem. Later, it was laid to rest with police honours. Additional Director-General of Police (Law and Order) P. Thamarai Kannan said some clues had been obtained, and the assailants would be arrested soon. Accompanied by Mr. Karthikeyan, Mr. Saravana Sundar and Superintendent of Police (Tiruchi Rural) Sujit Kumar, he inspected the scene of crime and visited the residence of Bhoominathan at Navalpattu on the outskirts of Tiruchi. Mr. Thamaraikannan told reporters that Bhoominathan and another policeman had chased the culprits but the latter had fallen behind. The police have recovered a cell phone and a walkie-talkie that was carried by Boominathan from near the scene of crime. The gadgets allegedly thrown away by the accused before fleeing were recovered from a pool of water nearby, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-sub-inspector-in-tiruchi-district-murdered-by-duo-stealing-goat/article37618348.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Central team arrives in Chennai||Four of the seven members, led by Mr. Rajiv Sharma, will visit the flood-affected areas in Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts on the forenoon of Monday before proceeding to Puducherry in the afternoon. On November 23, the team is expected to visit the affected areas in Cuddalore and Mayiladuthurai districts in the forenoon and Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi in the afternoon. The three other members will fly to Thoothukudi on Monday morning and then proceed to Kanniyakumari by road. On Tuesday, the team will return to Chennai and proceed to Vellore and Ranipet. Both the teams will return to Chennai by Tuesday evening. On Wednesday, the team will have a debriefing session at the Secretariat at 10 a.m. and leave for New Delhi in the evening. ‘Will seek more funds’ Though the State has submitted a memorandum to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking Rs. 2,629 crore for relief work, Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran said on Sunday that more funds would be sought because of the damage that had since occurred in more districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-arrives-in-chennai/article37618243.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail 21 November 2021||The public address system in Ramanathapuram railway system is not efficient, as announcements on arrival and departure of trains are inaudible for passengers waiting on the west side of station. There are no speakers in this section. Since Ramanathapuram is the district headquarters, amenities provided at the railway station should be improved. The length of the platforms should be increased and one more entry provided at the western side for the convenience of passengers. Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram.   There are 620 major tanks and 1,112 minor tanks fed by the Vaigai in Ramanathapuram district. The water has not reached most of these tanks. Now that the water level is high in Vaigam dam, I request the government to release water for irrigation of fields in Ramanathapuram district. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-21-november-2021/article37618359.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail 21 November 2021||The Amma canteen located opposite Fire Station near Periyar bus stand is well-patronised by the needy. In the canteen, two ceiling fans have removed. The staff do not wear face masks, much to the chagrin of customers. The plates have become smaller and are not covered with butter sheets anymore. The plastic tumbler for drinking water is dirty. Food leftovers such as curry leaves, green chillies and skins of onions left on the dining tables are not removed. I request the officials to set right things in this canteen soon. M. Sainithii, Sholavandan       Apropos the report on concern expressed by Judge G.R. Swaminathan of the Madras High Court about the need to take care of mental health of remand prisoners, it must be noted that mental illness like physical illness is amenable for treatment by trained professionals. However it is not uncommon to see people believing that the illness is due to some kind of ‘curse’ or ‘spell’ cast on the patient and it can be cured only by occultists. These patients are at times subjected to physical torture in the name of treatment at the hands of quacks. It is, therefore, imperative that basic knowledge of mental illness is imparted to students at higher secondary level so that myths associated with it are removed from their mind. K. Natarajan, Tahsildar Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-21-november-2021/article37618552.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||READERS MAIL||The check dam at the foot of Pachamalai hills across Varaiyaru Odai in Ammampalayam hamlet of Maruvathur panchayat, located 15-km away from Thuraiyur town, is another tourist attraction like Puliancholai. However, the road maintained by the Forest Department is in a poor condition. Tourists visiting this tranquil spot in verdant settings face the risk of their vehicles getting stuck in the muddy path. The initiative that had been taken by the State Goverment to lay a 1.5 kilometre concrete road from Ladapuram village to Mayiluthu falls for the convenience of tourists must be extended to this spot as well. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   Marriage halls in residential areas must not be permitted to utilise power generators. Fumes from the diesel-run generators cause irritation to eyes and lungs. The Tiruchi Corporation and Electricity Department ought to curb the practice stringently. T.M. Ranganathan Srirangam   The long-felt demand for a causeway across the Ananda Cauvery Canal at Budalur (North) has not bee fulfilled for residents in West Street near the Southern Bank. About 50 families comprising several agricultural labourers are able to cross the canal when the water level is low, but when there is heavy flow, they are required to take a circumlocutory route of about 500 metres. Frequent requests to the authorities by the residents have not yielded any result. A causeway will be of immense help for the residents all through the year. M. Sheik Abdullah Budalur   Herds of cattle straying across roads in Kumbakonam town is a common sight these days. These cattle herds cause congestion of vehicular traffic at peak hours in the town. This trouble is mostly visible at the Cauvery River Bridge in Melacauvery area and Kumbeswaran temple, Someswaran Temple, Nageswaran Temple and Ramaswamy Temple areas on the Kumbakonam-Thanjavur main road. At times, the presence of the herds also leads to accidents. There are instances of devotees visiting pilgrim centres being chased by the animals. It is time the local body initiated proper action to address the menace. M. Baluswamy Kumbakonam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article37618323.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Coimbatore Management Association: Monday Musings - Redefining entrepreneurship - A future imperative by Swathy Rohit, Chief Operating Officer - SNR Sons Trust, 6.30 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Session on Innovations in Drug Development, 12 noon  Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College: Inaugural and oath taking ceremony of office-bearers of the associations, 9 a.m.; Guest lecture on Current Scope and Expectations in Aeronautical Engineering, 9.30 a.m.  TIRUPPUR   Arbitration Council of Tiruppur: 25th General Body meeting, SIHMA Hall, Harvey Road, Tiruppur, 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37618274.ece
22 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘We will all work together to ensure Kavatagimath wins’||BJP leaders took out rallies as part of Jana Swarajya Yatre in Chikkodi and Belagavi on Sunday, where they campaigned for Mahantesh Kavatagimath, party candidate for the Legislative Council polls. The former Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa addressed the two rallies. Some senior party leaders spoke at the rallies. However, the Jarkiholi brothers, Ramesh, former Minister, and Balachandra, KMF Chairman, were conspicuous by their absence. It is widely being seen as their response to the reluctance of the party about fielding their younger brother Lakhan Jarkiholi as the second candidate in the Council polls. While Balachandra Jarkiholi has openly sought party ticket for his brother, Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that he has made no such demand. When asked about it, Mr. Yeddiyurappa said that he will talk to the Jarkiholi brothers. “We will all work together to ensure the victory of Mahantesh Kavatagimath,’’ he told journalists in Belagavi. Other senior leaders from the district, including district in-charge Minister Govind Karjol, Ministers Umesh Katti and Shashikala Jolle, were also absent. Party sources said that this was because the party had assigned them other constituencies for campaign-related work. In Chikkodi, Mr. Yeddiyurappa said that the BJP was not a party that believed in caste-based discrimination. “We give equal importance to all communities. The party leaders from all communities are in important positions. Equal development of all sections of society and harmony among all is our motto,’’ he said. He said that the Congress was losing ground across the country, while the BJP was moving from strength to strength in all the States. “In a few days, the Congress will be routed out completely. People have rejected it at all levels, from gram panchayats to Parliament,’’ he said. In Belagavi, Mr. Yeddiyurappa said that Mr. Kavatagimath would emerge as the winner in the first round of counting as he was likely to get the most first preference votes. “Mr. Kavatagimath has participated in legislative proceedings and raised issues relating to rural local bodies. He has also worked with enthusiasm in the district,’’ he said. He said that he was witnessing unprecedented support for the party nominees across the State. Party leaders B. Sriramulu (Minister), Lakshman Savadi, former Deputy Chief Minister, Eeranna Kadadi, Rajy Sabha member, Mangala Angadi and Anna Sahab Jolle, MPs, N. Ravikumar, MLC, P. Rajiv, Anil Benake, Mahadevappa Yadwad, Mahantesh Dodagoudar, MLAs, and others were present in the rallies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-will-all-work-together-to-ensure-kavatagimath-wins/article37618390.ece
22 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Stress on quality dental education||The 36th National Conference of the Indian Association of Conservative Dentistry and Endodontics and the 21st National Post-Graduate Convention ended at KLE Society’s Vishwanath Katti Institute of Dental Sciences in Belagavi on Sunday. Dental Council of India president Dibyendu Mazumdar inaugurated the event on Saturday. He said that the Dental Council of India will soon launch a digital portal that will give access to all dental colleges across the country to evaluate regular teaching-learning processes and good patient care. He said that dentistry is a highly skill-based profession and that practitioners had to polish their skills all the time. He also stressed on the need for quality education in dental colleges. Over 1,300 delegates comprising 1,000 students and 300 faculty members attended the event that was held in both online and offline mode. Speakers presented the latest know-how in the field and panel discussions were held. Students and faculty from all over the country deliberated on the presentations.  The event was held in collaboration with the Indian Association of Conservative Dentistry and Endodontics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stress-on-quality-dental-education/article37618389.ece
22 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa asks JD(S) to support BJP||BJP leader and former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has sought the support of the Janata Dal (Secular) in fighting the Legislative Council elections. He told journalists at Chikkodi on Sunday: “The JD(S) is not fielding candidates for all the seats. I request the JD(S) to support us in constituencies where it is not fielding candidates.” He also said that he would be talking to JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy about this. Interestingly, the JD(S) has been maintaining that it would remaining equidistant from both the national parties, the BJP and the Congress. Some Congress leaders have been accusing the JD(S) of having a covert understanding with the saffron party. The JD(S) is yet to finalise candidates for the Council elections, scheduled for December 10. It is expected to announce the names on Monday. The last date for filing nominations is November 23. Mr. Yediyurappa said the Congress had not been able to finalise its candidates. He said the BJP would strengthen the Panchayat Raj institutions if voted to power. “We are committed to ensuring development of villages and strengthening the gram panchayat institutions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yediyurappa-asks-jds-to-support-bjp/article37618217.ece
22 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Art camps in Belagavi||As part of World Heritage Week, Archaeological Survey of India, Dharwad, organised on-site art camps in Aihole, Badami and Pattadal in Bagalkot district on Sunday. Artists of Kala Shibira, Badami, and Aniketana Kala Kendra, Hubballi, participated. They created paintings of monuments and sculptures. Rajaram Hegde, former Professor of Kuvempu University, delivered an online lecture about Intangible Heritage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/art-camps-in-belagavi/article37618386.ece
22 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Art festival inaugurated||Rostrum Diaries, a city-based culture promotion group, has launched the Belagavi Art Festival to promote fine arts. Veteran cartoonist Jagadish Kunthe inaugurated the festival at Sapna Book House in Belagavi on Sunday. Registration can be done at Sapna Book House. Details can be had on Ph: 0831 4255499 or www.belagaviartfest.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/art-festival-inaugurated/article37618387.ece
22 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Savadi: Do not give in to influences while voting||Laxman Savadi, former Deputy Chief Minister, asked gram panchayat members not to lose their self respect, while exercising their franchise. “You should all retain your self respect and not give in to influences like money and power. Some people may try to give you money and ask you to vote for some candidates. You should refuse it and vote for the BJP,” he said at the Jan Swaraj Yatra rally in Belagavi. This was a veiled reference to Lakhan Jarkiholi, younger brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, former Minister and BJP leader, who is said to be planning to contest as an Independent. “The Legislative Council elections in Belagavi are witnessing some strange developments. The whole State is watching Belagavi. You should ensure that you vote for the BJP, without yielding to the pressure by other candidates,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/savadi-do-not-give-in-to-influences-while-voting/article37618210.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rivers from Nandi Hills Range find their course in arid lands||Anjaneya Reddy, a farmers’ activist from Chickballapur district, never thought that he would witness rivers in spate and tanks overflowing in his lifetime. And he’s not the only one shaking his head in bewilderment. Heavy rains in October and November have brought rivers to life in the historically arid regions of Kolar, Chickballapur  and surrounding areas. Six rivers that originate in the Nandi Hills Range on Bengaluru’s outskirts are flowing bountifully, bringing much joy to communities living along the banks and despair to farmers who have lost their standing crops. It had been years since the rivers — Arkavathi, Chitravathi, Papagni, Uttara Pinakini, Dakshina Pinakini and Palar — have been in spate like this, said locals and environmentalists. Barring Arkavathi, the other rivers are flowing after many years. “I have never seen such a situation in at least 40 years,” said Mr. Reddy. “Kolar and Chickballapur districts are usually drought prone and farmers here practise rain-fed agriculture. I have only heard my grandfather recount stories of the six rivers and read about them in books,” he said.  According to Chowdappa, an environmentalist, the excess rains in the Nandi Hills Range had also filled up almost all the 5,000-odd tanks and lakes in the two districts. Most of the large tanks -- including Bethamangala, Kandavara, Amani Kere, Ramasamudra and Kolaramma tanks -- are overflowing, inundating bridges and flooding agricultural fields. “The people, who initially celebrated the rains that filled up the dry tanks and water flowing in the rivers, have begun to despair at the damages that they have caused in the districts,” said Mr. Reddy. Mr. Reddy, too, said it had been decades since the rivers flowed. Most parts of the catchment areas and canals have been encroached. “Now that they are in spate, the water is finding its old pathways, which have been encroached by fields and residential areas. This has naturally led to widespread crop damage and flooding — scenes we have not seen in our districts in this generation at least,” he said. Irrigation expert Prof. N. Narasimhappa said because the lakes have not been desilted and the river basins not preserved, the districts will not be able to get the full benefit of these rains as the water retention capacity has reduced by a large measure. “However, the groundwater table in the two districts will be recharged. Though farmers have suffered widespread crop damage this season, they will reap benefits over the next three to four years. All the borewells in the two districts will be recharged and farmers need not worry about water for at least a couple of years,” he said.  Nirmala Gowda, Trustee, Bangalore Environment Trust, who recently led a team that followed the 92-km course of the Arkavathi till Sangama, said the river (Arkavathi) is in ‘flash flow’ in all the taluks following excess rains. This, she said, may last for around a week. “When we followed the river course, we found that full dams had to release large volumes of water, which had led to heavy soil erosion,” she said. Series of bridges along the river’s course were inundated. “These bridges are built with culverts and the pipes are small. The culverts get clogged with water hyacinth, which impedes the water flow,” she said, explaining the reason behind the inundation. Due to over-exploitation of ground water in Doddaballapur, Nelamangala, Magadi, Ramanagara and Kanakapura taluks, where the Arkavathi flows, there is no sub-surface flow. “So, when such flash flows occur, the river takes with it all the non-point pollutants, such as muck, garbage, construction debris etc,” she said. Earlier, the Arkavathi would flow through the Byramangala dam, where around 70-80% of the waste would get arrested. “However, the dam is disconnected from the river. The river’s course has been diverted to protect the dam. This is an unscientific project,” she said and added that with this, all the pollutants were now flowing to Sangama and into the Cauvery.   I have never seen such a situation in at least 40 years. I have only heard my grandfather recount stories of the six rivers and read about them in books --- Anjaneya Reddy, a farmers’ activist, Chickballapur   The lakes have not been desilted and the river basins not preserved, the districts will not be able to get the full benefit of these rains as the water retention capacity has reduced. However, the groundwater table in the two districts will be recharged --- Irrigation expert Prof. N. Narasimhappa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rivers-from-nandi-hills-range-find-their-course-in-arid-lands/article37618194.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||97.3% of COVID-19 beds at govt. hospitals in Bengaluru vacant||With a gradual decline in cases, 97.3% of beds allocated for COVID-19 in government hospitals in Bengaluru are lying vacant. With the State Government having stopped referring patients to private hospitals, they have started utilising beds earlier reserved for COVID-19 patients for other admissions. As per data, only 49 of the total 1,849 COVID-19 beds were occupied as of Saturday (November 20). As many as 32 of the total 693 general beds and 11 of the 831 high-dependency units with oxygenated beds were occupied. Likewise, only five of the 120 ICU beds and just one of the 205 ICU beds with ventilators were occupied. There is no data on the availability of beds in hospitals across the State as the Health Department has stopped updating the availability status. Sources in Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust, the nodal agency that implements the Government’s health insurance schemes, said the availability status is not being updated now as there has been a drastic decline in cases. Although the State war room dashboard shows that 13,733 beds in district hospitals had been allocated for COVID-19, there is no mention of how many are occupied. K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health), said there are hardly any patients with prolonged stay in hospitals now. “This is mainly due to vaccination. Vaccines reduce hospital admissions and mortality in case of infections in those who were have been fully vaccinated,” he said. Doctors in Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute said all the COVID beds are vacant now and the Trauma and Emergency Care Centre (TECC) that was converted into a dedicated COVID-19 facility is being refurbished to resume non-COVID services. “We had four COVID-19 patients until two weeks ago. We shifted them to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital and are now refurbishing the TECC for non-COVID use. In the next two weeks, the entire hospital will resume non-COVID services,” said Ramesh Krishna K., Medical Superintendent of Victoria Hospital.   Karnataka’s seven-day average Test Positivity Rate (TPR) stood at 0.29% as on November 19. The TPR is above the State average in six districts: Mysuru, Bengaluru Urban, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Kodagu, and Tumakuru. While Mysuru has the highest TPR at 0.65%, the least has been recorded in two districts, Bagalkot and Koppal that have been consistently recording zero TPR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/973-of-covid-19-beds-at-govt-hospitals-in-bengaluru-vacant/article37618203.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kolar and Chickballapur forced to plan for floods||Over the past few days, all the tanks in Kolar and Chickballapur districts are overflowing and rivers are in spate, inundating several areas. Kolar has reportedly suffered the most crop damage in the State — around 35,000 hectares of food grains, mainly ragi, and 7,000 hectares of horticultural crops, as per estimates of the State Government. The situation in Chickballapur is no different. Environmentalist and water management expert S. Vishwanath said this showed the impact of climate change on rainfall pattern. “Now even districts like Kolar and Chickballapur have to prepare for extreme rain events and have contingency plans to manage flood-like situations to prevent large-scale crop loss,” he said. It is years since the six rivers — Arkavathi, Chitravathi, Papagni, Uttara Pinakini, Dakshina Pinakini and Palar — have been in spate like this. “Flooding in the areas where the rivers flow also highlights the need to clear encroachments, revive drain networks between the different tanks, apart from regularly repairing and maintaining the tank ecosystem as a flood mitigation measure,” Mr. Vishwanath said. Irrigation expert N. Narasimhappa lamented the lack of political leadership in harnessing water resources in the two districts. “If the tanks were desilted and the canal system preserved, we could have saved and stored so much water this season,” he said. Concretisation of the catchment areas of these six rivers has also contributed heavily to the flood-like situation in the two districts. Nirmala Gowda, trustee, Bangalore Environment Trust, pointed out that the river was mostly urban run-off, given the concretisation of catchment areas. Similar is the case with catchment areas of other rivers in the region. Add to this is the problem of toxicity of the water flowing in these lakes. “When we followed the river course, we found that full dams had to release large volumes of water, which had led to heavy soil erosion. Given the amount of water and industrial effluents released, there are a lot of chemicals and toxicity still lurking in the river,” Ms. Gowda said of Arkavathi river. The case of other rivers in the two neighbouring districts is no different. “While these rivers were not in flow, they had become cesspools of sewage and industrial effluents, which are now an intrinsic part of the water flow in these tanks and rivers,” Mr. Reddy pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kolar-and-chickballapur-forced-to-plan-for-floods/article37618190.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Citizens take out rally demanding basic amenities||Tired of their appeals for basic amenities falling on deaf ears, residents of Green Villae and Junnasandra, which come under Mahadevapura Assembly constituency, took out a protest rally on Sunday. Scores of residents, young and old, walked on slushy roads, carrying placards and raising slogans demanding better amenities. With political support from the Aam Aadmi Party, residents alleged that authorities had turned a blind eye to the “blatant encroachment” of the rajakaluve. This, they alleged, was causing sewage and rainwater to flood many parts of Junnasandra and Green Villae Layout. “The area lacked even the basic amenities, such as street lights and underground drainage system,” they said. Ashok Mrutyunjaya from AAP’s Mahadevapura unit said the local MLA, who had represented the constituency multiple times, had failed to develop the area and provide basic amenities to citizens. “Though residents pay tax, they are not provided with amenities. They are forced to wade through sewage mixed with rainwater whenever it rains,” he said. During the monsoon months, at least two feet of water stagnates on roads. Consequently, several cases of vector-borne diseases are reported in these areas. “Despite several complaints against the developer, who has developed a layout on the rajakaluve, to the tehsildar and district administration, no action has been initiated. This is because of the support that the developer enjoys from the powers that be,” claimed Mr. Mrutyunjaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-take-out-rally-demanding-basic-amenities/article37618192.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Survey: Schools must focus on foundational literacy||Only 24% of class X teachers said 80% or more of their students are at the grade-appropriate level. This was one of the findings revealed in the “TeacherSpeak” survey, conducted by IT for Change - a non-governmental organisation, in October among 146 high school teachers. The survey was carried out after the resumption of schools, once teachers had understood their students’ learning levels. With respect to classes VIII and IX, 15% and 18% of teachers respectively felt that a majority of their children are at the grade-appropriate level. However, two-thirds of the teachers agreed or strongly agreed that most of their students had the ability to succeed academically, while 65% teachers agreed that students’ learning was largely determined by the way the teachers teach and not by the students' background.  The teachers pointed out that school managements could focus on planning a refresher course for students, focus on the basics, foundational literacy and numeracy. The survey also noted that allocating more time for activities like projects, practicals, art, storytelling and games would promote joyful learning. Teachers also emphasised that school managements should give adequate time for teachers and students to fill the gap. Gurumurthy Kasinathan, Director at IT for Change, said these findings highlight the urgency to address the large gap between students’ learning levels and the curriculum. “They also show that teachers have confidence in the abilities of their students and believe that with the right kind of support they can succeed academically. Teachers feel the need to be given proper guidance, support, a certain level of autonomy and time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-schools-must-focus-on-foundational-literacy/article37618201.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||None will be protected in BDA corruption case: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday that Bangalore Development Authority, riddled with corruption, will be cleaned up and there is no question of protecting anyone in the process. Speaking to reporters on the ongoing raids by Anti-Corruption Bureau on BDA office following complaints of irregularities in acquisition and allotment of land in residential layouts, he said that both the public and BDA Chairman S.R. Vishwanath had drawn his attention to it. Prioritise Bengaluru “Urban Development Department officials have been instructed to investigate the complaints. The guilty, whoever it may be, however influential they may be, will not be let off. BDA needs clean-up in the interest of delivering its services to the common man,” Mr. Bommai said. On rain havoc Reacting to the havoc caused by rains in Bengaluru city, Mr. Bommai said that he had already visited affected areas HSR Layout, Rajarajeshwari Layout, Madiwala and Koramangala. “The State Government will definitely prioritise Bengaluru. Instructions have been issued to take repair and relief works in affected areas immediately after rains subside, I will go on city rounds soon,” Mr. Bommai promised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/none-will-be-protected-in-bda-corruption-case/article37618183.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Scientists call for dedicated State funding to handle climate change||With climate change causing excess rainfall and extensive damage to agricultural/ horticultural crops and public properties in Karnataka, scientists have called upon the State Government to access private and multilateral finance options for adopting eco-friendly technologies and mitigation of climate change. While the Glasgow Climate Pact highlighted the global-level funding, scientists said State-level funding was needed to address climate change challenges. Currently, there is no dedicated fund at the State level. Scattered funding Climate financing in the State is highly scattered and based on Central and State-level schemes and programmes, with no fixed percentage of assured finance allocated in the State Budget for mitigation and adaptation programmes, observed scientists N.H. Ravindranath of IISc. and Indu K. Murthy of the Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy, Bengaluru. Jagmohan Sharma, director general of the Environmental Management and Policy Research Institute, nodal agency of the State Government, said Karnataka State Action Plan on Climate Change (2021), which was yet to approved by the Centre, estimated the annual budget requirement for climate change action plan of the State at Rs. 20,880 crore in 2025 and Rs. 52,827 crore in 2030. A sum of Rs. 8,253 crore was allocated in the budget in 2019 for climate change adaptation and mitigation in more than a dozen of sectors, including agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, forest, energy, water resources, micro irrigation. Prof. Ravindranath and Prof. Murthy said the State has to take a lead and give more push to proposals seeking funds from both private and global lending agencies for scaling up environment friendly technologies from gram panchayat level to the State level. Not sector specific Further, they said State climate finances are not sector-specific, region or zone-specific or social group-specific, taking into consideration current vulnerabilities, to address climate change. Environmental activities are to be integrated with ongoing rural/urban development projects, said Prof. Ravindranath, author of multiple UN IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) reports on climate change. Dr. Sharma said besides increase in rainfall, the State would see a rise in summer temperature between 0.5 degree Celsius and 1.5 degree Celsius in the coming years and would cause impact on farm productivity, livestock and submergence of islands. While climate change would increase productivity in forest lands, cotton and sugarcane crops, cause harm to agriculture crops such as paddy, ragi, groundnut. There was an opportunity to increase forest area by 1.2 million hectares by planting saplings, he said. Former Minister and chairman of BCCI-Karnataka chapter, B.K. Chandrashekar, who organised a round table meeting recently with scientists on COP26, Glasgow, and its impact on Karnataka, appealed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to demonstrate a political commitment for addressing climate change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scientists-call-for-state-funding-to-handle-climate-change/article37618209.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bid to hack email account||The Central Cyber Crime police have registered a case against an unknown person who allegedly tried to access the email account of a police officer from a phone. The incident came to light when Mirza Ali Raza, Inspector, Vidhana Soudha station, received a Google alert on his official mail that someone was trying to access his account from a phone. The police are now verifying with the details of the unauthorised access and have taken up a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bid-to-hack-email-account/article37618188.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 247 new cases, one death||Karnataka on Sunday reported 247 new cases of COVID-19. With this, the total number of positives stood at 29,93,599. With 134 new positives, Bengaluru Urban continued to account for the majority of cases in the State. With one death reported in Bengaluru, the toll rose to 38,175. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 278 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,48,331. The State currently has 7,064 active patients. The positivity rate for the day touched 0.31%, while Case Fatality Rate (CFR) dropped to 0.40%. Testing remained under the one lakh mark: 78,037 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 66,699 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,26,74,704.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-247-new-cases-one-death/article37618198.ece
22 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dak Adalat on December 7||The office of the Postmaster General, South Karnataka Region, Bengaluru, will hold Dak Adalat on postal complaints on December 7 at 11 a.m. Bengaluru GPO, in a release, said those who would like to present their grievances on postal matters pertaining to South Karnataka Postal Region may furnish details of grievances. The grievances should reachthe Assistant Director (Staff), O/o the Postmaster General, South Karnataka Region, II, Floor, GPO Building, Bengaluru 560001 by December 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dak-adalat-on-december-7/article37618214.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bus services restored||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation has restored bus services from Bengaluru to Kerala on Kannur, Kanhangad, and Kasaragod routes. Bengaluru to Kasaragod non-sleeper bus service will leave Bengaluru at 8 p.m. and reach Kasaragod at 5.45 a.m, the next day. AC sleeper service will leave Bengaluru at 9.15 p.m. and reach Kasaragod at 5.45 a.m., the next day. AC sleeper bus to Kannur will leave Bengaluru at 9 p.m. and reach Kannur at 6.30 a.m., the following day. Volvo bus from Bengaluru will leave at 9 p.m. and reach Kanhangad at 6.30 a.m., the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-services-restored/article37618215.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Meth worth Rs. 2.03 crore seized||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials have recovered methamphetamine worth Rs. 2.03 crore in an inter-State drug bust involving the smuggling of banned substances between Kerala and Karnataka. NCB sleuths trailed the route of the drug transit and caught a 22-year-old fisherman while he was allegedly receiving the consignment in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala. According to NCB Zonal Director Amith Ghawate, the team received credible information about a shipment of 40 grams of methamphetamine from Kattigenahalli in Yelahanka, which was on its way to Thiruvananthapuram. The gang had used a private courier company. “The anti-narcotics team had information that drugs were being regularly smuggled to Kerala through couriers in Bengaluru. Following this, the NCB team raided the private courier firm in Yelahanka and found that someone had booked a cellphone box to be couriered to Thiruvananthapuram,” said Mr. Ghawate. The NCB team opened the box to find a small packet filled with white-coloured powder which was later confirmed as meth, said an officer who was part of the operation. They alerted their counterparts in Kerala who kept a watch on the package. A few days later, a 22-year-old fisherman, was nabbed in Thiruvananthapuram when he came to claim the box at the agency’s local branch. He was arrested under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. However, the NCB has withheld his identity as the investigation is ongoing and efforts are on to ascertain his contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/methamphetamine-worth-rs-203-cr-seized/article37618187.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gold heist: Two teams formed||The police have formed two special teams to track down two armed robbers who attacked a jeweller and his employee and made away with 5.5 kg of bullion worth approximately Rs. 2.5 crore. The incident took place on the busy Cubbonpet main road around 8.30 p.m. on Friday. While one team of police analysed CCTV footage and related technical details, the other team checked on habitual offenders, and people known to the jeweller. “We suspect it was a planned robbery. The accused had done a recce of the area for many days before they attacked the jeweller, Siddeshwar Haribha Shinde,” said a police officer. On Friday night, the accused intercepted the jeweller and his employee. The pillion rider attacked them with a sword, following which Shinde and his associate fell from his scooter. Before they could get up and react, the accused, riding pillion, took the gold and the scooter which had the bullion, and sped away. The vehicle and the accused are yet to be traced, the police officer added. The attackers were wearing jackets and helmets. As it was dark, the victims were unable to identify the registration number of their two-wheeler.  “We suspect it was a planned robbery. The accused had done a recce of the area for many days,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gold-heist-two-probe-teams-formed/article37618199.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pedestrian dies in accident||An 80-year-old pedestrian was knocked down by a speeding biker near his house in old Bagalur Layout in K.G. Halli on Saturday. Hussain Khan, a carpenter, died on the spot. “The motorcyclist was speeding and lost control of the bike. He knocked down Khan who was taking a walk in the area after dinner, and sped away,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pedestrian-dies-in-accident/article37618185.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Compensation for rain-hit people||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday visited rain-affected areas in Chickballapur and Sidlaghatta taluks and inspected the damage caused by rains. He said in the district, 24 houses had completely collapsed and 1,079 partially collapsed. He announced Rs. 5 lakh compensation for people whose houses have completely collapsed and Rs. 50,000 for those whose houses have partially collapsed. He also inspected the areas flooded due to the overflowing Kandavara Lake in Chickballapur city and directed officials to prepare a Detailed Project Report for building a storm water drain between Kandavara and Gopalakrishna Amani Lakes, to prevent flooding in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/compensation-for-rain-hit-people/article37618186.ece
22 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||15 important issues to be raised in Parliament session||Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge has said that his party has decided to raise 15 vital issues, including enacting a law for guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for farm produce, Pegasus spyware surveillance and the Chinese building villages on the international border. “Neither India nor China can take up any construction activity along the international border between the two countries. With news coming of the Chinese building a village on the international border between India and China, everybody has been surprised. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done nothing to stop the Chinese on the border. He is doing everything in his speeches,” Mr. Kharge said in his brief interaction with mediapersons at his residence in Kalaburagi on Sunday. When asked about Congress strategies for Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, Mr. Kharge said that his party will fight the elections largely without making any major alliances. He added that a couple of seats might be given to close allies. To a question on Mr. Modi’s announcement on withdrawing the three farm laws, Mr. Kharge said that the Union Government’s decision is not for safeguarding farmers interest but for impressing people in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. “The BJP claims that the decision is in farmers interests. Where was their concern when protesting farmers on the Delhi border were dying? The Union Government’s decision is an attempt to impress the people in Uttar Pradesh which is going to the polls. If the government had discussed the matter in Parliament, we too would have given our suggestions. It has been Mr. Modi’s one-man show in Parliament. Now, Mr. Modi doesn’t have faith in the democratic process,” Mr. Kharge said, recalling Congress leader Rahul Gandhi clearly saying 11 months ago that the farmers protest will force the Modi government to repeal the farm laws. Declining to respond to BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s harsh criticisms of him and his son Priyank Kharge, the senior Congressman said that he will respond to Mr. Kateel’s Guru [obliquely referring to Mr. Modi], if the latter made any remarks. “Mr. Kateel’s words show his party’s culture,” Mr. Kharge said. Mr. Kateel, a day before, congratulated the Kalaburagi people for defeating Mr. Kharge in the last Lok Sabha elections and also for defeating the Congress in the Mahanagara Palike elections. He also said that the loot by the Kharges will shortly come to an end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-important-issues-to-be-raised-in-parliament-session/article37618391.ece
22 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Protest march taken out in Kalaburagi||Condemning Lok Sabha Member from Mysuru Pratap Simha for his “objectionable remarks” against Congress leader Priynak Kharge, hundreds of Congress workers took out a procession and staged a demonstration in Kalaburagi on Saturday. Mobilised under the banner of Priyank Kharge Fans Group, the activists gathered at Jagat Circle and took out a procession to SVP Circle, raising slogans and displaying placards against Mr. Simha and BJP State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel. The agitating activists blocked the main road for a few minutes to vent their anger. When the activists made an attempted to burn Mr. Simha in an effigy, the police intervened and tried to foil the bid in vain. After exchanging heated words with the police, the activists managed to burn Mr. Simha in an effigy. Later, the activists targeted the police saying that the latter had assaulted Sharanu Modi, a Congress leader and former Mayor of Kalaburagi, during the protest. They also demanded that the police tender an apology. “Mr. Pratap Simha is a parliamentarian and he should be careful while criticising his political opponents. His words show the culture he talks of. Mr. Kharge is exposing the ruling BJP in the bitcoin scam and the BJP leaders are not able to digest the substantial criticisms of Mr. Kharge. It is the real reason for the BJP’s attack on Mr. Kharge,” Allamaprabhu Patil, a Congress leader and former MLC, said during the protest. Congress leader and MLA from Jewargi Ajay Singh, in a media release, condemned Mr. Simha’s remarks. “Mr. Simha’s words have hurt the people. The BJP leaders should answer the questions raised by the Congress leader,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-march-taken-out-in-kalaburagi/article37618385.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||8.13 lakh to get de-worming tablets||As many as 4.96 lakh children aged between one and 19 will receive de-worming tablets in Dakshina Kannada, while 3.16 lakh children will receive them in Udupi district, at aganwadis, schools, colleges and hostels between November 23 and 27. According to Dakshina Kannada District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishore Kumar M., children aged between one and six will receive Albendazole tablet at anganwadis. Anganwadi workers and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) will visit houses and give tablets to children not attending angwandis and to those who have discontinued attending schools. While those aged within two years will receive half-a-tablet, the remaining children will each receive a full tablet, which is chewable. The tablet will be given free. A teacher or lecturer has been made nodal officer for administration of tablets in schools and colleges, he said. A highest of 2.37 lakh children are in Mangaluru taluk, followed by 92,176 children in Bantwal, 72,570 in Puttur, 63,004 in Belthangady and 31,402 in Sullia taluks. The de-worming tablet administration programme will be formally inaugurated in the Pre University Block of Government Secondary School on the premises of Government College of Teachers Education in Hampankatta, Mangaluru, at 10 a.m. In Udupi district, the highest of 1,55,443 children are in Udupi taluk, followed by 1,03,797 in Kundapur and 57,380 in Karkala taluk. The de-worming tablets are given to remove worms that develop in intestine. These worms develop because of lack of hand hygiene and also due to children’s exposure to contaminated soil. Dr. Kumar said that these worms cause anaemia and arrests the growth of children. There will be no side-effects because of consumption in most of the children, except those whose body have more worms and they will experience stomach pain, loose motion and tiredness, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/813-lakh-to-get-de-worming-tablets/article37618577.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||State planning to boost inland fish production||Additional Director of Fisheries (Inland) Dinesh Kumar H. Kaller said here on Sunday that the State Government has aimed at increasing the inland fish production from 2.51 lakh tonnes to six lakh tonnes by March 2022. Speaking at the World Fisheries Day programme organised by the College of Fisheries at Yekkur, he said that the marine fish production was now at 3.47 lakh tonnes. The Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana has various programmes to boost the fisheries sector, he said. Delivering the keynote address, Iddya Karunasagar, a fisheries microbiologist, said that overexploitation of marine wealth and inland fish found in natural environment should be stopped. As food, fish played a pivotal role in contributing to nutrition. Deputy Inspector-General and Commander, Indian Coast Guard, Karnataka, S.B. Venkatesh said that the fisheries sector employed about 120 million people. Fish production has to be increased through a collective effort but it should be a sustainable effort. The Coast Guard has rescued 210 fishermen who were in distress in sea so far this year, he said. Director, National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, R. Ramesh and Professor and Dean of the college A. Senthil Vel spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-planning-to-boost-inland-fish-production/article37618574.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A story a week for children to understand birds||Parakeet or parrot is one bird that children like the most. Be it a moral story about the parrot in the house of a hunter and the one in the house of a sage or the popular old Kannada film song, “Arrre Ginirama, Hoi Pancha Rangi Rama…” This is how Arvind Kudla, Head Master of Government Higher Primary School, Moodambail, Bantwal, starts his story on parakeets, which is published this week in the Hakki Kathe series on the Makkala Jagali website (makkalagali.com) that has different types of stories, articles and paintings for children. In his story on parakeets, Mr. Kudla goes on to narrate his teacher training days in 2006 in Mysuru and recalls a scene of an old bus stand where parakeets flocked in the evening. He goes on to name places where parakeets nest, which include coconut trees that are often struck by lightning. The story has photos of Plum-headed, Rose Ringed, Malabar and Vernal Hanging parakeets that are commonly found in the region. He ends the story asking children to draw a parakeet or write a story with illustrations on parakeets. Mr. Kudla says that he is trying to introduce children to birds that are commonly found in the courtyards in the region, through the Hakki Kathe series. “I am making it simple for children to understand birds. I am putting my own encounters with these birds, which makes it easy for students to understand about nesting and other characters of these birds,” he says. Mr. Kudla picked up bird watching during his first posting as a teacher at the Government Higher Primary School in Samse near Kalasa, Chikkamagalur district, where he served for four years. He has held workshops on bird watching and organised field visits for children. For most of his stories, Mr. Kudla has made use of photographs of the birds he has clicked. Mr. Kudla has been writing Hakki Kathe since last four months. Among the birds featured in this series include the Jungle Babler, which is commonly known as Bajakre Hakki or Harate Malla. There are also stories on Muniya or Ratavala (White-rumped Munia), Geejaga (Baya Weaver), Gubbacchi (House Sparrow), Myna Hakki (Common Myna or the Indian Myna) and Hanalu Gubbi (Indian Pitta). Apart from the commonly seen birds, Mr. Kudla wants to expose children to seasonal winter migratory birds through Hakki Kathe. He has planned to come out with short videos on these birds.  Arvind Kudla says he is trying to introduce children to birds that are commonly found in the courtyards in the region, through the Hakki Kathe series||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-story-a-week-for-children-to-understand-birds/article37618566.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||M.P. Srinath elected||M.P. Srinath from Ujire was elected president of the Dakshina Kannada Sahitya Parishat in an election conducted on Sunday. He defeated M.R.Vasudeva, former Director of Mangaluru International Airport, who was the other candidate in the fray, by a margin of 955 votes. Mr. Srinath polled 1,489 votes, while Mr. Vasudeva secured 534 votes. The votes secured by Mr. Srinath and Mr. Vasudeva, respectively, in the voting centres are as follows: Sullia 219 and 24, Puttur 182 and 47, Kadaba 46 and 12, Vitla 54 and 25, Moodbidri 28 and 17, Kokkada 152 and 15, Belthangady 520 and 58, Mulky 33 and 129, Mangaluru 192 and 143 and Bantwal 63 and 64.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-srinath-elected/article37618572.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘We’ll storm office if stone quarrying is not stopped’||If the district administration fails to stop stone quarrying in the vicinity of Karinja Hills within a month’s time, Hindu Jagaran Vedike (HJV) activists will march to the office of Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra and question him, HJV Kshetriya Sanghatana Karyadarshi Jagadish Karanth said here on Sunday. Addressing “Rudragiriya Ranakahale” meeting organised by HJV to highlight stone quarrying that threatened the picturesque hill and Karinjeshwara temple, which is atop the hill, Mr. Karanth said that though a number of representations has been made since 2007, the district administration has failed to take any action. “We will give you (Deputy Commissioner) another 30 days. If you fail to take action, our activists will storm the office of the Deputy Commissioner on December 21 and take Dr. Rajendra to task,” he said. Mr. Karanth said that the district administration should declare the area around the temple as religious area and bar people belonging to other religions from entering it. In the name of tourism, the sanctity of hills should not be harmed. The gomal land in the area should be handed over to the temple, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/well-storm-office-if-stone-quarrying-is-not-stopped/article37618576.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Track doubling will be completed shortly, says official||Divisional Railway Manager, Palakkad, Southern Railway, Trilok Kothari has said that the track doubling work between Mangaluru Junction and Panambur will be completed shortly with the commissioning of the new tunnel at Kulasekhara. Speaking at the 66th railway week celebration of the division at the Regional Training Centre of Konkan Railway here on Saturday, he said that major development projects in Mangaluru have been taken up in accordance with the potential of the area to provide additional passenger train services as well as freight traffic. Pit line work and additional platform work have been taken up at Mangaluru Central Railway Station. Efforts are being made to develop Mangaluru Junction further with better facilities. Electrification work of the area has been completed. The track doubling work between Mangaluru Central and Nethravathi Cabin has been completed. With this, more passenger trains can be operated with the completion of these ongoing development projects in the railway stations in Mangaluru, he said. Mangaluru has been chosen for the first time as the venue for the Railway Week celebration of Palakkad Division duly recognising its importance. Mangaluru plays a pivotal role in freight loading and earnings of Southern Railway. It contributes 90% of freight loading of the Palakkad Division and helps the division to get more than 50% of its total revenue earnings, he said. Regional Railway Manager, Karwar, Konkan Railway Corporation Limited, B.B. Nikam spoke. Dignitaries presented 62 individual awards and five group awards to the staff and the supervisors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/track-doubling-will-be-completed-shortly-says-official/article37618575.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ceremonial burial for CISF dog||An eight-year-old dog, Lina, which was with the Airport Security Guard (ASG) of the Central Industrial Security Force, died in the city on Sunday, after prolonged illness. The CISF personnel buried it with full honours. According to a press release, Lina, a Labrador, was involved in finding explosive substances at the international airport here. It was diagnosed with moderate Azotemic Chronic Kidney disease in February this year. Since November 16, it stopped taking food. But, it was being given glucose. Lina died at 6.10 a.m. in the dog kennel of ASG, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ceremonial-burial-for-cisf-dog/article37618578.ece
22 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Neelavara Surendra Adiga re-elected||Neelavara Surendra Adiga was re-elected president of Udupi District Kannada Sahitya Parishat in an election held on Sunday. He polled 432 votes against his competitors K.S. Subrahmanya Basri, who secured 400 votes, and Subrahmanya Bhat who bagged 394 votes. Of the 1,232 votes in the district, the valid votes were 1,226 as six votes had been rejected. There were eight polling centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/neelavara-surendra-adiga-re-elected/article37618569.ece
22 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||8-year-old murdered||An eight-year-old girl is said to have been murdered and abandoned in a drain near a tiles factory in Perari in Mangaluru Rural Police Station limits on Sunday. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that the child, whose parents work in Raj Tiles Factory in Perari, went missing at around 4 p.m. Her parents and their colleagues searched the area and found the body of the child in the drain. The parents suspected that some persons in the factory murdered their daughter. The body of the child has been kept in the mortuary in the Government Wenlock Hospital. Mr. Kumar said the Mangaluru Rural Police have registered a case of murder. As many as 30 persons work in the factory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8-year-old-murdered/article37618212.ece
22 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rains raise concern over fate of heritage structures in Mysuru||The recent spell of incessant rains that lashed the region has raised concern over the fate of some of the heritage structures that lacks maintenance and are crying for attention. While the heavy downpour brought to fore the extent of damage caused to the Jayalakshmi Vilas Mansion, there are at least 30 to 40 other heritage buildings that require urgent intervention in the absence of which the damage to these structure could aggravate, according to N.S. Rangaraju of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH). Mysuru. He said the Silver Jubilee Clock Tower or the Dodda Gadiyara is in imminent danger and its future is uncertain in case the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) or the State Archaeological Department does not act immediately. The clock tower was built in 1927 to mark the silver jubilee of the rule of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and is now 94 years old. There is a question mark over the structural stability of the structure as the foundation is being gnawed away by rodents while there are cracks at the top which need to be sealed, said Mr. Rangaraju who was formerly the Dean of the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, University of Mysore. The issue came to the fore six years ago and a committee was constituted to study and submit a report. Though the MCC said that it will take up the intervention work it failed to prepare a DPR and the issue has been put on the back burner. “At least the foundation and the basement should be strengthened but it has been ignored so far and the damage will only get aggravated,” said Mr. Rangaraju. The district heritage committee members had submitted a list of heritage structures to the MCC with a note on their condition but nothing has been done so far. Mysuru has at least 500 heritage structures of which nearly 200 have been notified as heritage structure. But at least 40 of them need immediate intervention and apart from Dodda Gadiyara, the CADA building, Sanskrit College building, K.R. Hospital are a few others, according to Mr. Rangaraju. Eichnur Kumar, who was in the district heritage committee and is a heritage activist, said while the heritage structures housing government offices can be saved, those in private custody are difficult to conserve. “Some of the structures which are of local importance historically but are yet to be notified as a heritage structure, are being razed to pave way for apartments or malls,” he said. In case of the heritage structures that houses government offices, there should be annual provision for building maintenance failing which more buildings could suffer the fate of Jayalakshmi Vilas Mansion whose restoration is supposed to cost Rs. 20 crore. Pointing to the collapse of the Lansdowne Building and the Devaraja Market due to lack of maintenance over the years the heritage activists warned that Mysuru could lose a few more of its iconic buildings that dot the city scape in the days ahead, if they are unattended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concern-over-fate-of-heritage-structures/article37618204.ece
22 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Abhisheka’ for Nandi atop Chamundi Hills||The ‘abhisheka’ to Nandi at Chamundi Hills was performed in the presence of a limited number of devotees on Sunday. Organised by Bettada Balaga, the tradition of ‘abhisheka’ to the Nandi began in 2006 and is held every year. Special prayers and rituals were performed and the use of curds and milk was limited as the event was scaled down, according to Naveen of Bettada Balaga. The entry of devotees was restricted due to the pandemic and also because the main road leading to the Nandi caved in due to recent rains. So transportation of materials and assembly of a large number of people throughout the day was fraught with danger and hence, the decision to scale down the event, he added. The seers of Hosamutt and Mysuru branch of Adi Chunchanagiri Mutt supervised the proceedings and the priests performed the anointment by pouring various ingredients in liquid form. But unlike in the past, the cascading water and other ingredients did not envelop the statue fully. After the ‘abhisheka’ to the statue, the priests performed mangalarati to mark the completion of the ceremony. Though the locals, including members of the Bettada Balaga, believe that the ‘abhisheka to Nandi used to be held during the period of the maharajas, it is reckoned to be anecdotal in the absence of evidence or reference. In the initial few years, the members of the Bettada Balaga conducted the event in the presence of handful of people. But the event grew in popularity over the years and saw patronisation of various seers including Sri Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami of Suttur Mutt. However, he did not participate in the event on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abhisheka-for-nandi-atop-chamundi-hills/article37618600.ece
22 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cattle vaccinated around MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary||The Forest Department inoculated more than 20,000 head of cattle as a precautionary measure against the outbreak of foot and mouth disease around MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary. This was stated by Deputy Conservator of Forests V. Yedukondalu following speculations that there was increase in the disease among cattle on the forest periphery. He said the department spent over Rs. 1 lakh and covered the villages within the wildlife sanctuary and those close to the forest periphery. Wildlife activists hinted that the outbreak had resulted in many cattle death around Kollegal and this could pose a threat to wildlife. However, Mr. Yedukondalu said that the precautionary measures were in place and the threat to wildlife had been minimised. The disease is highly contagious and the threat to wildlife is real as the domestic cattle tend to graze in forests and in wildlife landscape and come in contact with other animals. An outbreak in the forests would be difficult to contain as tracking wild animals in their natural habitat is not practical and is out of question, according to the official. Though allowing domestic cattle to graze within the forests has been by and large contained, it takes place surreptitiously or cattle tend to stray inside the forests from their grazing lands whose boundary overlap. Hence, the focus of vaccinating the cattle was on live stock in village enclosures within the wildlife sanctuary, according to Mr. Yedukondalu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cattle-vaccinated-around-mm-hills-wildlife-sanctuary/article37618593.ece
22 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minister claims he had no inkling of special officer seeking Congress ticket||Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar has claimed that he had no inkling of his special officer seeking Congress ticket to contest the elections to the Legislative Council from local authorities’ constituencies. Addressing the Jana Swaraj convention in Mandya on Sunday, Mr. Somashekar said he had relieved his special officer Dinesh Gooligowda from duty soon after he came and informed him about his plans to contest the elections a week ago. Contending that he had not cheated the party, the Minister said he had no idea whatsoever that the special officer was seeking a ticket from another party. About a week ago, Mr. Somashekar said his special officer came to his house and informed him that he was an aspirant for a ticket. When inquired from which constituency, the special officer replied to him that it was from Mandya. “I wished him well and relieved him from duty. Immediately, I informed the party leaders also,” he said, adding that he realised that Mr. Dinesh was seeking a Congress ticket only later. Recalling the circumstances leading to the appointment of Mr. Dinesh as his special officer, Mr. Somashekar said a senior party leader telephoned him after he became the Minister for Co-operation and recommended his name. “I gave respect to the senior party leader and took him in,” the Minister claimed. Responding to a former Chief Minister’s remarks that Mr. Somashekar too will follow his special officer to the Congress, the Minister said he was the son of a veterinary inspector and did not come from a family with political background. “The real sons of the soil like him will seek Agriculture and Co-operation Department portfolios. They will not seek PWD, Finance, and Energy,” he remarked. Mr. Somashekar claimed that he had entered politics through his own efforts and had reached this stage after struggling for 20-22 years. He said he had become a Minister through the blessings of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and claimed that he had not cheated the party. He called upon the voters of polls to the Council from local authorities’ constituency of Mandya to cast their votes in favour of BJP candidate Manju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-claims-he-had-no-inkling-of-special-officer-seeking-congress-ticket/article37618597.ece
22 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru-Chamarajanagar Council seat: JD(S), Cong. names to be finalised today||While the BJP has declared Raghu Kautilya as its candidate, the Congress and JD(S), which presently share the dual-member Legislative Council seat from Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local authorities’ constituency, are yet to announce their candidates. Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy has convened a meeting of party leaders from the region at a resort on the outskirts of Mysuru on Monday to finalise the candidate. The Congress leaders too are expecting their candidate to be announced on Monday as the last date for submitting nominations is November 23 for the elections scheduled to be held on December 10. Sitting Congress MLC R. Dharmasena is seeking re-nomination of the party, but is facing competition from nine others, including D. Thimmaiah and State Mahila Congress president Pushpa Amarnath. Sitting JD(S) MLC Sandesh Nagaraj had gone public with his plans to join the BJP, but the saffron party stymied his efforts to secure ticket for the elections and instead nominated Raghu Kautilya. While speculation is rife that Mr. Nagaraj will knock on the doors of JD(S) again, partymen in Mysuru said a final decision in the regard can be taken only at the meeting of senior leaders, including Mr, Kumaraswamy, on Monday. However, former member of the zilla panchayat Manche Gowda and party leader Abhishek, who contested as the party candidate from Varuna Assembly constituency in the last Assembly elections, are also seeking ticket. Spurned offer Former Minister and JD(S) leader S.R. Mahesh had recently told reporters that Mr. Nagaraj had been away from the party ever since he won the elections six years ago. Though he said the party was ready to offer ticket to any member of party leader G.T. Deve Gowda’s family, the latter has spurned the offer. Meanwhile, the Congress, which is confident of winning the seat easily, does not appear inclined to field two candidates. A few aspirants had tried to bring pressure on the party leadership to announce two candidates to counter the stiff competition, but a party leader ruled out the possibility and said Congress will mostly likely announce only one candidate. Elections are scheduled to be held on December 10 and the last date for filing nominations is fixed for November 23. Members of gram panchayats, town panchayats, town municipal councils, city municipal councils, and Mysuru City Corporation are expected to exercise their franchise in the preferential pattern of voting. The total electorate is estimated to be 6,500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-chamarajanagar-council-seat-jds-cong-names-to-be-finalised-today/article37618598.ece
22 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Maddikere Gopal is president of Mysuru dist. KSP||Maddikere Gopal was elected as president of the Mysuru district Kannada Sahitya Parishat in the elections held on Sunday. There were two other candidates in the fray – Bannur K. Raju and K.S. Nagaraj – but Mr. Gopal established an unassailable lead over his rival and won the polls. While Mr. Gopal secured 2,565 votes, Raju polled 1,601 votes, and Nagaraju 1,485 votes. In all, 5,722 members exercised their franchise out of nearly 13,760 eligible voters but 71 votes were invalid. Saraswathi Samman awardee S.L. Bhyrappa and writer C.P. Krishnakumar were among those who exercised their franchise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maddikere-gopal-is-president-of-mysuru-dist-ksp/article37618595.ece
22 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir Deputy Commissioner inspects various wards||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya paid a visit to various wards under the Yadgir City Municipal Council on Saturday. During her visit, Dr. Ragapriya conducted an inspection of the present condition of the drainage and the cleanliness maintained by the city municipal council (CMC). Sources said that the Deputy Commissioner visited the wards after receiving complaints from citizens about the improper condition of drainage, which have been blocked by waste, causing flooding in low-lying areas. The Deputy Commissioner warned the officials of the CMC after she saw the poor condition of the drainage and asked them to immediately clear the blockage. She also inspected the various works taken up using grants under the 14th and the 15th Finance Commissions and said that there will be no tolerance for poor quality work and that officials will be held responsible if there are any complaints. Dr. Ragapriya suggested that the Deputy Director of Land Records complete the survey of the graveyard of the Veerashaiva community as the development work had been stopped owing to the suspension of the survey. She inspected quality of drinking water at a water purifying centre in Matha Manikeshwari Nagar and directed the officials to submit proposals for new gardens. Commissioner (in-charge) Bakkappa, Assistant Executive Officer Rajanikanth and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-deputy-commissioner-inspects-various-wards/article37618394.ece
22 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Honour for Manvi police station in Raichur||The Manvi police station in Raichur district has been listed among the 10 best police stations in the country in the annual ranking of police stations for 2021. As per the assessment by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the Sadar Bazaar police station in North Delhi has taken the top place, while the Manvi police station is fifth. The Gangapur police station at Ganjam district in Odisha and the Bhattu Kalan police station in Haryana shared the second and third places. The Valpoi police station in Goa was fourth, the Kadmat Island station in Lakshadweep is sixth, the Shirala Police Station in Sangli district is seventh, the Thottiyam station in Tiruchirapalli is eighth, the Basantgarh station in Jammu & Kashmir is ninth and the Rampur Chauram station in Awal, Bihar, is 10th. The Centre has adopted a uniform model of ranking police stations across the country with the main objective of improving the quality of policing and making the stations people-friendly. Therefore, the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) has conducted a survey on the performances of police stations. “I am congratulating the senior police officers and other staff for this remarkable achievement,” Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has said. The survey was conducted on parameters like crime rate, investigation and disposal of cases, infrastructure, and delivery of public service, among other features. About 20% of the total points are also based on feedback about the police station from citizens, police officers aware of the marking system. The Manvi police station covers more than 80 villages. All manual records have been been made digital and action has been taken to dispose most of the cases registered in 2021. “This is a collective efforts by all officers, even those who have been transferred. The credit must go to all Inspectors and other staff, especially the Deputy Superintendent of Police and the then Superintendent of Police for this remarkable achievement,” Nikhil B. Superintendent of Police, told The Hindu . This is a special moment for Raichur as the Gabbur police station in Deodurg taluk was 17th among the best police stations in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honour-for-manvi-police-station-in-raichur/article37618397.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Risky ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/risky-ride/article37618196.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Taking to the streets||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/taking-to-the-streets/article37618226.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah (in picture) seems to have not forgotten the humiliating rout he suffered as the Chief Minister when he lost from the Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency in 2018. That he still nurses a grouse over the loss, more than three years after the elections, became apparent when a group of supporters of the former Mysuru Zilla Panchayat chairperson K. Mari Gowda, who is an aspirant for the upcoming Legislative Council elections from the local authorities’ constituency, surrounded his car near his residence in Mysuru on Friday demanding the party ticket for their leader. A visibly irritated Mr. Siddaramaiah removed his mask and angrily asked the group of people, who were from Chamundeshwari segment, whether they were not ashamed to come to him seeking the ticket after “conspiring” to defeat him in the Assembly election. When a few voices from the crowd denied the charge, he pointed to some of them in the crowd and asked them to question their conscience if they did not work to defeat him in the election before waving at them dismissively and getting into the car. Ironically, Mr. Siddaramaiah’s anger against a section of the partymen remains intact even though he recently shared the dais with his rival in the 2018 elections from Chamundeshwari, former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda of the JD(S).   Home Minister Araga Jnanedra (in picture, left) and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar (in picture, right) often indulge in verbal duel. It was recently over the alleged link between bitcoin scam and “rigging” of the Youth Congress president polls that the BJP has recently propped up. Mr. Shivakumar asked Mr. Jnanendra to prove the link. He described the Home Minister as a “mad man” for thinking up such a connection and suggested treatment at a mental hospital. Hitting back at the State Congress president, Mr. Jnanendra said Mr. Shivakumar was finding it difficult to digest the truth related to “bogus voting” held during the Youth Congress president elections. On the mental health comment, the Home Minister said Mr. Shivakumar’s statement was a reflection of his own state of mind which was “beyond treatment” even if hospitalised. One wonders if politicians are even aware that making such trivial remarks about mental health is not done in a society where there are already enough and more misconceptions about it.   The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has been conducting raids on Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) since Friday and is expected to take at least a week to conclude. As corruption watchdog seeks to uncover scams in the authority, BDA chairman and BJP MLA S.R. Vishwanath attributed the raids to the Government’s intent to clean up authority where “corruption is widespread”. It was alluded that the raids followed a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who holds the charge of Bengaluru Development, where he was critical of the BDA and rampant corruption in the body. Interestingly, the raids come when the Chief Minister is under fire for alleged “cover-up” of the bitcoin scam when he was Home Minister in 2020. If the Chief Minister expected the raids to burnish his “anti-corruption” image, that was not to be. The story was simply lost in all the media focus on heavy rain and floods across the State.  Laiqh A Khan Nagesh Prabhu K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article37618222.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,KERALA||PM’s apology nothing but drama: Raghavulu||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has said that farmers as well as the representatives of Kisan Samyukta Morcha think that PM Narendra Modi’s statement withdrawing the farm laws was nothing but drama. CPI (M) politburo member B.V. Raghavulu wondered as to whom the Prime Minister had apologised. “There is no clarity in the PM’s statement. The development appears like a drama. Is the PM apologising to around 750 farmers who lost their lives because of the Centre’s decision or is he apologising the deaths of farmers who were run over by the convoy of a Central Minister?” he asked. Speaking to reporters during the conclusion of State CPI (M) committee’s two-day meeting here on Sunday, Mr. Raghavulu appreciated the leaders of the Morcha for deciding to continue their agitation till the “anti-farmer legislations” were withdrawn formally and for enactment of a legislation on minimum support price. The CPI (M) extended its solidarity with the protests planned by the Morcha on November 26 and the party leaders and cadre would work for ensuring the success of the protests. He demanded that the Centre announce compensation for the families of farmers who lost their lives during the agitation and punish the son of the Central Minister who was responsible for death of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri. He welcomed KCR’s support to farmers’ agitation as also his demand for withdrawal of Electricity Act mandating meters to agricultural connections. “KCR carries a blame that he will support people’s movements, but maintains silence subsequently. He should continue his firm resolve against the Centre so that it helps remove the apprehensions against him,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pms-apology-nothing-but-drama/article37618446.ece
22 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Stir for new dam will continue: Sudhakaran||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran has said that his party will continue the agitation for a new dam at Mullaperiyar till it is realised. Addressing party workers who organised a human wall from Vandiperiyar to Valardy estate on Sunday raising the slogan “New dam at Mullaperiyar; water for Tamil Nadu,” Mr. Sudhakaran said the party would intensify the agitation for a new dam in the coming days. Silence The silence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the Mullaperiayar issue was deplorable. Mr. Vijayan had said that there was no need for panic over Mullaperiyar issue. The Chief Minister should explain on what basis he issued such a statement, Mr. Sudhakaran said. “Many studies have found that there were problems with the old dam. The Chief Minister and his party should not forget that they had organised protests highlighting the Mullaperiyar issue. The Government should allot money for construction of a new dam at Mullaperiyar,” he said, adding that the unwanted K-rail project should be shelved. The Mullaperiyar dam was a demand of the people and an issue related to their safety. This should be heard. The unwanted K-rail would be a liability, he said. The Congress organised the human wall from Vandiperiyar to Valardy in a 4-km stretch. However, the number of participants increased and the wall was extended to 5 km. Hundreds of party workers from various parts of the State participated. The party will also conduct a people’s meeting at Upputhara on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-for-new-dam-will-continue-sudhakaran/article37618500.ece
22 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Farmer sets a trend in yam cultivation||P.J. Manuel Pallikkamalil, a veteran farmer from Edavaka grama panchayat in Wayanad, stands out for the conservation and propagation of 72 varieties of Dioscorea (yam). The 74-year-old also conserves 17 varieties of Curcuma (turmeric) and 28 varieties of Taro (Colocasia or chembu in local parlance) on eight acres. The three-acre farm at Orappu Puthusserykunnu in Edavaka is being managed with organic inputs. He rears two native cow breeds to make fermented products from cow dung such as Panchagavya, Jeevamrutha, and Beejamrutha, to apply on crops. He also cultivates tuber crops through organic method on five acres of leased land with the support of farmers in the locality. “Conservation of tuber crops is the need of the hour since they are powerhouses of energy,” said Mr. Pallikkamalil. A gene bank for yam His close association with the Biodiversity Management Committee (BMC) in the panchayat inspired him to be a gene bank for yam, he said. “Anyone interested in farming can cultivate Dioscorea, as it requires less attention and space compared to other crops,” he added. The idea of Community Gene Bank is getting materialised through his efforts, since he conserves and propagates seeds of all varieties.  Inchikachil , kaduvakkayyan , quintal kachil , mullen kachil , and adathappu kachil are the major varieties of Dioscorea he has conserved. Seed festivals Mr. Pallikkamalil has been organising seed festivals in the panchayat for the past four years, with focus on tuber crops. He collects and exchanges planting materials by regularly attending seed exhibition programmes across the State. He runs a farm school at home with the support of the Agriculture Department. He has written three books on Dioscorea and its varieties and prepared pamphlets and brochures on farming. He is actively involved in BMC activities at Edavaka. He also has traditional knowledge about tuber crops, agricultural practices, and medicinal plants. “The support of organisations such as the Kerala Biodiversity Board, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, Agriculture Department, Thanal, and Nalla Bhoomi is crucial to my conservation activities,” Mr. Pallikkamalil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-wayanad-farmer-sets-a-trend-in-yam-cultivation/article37618463.ece
22 November 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Tusker found dead in sanctuary||A male elephant was found dead in the Bavali section of the forest of the Tholpetty forest range under the Wayanad Wildlife sanctuary (WSS) on Sunday morning. S. Narendra Babu, wildlife warden, Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary said that the elephant was aged around twenty-five years. Officials attached to the sanctuary and veterinarians performed a necropsy in the evening. The officials found the carcass on Sunday morning inside the forest at Randam gate, Narimundakkolly near Kattikulam in the district. Specimen of internal organs of the tusker was sent for further analysis and the exact reason for the death could be ascertained only after the analysis, Mr. Narendra Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tusker-found-dead/article37618465.ece
22 November 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Famed Bekal Fort in Kasaragod cries for attention||Even as the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is celebrating World Heritage Week, the Bekal Fort in Kasaragod is falling apart, thanks to lack of conservation and official apathy. It has been over one-and-a-half years since the outer walls of the bastion in the north-eastern side of the fort were damaged in rain. The ASI, which is tasked with the conservation and preservation of cultural monuments, has not taken steps to restore the walls. Built by Shivappa Nayaka of Keladi in 1650 AD, the fort faces the Arabian Sea and is a major tourist destination. It is spread over 40 acres. Though a large sum of money has been spent on setting up infrastructure facilities like amphitheatres, light and sound show, and planting of trees, the outer walls of the bastion have by and large remained neglected. The authorities have not taken steps to restore the walls, which are around 10 metres high. As a result, mud plastering and laterite stones have fallen apart. The monument became an instant hit after it was featured in the movie Bombay . With the Tourism Department promoting it further, people from across the globe started visiting it. Saifudheen Kalanad, social activist and general secretary of the Bekal Tourism Organisation, said it was unfortunate that even after a year-and-a-half, no steps had been taken to restore the walls, despite a substantial fund allocation by the Centre. “The rains have further weakened them,” he added. V. Jayaraj, convenor, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), sought the immediate intervention of the Archaeological Department. INTACH further objected to the construction of toilets in the complex, saying that they were not suitable for protected monuments. Mr. Jayaraj demanded that the Central Archaeological Department withdraw from such activities. At least two bastions or watch towers have been closed for tourists for several months. Before the pandemic, around 600 tourists visited the fort a day on average, and the number went up to 3,000 during weekends. When contacted, K. Moortheeswari, ASI, Thrissur Circle, said the issue would be addressed soon, as tenders had been called for the reconstruction of the walls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/famed-bekal-fort-in-kasaragod-cries-for-attention/article37618103.ece
22 November 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Spirit seized||The Excise Enforcement and Anti Narcotic Special Squad jointly seized a huge consignment of spirit and Goan liquor (Feni), which was concealed and smuggled into the State in a lorry, at Peral village in Hosdurg taluk, on Sunday. The squad led by Excise Circle Inspector Joy Joseph seized 1,890 litres of spirit and 1,323 litres of Goan liquor. Zainudhin C.V., son of Mohammed Ali C.V, a resident of Malappuram, was arrested by the squad, and a case was registered against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/huge-consignment-of-spirit-seized-in-kasaragod/article37618475.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KSRTC justifies taking luxury buses on rent||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) inviting tenders to take luxury buses on rent even as over 100 of its idling AC-low floor and luxury buses are awaiting repairs, is aimed at providing long-distance commuters with adequate number of sleeper and semi-sleeper buses, the agency’s Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar has said. Centre’s policy “This is crucial since the agency is in no position to substitute the 704 super-class buses (fast passenger and above), whose permit validity was recently extended from seven years to nine years, with new buses. Only 100 new buses are on the anvil – the first addition to the RTC’s fleet after 2017, while 310 CNG and 50 electric buses that will shortly be procured are primarily meant for operation within Thiruvananthapuram. In such a situation, the KSRTC stands the risk of being wiped out of the long-distance operational platform, if private operators begin operating luxury buses in Kerala making use of the Centre’s aggregator policy that was announced earlier this year,” he added. The policy says that any service provider can operate buses anywhere in the country, if they obtain a contract-carriage permit at the national level. The KSRTC has a total of just around 300 premium buses, including 190 AC low-floor buses whose seats are not designed for long journeys. A substantial number of them are idling, for want of upkeep. In this circumstance, the RTC’s move to avail luxury buses on rent is being seen as an attempt to provide commuters with air-suspension buses having adjustable seats. Financing model Referring to the financing model, sources in the agency said each luxury bus that would be taken on rent would have to be paid approximately Rs. 10 per km as rent, using which the bus owner/operator would have to maintain the vehicle. Another around Rs. 40 is expected to be spent on fuel and other expenses. The expected income is Rs. 50 per km. Such a mode of operation exists in places like New Delhi, where commuters get to travel in clean, comfortable buses, they said. The move comes in the wake of KSRTC facing considerable flak for shoddy upkeep and operation of its existing fleet of long-distance buses, due to reliance on largely archaic practices.  Over 100 of the transport utility’s AC-low floor and luxury buses are idling for want of repairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-justifies-taking-luxury-buses-on-rent/article37618466.ece
22 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Many recently resurfaced roads in city awaiting to be trenched||Even as civic agencies say they are waiting for the rains to subside to mend potholed roads, fear is rife that some of them, including a few arterial roads, will be trenched in the forthcoming months to lay gas/water pipelines and cables. Among them is S.A. Road, which the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) resurfaced with tarmac finish a year ago, a portion of which is awaiting trenching to lay gas pipelines. “The Kochi Corporation had earlier denied permission for trenching, unless the full cost of restoration was paid. We cannot deny permission any more, since the State Government has issued an order permitting trenching of roads to lay gas pipelines,” said Sunitha Dixon, chairperson of works standing committee of the civic agency. With this, fear is now rife that other agencies too will wantonly dig roads, to lay pipelines and cables, sans obtaining permission and remitting the mandatory fee with the road-owning agency concerned. Often, such agencies seek permission to trench a 100-metre-long stretch and end up trenching a kilometre of the road, she said. Mayor M. Anilkumar said a meeting of councillors was held to ensure speedy restoration work after trenching. Speaking of the hassles in restoring BMBC roads that are trenched, Public Works Department (PWD) sources said it was next to impossible to restore the trenched portion alone in such roads. “Oftentimes, the restored portion does not align with the rest of the road, with the result that potholes form in vulnerable portions. Much the same occurs even if a trench having a width of just an inch is made to lay Internet and telecom cables and is restored using concrete or bitumen, on BMBC roads. It has been observed that potholes that are as wide as the entire width of many roads develop due to such seemingly harmless trenching,” they added. Restoration of such small trenched portions is tough, even if cold mix bitumen is relied on, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-recently-resurfaced-roads-in-city-awaiting-to-be-trenched/article37618493.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Uncertainty over rehabilitation of traders at Fashion Street continues||Uncertainty over relocating traders who have set up their shops on Mullassery Canal continues even as the authorities are busy finalising the bidding process for declogging the canal. The Mullassery Canal restoration work is considered as a significant step towards the flood management programme implemented in the city. Though the civic authorities had earlier planned to shift the traders in Fashion Street, which has come up on concrete slabs laid over the canal, to the nearby holding owned by the Kerala Water Authority, the idea had to be dropped as the place was found unfit for the temporary rehabilitation. “Several huge pipes laid by the Authority run through the holding and traders cannot set up shops there. So the idea for shifting traders to the plot had to be dropped,” said an official of the Kochi Corporation. The team of engineers of the Irrigation Department, which was assigned the task of declogging the canal and restoring the water flow through it, had identified that 74 shops had come up on the canal. The engineers had also suggested to the civic authorities as well as the district administration that the illegal encroachments along the canal and the shops be removed for initiating the canal restoration work. Currently, the authorities are toying with the idea of temporarily shifting traders to the holdings of the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) and the Ernakulam Maharaja’s College, which are located close to Fashion Street. The Kochi Corporation may shortly approach these two agencies with the request for allowing the temporary rehabilitation of traders, an official said. Officials from the Revenue Department, the Kochi Corporation and the District Administration had held a joint inspection at the site the other day. The Kochi Corporation may write to the GCDA and the college authorities seeking permission for the rehabilitation of traders after obtaining the sketches and other documents related to the holdings, the official said. It would require three months and Rs. 10 crore for the canal restoration project, as planned by the Irrigation Department. The last date for submitting the bid is November 28. The engineers hope to finalise the bidding process by December and kick-start the work in January, when the weather conditions improve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uncertainty-over-rehabilitation-of-traders-at-fashion-street-continues/article37618495.ece
22 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fishers’ unions to devise protest plan today||Fishers’ unions across Kerala will meet in Alappuzha on Monday to chalk out a protest plan against the measures initiated by the Union Government under the Blue Economy programme and the proposed Indian Marine Fisheries Bill, which is likely to be passed during the upcoming session of Parliament. Fishers are planning a massive protest against the Blue Economy proposals, which will alienate the fishing community from their source of livelihood, said a spokesman for the Kerala Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation, an independent union of fishers. ‘Like farmers’ protest’ If the Government goes ahead with its plans for the coastal areas, the country will see a protest on the scale of the just concluded farmers’ protest against farming Bills, said Charles George of the Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedhi. “The Blue Economy proposals is a move to corporatise the Indian maritime assets and fishers will oppose it,” he said. The meeting in Alappuzha on Monday would involve all stakeholders in the fisheries sector in the State on which is a million strong fishing community depends on. Export earnings The maritime fisheries sector’s export earning comes to around Rs. 47,000 crore, he added. Members of the Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation organised a symbolic protest in Chellanam on Sunday against the Blue Economy proposals. District president P. V. Wilson and former district president Shiji Thayil said the proposals would alienate the fishing community from the sea. Of the seven zones being envisaged under the Blue Economy programme, fishers will have access only to one segment. This is a clear case of alienating the fishers from their livelihood, they said. At Chellanam Around a hundred fishers gathered inside the Chellanam fishing harbour on Sunday and waded into the sea in protest against the Union Government proposals under the Blue Economy programme. They also demanded action to end destructive practices like pair trawling and night-time trawling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-unions-to-chalk-out-protest-plan-today/article37618464.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Withdraw fish farming licence in pokkali fields, say farmers||Pokkali rice farmers in Chellanam’s Maruvakkad Paddy Collective have demanded that the fish farming licence issued by the Fisheries Department be immediately withdrawn to allow harvest of about 3.5 acres of fields in the 435-acre paddy collective so that at least seed conservation for the next season can take place. The Pokkali Samrakshana Samithy, engaged in conservation and propagation of the unique rice variety which is salt-resistant and cultivated without synthetic fertilisers, alleged that the fish farming licence was against existing regulations and it should immediately be withdrawn to allow farmer Chandu Manjadiparambil to reap the ready-to-harvest crop. The Samithy also alleged that the fish farming lobby had opened the sluice gates to allow brackish water to flood the fields on the basis of the licence it had been issued. A spokesman for the Maruvakkad Paddy Collective said the sluice gates were not opened by paddy collective owners or fish farmers and that the fields were flooded by rainwater and the water in the fields was not salty. The spokesperson also claimed that the Pokkali Padshekara Samithy had always encouraged Pokkali rice farming. Department’s stance Fisheries Department sources said the department was not aware that there was rice yet to be harvested when the licence was issued. They also said if there was a delay in harvest, the matter should have been intimated to the department. The department can legally issue licences for fish farming from November 15, centred around the first day of the Malayalam month of Vrichikam. Department sources also said that according to the crop calendar, the harvest should be over by the end of October. The Pokkali Samrakshana Samithy said sowing had been delayed during the season though field preparation activities are supposed to begin by April 15 according to the normal crop calendar with draining of salt water in the fields. Sowing of seeds takes place normally with the onset of the monsoon but the sowing took place only by the first week of August this year. The paddy matures within 120 days and the harvest can take place only by the first week of December this year. Government institutions involved in maintaining the crop cycle had been informed of the situation and the delay in harvest, said a spokesman for the Pokkali Samrakshana Samithy. Sources in the Agriculture Department said there had been a delay in sowing of the fields this season, leading to the delay in harvest. The pokkali fields appeared to be flooded as of now, they said. A First Information Report on the situation has been submitted to the District Collector, sources added.  Fish farming lobby has opened the sluice gates to allow brackish water to flood the fields Pokkali Samrakshana Samithy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-withdraw-licence-for-fish-farming-in-pokkali-fields/article37618496.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Panchayat staff overburdened with work, say employee forums||Unions of panchayat employees have come out against burdening the panchayat staff with additional work including the conduct of field inquiry and scrutinising applications of beneficiaries of LIFE Mission projects. In a representation given to the State government, the Kerala Panchayat Employees Federation pointed out that the government decision to utilise the service of panchayat staff already overburdened with various other duties, including COVID-related ones, for the LIFE Mission was unjustifiable. The Federation has urged the government to either deploy employees from other departments such as revenue or entrust the job relating to the processing of applications with other agencies as was being done for the census. In fact, though the government had instructed panchayats to engage component institutions allotted under them for the works of LIFE Mission, the institutions are refusing to do the job, citing their heavy workload. Govt. directive S.N. Promod, secretary of the Federation, pointed out that other departments had been exempted from undertaking additional works such as the one under the LIFE Mission project. Besides, the government had already directed that officers under the Agricultural Department shall not be engaged in non-agricultural duties. Even village officers are refusing to take up the job relating to the LIFE Mission, saying that they are otherwise tied with the implementation of various time-bound projects. The Federation added that at the initial implementation stage of the LIFE Mission project, Kudumbashree groups had been entrusted with the task of identifying beneficiaries and uploading data. With the job now in panchayat employees’ hands, they are forced to handle thousands of applications in each ward. Kerala Panchayat Employees Organisation general secretary Nieto Baby Areekal said that it was very unfortunate that the panchayat staff were being entrusted with the implementation of all the new projects. In a memorandum to the Panchayat Director, he pointed out that panchayat staff was being tasked with the implementation of new projects when they could be implemented through other departments as well. Panchayat staff was forced to do works relating to the LIFE Mission in addition to their usual works such as registration of migrant workers, deaths and births, Jaljeevan Mission works, conduct of absolute poverty survey, and disaster management jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-staff-overburdened-with-work-say-employee-forums/article37618487.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Syro-Malabar Church still divided over Mass||The contention over the way Mass is to be celebrated has brought about a division within the Syro-Malabar Catholic church with a section favouring the decision on a uniform celebration and those opposing it coming out openly to defend their positions. Almaya Munnettam, an organisation of lay people, priests and religious of the Syro-Malabar archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly, met here on Sunday and decided to make a personal appeal once again to Cardinal George Alencherry, Major Archbishop and head of the Syro-Malabar church, to refrain from imposing the uniform method. Opposed However, a group calling itself the World Christian Council has opposed the demand to prevent the uniform Mass celebration. Kennedy Karimbinkalayil, chairman of the council, called for the removal of Antony Kariyil, administrator of the archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly, for his visit to Rome to plead for a postponement of the implementation of the uniform Mass celebration. A decision by the synod of bishops of the Syro-Malabar church early this year had issued instructions to all dioceses and archdioceses to implement the uniform Mass code from November 28. The main contention is between the synodal decision to have the Mass celebrated with the celebrant (priest) facing the participants or the congregation for one-half of the Mass and then the celebrant facing away from the congregation for the rest of the rituals. However, several dioceses have favoured the practice of the celebrant facing the congregation for the entire duration of the Mass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/syro-malabar-church-still-divided-over-mass/article37618503.ece
22 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||873 new COVID cases recorded in Ernakulam||A total of 873 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Sunday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 10.24%. While 867 people got infected through local contact, the source of infection could not be identified in three cases. 874 recover Two health workers also tested positive. One person got infected from outside the State. While 874 people recovered, 1,280 were brought under home surveillance. A total of 32,011 people were now under home observation and 7,739 people under treatment. As many as 8,525 samples were sent for testing. Meanwhile, a total of 49,94,149 doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administrated in the district so far. They included 29,83,040 first doses and 20,11,109 second doses, according to a communication from the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/873-new-covid-cases-recorded-in-ernakulam/article37618494.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 2.13 cr. seized||The Cochin unit of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 4.24 kg of gold that is valued at Rs. 2.13 crore, from two passengers at Cochin International Airport at Nedumbassery on Sunday. Arrested The passengers, Manivasan and Bakarudheen Hussain, have been arrested under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962. The smuggled gold was concealed inside specially stitched pockets in the jeans and briefs of the passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-213-crore-seized/article37618486.ece
22 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Family seeks detailed probe||Family members of Anjana Shajan, Miss Kerala 2019 runner-up, who died along with title holder Ansi Kabeer on November 1 in a car accident near Palarivattom on the NH Bypass, have demanded that the Kochi City police conduct a thorough probe to solve the mystery behind the accident. A petition in this regard has been forwarded to the team probing the case. The mystery behind the disappearance of digital evidence from the hotel located opposite the Fort Kochi police station and the role of the hotel owner, who was arrested on the charge of destruction of evidence, too must be probed, it said. The family of Ansi Kabeer had earlier petitioned the police, seeking a detailed and impartial probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/family-seeks-detailed-probe/article37618491.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KSKTU office-bearers elected||T.K. Vijayan was elected president and C.T. Varghese secretary of the Kerala State Karshaka Thozhilali Union (KSKTU) Ernakulam Area Committee comprising 23 members. The area conference was inaugurated by State executive member M.P. Pathrose. District treasurer V.M. Sasi presided over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksktu-office-bearers-elected/article37618484.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Satheesan slams Govt.||The government decision to hike power and bus fares will increase the financial burden on people of the State, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said. He was speaking to mediapersons at Aluva on Sunday. The government should act tough on those who were trying to create communal divide in society through social media and other platforms. The recent controversy over Halal food was one such attempt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-slams-govt/article37618490.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Book released||Wildlife sanctuaries should evolve as the centres of environmental protection, said Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran. Speaking after releasing the book Thattekaattile Penkilikal, authored by Peter Palakkuzhi, at Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary on Sunday, Mr. Saseendran said proposals for improving the standards of Thattekad Bird Sanctuary was under the consideration of the government. He also planted a sapling at the sanctuary. T.J. Vinod, MLA; K. Sukumaran and T.P. Sankaran Kutty Nair, president and secretary of the Indian Society of Authors; and G.K. Pillai, president, Kerala Sahithya Vedi, were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposals-for-improving-standards-of-sanctuary-under-govt-consideration/article37618489.ece
22 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||NCB foils bids to smuggle in synthetic drugs||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) foiled two attempts to smuggle narcotic drugs into Kerala this month, under the garb of parcels sent via courier. Personnel of the NCB’s Bengaluru unit detected 40 grams of methamphetamine from a courier destined for Thiruvananthapuram on November 11. A controlled delivery of this consignment helped nab the person to whom it was to be handed over in Thiruvananthapuram. On November 16, personnel of NCB’s Cochin sub zone, based on inputs from the agency’s Bengaluru zonal unit, intercepted a courier in Thiruvananthapuram and seized 244 grams of amphetamine, 25 stamps of LSD, and 2 grams of methaqualone. The contraband was found concealed in a gift parcel that contained chewing gum and cookies. It was very difficult to detect initially, the NCB said in a statement. Prompt follow-up action was taken and the investigators were able identify the receiver from Thiruvananthapuram. Dangerous results Such synthetic drugs are dangerous stimulant drugs, often abused as a ‘party drug.’ Their consumption affects the central nervous system, while continued usage can lead to cardiac problems, memory lapses, hallucinations, and seizures, NCB sources said. On November 20, the agency’s Chennai zonal unit had intercepted a goods carrier on the Vellore-Krishnagiri road in Tamil Nadu, and recovered over 212.5 kg of ganja concealed beneath coconut saplings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ncb-foils-bids-to-smuggle-in-synthetic-drugs/article37618498.ece
22 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Aardram for better health care: Minister||The Aardram Mission is a significant initiative of the State Government to improve the basic infrastructure facilities in health sector and provide better services to the common man, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said here. He was inaugurating the distribution of Ardra Keralam awards for 2018-19 financial year at C. Kesavan Memorial Town Hall on Sunday. Pointing out various interventions made by the local bodies during the pandemic, he added that construction works were currently going on at many Government facilities in the district. “Aardarm is one of the flagship initiatives of the State Government and various programmes under the mission could garner national attention,” the Minister said. Kollam Corporation bagged the award in Corporation category and the award that carries a purse of Rs. 10 lakh was handed over at the event. Mayor Prasanna Ernest, Deputy Mayor Kollam Madhu, Health Standing Committee chairperson U. Pavithra and health workers received the award from the Minister. Better infrastructure “The activities of the Kollam Corporation are exemplary and other local bodies should follow it. The infrastructure of hospitals and health centres in the district were given a facelift through the mission and the Corporation should be able to provide even better services in the future,” said the Minister who added that the Punalur taluk hospital was a model for other facilities.  The Minister distributed the award to the Kottarakkara block panchayat (Rs. 3 lakh) that came in the third position among all block panchayats in the State while Alappad (Rs. 5 lakh) and Klappana (Rs. 3 lakh) panchayats received the district-level awards. The award is given in recognition of the exceptional work done by the local bodies in health sector as part of Aardram, one of the initiatives under the Nava Kerala Mission. Mayor Prasanna Ernest presided over the function. N.K. Premachandran, MP, Kottarakkara block panchayat president M. Sivaprasad, Alappad panchayat president U. Ullas, Klappana panchayat president Minimol, District Medical Officer-in-Charge J. Manikandan and NHM District Programme Manager Dev Kiran were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aardram-for-better-health-care-minister/article37618536.ece
22 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Training to be provided in weaving||The District Khadi and Village Industries office has invited applications for training at its Ramankulangara and Nedungolam weaving centres in the district.  Selected candidates will be eligible for stipend. The last date for submitting applications is November 27. Applications can be submitted to District Khadi and Village Industries Office, Karbala Junction, Kollam. For details, call: 0474-2743587.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-to-be-provided-in-weaving/article37618538.ece
22 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||7 children to get aid under PM Cares||Seven children in the district will receive assistance of Rs. 10 lakh each under the PM Cares for Children, a scheme of the Union Government that offers support for children who lost their parents to COVID-19. Post-office accounts were opened for the beneficiaries in the presence of District Collector Afsana Parveen. Four girls and three boys are the beneficiaries in Kollam. The children shared their hopes with the Collector and Ms. Parveen assured the boys who expressed wish to become football players that all assistance would be ensured through their schools. Additional District Magistrate N. Sajitha Begum and District Child Protection Officer Prasanna Kumari were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-children-to-get-aid-under-pm-cares/article37618537.ece
22 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Assistance for study room construction||Applications have been invited from vulnerable groups among Scheduled Castes for construction of toilets and study rooms. People belonging to the Vedar, Nayadi, Kalladi, Arudhathiyar and Chakliar communities and residing within the Corporation limit are eligible to apply. Applications Applications along with copies of caste and income certificates should be submitted to the Scheduled Caste Development Office of the Corporation by November 30. For details, call: 85476 30023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assistance-for-study-room-construction/article37618539.ece
22 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Serving society, in letter and spirit||With the schools reopening after a long, pandemic-induced break, a group of higher secondary students from Thrickodithanam, a village on the outskirts of Kottayam, are using their writing skills in English to the aid of the local community ‘May I help you’, a programme launched by the Government Higher Secondary School, Thrickodithanam, under the aegis of the School English Club, envisages offering free service to the public in drafting letters, filling application forms and other services requiring the use of English language. A 10-member team of students who have undergone a 10-day training in letter writing and formatting skills are spearheading the programme. On all weekdays “Any person who needs to prepare a letter or any similar service can approach the school during the office hours on all weekdays. Considering the school’s location inside a remote village on the Kottayam-Pathanamthitta border, the service is expected to help the local community in a big way,” said R. Sreeraj, teacher who heads the school’s English Club. The school has already helped a handful of people in its neighbourhood to draft their messages in a professional way. The content drafted by the students were verified by the school’s English teachers and the necessary corrections were made before issuing the final draft, said Mr. Sreeraj. As part of its implementation, the school has also approached the local panchayat, seeking support of ward members in making the programme a success. “At the grassroots level, people are still facing a difficulty in the effective use of English because written communication still remains the primary way of getting the business done,” said A. Sajeena, Principal. The scheme, according to her, is the school’s way of giving back to society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/serving-society-in-letter-and-spirit/article37618532.ece
22 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Parishes oppose referendum proposal||All parishes under the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church on Sunday adopted a resolution urging the Kerala Government to turn down the proposal by the Law Reforms Commission to hold a referendum in parishes under the Malankara church. ‘Illegal demands’ The resolution, read out in the parishes, called for rejection without consideration the draft law that “aimed at overturning the Supreme Court ruling by upholding only the illegal and unilateral demands of the separatist faction.” According to Biju Oommen, secretary, Malankara Association, the resolution reflected the disapproval of the Orthodox church as well as the parishioners over a move that would ultimately pave the way for more complex litigation and intense quarrels. ‘Highly condemnable’ “The recommendation for legislation submitted to the Government contained the points that the commission chairman K.T. Thomas, former judge, Supreme Court, had already stated during his speeches at events organised by the Patriarch faction. That the commission is attempting to appease a section of people who are challenging the judicial system of the country, is highly condemnable,” he said in a statement. Holding that the apex court had categorically stated that no attempts should be made to bypass its order either through legislation or by any other means, Mr. Oommen said that a referendum of the association members had been held in 2002.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reject-plan-on-referendum-say-malankara-parishes/article37618104.ece
22 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kerala Literature Festival from Jan. 20||The sixth edition of the Kerala Literature Festival (KLF) will be held on Kozhikode Beach from January 20 to 23. The theme for the festival is ‘Come together’. The fifth edition of KLF was held in February 2020, while the 2021 edition was abandoned due to the pandemic. There were rumours that the forthcoming edition will be held in hybrid format incorporating both online and offline sessions. However, the first organising committee meeting held here on Sunday decided to keep it offline completely. As per situation However, the situation may change, and some sessions may go online if the pandemic situation worsens, said A.K. Abdul Hakeem, general convenor of the event. As in the earlier editions, poet K. Sachidanandan is the festival director this time too. Former MLA A. Pradeep Kumar is the chairman of the organising committee, while Ravi D.C. is the chief facilitator. Meanwhile, the focus country and focus State for this edition have not been decided. Mr. Hakeem said it was improbable in the present conditions to bring enough delegates from one country to the festival. Chief guest Nobel laureate Ada Yonath will be the chief guest at the inaugural session on January 20 and will be the key speaker. Renowned writer Jeffrey Archer will be part of the session virtually. The other prominent speakers will be announced shortly. Minister for Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas unveiled the festival theme on Sunday. Thottathil Raveendran, MLA, inaugurated the registration process. Mayor Beena Philip and Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed were present on the occasion.  First meeting of organising committee decides to keep festival in offline mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-literature-festival-from-january-20-to-23/article37618471.ece
22 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Unauthorised lorry parking at Thondayad worries Corpn.||Unauthorised parking of inter-State lorries under the Thondayad flyover on the NH Bypass Road is giving headache to the Kozhikode Corporation, with local residents complaining about it. Mayor Beena Philip, who is also the local councillor, said residents were concerned over illegal activities in the vicinity. “There have been complaints of drug and human trafficking,” the Mayor said. The civic body is also concerned about hygiene in the locality. “The Corporation staff cleaned up the place several times. But the problem will persist as long as lorries are parked there,” she added. However, the lack of proper parking space for lorries coming to the city too is a matter of concern. It took a lot of protests to shift lorry parking from South Beach where similar issues were the order of the day. Incidentally, the Corporation has not been able to provide an alternative space for parking. As a result, the vehicles are parked in the available spaces like Thondayad and Beach Road. “We are trying to get possession of the space under the flyover from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). We plan to convert it into a car parking area under the Corporation,” Ms. Philip said. At the same time, the Corporation acknowledged the need for proper parking spaces for lorries. “The plan is to set up lorry parking areas complete with dormitories, cafeteria, ATM, and toilets so that lorry crew could take a break peacefully. We have identified a space belonging to the port, which could be converted into such a facility,” she added. The Mayor said talks were on with the NHAI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unauthorised-lorry-parking-at-thondayad-worries-corpn/article37618470.ece
22 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Worry in Kozhikode over food poisoning cases||At least five incidents of suspected food poisoning have occurred in Kozhikode district in less than a month, prompting the Health Department to issue an advisory on checking the quality of drinking water sources. Meanwhile, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) too has come up with some guidelines at the State level. Fifteen girl students of a private entrance coaching centre at Perumanna were admitted to hospital after they had stomach upset and other symptoms on October 25. Two-and-a-half-year-old Mohammed Yamin of Narikkuni died on November 13, just a couple of days after he had food at a wedding event. A dozen children and some elders too fell ill. Hundreds sought medical treatment at Puthoor in Vadakara on November 15 after they had food at another wedding event in the previous days. Those who had idli and sambar from two temples at Mukkom complained of uneasiness, and 22 people sought treatment on November 19. Fourteen students of a hostel at Pantheerankavu sought treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, after they had breakfast on November 20. Another instance of food poisoning was averted in the nick of time when an alert food safety inspector detected pseudomonas bacteria in eggs scheduled to be distributed at a school at Payyadimeethal near Pantheerankavu on November 10. A majority of the above-mentioned incidents had been reported at wedding events. Food safety officials claim that most kitchen utensils had been kept unused for long because of the pandemic-induced restrictions on weddings. As the curbs are being eased now, and more people are attending such events, such utensils might have been used without cleaning them properly. The presence of bacteria and fungus in them thus might be leading to food poisoning. Since symptoms occur a day or two after the event, food samples may not be available for testing as well. Some other incidents occurred at hostels which did not have a food safety licence. At the same time, Kozhikode District Medical Officer Ummer Farooq has sought super-chlorination of water resources in places where food poisoning has been reported. The Health Department had found traces of pollutants in drinking water samples collected from these places. FSSAI licence Meanwhile, the State Food Safety Commissioner has said that all catering services must have a FSSAI licence as per the Food Safety Act, 2006. Some catering services were found to have been functioning just with an FSSAI registration. Food items will have to be maintained in the correct temperature. Refrigerated food items have to be maintained at below 5 degrees Celsius, and hot food items above 60 degrees Celsius. Food samples from catering businesses will have to be preserved for two days and should be produced for tests, if needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-instances-of-food-poisoning-in-less-than-a-month-in-kozhikode/article37618473.ece
22 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Govt. set to develop Kozhikode MCH||Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said that the State Government will soon try to expand the services provided at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. He was opening an event on Sunday to honour COVID brigade staff attached to the district programme management and support unit and the outgoing District Medical Officer V. Jayasree. He complimented the COVID brigade staff who stood in the forefront when the State faced an unprecedented health crisis in the form of the pandemic. Ninety-five people, including those working in the mobile medical unit, control room, and the e-Sanjeevani project were felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-set-to-develop-kozhikode-mch/article37618474.ece
22 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Small entrepreneurs seek aid to open parks||As sales rise and the pandemic scare wanes, investors in the small industrial sector are planning to seek the support of the State Government to open more industrial estates in Kozhikode district. Apart from the private industrial parks now under consideration, the support of the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) will be sought to open 10 more government industrial parks which can create hundreds of new employment opportunities. The opening of a regional office of the KSIDC in Kozhikode is considered to be a great opening for local investors in the field to complete the groundwork on time. Their representatives functioning under the Kerala State Small Industries Association (KSSIA) will submit a memorandum to the KSIDC in two weeks with details of the possible number of private industrial parks, suitable locations, estimated project cost and expected financial support from the government. The proposal for more industrial parks gains momentum in the wake of the record sales enjoyed by small entrepreneurs during the Deepavali season. The first park in the private sector is likely to come up in a village near Ramanattukara, where 23 acres of land is available for the project. It will become a reality if the State Government approves the industrialists’ call for providing field-level support with power supply, water connection and internal road construction. As per the existing rules, an industrial park in the city corporation limit will be a reality only with the availability of 15 acres of land. The small industrialists have urged the authorities to reduce it to five acres, considering the poor land availability. According to KSSIA functionaries, the awakening of business after the pandemic has brought hope to many small entrepreneurs. A major concern is the increased cost of raw materials, but it has hardly affected the volume of total production and the sales target, they say. “To double the revenue, all members of the small industrial community are exploring the scope of digital marketing tools and e-commerce,” says M. Abdurahiman, KSSIA district president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/small-entrepreneurs-seek-aid-to-open-parks/article37618459.ece
22 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||K-Rail aimed at welfare of select few: BJP||Describing K-Rail as an project aimed at the welfare of a select few, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran on Sunday said his party would resist its implementation at any cost apart from urging the State government to come up with another feasible option that could address the needs of the majority. While opening a district-level protest against the proposed project here, Mr. Surendran alleged graft and attempts to grab huge commission in the name of works. “No proper Environmental Impact Assessment was done. There is also no clarity yet over the funds to be borrowed, its interest rates, consultancy fee and other terms and conditions,” he criticised. BJP district president V.K. Sajeevan chaired the protest meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-rail-aimed-at-welfare-of-select-few-bjp/article37618501.ece
22 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Waterman’ set to visit Thusharagiri, Chalippuzha||Water activist Rajendra Singh, known as the ‘Waterman of India’, will visit Thusharagiri and Chalippuzha in Kozhikode district on Wednesday. Mr. Singh, winner of the Magsaysay Award in 2001 and the Stockholm Water Prize in 2015, will assess the environmental damage caused to the Chalippuzha after it was cleared of boulders by the District Disaster Management Authority in a move intended to avert floods. Greens’ concerns He will also analyse the situation at Thusharagiri in the district. Environmentalists have raised concerns about the State Government handing over the disputed land there to its original owners, following a Supreme Court order. Mr. Singh will be accompanied by activists of the All Kerala River Protection Committee and representatives of nearby local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rajendra-singh-to-visit-thusharagiri/article37618468.ece
22 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||V.S. Vijayaraghavan celebrates 80th birthday||Congress leader and former Lok Sabha member V.S. Vijayaraghavan celebrated his 80th birthday here on Sunday. A host of politicians from different parties attended the function and offered him greetings. Mr. Vijayaraghavan, who was Palakkad District Congress Committee president for 25 years, visited former Maharashtra Governor K. Sankaranarayanan at his house, and the latter greeted him by draping him in a ‘ponnada.’ Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala inaugurated the festivities held at Parvathi Kalyanamandapam here. Assembly Speaker M.B. Rajesh cut a cake. V.K. Sreekandan and Ramya Haridas, MPs; KPCC general secretaries C. Chandran and K.A. Thulasi; KPCC executive committee member C.V. Balachandran; former MP K.V. Thomas; and leaders of different parties greeted Mr. Vijayaraghavan. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan extended his birthday greetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vs-vijayaraghavan-celebrates-80th-birthday/article37618663.ece
22 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Laurels for Mannarkkad coop. bank||The Mannarkkad Rural Service Cooperative Bank, Mannarkkad, has won two special awards of the Cooperation Department and a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh for excellence. The bank won the Cooperative Department’s appreciation award for exemplary way of functioning, and the Cooperation Minister’s Special Innovation Award and a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh for introducing innovative programmes. Apart from its innovative programmes, the bank was also recognised for its work against COVID-19. The bank had opened the first RT-PCR lab with NABL accreditation in the cooperative sector in the State. The bank already won several awards for its round-the-clock personalised banking system. From 1989 Bank secretary M. Purushothaman said the institution, launched with 305 members and an individual share capital of Rs. 30,000 in 1989, had become one of the best cooperative banks in the State. He said his bank was proud to function as a Rs. 13,000-crore fund manager of the social security pension. He said the project named Muttathe Mulla aimed at saving local people from the clutches of cut-throat moneylenders had become hugely popular in Mannarkkad and neighbouring areas. The Kutty Sanji made of cloth introduced as an alternative against plastic and the bank’s rooftop vegetable project too had drawn praise. Mr. Purushothaman and bank’s president K. Suresh accepted the awards from Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan at a function at Iringal on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laurels-for-coop-bank/article37618541.ece
22 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No respite as vegetable prices skyrocket||Household budgets are taking a severe beating as skyrocketing vegetable prices show no sign of easing. The rates have shot up over the past few weeks due to the heavy rainfall and resultant crop damage in neighbouring States, traders here say. Prices of most of the commonly used vegetables including tomato, beans, drumstick, ladies finger, and brinjal are up, and traders say the situation is likely to persist for some weeks. Tomato was selling retail at Rs. 90 a kilo at the Connemara market in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday, beans at Rs. 70 a kilo, and ginger and carrot each at Rs. 60 a kilo. Ladies finger and brinjal too are being sold at Rs. 60, vendors at the market says. “Tomato prices have risen from Rs. 40 a kilo, while the price of carrot and beans had been in the Rs. 30-40 range per kilo a few weeks back,” Chandran R., a vendor at the market says. While the retail price of tomato was Rs. 90 a kilo and above in markets in Thiruvananthapuram, the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) was selling the item at Rs. 78 on Saturday. In the State capital, Sunday morning prices of tomato on online platforms ranged between Rs. 90 and Rs. 130 per kg. Cabbage cost Rs. 40 in the open market and beetroot Rs. 40. Ginger prices have shot up from Rs. 50 to Rs. 60 in the market. Given the steep prices, vendors have also stopped offering Rs. 50 and Rs. 100 kits containing essential vegetables. “The kits are not viable for the vendors in the present situation,” K. Chidambaram, president of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi’s vegetable wing, says. “Prices have shot up steeply due to the heavy rainfall and the resultant crop loss in the State of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra. We expect the situation to remain so for another month at least,” he says. Price of some items Meanwhile, the price of a few items, such as onion, has come down a little. Wholesale prices have dipped to Rs. 34, according to traders in Chalai market. On its part the Horticorp has stepped up procurement from farmers, as they also expect the present trend to persist, Joseph T.M., Regional Manager, Horticorp, says. BOX Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal on Sunday called for urgent measures by the Centre to curb the price rise. Talking to reporters here, he attributed the present situation to the heavy rainfall in neighbouring States, but added that the Centre’s unilateral decisions also were responsible for rise in prices of essential commodities. Collective action was needed as the problem persists across the country, he said. On its part, the State Government was strengthening the public distribution system including the Horticorp and Consumerfed and making sure that ongoing PDS-related activities were not hit, Mr. Balagopal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-respite-as-vegetable-prices-skyrocket/article37618659.ece
22 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Halal’ at the centre of a political controversy in State||Halal hotels that primarily cater to the religious and dietary needs of observant Muslims are at the centre of a raging political controversy in Kerala. The dispute erupted after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran flagged the Travancore Devaswom Board’s purchase of ‘halal-certified’ jaggery to make prasadam at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. He alleged that ‘halal’ hotels in the State were fronts for radical Islamists. He accused fundamentalists of incrementally imposing a ‘halal’ culture in the State. Voice of dissent The sole voice of dissent in the BJP seemed to be party’s State spokesperson Sandeep Warrier. In an FB post, Mr. Warrier suggested it was wrong to discriminate against halal hotels. He said people from different religious backgrounds frequented such eateries and people of other faiths worked in such establishments. The service sector served all, and its collapse would push hundreds of families into poverty. Moreover, Hindus, Muslims and Christians could not coexist harmoniously if they financially embargoed each other. “Reason, and not passion, should lead the way in such debate,” Mr. Warrier wrote. ‘Ban boards’ The BJP appeared to have corrected Mr. Warrier. On Sunday, BJP State general secretary P. Sudhir equated ‘halal’ to a ‘social evil’ such as ‘triple talaq’. The BJP demanded that the State Government ban ‘halal’ boards in front of hotels. He reiterated Mr. Surendran’s stance that Islamists were behind the widespread ‘halal’ branding in Kerala. The Pinarayi Vijayan Government supported them tacitly. The BJP would hold Statewide protests on November 25 to protest against the Government-Islamist nexus, evidenced by lack of progress in the Sanjith murder case, widespread halal branding of hotels and eateries, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s [CPI(M)] alliance with fundamentalists in scores of local bodies. The CPI(M) has slammed the BJP’s gambit as a nefarious bid to demonise minorities and destroy the values of multiculturalism in Kerala. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said the Sangh Parivar was targetting food, which had always served as a secular bridge between communities. The CPI(M) would observe December 7 as ‘protest day’ to highlight the increasing attacks against minorities and their rights. ‘Needless’ Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the halal controversy was needless. Extremist fringe elements existing in the radicalised penumbra of minority and majority communities were behind the argument. It had no bearing on the livelihood issue of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/halal-at-the-centre-of-a-political-controversy-in-state/article37618505.ece
22 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,080 new cases in State, 7,908 recoveries||Kerala logged 5,080 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 53,892 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 51,01,004 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 37,495 with the State adding 196 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Sunday. These include 40 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 156 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. Now that 8,579 deaths have been newly added to the official list of COVID deaths, the case fatality rate (CFR ) of Kerala, which used to be steady between 0.3 – 0.4 %, now stands at 0.73 % The State’s active case pool has dropped below 60,000 and now has 58,088 patients, with 7,908 people reported to have recovered from the disease on Sunday. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State now is 833, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support dropped from 329 on Saturday to 317 on Sunday. The number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 269. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 873 cases, Kozhikode 740, Thiruvananthapuram 621, Thrissur 521, Kannur 361, Kottayam 343, Kollam 307, Idukki 276, Wayanad 228, Pathanamthitta 206, Malappuram 203, Palakkad 175, Alappuzha 143 and Kasaragod 83 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5080-new-cases-in-state-7908-recoveries/article37618504.ece
22 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BSNL assets in State likely to be on sale list||Even as the Union Government has listed for sale real estate assets of State-run telecom firms Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL), it is also considering assets owned by the BSNL in Kerala for sale in the next phase of the asset monetisation plan. According to BSNL sources, consultants contracted by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) had visited the State last week to assess the land to be put up for sale. They had visited the BSNL Regional Telecom Training Centre (RTTC) located near Kaimanam in Thiruvananthapuram, which was considered by the department for a monetisation plan two years ago. Of the 29-acre land, 9.88 acres were then marked as sparable. On Saturday, BSNL properties in Hyderabad, Chandigarh, Bhavnagar, and Kolkata were posted for sale at a reserve price of about Rs. 660 crore. The asset monetisation plan is said to be part of the Rs. 69,000-crore revival scheme for the BSNL and the MTNL, which the Union Government had announced in October 2019. Though the BSNL employees unions were not very keen earlier on asset monetisation plans, the drastic reduction in the staff strength in the Kerala circle immediately after the VRS package in January last year seems to have brought about a change in their stand. In April last year, the BSNL’s Kerala circle had offered its buildings on rent to Central and State government departments, public sector units, banks and other financial institutions, a move which the unions had supported. Doubts on purpose “The Government had earlier announced the asset monetisation plans as part of the revival package. But our concern now is that the DIPAM is implementing the process. We are not sure whether the money so raised would come back to the BSNL and used for its revival, or used by the Government for other purposes. If the BSNL was doing it directly, there would have been no such concern. ,” says a union leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bsnl-assets-in-state-likely-to-be-on-sale-list/article37618506.ece
22 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MCH attack: Veena moots action||Health Minister Veena George has directed the Superintendent of the Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, to take strict action to ensure that cases of security staff attacking caregivers are not repeated in the medical college hospital (MCH). The security staff at the hospital allegedly assaulted a patient’s caregiver in the hospital on Friday. A case has been registered and the private agency handling the security arrangements has suspended the accused staff. The Minister has also directed the Superintendent to re-examine the contract with the private agency and cancel the contract, if needed. Report to security officer As per the current arrangements, the security staff at the hospital, contracted through the agency, were not reporting to the Security Officer at the hospital. Henceforth, all security staff has to report to the officer. Adequate training also has to be provided before deploying them, said the Minister. Chirayinkeezh-native Arundev, who has been a caregiver for his grandmother, was allegedly attacked by three security staff at the hospital on Friday. Visuals of him being attacked and dragged inside the waiting room had gone viral on social media. He was allegedly not allowed to enter even after he had shown his pass to the security staff. Second instance This was the second case of security personnel at the MCH attacking caregivers in a week. The State Human Rights Commission had also taken cognisance and ordered an investigation into the alleged assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-attack-minister-calls-for-action/article37618467.ece
22 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three-member gang attacks house of CPI(M) branch committee member||A three-member gang allegedly unleashed an attack at the residence of a CPI(M) branch committee member near Attipra on Saturday night. According to the Thumba police, the group, led by Chandu, had arrived at CPI(M) member Shiju’s residence near Nehru junction at around 10 p.m. On seeing the gang carrying swords and machetes, Shiju ran inside the house with his wife and child. The gang members damaged the gate and his scooter using the machete, and later threw a country bomb inside the drawing room after breaking open a window. No injuries A television and some other articles inside the drawing room were damaged in the impact. No one sustained injuries. According to the police, the attack could be a retaliation against Shiju for forcing Chandu to vacate from his father-in-law’s house, where he was staying on rent. The police said that Shiju’s family had received several complaints from neighbours near the rented house that Chandu’s drunken parties with his friends had been causing them difficulties. After Chandu was forced to vacate, the issue had caused minor altercations with Shiju.  The attack at the party worker was in retaliation to the move to vacate a gang member from a rented house||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-member-gang-attacks-house-of-cpim-branch-committee-member/article37618656.ece
22 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Textbook printing for next year begins||The printing of the first volume of school textbooks for the academic year 2022- 23 has commenced, Minister for General Education V.Sivankutty has said. The printing is under way at the Kerala Book Publishing Society. The high-level monitoring committee headed by the Principal Secretary, General Education had finalised the arrangements for printing textbooks for the next academic year. An official pressnote issued here quoting the Minister said the department could print and distribute 537 titles in three volumes of textbooks for the year 2021- 22 despite the challenges posed by the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/textbook-printing-for-next-year-begins/article37618507.ece
22 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Media told to spread awareness on child rights||The media should play a proactive and responsible role in imparting awareness of the rights of children in society, Justice Mohammed Nias C.P. of the Kerala High Court has said. The judge was speaking on ‘Laws for the protection of children’s rights and the media,’ a seminar organised by the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights on the occasion of World Children’s Day here on Saturday. In generating awareness of children’s rights, no other sector has perhaps a greater role to play than the media, he said. He drew attention to Section 13 (1) (h) of the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, which, expanding upon the functions of the commission, reads; “spread child rights literacy among various sections of the society and promote awareness of the safeguards available for protection of these rights through publications, the media, seminars and other available means.” “This also places an onus on the media to play a proactive role in promoting awareness on child rights,” he said. Wealth of nation Children are the greatest wealth of the nation. Adequate safeguards for their rights are important as they are often unable to grasp what their rights are or demand them due to limitations imposed by their age, he said. “Wherever child rights laws are complied with, the happiness index of those societies are bound to be on the higher side,” he said. Advocate General K. Gopalakrishna Kurup, who delivered the keynote address, called for a concerted effort for the protection of child rights. India’s low position in the child development index should prompt introspection on where the country stands, despite the enactment of numerous laws for the protection of child rights, he said. The World Children’s Day, established in 1954, is celebrated on November 20 every year to “promote international togetherness, awareness among children worldwide, and improving children’s welfare.” It was also on this day in 1959 that the UN General Assembly adopted the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, and in 1989, the Convention on the Rights of the Child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spread-awareness-on-child-rights/article37618479.ece
22 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||X’mas-New Year bumper lottery tickets launched||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal on Sunday released the ‘X’mas-New Year bumper lottery’ of the Kerala State Lotteries. The ticket, which carries a first prize of Rs. 12 crore is priced at Rs. 300, Mr. Balagopal said after launching the lottery by handing over a ticket to Transport Minister Antony Raju. The draw will be held on January 16. The State Lotteries Department has printed 24 lakh tickets for the ‘X’mas-New Year lottery’ this year. Last year, 33 lakh tickets had been printed for the same lottery and all were sold out, the Minister said. Mr. Balagopal said that the lottery sector in the State, which had witnessed a slump due to the COVID-19 pandemic, was on revival path. “The livelihood of nearly one lakh people depends on this sector,” he said, adding that the Kerala Lotteries, with its high credibility, was a model to the entire country. In all, 37 lakh tickets were printed for the Pooja Bumper lottery, which had its draw on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/xmas-new-year-bumper-lottery-tickets-launched/article37618653.ece
22 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for sexual assault on minor||The Peroorkada Police on Sunday arrested a 20-year-old youth on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl. The accused has been identified as Manoj alias Safaan (20) from Parandode, near Nedumangad. Instagram He had allegedly sexually assaulted a 16-year-old girl, whom he had befriended on Instagram. A case has been charged against him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against him. According to the police, he is an accused in several criminal cases in various police stations. The accused was produced in the court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor/article37618657.ece
22 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||621 cases in district||The district logged 621 new COVID-19 cases and 1,392 recoveries on Sunday. The test positivity rate stood at 8.9%, the district administration said. A total of 8,129 people were on treatment for COVID-19 in the district as on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/621-cases-in-district/article37618660.ece
22 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Detailed project report of ‘She Workspace’ ready||Entrepreneurial initiatives by women are crucial for the State’s development, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. The Minister was speaking after releasing the detailed project report of ‘She Workspace’ of the Kodakara block panchayat on Sunday. Such initiatives should be a model for the post COVID-19 development of the State, he said. K.K. Ramachandran, MLA, presided over the function held at the Kodakara block panchayat hall. Novel project ‘She Workspace’ is a novel project that envisages a safe and comfortable space for women to work. The project will be implemented by the Kodakara block panchayat in association with the grama panchayats. The project, at a cost of Rs. 28.95 crore, aims at bringing women’s entrepreneurial ventures in sectors such as information technology, health sector, education, training, and trading to a particular space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/detailed-project-report-of-she-workspace-ready/article37618543.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to the roots||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-the-roots/article37618461.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On a high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-a-high/article37618477.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Watch out...||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/watch-out/article37618534.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||To serve justice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/to-serve-justice/article37618509.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Burning with a rage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burning-with-a-rage/article37618665.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||At home on the Karamana||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-home-on-the-karamana/article37618655.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bold moves||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bold-moves/article37618661.ece
22 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers in Anantapur stare at dark future||Farmers in Anantapur district are at their wits’ end with incessant rain from November 16 damaging their standing crops beyond a chance of retrieval in more than 2.25 lakh acres, going by the State government assessment on Saturday. Sanna Gurrappa, a tenant farmer, had sown Sona Masoori paddy variety in 3 acres alongside Tadakaleru stream in June at Neelampalli in Bukkarayasamudram mandal, investing Rs. 75,000. But now, with the flood ravishing his crops, he stares at a dark future. “Such flood was witnessed last in 2004,” Gurrappa says. All hopes of retrieving Gurrappa’s investment have come to naught as his field has been lying under two feet of water for the past five days. The same is the case with I. Nageswara Reddy who has lost 3 acres of paddy crop he owned. They were expecting 30 to 35 bags (75kg) of paddy per acre, which now command Rs. 1,700 per bag. They had to fight with whitefly pests in some villages a month ago. Now, all that he hopes to get is some compensation from the government. The two are among the 50-odd farmers owning 300 acres in the village and adjoining villages Janthuluru and Chedalla who have lost their crops in the flood. Work under way to plug leak Meanwhile, engineers have taken up work to plug the leak on the bund of Anantasagar, which was noticed on Saturday by some people who live in the downside of the bund. Loads of sandbags were dumped on the site on Saturday night and additional soil was brought for compacting with an earthmover on Sunday morning. The bund-side approach road was closed and work was done on a war-footing on Sunday. The bund of Anantasagar, the lifeline of Anantapur town, began leaking at a curve where engineers had made a cut to form the bund road in the past. Assistant Engineer of Minor Irrigation Ravur Naga Bhavya said that there was no danger as it was only clean water leakage caused by the sudden excess inflow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-in-anantapur-stare-at-dark-future/article37618142.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘After EC nod, Ministers will tour rain-hit areas’||Under attack from Opposition parties over his Cabinet colleagues staying aloof from rain-affected regions in Karnataka and remaining busy with Jan Swaraj Yatra of the BJP, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said he had sought permission from the Election Commission of India (ECI) for Ministers to hold meetings with officials in the districts and also to conduct damage surveys. He said it was necessary owing to the code of conduct in place for elections to 25 seats of the Legislative Council from Local Authorities’ constituencies on December 10. Permission sought “I have spoken to the EC seeking approval and the Chief Secretary is also writing a letter to the EC,” the Chief Minister told reporters in Bengaluru. While the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had criticised the Ministers for staying away from relief work to take part in electioneering, another former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday attacked the Government for shoddy relief work in a series of tweets. Mr. Bommai said in defence of the Ministers, “Several Ministers are already there in the districts. I have spoken to the EC seeking permission for Ministers to hold an official meeting to review the situation. Soon after the permission is obtained, Ministers will travel.” Further, he said that since the rains had not abated in several districts, rain-related damage surveys had not been completed. “We have already released compensation for crop losses that over 3 lakh farmers suffered in July, August, and September. I have ordered a release of Rs. 130 crore that was due for compensation,” he said. ‘Enacting drama’ Earlier in the day, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that instead of coming to the rescue of people, the Government was “enacting a drama in the name of Jan Swaraj Yatra”. Mr. Siddaramaiah said, “The Chief Minister should stop this drama and chase his Ministers to rain-affected districts. Ask them to provide relief to those in distress.” He alleged that officials, meanwhile, were “cosily sitting at home”. He urged the Ministers to take a team of officials to assess crop damage and announce compensation. He also urged the State Government to urge the Union Government to compensate the State for the damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/after-ec-nod-ministers-will-tour-rain-hit-areas/article37618106.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team reaches Chennai, to assess damage from today||The Union Government’s team, deputed for an on-the-spot assessment of the rain damage in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, arrived in Chennai on Sunday and held discussions with senior officials. The team will visit 12 affected districts in Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory this week. The seven-member team is led by Joint Secretary in the Union Home Ministry Rajiv Sharma. The other members are Consultant in the Union Ministry of Finance R.B. Kaul; Director in the Department of Agriculture Vijay Rajmohan; Assistant Director in the Union Ministry of Power Bhavya Pandey; Under-Secretary in the Union Ministry of Rural Development M.V.N. Varaprasad; Director in the Union Ministry of Water Resources R. Thangamani; and Regional Director in the Union Ministry of Road Transport Rananjay Singh. On Sunday evening, the team held discussions with Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Revenue Secretary Kumar Jayant and senior officials at the Secretariat. It also met Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi in the Ripon Building.Four of the seven members, led by Mr. Rajiv Sharma, will visit the flood-affected areas in Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts on the forenoon of Monday before proceeding to Puducherry in the afternoon. On November 23, the team is expected to visit the affected areas in Cuddalore and Mayiladuthurai districts in the forenoon and Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts in the afternoon. The three other members will fly to Thoothukudi on Monday morning and then proceed to Kanniyakumari by road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-team-arrives-in-chennai-to-assess-damage/article37618213.ece
22 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains leave ancient palace in Punganur crumbling||The heavy rains triggered by the depression over the Bay of Bengal has the structure of the darbar-hall of the 200-year-old zamindari palace in Punganur municipality and the adjoining walls crumbling, while the grandeur of the regal frame too has suffered the fury of the incessant rains. The iconic palace has been the landmark of Punganur since generations. After the abolition of the Zamindar system in 1950, the glory of the palace started waning. Tough times had prompted the members of royal families to migrate to erstwhile Madras and Bangalore in search of greener pastures. However, the Punganur palace comes alive for a week in a year during the celebration of the annual ‘Suguturu Ganga Jatara’ in March. The event sees a gathering of over three lakh people from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Andhra Pradesh. The very next day, the palace slips into silence and darkness for the rest of the year, with none to take care of its maintenance. But, this Punganur festival heralds the ‘Ganga Jatara season’ in Chittoor district, temple after temple celebrating the mass events. Though the monument is slowly crumbling, the municipal authorities express their inability to protect the structure, which is a private property. In the last one hundred years, the valuable artefacts have found their way to the museums and royal palaces elsewhere in the United Kingdom. The history of the palace dates back to 1801 when the British took control of the erstwhile Kolar province (now in Karnataka). The construction plan of the palace suffered a setback but was later resumed in 1866 by the Zamindars of the Chikkathimmaraya family. The palace’s representation of the glory of Kannada land came to an end after the Independence, followed by the abolition of the zamindari system and merger of Punganur with Andhra Pradesh, after delinking it from Kolar region, then part of the Madras province. Historians believe that the region of Punganur had trading links with the Mediterranean empires during the times of emperor Ashoka. In the early 16th Century, when the Penukonda region came under the attack of the invaders, the local rulers of Punganur were said to have assisted emperor Sri Krishna Devaraya to fight against it. As a gesture, the Vijayanagara emperor had donated the Kolar and Suguturu regions to the Punganur rulers, which eventually led to the birth of the zamindari pattern of administration. Speaking to The Hindu , Municipal Commissioner (Punganur) K. Lokeswara Varma said that some focal portions of the palace had collapsed due to the impact of the recent rains. “Some construction in the backyard had crumbled in the past. I have appealed to the present owners of the palace to come forward to bring back its lost glory. As it is a private property, we can’t right away decide to protect the palace,” Mr. Varma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rains-leave-ancient-palace-in-punganur-crumbling/article37618144.ece
22 November 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||W.G. officers’ team wins district quiz||The district officers’ team won the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav quiz held by West Godavari district on Sunday. Collector Kartikeya Misra was the quizmaster. Vidya Vikas Degree, Akiveedu, stood second and Ch. S.D St. Theresa’s Autonomous College for Women, Eluru, came third in the quiz held at C.R. Reddy Engineering College, Vatlur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wg-officers-team-wins-district-quiz/article37618674.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR, Jagan meet at function||Putting their water war at rest, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his Andhra Pradesh counterpart Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy made bonhomie at a marriage function here on Sunday. They met at the wedding of Telangana Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy’s grand-daughter and a police officer Krishna Mohan Reddy’s son. The police officer was Mr. Jagan’s Officer on Special Duty. Mr. Rao and Mr. Jagan were seen chit-chatting for sometime sharing a common seat in front of the wedding pandal. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, Mr. Jagan’s mother Y.S. Vijayamma, Andhra Pradesh Speaker Tammineni Sitaram and several Ministers, MPs and MLAs from both States also participated. This was one of the few occasions when the Chief Ministers of the neighbouring States met face-to-face after Mr. Rao invited Mr. Jagan for a luncheon meeting here to discuss irrigation issues between the two States through a powerpoint presentation shortly after the latter assumed charge. The meeting was followed up by efforts by both States to divert Godavari water to Krishna basin. Mr. Rao was of the view that the water of Godavari could be used optimally instead of letting it down into the sea for mutual benefit of both States. The officials of the two sides also met twice but abandoned them abruptly after Mr. Jagan’s announcement in Andhra Pradesh Assembly in December 2019 to construct Rayalaseema lift irrigation project. The strains between the two States began to show up from January last year with the AP government issuing an order taking up the project. It invited KCR’s wrath as he lamented that this was what he got for hosting Mr. Jagan while trying to extend a hand of friendship for mutual benefit of both States. Last year, Mr. Rao and Mr. Jagan confronted each other in virtual mode at the Apex Council meeting convened by Union Water Resources Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in a bid to resolve the water disputes but they had thickened by then. The construction of Rayalaseema project, which did not have Central clearance, and a spate of complaints by Telangana to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) about excessive drawal of water by Andhra Pradesh from the river added to the tensions. Andhra Pradesh also highlighted several violations by Telangana, mainly in construction of the Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation project, even as the latter upped the ante demanding re-allocation of Krishna water between the two States by referring the matter to a tribunal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bonhomie-back-as-kcr-jagan-meet-at-function/article37618448.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR in Delhi to take up paddy procurement issue||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao arrived in New Delhi on Sunday evening along with Cabinet colleagues and senior bureaucrats to take up the issue of paddy procurement in the State with the Centre. Mr. Rao planned to meet the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution System Piyush Goyal on the issue of paddy procurement. The Chief Minister proposes to meet Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to request the Centre to refer the demand of Telangana for reallocation of water in Krishna to a tribunal. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao is also expected to raise the pending issues in State’s bifurcation law with the Prime Minister, if he is able to get an appointment. The Chief Minister is expected to be in the the National Capital for three or four days. Earlier, the Chief Minister and supremo of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi had charged the NDA government with dragging its feet on Telangana’s share in Krishna and Godavari river waters and had warned that if the Centre does not form a tribunal and refer the matter to it, the TRS would launch a massive agitation, besides raising the issue in Parliament. The ruling party held a dharna here on Thursday over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-reaches-delhi/article37618098.ece
22 November 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water level in Idukki reservoir drops, blue alert declared||The water level in the Idukki reservoir was almost steady at 2,400.10 feet by evening on Sunday. Rain has subsided and the inflow was less compared to Saturday when the shutters of both the Mullaperiyar and Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir were opened. However, the shutter 3 of the Cheruthoni dam was closed on Saturday after a huge tree was found tilted towards the dam shutter. It was cleared on Sunday morning and the shutter remained closed. As per the new rule curve level, which came into effect on Saturday midnight, the water level in the Idukki reservoir moved to the blue alert level. The blue alert level is 2,395 feet, the orange alert is 2,401 feet, and red alert level is 2,402 feet. The upper rule level is 2,403 feet which is also the full reserve level. There was a storage of 96.53% (the water level on the same day last year was 2,393.38 feet). The power generation at the Moolamattom power plant was at a high of 16.554 mu on Saturday. The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam was 141.05 feet at 4 p.m. Tamil Nadu closed all the spillway shutters except the V3 which was reduced to 10 cm at 9.30 a.m. There was an average inflow of 2,084 cusecs of water, while the tunnel discharge was 2,255 cusecs and the water released to the Periyar was 132 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-level-in-idukki-reservoir-drops-blue-alert-declared/article37618100.ece
22 November 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bridge collapses, rain-related incidents claim 15 lives in Kadapa||The road bridge across the Papaghni river connecting Kadapa and Tadipatri towns collapsed on Sunday under the impact of the floods. With the bridge showing signs of sinking on Saturday, the Kadapa district administration diverted the vehicular traffic via alternate routes through Yerraguntla and Proddatur. However, smaller vehicles continued to proceed towards the bridge and remained stranded for up to a kilometre on its both sides. The heavy rains have battered the district, especially the areas in Kadapa, Rajampet and Kamalapuram constituencies. Compensation paid Amid speculative figures that put the number of deaths in the rain-related incidents at more than 50, the district administration put the toll at 15 as on Sunday evening. “We have identified 15 bodies and handed them over to the relatives. Compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each has been paid to the kin of 13 victims. As many as 22 persons have been reported missing and a search has been launched to trace them,” Kadapa Collector V. Vijayarama Raju told The Hindu . Relief measures have been undertaken in Nandalur, Penagalur Rajampet and Vontimitta areas on a brisk pace. Earthmovers have been deployed to clean the roads and restore power connectivity in the villages abutting the water bodies where electric poles and wires got washed away in the swirling waters. The Panchayat Raj Department is using motors to clear the submerged areas. The revenue officials are supplying water through tankers in Chakrayapet mandal. In Tsundupalle mandal which is prone to viral fevers, the health officials conducted a camp at Rayavaram, Thimmasamudram, Mudampadu, Bagampalli villages. Meanwhile, Mylavaram reservoir continued to receive heavy inflows from the upper reaches. As a result, the irrigation authorities released water at the rate of 70,000 cusecs from the project. Building caves in In Kadapa, a three-storeyed building collapsed in Radhakrishna Nagar. Fire personnel rescued a woman and her daughter. The police and villagers rescued a man, Pratap Reddy, who got washed away in a river at Lingala village in Pulivendula constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bridge-collapses-rain-related-incidents-claim-15-lives-in-kadapa/article37618611.ece
22 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police thank people for helping accident victims||East Godavari Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Raveendranath Babu on Sunday lauded the efforts of police personnel, doctors, civilians, auto-rickshaw drivers, and APSRTC bus drivers for coming to the rescue of accident victims. Police officials on Sunday observed the ‘World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims’ and interacted with family members who lost their beloved in road mishaps in the district. Mr. Raveendranath Babu felicitated Dr.Gopinath, Dr.Sudheer, and Dr.B. Rambabu who saved many lives with their timely services at hospital. Police personnel Kiran Kumar, Atchuta Rao, and T.N.V.S.R. Krishna, who rescued accident victims, were also felicitated. Educational institutes including the Aditya Group of Colleges and Sam Institute played a key role in creating awareness on road accidents and road safety. Our Vizianagaram reporter writes: Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police M. Deepika Patil on Sunday urged people to come to the rescue of victims of road accidents since timely help would help save precious lives. She was the chief guest at a programme organised in connection with World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims on Sunday. “Overspeeding is a major reason for road accidents. The number of accidents would decline sharply if people followed all traffic rules,” Ms. Patil said. “We are trying to make Vizianagaram an accident-free district. It is only possible if people vow to follow traffic rules in letter and spirit,” she said. Stating that people need not hesitate to extend a helping hand to accident victims fearing trouble with the police, Ms. Patil said that the police department would treat them utmost respect. Earlier, she felicitated several people for coming to the aid of accident victims. Traffic DSP L. Mohana Rao and Vizianagaram DSP P. Anil Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-thank-people-for-helping-accident-victims/article37618639.ece
22 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada 17th on Safaimitra Suraksha list||Kakinada city bagged the 17th rank among 243 cities that participated in the Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge-2021 (SSC-2021) for mechanised operations of sewer and septic tank cleaning. The SSC-2021 was conducted by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. In March, the Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) deployed two robots for cleaning sewer manholes in the city. The robots were donated by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation. KMC Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar said that the city also bagged 103rd rank in the Swatch Survekshan-2021 rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kakinada-17th-on-safaimitra-suraksha-list/article37618637.ece
22 November 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||28 students in TS test COVID-positive||As many as 28 students of the Telangana State Gurukulam and Junior College for girls in Wyra town here have tested positive for COVID-19, prompting the authorities to ramp up coronavirus preventive measures in the State-run residential educational institution. Sources said one of the students, who returned to the institution from her village after attending a ceremony at her house two days ago, showed symptoms of the infection on Saturday. She was sent back home as a safety precaution and subsequently tested positive for COVID-19 through Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). Twenty-seven other students of the institution were diagnosed with coronavirus infection during a screening camp held on the premises of the institution over the weekend, sources added. Barring the 28 students, all others tested negative. Those who tested positive for COVID-19 have returned to their homes. Meanwhile, several parents rushed to the residential institution on Sunday to take their daughters back home for a few days as a safety precaution, sources said. Official sources added that the premises of the institution have been sanitised and COVID-19 preventive measures stepped up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/28-students-of-govt-institution-test-positive-for-coronavirus/article37618105.ece
22 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Baby in adoption row brought to Kerala||After a day-long journey from Andhra Pradesh, the baby boy, mired in the recent adoption controversy related to Anupama S. Chandran, was handed over on Sunday to a person associated with a child care institution in Thiruvananthapuram to be taken care of. The infant, believed to be the son of Anupama, was taken from the custody of an Andhra Pradesh couple, to whom the baby was given in foster care, and brought to Kerala around 9 p.m. On reaching Thiruvananthapuram, a team of officials from the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare took the baby to the institution and handed him over to the person identified by the District Child Protection Officer for the purpose. N. Sunanda, chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee, Thiruvananthapuram, and V. Seethammal, its member, were present while the baby was handed over. Earlier in the day, the Child Welfare Committee met to verify the credentials of the person, who was identified as a ‘fit person’ for taking care of the child. Ms. Sunanda issued the order entrusting the baby to the person after verifying police reports and the track record of the person in handling babies. Requests turned down The committee had turned down requests from some individuals to look after the baby. The baby will be left in the custody of the selected person till a finality is arrived on the adoption process, sources said. The committee, as instructed by the Family Court, Thiruvananthapuram, has also made arrangements for determining the parentage of the child. The DNA tests for identifying the biological father and mother of the baby, as demanded by Ms. Chandran and her partner S. Ajith Kumar, are likely to be held at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram, on Monday. The report is expected in a couple of days. The baby would be handed over to Anupama if the DNA test confirms her as the biological mother. The clearance of the Family Court, where she has moved a petition seeking to get her baby back, will also have to be sought, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adoption-case-baby-brought-to-kerala/article37618101.ece
22 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jawad’ wreaks havoc across Nellore district||Normal life was thrown out of gear as weather system ‘Jawad’ wreaked havoc in Nellore district. Road and rail traffic to southern parts of the country was disrupted as railway tracks and the arterial Chennai-Kolkata highway were breached at several places. As many as 44,275 people were rescued and shifted to 97 relief camps by three units of the National Disaster Response Force and two units of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) in coordination with the district police, said Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu. The railway track on the Nellore-Padugupadu section suffered a breach resulting in cancellation of 18 south-bound trains, cancellation of two trains and diversion of 10 other long distance trains to Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram and other places in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Over 3,500 passengers travelling by trains from Howrah, Puri and other destinations were stranded in Kavali, Ongole and Chirala en route. Vehicles were stranded on the Chennai-Kolkata highway for 12 hours as the highway suffered erosion in Nellore and Kovur. Officials swung into action and restored vehicular traffic on the expressway by afternoon and diverted vehicles coming from Chittoor district to run via Pamur and Darsi in Prakasam district to northern destinations. Engineering staff worked round the clock to plug breaches to 39 minor irrigation tanks which resulted in local inundation. The district administration had some solace as the Penna river which was in spate bringing a peak flood of 5.5 lakh cusecs following heavy rains in Kadapa, Anantapur and Chitoor districts, pacified by evening. The inflow into Somasila reservoir declined to 1.56 lakh cusecs on Sunday evening, said the Collector. Islampeta in the city was the worst-affected. More than 12,000 people were shifted to relief camps. The weather system caused misery to people also in the Revenue divisions of Atmakur, Gudur, Kavali and Naidupeta. The flood-affected people would be provided with Rs. 25 kg of rice, one kg each of palm oil, red gram, onions and potato, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawad-wreaks-havoc-in-nellore-district/article37618146.ece
22 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders join farmers’ padayatra||The morale of the Amaravati farmers currently on a walkathon to Tirumala got a boost on Sunday with the BJP leaders extending their support to their demand that Amaravati be retained as the sole capital of Andhra Pradesh. A host of BJP leaders including D. Purandeswari, Rajya Sabha members Y.S. Chowdary and C.M. Ramesh, and party State president Somu Veerraju, walked for some distance with the farmers led by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti convener A. Siva Reddy as the ‘maha padayatra’ resumed from Rajuvari Chintalapalem in Nellore district. “We have come to express our solidarity with the farmers from the capital region after apprising Union Home Minister Amit Shah of the ground realities,” Ms. Purandeswari said. “The BJP activists will act as a shield to the farmers who have been warned of dire consequences if they step into the Rayalaseema region allegedly by some YSRCP activists, and ensure that the long march continues up to Tirupati uninterrupted,” Ms. Purandeswari said. Describing Amaravati as the “people’s capital,” Mr. Veerraju said the party activists would agitate across the State in support of the farmers. The BJP had taken a decision to locate its State office in Amaravati, he added. Staff reporter in Vijayawada adds: Ms. Purandeswari reiterated the party’s stand that Amaravati should be the capital of Andhra Pradesh, and said that the same had been vindicated by the sanction of several institutions and release of Rs. 2,500 crore by the Union government for the development of what would have evolved into a bustling city had the YSRCP government not pulled out of the project under the guise of decentralisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-join-farmers-padayatra/article37618613.ece
22 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure clean politics: Lok Satta Party||Lok Satta Party State president Bhisetti Babji on Sunday urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetaram to ensure decency in Andhra Pradesh politics. “I strongly object to reports of unparliamentary language used by ruling party politicians while addressing Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu,” Mr. Babji said while attending a party meeting in Srikakulam. “People are unhappy over the low level of public discourse in the State. We are going to organise meetings with intellectuals and senior politicians in all districts to try and usher in clean and decent politics in the State. The ugly politics is taking a toll on the image of Andhra Pradesh nationwide,” Mr. Babji said. Party leader Panchadi Rambabu said that they would also hold meetings over the skyrocketing prices of vegetables and essential commodities. “There are no discussions regarding price rise or floods in the Assembly,” said Mr. Rambabu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-clean-politics-lok-satta-party/article37618640.ece
22 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||False cases are being foisted on me, alleges TDP leader||Telugu Desam Party-Srikakulam Parliamentary wing president Kuna Ravikumar on Sunday evening said that he would not be deterred by the police who he claimed were harassing him by filing cases against him over ‘petty’ issues. Mr. Ravi Kumar, who was arrested on charges of 'misbehaving' with police officials on Saturday midnight, was released on bail on Sunday night. Speaking to reporters here, he alleged that the government was trying to provoke him with false charges and cases. TDP State president Kinjarapu Atchannaidu, former MLAs Gunda Lakshmi Devi, Gouthu Sirisha, Baggu Ramanamurthy and other leaders extended their support to Mr. Ravikumar while condemning his ‘illegal’ arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/false-cases-are-being-foisted-on-me-alleges-tdp-leader/article37618641.ece
22 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP-Transco begins to assess flood damage||Restoration of the inundated 132 kV sub-stations tops the list of priorities the AP-Transco has for bringing normalcy in the flood-hit southern districts of the State. With Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy and AP-Transco CMD N. Srikant reviewing the situation, a team rushed to the districts to assess the damage . AP-Transco Director K. Praveen Kumar, who inspected one such 132 kV sub-station in Tirupati on Sunday, sat for a review meeting with the key officials. As water entered the 220 KV sub-station in Kadapa, it was decided to shut down the 132 KV Vontimitta feeder and the 160 MVA power transformer, and switch off the 220 kV Renigunta – CK. Palli – Rajampet DC line due to technical snag. The rise of water in Peruru and Thummalagunta water bodies abutting Tirupati forced the authorities to shut down the 132 KV sub-station, for which alternative supply was arranged from Alipiri and Renigunta sub-stations. APSPDCL Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranatha Rao requested for deployment of additional manpower .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-transco-begins-to-assess-flood-damage/article37618614.ece
22 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 villages evacuated in Tirupati||The breach developed on the bund of Rayala Cheruvu in Tirupati is posing a threat of flooding to the temple city. The officials have evacuated the residents of eighteen villages to a safe zone. Not just Tirupati, the residents of over 50 villages fear that a dented bund could mean disaster for them.What started as seepage through the bund led to collapse of chunks of mud. The water body has nearly 0.9 tmcft of water, much above its storage capacity. P.S. Pradyumna, Special Officer for monitoring flood situation in Chittoor district, along with Chitoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan and SP Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, inspected four points where the breaches were conspicuous. Sand bags are being used to strengthen the bund. The NDRF and SDRF teams are monitoring the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-villages-evacuated-in-tirupati/article37618619.ece
22 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ meet in Tirupati||Tirupati will host the 31st statutory conference of All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (AIFUCTO), at SVU Srinivasa auditorium from January 7 to 9. The body represents six lakh teachers in India. The event will be attended by 1,500 teacher-delegates from across the country, which will be themed on ‘NEP 2020 and the future of higher education – Post COVID scenario’. “The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of APGCTA, GCGTA-AP and ACTA-AP are taking all efforts to make this event a success,” said AIFUCTO General Secretary Prof. Arun Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-meet-in-tirupati/article37618147.ece
22 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway link between A.P. and Tamil Nadu snaps||Railway link between Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu snapped as the Indian Railways cancelled trains in many sections due to breaches and damage to tracks caused by heavy rains and floods. As a result, passengers were stranded in stations at Vijayawada, Nellore, Eluru, Gudur, Tirupati, and other places on Sunday. The officials appealed to the passengers to undertake journeys only if it was urgent. At some places, flood water was overflowing on the tracks. At several other places, the tracks had become weak due to soil erosion and breaches. Many trains originating and operating from Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Kakinada, Guntur and Nellore towards Chennai were cancelled and diverted, officials of the South Central Railway (SCR) said. Due to damage to tracks in the Nellore-Padugupadu section, trains were cancelled and diverted, Shivendra Mohan, Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), told The Hindu . “As the Kovvur tank breached, tracks have been damaged at four places. Efforts are being made to repair the tracks and restore train services,” Mr. Mohansaid. SCR Chief Public Relations Officer Ch. Rakesh said helpdesks were opened at all major stations, and drinking water, toilets and other facilities were being arranged for the stranded passengers. “We have take up restoration works on a war-footing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railway-link-between-ap-and-tamil-nadu-snaps/article37618607.ece
22 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rohit stages sit-in||Actor Nara Rohit staged a sit-in near the ‘samadhis’ of the parents of N. Chandrababu Naidu at Naravaripalle in Chittoor district on Sunday, in protest against the alleged derogatory remarks made on the TDP national president in the Assembly. Mr. Rohit condemned the YSRCP leaders, saying that the character assassination of the former Chief Minister’s family members was not acceptable. Mr. Rohit, son of Mr. Naidu’s brother Rammurthy Naidu, asserted that the Nandamuri family had never interfered in the politics even from the days of the NTR regime. “There were never any instances of corruption allegations against the family members. Mr. Naidu and his family members have always stood for discipline and remained examples for the TDP cadres,” he said. Mr. Rohit said that Bhuveneswari, wife of Mr. Naidu, had never interfered in politics. “She has never crossed the threshold of her home. Yet, the YSRCP leaders did not hesitate to make derogatory comments on her. How can the ruling party leaders make such remarks just for political gain?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rohit-stages-sit-in/article37618616.ece
22 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR cancels, diverts many trains||The South Central Railway (SCR) has cancelled or partially cancelled, or diverted several trains in the Guntakal and Vijayawada divisions due to heavy rains and floods. Many trains have been partially cancelled and rescheduled as tracks suffered damage at Rajampet, Katpadi, Nandaluru and other places. In the Guntakal Division, 39 trains have been cancelled, 10 trains partially cancelled, and 42 trains diverted. In the Vijayawada Division, while 43 trains have been diverted, 155 have been cancelled and 30 partially cancelled. Seven trains have been regulated. The operation of many express and passenger trains has been affected on the Vijayawada-Tirupati, Narsapur-Tirupati, Vijayawada-Chennai, Nellore-Guntur and other routes, according to the officials. Meanwhile, SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya has inspected some of the damaged tracks Rajampet, Nandalur and other areas, and ordered that steps be taken to restore them on a war-footing. Partially cancelled trains The partially cancelled trains are as follows: Tirupati-Adilabad; Bhubaneswar-Tirupati; Visakhapatnam-Kadapa; Howrah-Yeshwantpur; Howrah-Chennai Central; Hatia-Yeshwantpur; H. Nizamuddin-Madurai; New Delhi-Chennai Central; Kacheguda-Chengalpattu; Tirupati-Bilaspur; and Tirupati-Secunderabad. Rescue efforts The NDRF 10th Battalion deployed two teams each at Rajampet and Tirupati and three in Nellore district. Two teams of the NDRF 3rd Battalion were kept on standby in Visakhapatnam. “The force is helping the Revenue, the Police, the R&B and the Disaster Management officials in taking up rescue and relief operations,” NDRF 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan told The Hindu . A.P. State Disaster Response Force teams too were pressed into service in Chittoor and Nellore districts, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-cancels-diverts-many-trains/article37618620.ece
22 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cultivate reading habit, civic chief tells students||Jaggaiahpet Municipal Commissioner Manda Subhaschandra Bose on Saturday advised students to cultivate the habit of reading books, newspapers and make use of the facilities available in the branch library for self-development. Addressing an event held to mark the 54th National Library Week celebrations organised at Grade 1 Branch Library at Jaggaiahpet, by the librarian Aleti Prabha. Students from eight schools in Jaggaiahpet mandal participated in competitions in shataka padyalu , essay writing, elocution, drawing, rangoli and musical chairs, held from November 14 to 19. The Municipal Commissioner gave merit certificates and prizes to 56 students who won the events. State president of Rasamayi Sahithi Samithi Dosapati Nageswara Rao and former manager of Indian Overseas Bank K.B.G. Tilak were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cultivate-reading-habit-civic-chief-tells-students/article37618678.ece
22 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||States told to take part in energy conservation week||Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) Director General Abhay Bhakre has exhorted the States to participate in the National Energy Conservation Week scheduled to begin on December 14, in order to educate people about the significance of energy conservation. Mr. Bhakre said efforts should be made to reduce energy consumption to the extent possible, as the demand grows with population. By conserving energy, sources could be passed on to future generations. The BEE appreciated A.P. for involving one crore women of the self-help groups and students in the energy efficiency activities through the Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty and the Education Department. Mr. Bhakre stressed the need for stricter implementation of energy efficiency schemes in all the sectors to reduce carbon emissions, and reach the climate change and the country’s sustainability goals. CEO of the AP State Energy Conservation Mission A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy told Mr. Bhakre that an action plan was being preparedfor making the National Energy Conservation Week a grand success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-told-to-take-part-in-energy-conservation-week/article37618676.ece
22 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. failed to reach out to flood-hit people: Pawan||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan said in a teleconference with party leaders on Sunday that he would visit the flood-affected areas soon . But before that, JSP political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar would go around the villages that were ravaged by the floods in Anantapur, Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore districts, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said. “Nothing much can be done to prevent floods when heavy rains occur on such a massive scale, but to respond in time is in the government’s hands,” he observed. “The government has failed to rise to the occasion.The ward and village volunteers were not seen anywhere as the government is using them for electioneering only,” the JSP president alleged, and questioned why should the volunteer system not be scrapped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-to-reach-out-to-flood-hit-people-pawan/article37618609.ece
22 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State logs zero COVID-19 deaths in a day||The State reported zero deaths due to COVID-19 in 24 hours, ending Sunday morning. It was for the first time since March 28, no death was reported in a day. Only a single-digit death toll has been reported since the last 38 days. Only 11 persons have succumbed to the infection in the past week. Meanwhile, 174 infections were reported in the past day. The cumulative toll remained at 14,426, with a death rate of 0.70%, while the cumulative tally increased to 20,71,244. Recovery rate The recovery rate increased to 90.19% with 20,54,553 recoveries including 301 in the past day. The number of active cases reduced to 2,265. The daily test positivity rate of the 24,659 samples tested was put at 0.71% and that of the 3.017 crore samples tested remained at 6.86%. Krishna district reported 32 infections in the past day. It was followed by West Godavari (31), Chittoor (29), Guntur (26), East Godavari (13), Nellore (12), Visakhapatnam (10), Srikakulam (9), Vizianagaram (4), Kadapa (3), Prakasam (3) and Anantapur (2). Kurnool reported zero infections in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-logs-zero-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day/article37618608.ece
22 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Flood victims being neglected’||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has alleged that the State government had not launched the minimum relief measures for the people in the flood-hit areas in the State. Mr. Lokesh said that more than 24 persons had died in rain-related incidents across the State in the past two days. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, after one aerial survey of the affected areas, has got busy with his politics of vengeance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flood-victims-being-neglected/article37618615.ece
22 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Try alternative crops: Collector||Collector J. Nivas appealed to farmers in the district to take up cultivation of crops like maize, groundnut and other alternatives in Dalva (winter) as there is a shortage of water. Mr. Nivas said that as there is a shortage of water for Dalva, farmers are advised to take up maize, black gram, sorghum, sesame and groundnut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/try-alternative-crops-collector/article37618675.ece
22 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah Naidu to flag off Araku special train today||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu will flag off the maiden run of 08525 Visakhapatnam- Araku special train with Vistadome LHB Coaches at 11 a.m. at the Visakhapatnam Railway Station on November 22. This inaugural train will run with open path. In the return direction, the inaugural special train 08526 Araku -Visakhapatnam train will leave Araku at 3.30 p.m. and will arrive in Visakhapatnam at 6.45 p.m. This special train will have halts at Simhachalam, Kottavalasa, Srungavarapukota and Borraguhalu between Visakhapatnam and Araku. Train no. 18551 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul express will run with LHB rake with additional Vistadome coach with effect from November 23 and 18552 Kirandul-Visakhapatnam express will run with LHB coaches with effect from November 24. The Vistadome coaches will be attached at the rear by 18551/18552 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul-Visakhapatnam. These pair of trains will have 13 LHB coaches comprising Vistadome coaches-2, Sleeper Class-1, General Second Class-8, Second class Luggage cum-disabled-coach-1 and Generator Motor Car-1, which can accommodate about 1,100 passengers. Restrictions Gate no.1 will be sealed by security one hour in advance i.e. at 10 a.m. The audience should have to come before 10 a.m. or come through VIP gate. Apart from the Vice-President, only the General Manger, East Coast Railway (E CoR), and Divisional Railway Manager of Waltair would be seated on the dais. All other dignitaries would have to sit in front of the dais in the area reserved for that purpose. Only the Vice-President would speak while other people’s representatives would not be permitted to speak due to the Model Code of Conduct being in force. Grand welcome Meanwhile, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu received a grand welcome at the airport, when he came on a four-day visit to the city on Sunday evening. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Zilla Parishad Chairperson Palli Subhadra, Rear Admiral Sanjay Sadhu, District Collector A. Mallikarjuna, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao were among those who received the Vice President at the airport. Later, the Vice-President was received by the Port Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao, when he reached the Port Guest House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-to-flag-off-araku-special-train-today/article37618645.ece
22 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB opens locker of EE||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) continued their searches at the properties and houses of K.V.S.N. Kumar, Executive Engineer of the Tribal Welfare Department, Paderu, for allegedly amassing wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income in Visakhapatnam district. After recovering property document, valued at about Rs. 2.45 crore, including two flats, nine house sites, 6.5 acres of agricultural land, two four-wheelers and gold and silver ornaments. The ACB officials said that the properties worth Rs. 1.35 crore were disproportionate to his known sources of income. The ACB officials opened a bank locker belonging to Kumar and found property worth about Rs. 39.5 lakh in it. According to ACB officials, the recovered property include Rs. 3 lakh cash, fixed deposits worth Rs. 11 lakh, shares in various firms worth Rs. 1.5 lakh, gold ornaments worth Rs. 22 lakh and silver ornaments worth Rs. 31,000 in the bank locker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-opens-locker-of-ee/article37618701.ece
22 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal artists let their imagination run wild||A total of 21 artists, the top three from each ITDA in the State, ran wild with their imaginations in the final of the State-level Tribal Drawing and Art Painting Competition, organised by the Tribal Cultural Research and Training Mission, at Rushikonda, here, on Sunday. The participants were engrossed in their work as they vied for the top honours. Those who made it to the finals were from Koya, Konda Dora, Jatapu, Savara, Sugali, Yerukula, Konda Reddi and Bagatha tribal communities in the State. The top three works will get a cash prize of Rs. 50,000, Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 1,500 respectively in addition to a shawl and a certificate of appreciation. All other participants would get a cash prize of Rs. 1,00 and a certificate. Earlier, the programme was inaugurated by Sundheernath Gulgoti, GM, National Scheduled Tribe Finance Development Corporation (NSTFDC), Ministry of Tribal Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-artists-let-their-imagination-run-wild/article37618691.ece
22 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two from Odisha held, six bikes recovered||The rural police arrested two persons at Munchingputtu, who were allegedly involved in two-wheeler thefts at various places in the Agency areas of the district on Saturday night. The arrested were identified as P. Sushanth and G. Subala of Koraput district in Odisha. According to Sub-Inspector of Munchingputtu Police Station, R. Santosh, the two accused would conduct recce of their ‘target areas’ on their motorcycles during the daytime and commit the thefts at night. The duo have committed offences at Paderu, Munchingputtu and Pedabayulu mandals. On Saturday, the duo was heading towards Munchingputtu, when they were intercepted by the police. The police found that they did not possess the records of the two-wheeler. The police found that the bike was a stolen one. They recovered six bikes from the accused. The accused reportedly confessed to the police, that seven more persons from Odisha were involved in the bike thefts. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-from-odisha-held-six-bikes-recovered/article37618700.ece
22 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two ‘end’ lives in separate incidents||A 34-year-old man allegedly ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan at his residence at Shiva Shakthi Nagar under PM Palem Police Station limits, here, on Sunday. According to PM Palem Police Station Inspector, P Ravi Kumar, T. Appalaraju, who used to run a tiffin shop in the colony, took the extreme step allegedly due to family disputes. The deceased is survived by his wife and two children. In another incident, a 40-year-old man reportedly ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan at his house at Marikavalasa on Sunday. More details awaited. Bodies were shifted for post-mortem. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline no. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-end-lives-in-separate-incidents/article37618699.ece
22 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna slams ‘remarks’ against Naidu’s wife||Former Minister and senior Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has described the comments allegedly made by the ruling party members against TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s wife, as a ‘black mark’ in the history of the State Assembly. In a video recorded message on Sunday, he said that the incident has no precedent in the Assembly and should be condemned by all sections of the people, particularly women. He alleged that the Chief Minister instead of restraining his MLAs, seemed to derive sadistic pleasure while they spoke in a derogatory manner against the former Chief Minister’s wife. He alleged that the Chief Minister had asked his party MLAs to indulge in personal attacks on the family members of Mr. Naidu, in a bid to divert the attention from key issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ayyanna-slams-remarks-against-naidus-wife/article37618694.ece
22 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||62-year-old man, boy drown||Two persons drowned in separate incidents in the district on Sunday. A 15-year-old boy reportedly drowned in a canal near Rallagedda under Hukumpeta Police Station limits. According to the police, K. Mahesh along with another friend had gone for swimming on Saturday. While the duo were allegedly being swept away, a few local people noticed and rescued one of them, while Mahesh went missing. His body was traced on Sunday evening. A case was registered. In another case, a 62-year-old person drowned in a pond at Bangarumetta village under Butchayyapeta police station limits. According to Sub-Inspector Ramakrishna, the victim, T. Akkunaidu, had left home for agricultural work on Saturday, but did not return. Meanwhile, the body of 16-year-old N. Vinay of Town Kotha Road, who had gone missing after being pulled into the waters by strong tide at Yarada Beach, on November 18, was traced near Gangavaram on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/62-year-old-man-boy-drown/article37618696.ece
22 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man stabs wife, brother-in-law||A man allegedly attempted to murder his wife and his brother-in-law at Vadlapudi Railway Colony under Steel Plant police station limits here on Sunday night. According to the police, the accused Bhaskar has reportedly stabbed his wife Bharathi with a knife at around 9.30 p.m. He also allegedly stabbed his brother-in-law who tried to intervene. Both the injured were shifted to the hospital. The motive for the murder attempt is not yet known. The Steel Plant police have reached the spot and are gathering details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-stabs-wife-brother-in-law/article37618703.ece
22 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Md. Ataulla exemplified humanity: Bobbili MLA||Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appala Naidu said that Sufi saint Mohammad Ataulla Sharif Sha Taj Khadari Baba (85) exemplified humanity, and said his services to the people over the past six decades was a source of inspiration for many. Offering tributes to the Sufi saint who passed away recently at Chimalapadu in Krishna district, Mr.Appala Naidu who went to Chimalapadu village on Sunday said that Ataulla’s ashram in Babametta of Vizianagaram served food to poor people for free every day for many decades. “The ATK foundation established by the Sufi saint is a great organisation that has inspired thousands of people across the country,” Mr. Appala Naidu said. The MLA further hoped that the ashram would continue to render its services without any interruption in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/md-ataulla-exemplified-humanity-bobbili-mla/article37618643.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police pay tributes to road accident victims||The police, in association with VHEEDU Road Safety NGO, paid tributes to the road accident victims on the World Day of Remembrance of Road Acccident Victims on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police T. Sarkar said that most of the road mishaps were occurring due to mistakes such as overspeeding, negligent driving and not following traffic rules. “Many people are losing their lives and some are becoming handicapped. We request parents not to allow their under-age children to drive vehicles,” Mr. Sarkar said. Volunteer Health Education and Economic Development Unit (VHEEDU) secretary Chandrakanth said that road accidents can be prevented by following traffic rules, and casualties can be minimised by responding and shifting the victims to hospital immediately. Family members of the victims spoke at the condolence meeting about the trauma they had to go through after the death of their loved ones. Participants observed two minutes’ silence praying for peace to the departed souls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-pay-tributes-to-road-accident-victims/article37618673.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gala time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gala-time/article37618680.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM tells MLAs, Ministers to camp in flood-hit areas||They should strive along with officials to restore normalcy at the earliest, he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed that due priority should be given to maintaining sanitation and desilting of drains and taking steps to prevent outbreak of viral fevers. Enumeration of crop damage should be completed and compensation paid to farmers besides providing them with farm inputs, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-tells-mlas-ministers-to-camp-in-flood-hit-areas/article37618605.ece
22 November 2021||Bengaluru,TELANGANA||State legislature to seek financial autonomy||The Karnataka legislature will seek financial autonomy from the State Government on the lines of the Lok Sabha Secretariat, said Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Sunday. “Himachal Pradesh is the first State to provide financial autonomy to the legislature. Other States are also working on it,” Mr. Kageri told reporters here on Sunday. “Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti and I will try to prevail upon Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to provide autonomy. We will discuss the issue with the Chief Minister and Finance Department officials,” he added. Stating that financial autonomy would enable smooth functioning of the legislature, he pointed out, “Currently, we need consent and clearance from the Finance Department for everything.” He said that this was one of the issues discussed at the 82nd All-India Presiding Officers’ conference that was held at Shimla in Himachal Pradesh recently. Orientation On the deliberations at the conference, Mr. Kageri said it was resolved to provide orientation to the newly elected members before the commencement of the session, especially on the need to maintain decorum in the House. “It was also resolved that there should be no disruptions, unruly behaviour or stalling of the proceedings during the address of the President or the Governor. The presiding officers should discuss the issue with floor leaders and come to a unanimous decision on this issue,” he added. The Speaker said, “The conference, which used to be held annually, will henceforth be held twice a year. While one conferencewill be held in Delhi, the other one will be held in one of the States.” A four-member committee headed by Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi, constituted to suggest amendments to the 10th Schedule of the Constitution, submitted its report to the Lok Sabha Speaker, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-legislature-to-seek-financial-autonomy/article37618224.ece
22 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Forest officials step up vigil to track tiger||Forest officials stepped up vigil at the Danda Gundala forest area in Yellandu mandal to keep a tab on the movement of an elusive tiger, which is on the move in the reserve forest area, straddling Tekulapally and Yellandu mandals, for the last few days. Picture viral Sources said that the forest sleuths mounted a vigil in the forest areas of Danda Gundala and Komuraram in Yellandu mandal after a picture of the tiger crossing the road at Andugulagudem village in Tekulapally mandal went viral on social media on Sunday evening. The tiger is believed to have entered into the district from neighbouring Mulugu district a week ago and is on the move in the forest areas spanning the Yedulla Bayyaram and Tekulapally mandals since then. The Telangana Forest department pressed into service special teams to track the movement of the elusive tiger and create awareness among cattle grazers in the habitations along the forest fringes about all kinds of precautions to ensure the safety of forest dwellers as well as the tiger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/forest-officials-step-up-vigil-to-track-tiger/article37618454.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID kept 200-odd patients in Gandhi ICU for 3-6 months||Around 200 patients who suffered from COVID-19 and related complications underwent ICU treatment for three to six months at Gandhi Hospital in the past year and a half. Doctors at the State-run facility said that the 650-bed ICU at Gandhi Hospital is the largest in the country, where hundreds of patients undergo treatment for prolonged periods. On November 20, a report in The Hindu ( Man returns home after spending half a year in Gandhi Hospital)  had highlighted the story of a 33-year-old man, M. Suresh Kumar, who was treated at the hospital for six months. He was on CPAP for several weeks along with ICD (intercostal drainage) tubes in both lungs. At one point, he was in sepsis with multi-organ dysfunction and was in a very critical condition. Doctors had to perform lung surgery on him. Gandhi Hospital superintendent M. Raja Rao said the patients who were treated for three or more months included people with uncontrolled hypertension or diabetes, which affects brain, eyes, kidneys, other organs, and were afflicted with COVID-19. “The patients also included those with uncontrolled diabetes, organ dysfunction, and then got COVID. Then there were cancer patients who got the infection, as also those in end-stage renal disease or liver cirrhosis who contracted coronavirus. Around 75% of the critical cases fell in this category. The patients who could sustain on oxygen support did not get admitted here,” said Dr Raja Rao. COVID patients with lung fibrosis and thromboembolism (clots in blood vessel), also underwent treatment for a long duration. Dr Raja Rao said the mortality rate in their ICUs is less than 20%, which is the usual rate in any critical care ICU. However, the exact percentage of mortality at the hospital is yet to be arrived upon. Cost point The list of patients included people belonging to poor sections and also middle class. Some of them opted for the government hospital after coughing up a hefty amount at private hospitals. As bills for ICU treatment at corporate hospitals runs into several lakhs, not everyone can afford it. Private hospitals charge upwards of Rs. 50,000 for critical care treatment in ICUs. Gandhi doctors said besides treatment, the patients are provided three meals a day costing around Rs. 270. Since people cannot step out of bed or walk around extensively during treatment in ICUs, patient care providers look after their needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-kept-200-odd-patients-in-gandhi-icu-for-3-6-months/article37618404.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, postmortems can be performed after sunset||The State government has decided to allow conduct of postmortem after sunset in line with the changes announced by the Union Health Ministry in postmortem protocols. In addition to convenience to the families of the deceased, the new procedure would promote organ donation and transplant as organ could be harvested in the stipulated time window after the procedure. The Director of Medical Education, in a circular issued on Saturday, however said the permission would be subject to certain conditions. The hospital in-charge should assess the fitness and adequacy of the infrastructure for conduct of postmortem after sunset to ensure that there was no dilution in evidentiary value. The principal/superintendent should make necessary arrangements for the postmortem and it should be ensured by the hospital that video recording should be done for all postmortems conducted in the night to rule out any suspicion. These should be preserved for future reference for legal purposes. Postmortem for organ donation should be taken up on priority and be conducted even after the sunset at hospitals which have infrastructure for conducting such postmortems on a regular basis. However, cases under categories like homicide, suicide, rape, decomposed bodies and suspected foul play should not be subjected for postmortem during night unless there is law and order situation involved. The DME instructed the principals/superintendents to coordinate with forensic medicine departments of their respective institutions and take necessary measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/now-postmortems-can-be-performed-after-sunset/article37618428.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High time to modernise OGH mortuary||The pending need to modernise or renovate mortuary at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) got triggered after Telangana Health Department officials decided to make arrangements to conduct Post-mortem Examinations (PME) after sunset, at hospitals. Doctors and staff from OGH have been requesting the mortuary to be renovated: repair leakages, improve drainage lines, additional freezer boxes, change look of the hospital, and provide other resources. The need was amplified the most in December 2017 when rats chewed a part of a dead body in the mortuary. Alike to construction of a new building for the hospital, the plans to renovate the mortuary are not executed yet. Assurances to modernise were made earlier. Former Minister of Health Minister C Laxma Reddy, who visited the OGH mortuary in April 2018, stated that all mortuaries in the State would be modernised. A team of forensic doctors were supposed to visit mortuaries in other States to study requirements to modernise the facility here. However, the assurances did not materialise, except provision of a few more freezer boxes, and other resources. Sources said that the mortuary is still in need of repairs, or better, renovation. “It takes around Rs. 4.5 crore to Rs. 5 crore to modernise the mortuary. The estimates were submitted to senior officials a few years ago. Besides this, estimates for temporary repairs too were submitted. Since a decision is taken to conduct PMEs in the evenings too, there is a hope that the need would be addressed,” said sources. They added that the list of requirements and amount needed for the works are already on the desks of the senior officials. Around 4500-5000 PMEs are conducted at the mortuary in a year. The mortuary at Gandhi Hospital is in better condition. Doctors and staff there conduct around 5,500 autopsies in a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-time-to-modernise-ogh-mortuary/article37618419.ece
22 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Do not scan quick response code to receive money||Rajesh Kumar (name changed), a businessman from Hyderguda in Rajendranagar, decided to put his independent house for rent on a few online classifieds platforms. Within hours, he was contacted by a man, who claimed to be army personnel recently transferred to Hyderabad, and expressed his willingness to take the house on rent for Rs. 25,000 per month. Soon, he forwarded a link to a Quick Response (QR) code and asked him to scan to receive two months rent in advance into his bank account. Kumar scanned the QR code and called the alleged army personnel to inform the same. The officer told Kumar that he was facing some technical issues and asked him to scan it with another bank account number. When Kumar scanned the code, he got a message that Rs. 87,000 had been debited from his bank account. Immediately, Kumar phoned him. The army personnel apologised and said it was a mistake and promised to wire the amount back to his account. Later, he did not respond to his phone calls. This was not an isolated case, but one of the several cases where hundreds of gullible people from the State capital lost their hard-earned money from their bank accounts after cyber fraudsters sent QR codes to their mobile numbers in the guise of making payments to buy their products, take the house on rent, or buy second-hand goods. This year alone, the cybercrime police of Cyberabad and Rachakonda commissionerates received over 170 cases pertaining to QR code frauds in which the victims lost over Rs. 25 lakh. Police suspect that cyber crooks from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur and Jamtara in Jharkhand are generating thousands of QR codes each day in software purchased from Chinese hackers in darkweb. “They are purchasing the software by paying through bitcoins,” a senior officer said. Their only and easy target is people who post classified advisements on online websites. The fraudsters contact them within minutes and loot their hard-earned, the officer added. Further, police requested people not to scan QR codes to receive money as there is no such facility of receiving money through the QR codes. It is only used to make payments, the police cautioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-not-scan-quick-response-code-to-receive-money/article37618426.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BDL’s new unit at Jhansi to make missile propulsion systems||Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) chairman and managing director Commodore Siddharth Mishra (Retd) said that the upcoming Jhansi unit will be manufacturing propulsion systems to be used in all anti-tank guided missiles and futuristic missiles manufactured by the company on Saturday. “This is an important step towards the backward integration plan being implemented to further strengthen the capability to deliver world-class weapon systems. We propose to invest up to Rs. 400 crore for various technologies at this location,” he said. The upcoming unit will be the sixth manufacturing unit and the first one in northern part having its registered office here. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for setting up this manufacturing unit in Uttar Pradesh in the ‘Defence Corridor’ on Friday in the presence of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other dignitaries. The company has acquired the land and is planning to commence operations by 2023, which would create lot of employment opportunities for people in the region once fully operational with many ancillary units in the small, medium and micro enterprises to come up. The Ministry of Defence firm is one among the few companies in the world having state-of-the-art facilities for manufacture and supply of anti-tank guided missiles, surface-to-air missiles, air-to-air missiles, air-to-surface missiles, underwater weapons and counter measures systems for the armed forces, informed the CMD in an official release. BDL has also designed and developed drone-delivered bombs and the focus will continue to be on the concept of indigenisation across its programmes with the average percentage between 80-90%. “This philosophy helped us reduce the import cost and offer competitively priced products to the armed forces. This has been very important factor since the armed forces are getting latest products with assured product life cycle support from BDL,” said Mr. Mishra. In line with the ‘AatmaNirbhar Bharat’ initiative of the Government, BDL has furthered its indigenisation processes by involving several vendors including MSMEs, who indigenise components through the ‘Srijan’ portal, he said and pointed out the firm has a ‘robust vendor echo system’ and a strong supply chain spread across the county. The strong in-house R&D division with talent drawn from premier institutions has been leveraging emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI) to develop state-of-the-art weapons including next generation missile programmes. Agreements were signed with foreign original equipment manufacturers and start-up companies to develop weapons of next generation. Torpedoes were exported to a friendly ‘foreign’ country and other leads were being explored, the released added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bdls-new-unit-to-make-missile-propulsion-systems/article37618421.ece
22 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Let’s keep our city clean, Chief Justice urges people||Telangana High Court Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma here on Sunday stressed the need for all stakeholders to maintain cleanliness in the city and to protect environment. Speaking at an event, Justice Sharma said he was shocked to learn that the stream flowing next to the Telangana High Court is not a ‘nala’ but river Musi. "When I was coming to the High Court, I asked why the High Court is next to a nala...these were the words I used. (Then) I was told ... no sir it's not a nala ... It is Musi river. I was shocked. So, my request with folded hands is that please make your city clean and do whatever is possible to protect the environment,” Justice Sharma said. Justice Sharma also recalled that when he was coming to Hyderabad, he was told that there is a very beautiful lake in Hyderabad, the historic Hussainsagar. "When I went to see Hussainsagar, trust me, I was not able stay there for more than five minutes. This is what we have done to our environment," he said. On October 11, Justice Satish Chandra Sharma was sworn in as the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court.  I was shocked to learn that the stream flowing next to the High Court is not a nala but river Musi. Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma Telangana High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lets-keep-our-city-clean-cj-urges-people/article37618432.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Centre, TS BJP playing politics’||Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy found fault with State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar alleging that he has been speaking irresponsibly though he is an MP. “How can Mr. Sanjay speak nonsense and say that BJP will talk about summer crop in February? Can farmers wait till then to sow their second crop? When will farmers grow seedlings?” he asked, wondering whether the BJP president knows about farming at all. Stating that both the Centre and State BJP were playing politics with farmers and issuing contradictory statements, he asked ryots to be aware. “The Centre has announced that it will not buy par-boiled rice from the State but, BJP leaders here are asking farmers to grow paddy and assuring them that they will force the government to buy their paddy. Are they going to force the Central government?” Mr. Jagadish Reddy questioned. Referring to paddy procurement centres, he said that nowhere in the country, more than 6,000 centres have been opened to procure paddy from farmers, not even in BJP-ruled States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-ts-bjp-playing-politics/article37618441.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP wants Rs. 25L compensation for TS ryots who ended lives||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (TS BJP) president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar demanded Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to give Rs. 25 lakh compensation to farmers who had committed suicide in the last seven years and also declare a bonus of Rs. 500 per quintal to paddy farmers. “Mr. Rao is welcome to give Rs. 3 lakh compensation to Punjab farmers but why ignore the travails of farmers here? Are they not Telangana people? Was any kind of compensation paid to farmers who had faced losses due to natural calamities or due to the maladministration of this government ever?,” he sought to know at a press conference on Sunday. The BJP leader pointed out that as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Telangana stands fourth with 419 farmer suicides in 2019 and 471 in 2020. “This is only due to KCR’s arrogant nature and flimsy policies. Did he even utter a single word offering condolences to the grieving families during farmer deaths or youngsters committing suicides due to lack of employment opportunities,” he questioned. He urged the Chief Minister to focus on paddy procurement on a war footing marshalling the officials concerned even if the produce has been soiled in the unseasonal rains to provide succour to the beleaguered farmers. “We have been crying ourselves hoarse about the pitiable plight of paddy farmers lying in wait for the procurement to begin before Dasara itself but the CM took it as an affront,” he said. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said that KCR had initially opposed, then supported and now, opposed the withdrawn farm laws. “The CM can go to Delhi for whatever grandiose plans on his agenda, but let him first be concerned about the farmers’ plight here as rains are not going to vanish. He held a protest for paddy procurement but is claiming it was against farm laws. Who is he trying to fool?” he added. The Centre has already communicated to the government about purchasing 40 lakh metric tonnes this season and more if need be, as per the arrivals to the procurement centres. “The next season’s crop procurement can be discussed in February. Why is procurement a big issue only in TS? And, why is Mr. Rao claiming he will purchase every grain after trying to put the blame on the Centre,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-wants-rs-25l-compensation-for-ts-ryots-who-ended-lives/article37618444.ece
22 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR’s ex gratia to farmers one more political drama: Revanth||Terming Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao a ‘political opportunist’, TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy asked how do people believe his announcement of Rs. 3 lakh ex gratia to farmers who lost their lives during the farmers’ agitation when he ignored the deaths of Telangana farmers over the last seven years. In a statement here, Mr. Reddy said that 7,500 farmers died in Telangana as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report while unofficially the figure stands at 40,000. “KCR never even acknowledged the deaths, leave alone compensating them,” he said. Similarly, Telangana martyrs were not identified properly even after seven years and ex gratia was not given to the families despite him enjoying power due to their sacrifices. He said that the Chief Minister also announced Rs. 10,000 to each family during the floods of Hyderabad before the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections but ignored it after the polls. “Now, when KCR announces Rs. 3 lakh for farmers of North India just to score some political points, he wants us to believe his sincerity,” Mr. Reddy said. “At least now the Chief Minister should fulfil his promises made to the Telangana farmers on loan waiver and compensate them for the burden that have been put on them by banks in the form of interest on agriculture loans,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-ignored-farmer-deaths-for-7-years-no-ex-gratia-revanth/article37618451.ece
22 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana’s NEET ranks released for informative purpose||The State ranks of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission into MBBS courses in Telangana were released by Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS). The varsity said that the list was to provide information to students and not an official one as it was prepared based on the registrations done by students at the time of submitting their NEET applications. The final merit list will be released after the students apply for admissions. The national rankings of NEET were released a couple of weeks ago. As per the Telangana unofficial list, the top 10 rankers in the State are Mrunal Kutteri, who also stood first at the national level, followed by Khandavalli Shashank, Kasa Lahari, Emani Srinija, Dasika Sri Niharika, Pasupunuri Sharanya, Bollineni Viswas Rao, Kannekanti Lasya Chowdary, Gajjaja Samaihana Reddy, and Gandla Pramod Kumar. In the top 100 ranks, 66 students belong to the General Category, 29 from Backward Classes and five from SCs. Among the top 100 candidates, 55 are boys and 45 girls. In the top 10 ranks, nine are from General Category while the 10th ranker is from the BC category. His national rank was 99. The KNRUHS has already released the notification for registration of admissions into MBBS courses and counselling would be conducted based on the credentials submitted by students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/neet-ranks-released/article37618452.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Global tourism meet in Feb.||The 3rd Joint International Conference on Tourism, Hospitality, and Sustainable Development Goals will be organised by the National Institute of Tourism and Hospitality Management (NITHM) in association with 10 universities from Latvia, Portugal, USA, Egypt, Ghana, Tajikistan, Iran, Uzbekistan, and Bulgaria. The conference in association with Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad and Maulana Azad National Urdu University will be held both virtually and physically from February 16-19, 2022, said NITHM director S. Chinnam Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/global-tourism-meet-in-feb/article37618438.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT signs pact with SRM University||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with SRM University-Andhra Pradesh to strengthen and synergise their research activities. Research scholars of SRM-AP will have access to various state-of-the-art facilities at IICT. Other mutual benefits include exchange of expertise of faculty members and scholars, joint research collaboration and research supervision, conferences and submission of joint proposals for funding. It will also focus on skill development, certification courses and training programmes. The MoU will promote exchange of academic publications and scholarly information. IICT director Srivari Chandrasekhar, pro-Vice Chancelor D. Narayana Rao signed the MoU on behalf of their respective organisations, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-signs-agreement-with-srm-university/article37618402.ece
22 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IAS officer’s book is all about soul-searching||A book titled ‘Dancing with Dreams – Journey from Me to Myself’, now adorning book stalls, has come as a pleasant surprise having been authored by none other than Adityanath Das, an IAS officer, who, after a 34-year stint, retired as Chief Secretary of Andhra Pradesh recently. Dreams appear to have danced in him as visions, as he came across the people of varied social backgrounds through the years, each one carrying a tale of human agony or ecstasy. IAS officers donning the role of writers is not new but what distinguishes Mr Das’ book is its sublime content. Each of the 41 poems conveys a deep but perspicuous meaning, leading to soul-searching. Padma Bhushan Sitakant Mahapatra, a Jnanapeeth awardee, in the foreword, says the verses “touched the core of my heart. The reader laughs, also weeps”. Ashok Vajpeyi, former chairman of Lalit Kala Academy, on the other hand, states that the verses are “a joy even if wounded”. In this part of the country, IAS officers excelled not merely in writing but in other areas too. D. Murali Krishna carved a niche for himself as “king of qawwali” songs, while many others — from J. Bapi Reddy to J. C. Mohanty — brought out anthologies on different subjects. P. V. R. K. Prasad made Tirumala Hills a paradise for visiting pilgrims. K. Madhava Rao, former Chief Secretary of undivided AP, received acclaim for his translation works of poet Jashua. S.R. Sankaran had offered his monthly salaries to the poor. His is the only statue of an IAS officer installed anywhere in the country. His life-size statue is on the premises of East Godavari Collectorate at Kakinada. In his book, Mr Das converses with God through monologues and cross-checks with his own innate self. “My soul is imprisoned by the shrieks of afflicted and soaked in the tears of helpless.” Now appointed Adviser to AP Government in Delhi, Mr Das hails from Kanakapura in Madhubani district of Bihar. His negotiating skills were such that Maharashtra had to finally yield and approve Pranahitha-Chevella, now named Kaleshwaram project. He emerged as a trouble-shooter when the AP government and its former Election Commissioner were locked in a brawl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ias-officers-book-is-all-about-soul-searching/article37618413.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Train services might be disrupted: SCR||The SCR has cautioned passengers that in view of the cyclonic weather conditions prevailing in the south coastal region of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu due to the severe cyclonic storm, there is a likelihood of change in the pattern of train services in this region in the next couple of days. The track between Nandalur – Razampet has been affected with huge floods and overflow of water on the tracks. The impact has been on both the lines in the section. Hence, train services scheduled to run in the affected sections are likely to be affected during this period. They are likely to be either diverted, rescheduled, partially cancelled or cancelled as per the demands of the situation. Passengers have been requested to plan their rail journeys keeping in view the above factor and may check from the railway authorities at the nearest station about the actual position of the running of the trains before undertaking their journey, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/train-services-might-be-disrupted-scr/article37618418.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BIS officials seize ‘spurious’ cement bags||A large quantity of 53 grade ordinary portland cement bags, including empty ones under different brand names without using the ‘ISI’ standard mark, were seized from the premises of Sultan Industries in Appaipally village of Vikarabad district by officials of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) recently. TS-Hyderabad head K.V. Rao informed in a press release that it is mandatory to sell only ‘ISI’ mark cement in the market, and manufacture, sale or storage of cement without such certified mark is a punishable offence with Rs. 5 lakh fine or two years of imprisonment or both under the BIS Act. The standard certification is issued only after inspection of the manufacturing process and testing facilities, therefore usage of uncertified cement is hazardous. He requested citizens to inform the office about anyone violating these rules and making cement with the BIS licence by calling 9154843232/9154843233, or by sending an email to: hybo@bis.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spurious-cement-bags-seized/article37618425.ece
22 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||103 new COVID cases detected in Telangana||Telangana logged 103 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one fatality on Sunday, taking the total positives to over 6.74 lakh and the toll to 3,981, respectively. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region reported the highest of 49 cases followed by Rangareddy (13). As many as 14 of the total 33 districts recorded zero infections. A total of 22,902 samples were tested today. The number of active cases stood at 3,575 as of Sunday evening, a state government bulletin said. A total of 153 COVID-19 recoveries were reported on the day. The recovery rate in the State stands at 98.87%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/103-new-covid-cases-detected-in-telangana/article37618416.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Actor continues to be critical||Veteran actor Kaikala Satyanarayana continued to be critical a day after he was admitted to Apollo Hospitals for post-COVID complications. The hospital administration on Sunday said that he was conscious but still had low blood pressure requiring vasopressor support. Mr Satyanarayana continues to be on ventilator support in the ICU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/actor-continues-to-be-critical/article37618407.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Communication key for effective delivery of medical services’||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan launched a conference titled ‘Communicon-2021’ at Apollo Hospitals on Sunday and said it was important to have proper communication with the patients and their relatives for effective delivery of services in the healthcare sector. The conference was hosted by the hospital in collaboration with National Board of Examinations in Medical Sciences. “The healthcare sector is an area where one cannot afford to have misunderstandings. It is important for the doctors and healthcare staff members to master the art of effective communication with an objective to develop a healthy professional relationship with all concerned,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/communication-key-for-effective-delivery-of-medical-services/article37618406.ece
22 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||A wooden bed cot pair 6/3 size in good condition - price Rs. 16000, fully automatic Whirlpool washing machine of 6.5 kg - Rs. 10,000. Contact: Balaji on 93910 98484.   Imported gas cooking range with 5 burners, grilling burner, big oven with turn spit attachment - Rs. 15,000. Contact: 93924 79869.   New Good Year car tyre 165/80R14 - Rs. 1800, cocktail mixer - Rs. 3,000, Panasonic star inverter refrigerator of 600 litres in working condition - Rs. 25,000, Bosch art easy trim grass cutter - Rs. 3,000. Contact: Vinodini 99497 39306   Three-seater Rexin foam sofa - Rs. 7,000, two-seater Rexin foam sofa - Rs. 6,000, both in good condition, Bamboo armless chair - Rs. 400. Contact: 98492 56273.   Two Oxygen cylinders - 5 litre Longfian-make, and 5-litre core healthmake - purchased this year. Contact: 94410 12158/98852 28971.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article37618424.ece
22 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BDL signs contract with Airbus||Bharat Dynamics Limited has signed an export contract for ‘Counter Measures Dispensing System’ (CMDS) with aircraft manufacturer Airbus Defense & Space, Spain. Under the contract, BDL will supply its in-house developed CMDS to Airbus. The contract, which is valued at US$ 21 million approximately, was signed by BDL director (technical) N.P. Diwakar, and senior vice-president Airbus Defense and Space, S.A.U., Arnal Didier Dominique, at Bengaluru. BDL is expanding its footprints in the global market by offering its products to friendly foreign nations in tune with the policies of the government aimed towards ‘ease of doing business’ with foreign countries. It is offering Akash weapon system (surface-to-air missile), Astra weapon system (air-to-air missile), smart anti-airfield weapon & Helina (air-to-surface weapon), light weight torpedo and heavy weight torpedo (underwater weapons), counter measures dispensing system and anti-submarine warfare suite (counter measure systems) and anti-tank guided missiles namely Nag, Konkurs - M & MILAN - 2T, for exports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contract-inked-with-airbus/article37618417.ece
22 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NEET coaching||The last date for NEET long-term coaching for SC boys and girls for the academic year 2021-2022 in Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) has been extended up to 27.11.2021. Candidates are instructed to visitwww.tswreis.ac.into download the application form and eligibility criteria details, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/neet-coaching/article37618423.ece
22 November 2021||Jagtial,TELANGANA||Woman jumps into canal with daughter||A 28-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide along with her six-year-old daughter by jumping into an irrigation canal at Ramalachakkapeta village in Metpalli mandal on Saturday. The bodies of the mother-daughter duo were found floating in the canal on Sunday morning. The deceased were identified as Vanaja and her daughter Shanvi, 6, of Athmanagar village in Metpalli mandal.  Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-jumps-into-canal-with-daughter/article37618437.ece
22 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Honour for KMC, Sircilla municipality||The concerted efforts by the Karimnagar Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Sircilla municipality to improve sanitation, cleanliness and hygiene fetched the two urban local bodies national-level recognition. The KMC bagged the second position among around 120 urban local bodies below 3 lakh population in Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge-2021 at the national-level. The all India second rank was bestowed upon the KMC based on a survey in recognition of its adoption of technology for overall sanitation improvement, proper maintenance of septic tanks and waste disposal, KMC sources added. Sircilla municipality bagged the coveted status of the cleanest city (municipalities of 50,000 to one lakh population category) in south zone in Swachh Survekshan-2021 held as part of the Central government’s ambitious Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/honour-for-kmc-sircilla-municipality/article37618429.ece
22 November 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||SHO suspended for failing to check constable’s liquor smuggling||Hyderabad Range DIG N. Shivashanker Reddy, on Saturday, suspended Wadapally Station House Officer D. Vijay Kumar for failing to monitor and check the conduct of his subordinates, particularly of a constable who was caught red-handed by Andhra Pradesh police for cross-border liquor smuggling last week. The incident, according to the suspension order made available to the media on Sunday, was reported on November 15, when the constable P. Shravan Kumar loaded the station’s Dial 100 police vehicle with illegal liquor and allegedly crossed the border. The liquor was being transferred from the police vehicle to the vehicle of one Koteshwar Rao near Ramapuram crossroads on the other side, when the Dachepally police nabbed him. The constable was booked for violations, including illegal transportation of liquor and criminal conspiracy under the AP Excise Act, and also lodged in Gurajala sub-jail of Guntur. The DIG order stated that SHO Vijay Kumar’s slack supervision and attitude not only led to the illegal activity, but had also tarnished the image of the police system in State. For gross misconduct and negligence towards duty and in controlling subordinate staff, disciplinary proceedings were initiated against Vijay Kumar and he was placed on immediate suspension, the DIG order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sho-suspended-for-failing-to-check-constables-border-liquor-smuggling/article37618439.ece
22 November 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Legal care and support centre inaugurated||A legal care and support centre was inaugurated at Tara Government College on Saturday. District Principal and Sessions Judge B. Papi Reddy informed that the centre will offer free legal services to the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/legal-care-and-support-centre-inaugurated/article37618440.ece
22 November 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Tukkapur oustees in dilemma||The foremost question in the minds of the oustees of Tukkapur village in Toguta mandal is whether they are going to get the Rehabilitation and Resettlement package or not. The village has been adversely impacted by the Mallannasagar reservoir. Unlike the case of other eight revenue villages that got submerged under the reservoir, this village was not submerged as it is located a few metres away from the reservoir. However, the problem is, a majority of the farmers have lost their lands. About 1,300 acres out of the 1,600 acres was acquired by officials for the project. Another 55 acres were acquired for constructing the canal that comes from Mid-Manair. Officials refused to offer any package for the farmers as the village was not submerged under the reservoir. They made it clear to the oustees that Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package can be extended to only those who have lost their lands and for others it was not possible. Some of the oustees have approached the High Court seeking R&R package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tukkapur-oustees-in-dilemma/article37618420.ece
22 November 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Prajavani cancelled||Praja Vaani, scheduled every Monday, was cancelled in view of heavy rains in the district. No official will be available as all of them are entrusted with responsibility of procurement of paddy. People were asked not to come to the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prajavani-cancelled/article37618442.ece
22 November 2021||ZAHEERABAD (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Restaurant offering organic food gets a massive makeover||It will be a new experience for those wishing to relish desi food with typical Telangana flavours. Cafe Ethnic, a restaurant being run by the Deccan Development Society (DDS) in this revenue divisional headquarters, recently got a makeover. Now, it offers more space, is well lit and looks every bit modern. There is ample space to organise birthday parties too. The rooftop, covered with iron sheets, has been layered with dry grass for a cooling effect. The windows are dressed with bamboo blinds. The menu offers completely organic food. The breakfast includes variations of the humble dosa — but prepared with millets. Then there is idli prepared with korra, sama and ragi, millet vada, semiya ragi, multi-grian millet upma, semiy jonna, jonna pongal, jonna upma, yavva ravva upma, yavva puri and millet uttapam. For drinks, there is Ambali (sweet and salted), jonna ulava soup, buttermilk and lime drink (sweet and salted). Coming to sweets, the menu ranges from millet payasam (korra and sama) and laddu (korra, ragi and jonna, minapsunni) and sajja malida and garjalu. The mains include jonna roti, special roti (sajja, masala, pudina, palak, ragi and sesamum), millet sambar rice, Zaheerbad millet special biryani, multi-millet pulka and millet thali. Pakodi, samosa, corn samosa, vegetarian samosa, onion samosa, panner samosa and alu bonda are prepared with millets too. “In the past, the elderly, diabetics and the health conscious used to come and have food at our old centre. Now, it has completely changed. Youngsters and office-goers have been visiting. Families are encouraging their young members to taste this food. We are also getting orders for meetings and marriages. We have been able to improve our sales maifold,” B. Srinivas Reddy from of Cafe Ethnic told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/makeover-for-restaurant-offering-organic-food/article37618408.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Primary demand not met||Often, social media dismisses the intellect and scholarship of Janasena chief and film star Pawan Kalyan ridiculing him through memes, particularly whenever he speaks of scholarly works. But to the astonishment of an English professor of Osmania University the film star had an academic debate on a scholarly book “The Power of Myth” authored by Joseph Campbell. The Janasena chief who attended the “Alai Balai” programme of Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya entered into a discussion with Prof. Y.L. Srinivas on the book after learning that he was an English professor. The book that deals with reinventing myth and its various forms is generally read by scholars doing their Ph.D in English literature or with genuine interest in cultural studies. “A film star reading such books is a rarity and the seriousness with which Pawan Kalyan discussed the book certainly showed his deep understanding in literature,”   Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on withdrawal of the controversial agricultural laws came in handy for the political parties. The TRS leaders tried to take the credit for the announcement claiming that the maha dharna conducted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao forced the Prime Minister to make the announcement. The opposition parties however saw the development otherwise questioning why the primary demand for the dharna, procurement of paddy through Food Corporation of India, remained unmet.   A few key police officers in Hyderabad feel that actor Shalu Chourasiya’s ‘scary’ robbery at KBR National Park could have been avoided had police investigated each case with the same interest. If the police had solved the robbery attempt by accused Kommu Babu, which took place at the same place in January, he could have not garnered courage to repeat the offence, they feel. However, while addressing the media, senior officials claimed that the case was a big challenge for them due to the lack of availability of CCTV footage at the spot. Police, who patted themselves on the back in the past claiming to have solved any sensational case in less than 24 hours, took five days to arrest Babu, as their ‘strength’ of CCTV footage was not available. Moreover, the top cops feel embarrassed to questions posed by journalists when they are on the wrong side of the fence. There were several instances when reporters in press meets were branded as students of ‘WhatsApp University’ to uncomfortable questions.  (R. Ravikanth Reddy, M. Rajeev, Abhinay Deshpande)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/primary-demand-not-met/article37618449.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Unrelenting showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/unrelenting-showers/article37618434.ece
22 November 2021||Bhopal,||Police commissioner system to be implemented in Bhopal, Indore||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday announced the implementation of a police commissioner system in Bhopal and Indore. “Police commissioner system will be implemented in Bhopal and Indore. This step has been taken to improve the law and order situation in both the cities,” said the Chief Minister. According to the sources, Director-General Police Vivek Johri had prepared the blueprint for the introduction of the system. Once being implemented, ADG-rank officers will be posted in both the cities as commissioners, said an official. Under it, police will get magisterial powers and they have to no longer wait for the Collector’s order to lathicharge and implement Section 144, he added. The government had announced to implement this system earlier also, but after a section of the IAS lobby expressed their unhappiness, the government had to drop the idea. The government is yet to release an official note about the date of implementation of the police commissioner system in the two cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-commissioner-system-to-be-implemented-in-bhopal-indore/article37618300.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Central team in Chennai to assess damage||The Union Government’s team, deputed for an on-the-spot assessment of the rain damage in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, arrived in Chennai on Sunday and held discussions with senior officials. The team will visit 12 affected districts in Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory this week. The seven-member team is led by Joint Secretary in the Union Home Ministry Rajiv Sharma. The other members are Consultant in the Union Ministry of Finance R.B. Kaul; Director in the Department of Agriculture Vijay Rajmohan; Assistant Director in the Union Ministry of Power Bhavya Pandey; Under-Secretary in the Union Ministry of Rural Development M.V.N. Varaprasad; Director in the Union Ministry of Water Resources R. Thangamani; and Regional Director in the Union Ministry of Road Transport Rananjay Singh. On Sunday evening, the team held discussions with Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Revenue Secretary Kumar Jayant and senior officials at the Secretariat. Meeting with GCC chief It also met Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi in the Ripon Building. Four of the seven members, led by Mr. Rajiv Sharma, will visit the flood-affected areas in Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts on the forenoon of Monday before proceeding to Puducherry in the afternoon. On November 23, the team is expected to visit the affected areas in Cuddalore and Mayiladuthurai districts in the forenoon and Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi in the afternoon. The three other members will fly to Thoothukudi on Monday morning and then proceed to Kanniyakumari by road. On Tuesday, it will return to Chennai and proceed to Vellore and Ranipet. Both the teams will return to Chennai by Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/central-team-in-chennai-to-assess-damage/article37618301.ece
22 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Focus on social audit of govt. schemes||The concept of social audit is being extended to more departments and the Government schemes in Rajasthan in an attempt to ensure transparency and accountability in the utilisation of funds. The civil society activists have made a significant contribution to the audit process and suggested measures for an effective check on the executive action. The first social audit dialogue was held here earlier this week under the aegis of the State Government’s Society for Social Audit, Accountability and Transparency (SSAAT). The event, organised at Indira Gandhi Panchayati Raj and Gramin Vikas Sansthan, provided an opportunity to the stakeholders to identify the difficulties in social audit and recommend solutions. The schemes being audited through the process at present include the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Swachh Bharat Mission, National Social Assistance Programme and the Central Finance Commission’s 14th and 15th grants to the State. Rural Development Secretary K.K. Pathak said at the dialogue that a decision had been taken to involve the members of women’s self-help groups, volunteers of Nehru Yuva Kendras and the village-level workers of Women’s Development Programme, known as 'Sathins', in the social audit exercises. Following a departmental decision on the issue, the process for amendment in the rules and regulations for selection of participants had been initiated, Mr. Pathak said. More participation Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) leader and right to information activist Nikhil Dey said the social audit process should be improved with the participation of more stakeholders in order to make it an integral part of governance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/social-audit-being-extended-to-more-govt-schemes-in-rajasthan/article37618297.ece
22 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,||Kerala Government lends a hand to a Central PSU||With its empty roads and deserted buildings, the 700-acre property in Velloor on the banks of the Muvattupuzha river now presents a jarring contrast to its glorious past. The industrial township, built around Hindustan Newsprint Ltd. (HNL), a Centrally owned Public Sector Undertaking (PSU), once embodied the region’s industrial stature and working class pride. But inept administration and the consequent revenue losses brought down the colossus and its sprawling township. HNL ceased operations on January 1, 2019. When the Union Government began devising ways to dispose of the bleeding entity, which was facing insolvency, the State Government threw in a lifeline. Taking it over with a Rs. 146 crore bid approved by the National Company Law Tribunal, the State authorities initiated a revival of the unit, which will resume operations as Kerala Paper Products Limited (KPPL) from January 2022. According to P. Rajeeve, Kerala Minister for Industries, the new company will become operational in four phases over 46 months. “The State Government will invest around Rs. 125 crore in the first two stages. The next two phases will require a capital investment of Rs. 1,600 crore, which will be raised from banks. The total turnover at the end of the fourth phase will be around Rs. 2,600 crore,” he said. “Virgin wood fibre will be sourced from the 2,600-hectare plantations assigned for HNL’s use by the Government. The terms and conditions for obtaining forest resources are expected to remain the same,” he added. A land utilisation plan for the 700-acre property too has been prepared. It envisages an eclectic mix of businesses with Kerala Rubber Limited, and industrial projects under Kinfra. As the company looks to start with a clean slate, recruitments will begin on a fresh note, though the Government has, in principle, accorded priority to the outgoing workforce. The prospect, however, has failed to enthuse the 260 regular and 150 contract employees of the previous company, who have not received their monthly salaries from December 2017, except as a percentage of their dues as part of the resolution plan. “The Government disbursed 35% of our salary dues during the takeover but those who retired, or are due to retire, stand to lose much. Most employees have incurred huge debts. Their Provident Fund corpus and gratuity are severely impacted. We want the State Government to pay our dues,” said the leader of a workers’ union at the factory. Responding to the demand, the Minister said the Left Government had the political commitment to help the workers even though it was not legally bound to do so. “It is a fresh start but we will do whatever possible to address their grievances,” said Mr. Rajeeve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kerala-government-lends-a-hand-to-a-central-psu/article37618296.ece
22 November 2021||Mumbai,||Fake call centre busted in Mumbai||The Mumbai police have busted a fake call centre operating from a high-rise residential building in Airoli area of the city and arrested seven persons. Accused absconding  The key accused Sushil Pandey, Vijay Gehlot and Siraj Shaikh are, however, absconding, according to the police. All the accused have been arrested under relevant sections of IPC, Information Technology Act and Indian Telegraph Act. The police have seized 10 laptops, eight mobiles and routers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fake-call-centre-busted-in-mumbai/article37618520.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||Farmers to stay put till PM gives written assurance to scrap laws||Farmers protesting at the Singhu border on Sunday said they are not willing to return to their villages just yet and will be gathering in large numbers at all protest sites on November 26 to complete a year of the agitation. Even as winter has set in in the Capital, the protesters said they have made all arrangements to weather it. Protesters firm Tinku Kumar, hailing from Ludhiana in Punjab, said there is no question of going back to their villages till they get a written assurance from the Prime Minister on scrapping the three farm laws and a guarantee on MSP. “We will do as and what our leaders tell us to do. But one thing is clear that we are not going back right now. We are ready to stay as long as we don’t get a written assurance,” he said. Mr. Kumar has been protesting at the Singhu border for the last one year. Rakesh Beas, who was part of the meeting led by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), said, “It was decided that farmers would not relent and would gather at the protest sites to mark one-year anniversary and remember the farmers who had died during the agitation.” “Unless the Government scraps the three laws on record, the protest will continue as it was supposed to at all the protest sites,” Mr. Beas added. Sher Singh, a Nihang Sikh, said a Nagar Kirtan procession was taken out by farmers on Sunday at the Singhu border to mark the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak and langars were serving food in full swing like they usually do. “There was a meeting today [Sunday] but all of us are here to stay. The atmosphere is energetic and we are steadfast in our demands. As long as God is with us, nothing can stop us,” Mr. Singh said. Amarjeet Singh, another farmer, said, “All of us are preparing for November 26 when we complete a year of the protest. Farmers at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders will gather and show solidarity with the brothers we lost during the protest,” he said. He said while the mood at the Singhu border on Sunday was upbeat with the Nagar Kirtan ceremony during the day, farmers are focused on their aim despite PM Modi’s verbal assurance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/farmers-to-stay-put-till-pm-gives-written-assurance-to-scrap-laws/article37618289.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||4 members of Tillu Tajpuria gang arrested for extortion||The Delhi police have arrested four members of the Tillu Tajpuria gang, who were involved in an extortion case in Rohini, officers said on Sunday. Three sophisticated weapons with 11 live cartridges and one country-made pistol with two live cartridges were seized from them. A SIM card used to make calls for extortion has been seized from their possession, the police said. On April 8, a businessman received a WhatsApp call and later a recorded message on his mobile phone regarding extortion of money. The caller introduced himself as Chiku from Tillu Tajpuria gang. He demanded Rs. 1 crore as extortion money and threatened to kill the complainant by “firing 100 rounds” at him, a senior police officer said. Accused Himmat alias Chiku was interrogated in jail and later arrested in the case. On August 23, when the complainant was at his home, some unidentified people fired five rounds at his car, the officer said. The police identified the registration number of the motorcycle used in the crime through CCTV footage. The motorcycle was also found stolen from Begumpur. Chiku, who is the cousin of gangster Sunil alias Tillu, was interrogated who disclosed the name of one of the shooters. Thereafter, the police arrested the four accused, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4-members-of-tillu-tajpuria-gang-arrested-for-extortion/article37618290.ece
22 November 2021||New Delhi,||Civil defence employee held for rape||A 20-year-old youth, who works as a civil defence employee, has been arrested for allegedly kidnapping and sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl on the pretext of dropping her at her coaching centre near Dwarka, the police said on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Abhishek Kumar, a resident of Uttam Nagar. DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary said that a case of kidnapping was lodged at Bindapur police station based on a complaint from the parents of the girl. However, during investigation, the victim returned to her home. She told her parents that a boy offered her lift on his motorcycle. The accused took her to the coaching centre and showed her some photos of him in uniform and introduced himself as a policeman. Thereafter, he took her to a park and raped her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civil-defence-employee-held-for-rape/article37618291.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records 29 new cases, zero fatalities||The Capital recorded 29 new cases of COVID-19 and zero deaths in the past 24 hours, according to a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Sunday. It said that 49,139 tests had been conducted with a positivity rate of 0.06%. With the new cases, the caseload has risen to 14,40,666. The death toll stands at 25,095. There are 309 active cases in Delhi, of whom 133 are in home isolation. The number of containment zones stands at 124. The Capital reported 32 COVID-19 cases on Saturday and 30 on Friday. A total of 1,01,782 people have been vaccinated in the past 24 hours, of whom, 36,750 have received their first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-records-29-new-cases-zero-fatalities/article37618292.ece
22 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,||SSI in T.N. murdered by duo stealing goat||A special sub-inspector of police attached to the Tiruchi rural police was murdered in the early hours of Sunday by two unidentified persons when he chased them on his motorcycle after finding them in possession of a stolen goat. C. Boominathan, 50, of the Navalpat station, was doing the night round at Poolangudi Colony on the outskirts of Tiruchi when he noticed two persons stealing a goat and leaving the spot on a two-wheeler. He chased them on his motorcycle and intercepted them at Pallathupatti near Tiruchi-Pudukottai National Highway in the Keeranur police station limits between 2.30 a.m. and 3 a.m, police sources said. Even as he was trying to contact the police station, the unidentified persons attacked him with sharp weapons on the head, killing him on the spot, and escaped. On information, Tiruchi Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan, who is the in-charge Inspector-General of Police, Central Zone, and Deputy Inspector of Police (Tiruchi Range) V. Saravana Sundar rushed to the spot and conducted inquiries. Mr. Karthikeyan told The Hindu that four special teams had been constituted to apprehend the accused. The body of Boominathan was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Government General Hospital for post-mortem. Later, it was laid to rest with police honours. Additional Director-General of Police (Law and Order) P. Thamarai Kannan said some clues had been obtained, and the assailants would be arrested soon. Rs. 1 crore solatium Condoling the death of Bhoominathan, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced Rs. 1 crore as solatium to the bereaved family from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). In a statement, Mr. Stalin also announced that one member from the deceased policeman’s family would be given a government job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ssi-in-tn-murdered-by-duo-stealing-goat/article37618299.ece
22 November 2021||Pune,||Amravati violence: exercise restraint, Maharashtra Minister urges BJP||Urging the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to maintain peace, Maharashtra Minister and senior Congress leader Yashomati Thakur accused former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis of giving “half-baked” information at a time when the ruling party was already conducting an impartial probe into the violence of November 12-13. During his visit to Amravati district on Sunday, Mr. Fadnavis had alleged that the MVA was conducting a one-sided investigation and that only those with an affinity to Hindutva outfits were being unjustly targeted by the State police. Ms. Thakur, who is Amravati’s Guardian Minister, hit back saying the State Government was conducting “an unbiased probe” and that 105 complaints had been lodged against various parties for the vandalism after some minority organisations, including the Raza Academy, called for a day-long shutdown (on November 12) to protest against incidents of mosques being allegedly vandalised in Tripura. A “counter bandh” was called by the BJP the next day. “Action is being taken against people on both sides. Giving out partial information is likely to poison the atmosphere again. I urge the Opposition to exercise some restraint,” Ms. Thakur said. ‘Provocative statements’ She said when it was time to maintain peace, the BJP was trying to aggravate the situation in form of Mr. Fadnavis’ provocative statements. Ms. Thakur said she had called both Mr. Fadnavis and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and had urged them to restrain their party men from making inflammatory speeches on November 13. “From the very first day, we have been saying what happened on November 12 was reprehensible…but what took place the next day is even more reprehensible. Cases have been filed against all persons responsible for the violence that occurred on both days. The MVA Government is playing a very neutral role throughout and we will take stern action against all those fomenting riots and those supporting such organisations,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amravati-violence-exercise-restraint-maharashtra-minister-urges-bjp/article37618302.ece
22 November 2021||Sidhi,||Poachers kill tigress in M.P.||A radio-collared adult tigress from the Sanjay Tiger Reserve was allegedly killed by poachers through electrocution in Madhya Pradesh’s Singrauli district, an official said on Sunday. The burnt skin, hair and collar ID of the tigress, identified as T-30, were found near Banjari village, outside the reserve area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/poachers-kill-tigress-in-mp/article37618298.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Birds of a feather||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/birds-of-a-feather/article37618294.ece
22 November 2021||Khartoum,||Sudan PM reinstated a month after coup||Nearly a month after Sudan’s top General ousted the Prime Minister, they signed a breakthrough deal on Sunday to reverse the military takeover that had sparked international condemnation and mass protests. General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan appeared at the presidential palace in Khartoum for a televised ceremony with a haggard looking premier Abdalla Hamdok, who had just been freed from house arrest. The 14-point deal restores the transition to civilian rule that had been derailed by the October 25 putsch, which threw the poverty-stricken northeast African country into renewed turmoil and set off a wave of street protests. The agreement, which comes after weeks of crisis talks involving Sudanese and outside players, declared that “the decision of the general commander of the armed forces to relieve the transitional Prime Minister is cancelled” and to release all political detainees. It raised hopes that Sudan will be able to return to its fragile transition process toward full democracy that started after the 2019 ouster of veteran autocratic president Omar al-Bashir. Despite the breakthrough, thousands of protesters again rallied in several cities, met by security forces who fired teargas in the capital — the latest of a series of protests that, medics say, have claimed 40 lives. A frail looking Mr. Hamdok was seen on air extolling the virtues of the “revolution” that brought him to power in 2019. Standing beside him, General Burhan thanked Mr. Hamdok for his service and vowed that “free and transparent elections” would be held as part of the transitional process. Mr. Burhan had on October 25 declared a state of emergency in the country and ousted Mr. Hamdok’s government in a move that upended the two-year transition to civilian rule and sparked international condemnation. But after weeks of intense internal and international pressure, mediators on Sunday morning announced that the military had reached an agreement to reinstate Mr. Hamdok as premier. Opposition rejects deal However, the main civilian bloc which spearheaded the anti-Bashir protests and signed a 2019 power-sharing deal with the military rejected Sunday’s agreement. “We affirm our clear and previously declared position that there is no negotiation, no partnership, no legitimacy for the coup,” said the mainstream faction of the Forces for Freedom and Change in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudan-pm-reinstated-a-month-after-coup/article37618037.ece
22 November 2021||London,||U.K. to probe ‘racial bias’ in medical devices||The British government is investigating whether built-in racial bias in some medical devices led to Black and Asian people getting sick and dying disproportionately from COVID-19. Health Secretary Sajid Javid said on Sunday that the pandemic had highlighted health disparities along race and gender lines. He said that a third of intensive care admissions in Britain at the height of the pandemic were people from Black and ethnic minority backgrounds, more than double their share of the population. Britain’s statistics office has found that in the first year of the pandemic, up to March 2021, Black and South Asian people in the U.K. had higher death rates than their white compatriots, even after factors like occupation and underlying health conditions were taken into account. Mr. Javid said one issue was research showing that pulse oximeters, which measure blood oxygen levels through the skin, work less well on darker skin. He called it a “systemic” worldwide issue. “Now, I’m not saying this was deliberate by anyone, I think it’s just, it’s a systemic issue potentially, with medical devices and it may go even further than that with medical textbooks, for example,” Mr. Javid told Sky News . ‘Inadvertent move’ Writing in the Sunday Times , he said “the possibility that a bias — even an inadvertent one — could lead to a poorer health outcome is totally unacceptable.” He said he hoped to work with his U.S. counterpart, Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra, and officials in other countries, to eliminate bias in the health system. He said a U.K. review, which will also look at gender bias, will report its findings by the end of January. Britain has recorded more than 1,43,000 coronavirus deaths, the highest total in Europe after Russia. Europe is currently the only part of the world where COVID-19 cases are rising, and many countries in the region are reintroducing restrictions to fight the surge. Britain had the higher infection rates than its neighbors for several months, and some scientists say that puts the country in a better position now. Britain is also now rolling out booster vaccine doses to everyone aged 40 years and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-to-probe-racial-bias-in-medical-devices/article37618042.ece
22 November 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka revokes ban on fertilizers||Sri Lanka abandoned its quest to become the world’s first completely organic farming nation on Sunday, announcing it would immediately lift an import ban on pesticides and other agricultural inputs. The island country has been in the grips of a severe economic crisis, with a lack of foreign exchange triggering shortages of food, crude oil and other essential goods. Authorities had already walked back restrictions on fertilizer imports last month for tea, the country’s main export earner. But ahead of planned farmer protests in the capital, Sri Lanka’s Agricultural Ministry said it would end a broader ban on all agrochemicals, including herbicides and pesticides. “We will now allow chemical inputs that are urgently needed,” Ministry secretary Udith Jayasinghe told the private News First TV network. Food security “Considering the need to ensure food security, we have taken this decision,” he added. Vast tracts of farmland were abandoned after the import ban, first introduced in May. Shortages have worsened in the past week, with prices for rice, vegetables and other market staples having doubled across Sri Lanka. Supermarkets have also rationed rice sales, allowing only five kilograms per customer. sFarmers’ organisations had planned to march on the national parliament in Colombo on Friday to demand the import of essential chemicals to protect their crops. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had justified the import ban by saying he wanted to make Sri Lankan farming 100% organic. The policy was introduced after a massive hit to the cash-strapped island’s economy in the wake of COVID-19, with tourism earnings and foreign worker remittances drastically falling. Authorities attempted to save foreign exchange by last year banning a host of imported goods, including some food and spices. Sri Lanka also shut its only oil refinery last month after running out of dollars to import crude.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-revokes-ban-on-fertilizers/article37618035.ece
22 November 2021||HONG KONG,||WTA concerns persist after videos of Peng Shuai emerge||The head of the Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) has expressed fresh concerns about Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai after government-affiliated media on Sunday released videos purported to be showing she was safe and in Beijing, amid growing concerns around the world about her safety. Ms. Peng had not been seen in public for two weeks after she had posted a message on November 2 on Chinese social media site Sina Weibo alleging sexual abuse by a senior former Communist Party leader and former Vice-Premier Zhang Gaoli. The message was promptly deleted while news of the allegations remains completely censored in China. Ms. Peng’s page on Weibo, a Twitter-equivalent, has also largely remained inaccessible and no longer shows up in search results. On Sunday, new videos were posted on Twitter, a website blocked in China, by Hu Xijin, the editor-in-chief of the Global Times , a newspaper published by the Communist Party’s official newspaper the People’s Daily, showing Ms. Peng purportedly appearing at a youth tennis event in Beijing. Mr. Hu said the event had taken place on Sunday morning. He also released two videos of Ms. Peng having dinner with friends, which he said was from Saturday night in Beijing. The videos could not be independently verified. It also was not clear who filmed the dinner and why. In one of the videos from the dinner, one of Ms. Peng’s companions mentions explicitly during a minute-long clip that the date of their gathering was on the day before November 21, one of several curious details that led to questions whether the entire video was aimed solely at addressing concerns voiced abroad about Ms. Peng’s safety even while her allegations remained censored within China. In recent days, a number of tennis stars including Serena Williams, Naomi Osaka and Novak Djokovic have spoken out about the case. ‘Video alone insufficient’ In a statement issued in response to the videos, WTA chairman Steve Simon said he was “glad to see the videos released by China state-run media that appear to show Peng Shuai at a restaurant in Beijing” but remained concerned about Ms. Peng. “While it is positive to see her, it remains unclear if she is free and able to make decisions and take actions on her own, without coercion or external interference,” he said. “This video alone is insufficient. As I have stated from the beginning, I remain concerned about Peng Shuai’s health and safety and that the allegation of sexual assault is being censored and swept under the rug. I have been clear about what needs to happen and our relationship with China is at a crossroads.” Last week, the WTA had revealed it had failed to reach Ms. Peng after “repeatedly” trying to contact her. It also raised questions about a statement purported to be from Ms. Peng that was released by Chinese English-language broadcaster China Global Television Network (CGTN). In the statement, which appeared to be a screenshot of a Word document, that was shared on Twitter by CGTN, Ms. Peng said she was “fine” and “resting” at home. It could not be verified whether she did indeed write the statement and how China’s state broadcaster obtained a screenshot of the document. “Hello everyone this is Peng Shuai,” the statement began. “Regarding the recent new released on the official website of the WTA, the content has not been confirmed or verified by myself,” it said, referring to the WTA expressing concern about Ms. Peng and the allegations. “The news in that release,” it continued, “including the allegation of sexual assault, is not true. I’m not missing, nor am I unsafe. I’ve just been resting at home and everything is fine.” Mr. Simon said Ms. Peng “displayed incredible courage in describing an allegation of sexual assault against a former top official in the Chinese government”, and added that the “allegation of sexual assault must be respected, investigated with full transparency and without censorship.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wta-concerns-persist-after-videos-of-peng-shuai-emerge/article37618044.ece
22 November 2021||Beijing,||China downgrades diplomatic ties with Lithuania over Taiwan||China has officially downgraded diplomatic ties with Lithuania, the Foreign Ministry in Beijing said on Sunday, after Taiwan established a de facto Embassy in Vilnius. China baulks at any official use of the word “Taiwan” in case it gives international legitimacy to the island, which Beijing considers part of its territory to be taken one day. “The Chinese government had to lower diplomatic relations between the two countries... to safeguard its sovereignty and the basic norms of international relations,” the Ministry said in a statement announcing the downgrade to the charge d’affaires level. “The Lithuanian government must bear all consequences that arise from this.” It added that Lithuania had “abandoned the political commitment made upon the establishment of diplomatic relations” with China. It was a reference to the “One China” policy, under which countries officially recognise Beijing over Taipei. Lithuania’s Foreign Ministry on Sunday said it regretted China’s decision. “Lithuania reaffirms its adherence to the ‘One China’ policy, but at the same time has the right to expand cooperation with Taiwan,” the Ministry said in a statement. Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte stressed that Taiwan’s office in Vilnius does not have diplomatic status. “The fact that Lithuania wants to intensify economic, cultural or scientific ties with Taiwan was announced in our government’s programme, so our move should not be very surprising,” she said. Chinese state broadcaster CCTV called the move a “solemn warning against the crude provocation of China’s core interests”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-downgrades-diplomatic-ties-with-lithuania-over-taiwan/article37618032.ece
22 November 2021||Ede,||Dutch police detain 30 after COVID riots||The Dutch police have arrested more than 30 people during unrest in The Hague and other towns in the Netherlands that followed an “orgy of violence” the previous night at a protest against coronavirus restrictions. The violence by groups of youths in The Hague and elsewhere on Saturday night wasn’t as serious as Friday night in Rotterdam, where police opened fire on rampaging rioters and arrested 51 people. The police said on Sunday that they arrested 19 persons in The Hague and used a water cannon to extinguish a fire on a street. Meanwhile, tens of thousands of people demonstrated through central Brussels on Sunday to protest reinforced COVID-19 restrictions imposed by the Belgian government to counter the latest spike in coronavirus cases. Many among the police estimate of 35,000 at the rally had already left for home when the demonstration descended into violence as several hundred people started pelting police, smashing cars and setting garbage bins ablaze. Police replied with tear gas and water cannons and sought to restore order when dusk settled on the Belgian capital. Injured officers In The Hague, the police said five officers were injured as they tried to break up unrest by a group of youths who set at least two fires on streets and threw fireworks. The police said in a tweet that one rioter threw a rock at an ambulance carrying a patient to a hospital. In the southern towns of Roermond and Stein, the police said they arrested 13 persons for setting fires and throwing fireworks, and in the fishing village of Urk, the police arrested eight persons for public order offenses, Dutch broadcaster NOS reported. Earlier on Saturday, two protests against COVID-19 measures proceeded peacefully in Amsterdam and the southern city of Breda. Tens of thousands of protesters also took to the streets of Vienna on Saturday after the Austrian government announced a nationwide lockdown beginning Monday to contain skyrocketing coronavirus infections. There were also demonstrations in Italy, Switzerland, Croatia and Northern Ireland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dutch-police-detain-30-after-covid-riots/article37618039.ece
22 November 2021||Jerusalem,||Israeli police gun down Palestinian assailant||A Palestinian assailant killed one Israeli and injured four others before being fatally shot by the Israeli police near the entrance to a flashpoint Jerusalem holy site on Sunday, the police said. The police said the attack took place near an entrance to a contested flashpoint shrine known to Jews as the Temple Mount and to Muslims as the Noble Sanctuary. Violence surrounding the site, which is considered holy by both faiths, has triggered previous rounds of fighting between Israel and the Palestinians, most recently in May. Paramedics said one person suffered critical injuries, one suffered serious wounds, and three others were lightly injured. The paramedics said the Palestinian attacker was confirmed dead at the scene. Jerusalem’s Hadassah hospital later said the critically injured person died.  The police said two of those lightly injured were officers and identified the attacker as a 42-year-old east Jerusalem resident. Public Security Minister Omer Bar Lev told reporters the gunman was a member of Hamas’s political arm from the Shuafat refugee camp in east Jerusalem, and that the man’s wife left the country three days earlier.  The Hamas militant group praised the attack in a statement but stopped short of claiming responsibility, calling the incident a “heroic operation.” It later claimed that the assailant was one of its members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-police-gun-down-palestinian-assailant/article37618040.ece
22 November 2021||Karachi,||Protests break out in Pak. port city over CPEC||Massive protests have erupted in Pakistan’s port city of Gwadar against unnecessary checkpoints, a severe shortage of water and electricity and threats to livelihoods from illegal fishing, part of a growing backlash in the country against China’s multibillion-dollar belt and road projects. The protests organised by workers of some political parties, civil rights activists, fishermen and concerned citizens have been going on for a week at Y Chowk on Port Road in Gwadar. Head of the ‘Give rights to Gwadar’ rally Maulana Hidayat ur Rehman said the protests would continue until their demands are met. The protests are part of growing discontent with China’s presence in Gwadar, whose port is an integral part of the $60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project (CPEC), the flagship project of China’s multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protests-break-out-in-pak-port-city-over-cpec/article37618046.ece
22 November 2021||Mizata,||El Salvador president plans 'Bitcoin City' financed by crypto bonds||President Nayib Bukele said El Salvador plans to build the world’s first “Bitcoin City”, powered by a volcano and financed by cryptocurrency bonds. He was speaking at the Latin American Bitcoin and Blockchain Meet.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/el-salvador-president-plans-bitcoin-city-financed-by-crypto-bonds/article37618031.ece
22 November 2021||Moscow,||Kremlin slams U.S. ‘hysteria’ over Ukraine conflict||Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov slammed the United States for driving “hysteria” over a possible Russian invasion of Ukraine, after Western countries accused Moscow of a troop build-up near the country.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kremlin-slams-us-hysteria-over-ukraine-conflict/article37618033.ece
22 November 2021||Beijing,||Olympic officials: Chinese tennis star Peng says she is safe||Peng Shuai told Olympic officials in a video call from Beijing that she was safe and well, the International Olympic Committee said on Sunday after Ms. Peng reappeared in public at a youth tournament in Beijing, according to photos released by the organiser.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/olympic-officials-chinese-tennis-star-peng-says-she-is-safe/article37618126.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Go back to committees’ is the farm laws lesson||The Prime Minister’s apology to the nation for not being able to convince a section of the farming community about the real intent of the Government in enacting the farm legislations is unprecedented. But it is not clear why it was an apology to the nation when only a section of the farmers could not be convinced. And then the apology is not for enacting the three farm laws or causing enormous suffering to the farmers. In any case it appears that the farmers have clearly understood the intent; and that is the reason why they did not go back to their farms until the laws are repealed. Now that the Prime Minister has informed the nation that the Government is going to repeal these laws, the farmers are understandably jubilant over their victory. This victory indeed takes India’s politics to a new phase — a phase of robust non-political movements with a certain staying power. We do not know ultimately what transformation it will bring to India’s jaded politics. But one thing becomes clear. The prolonged non-violent agitation by the determined farmers and the final capitulation by a very powerful Government augur well for India’s democracy. Trajectory and intent The trajectory of the three farm laws clearly shows the real intent of the Government. These were brought in first as ordinances which was quite perplexing. First, these laws have a far-reaching impact on the farmers and it was very improper and quite unwise to push them through without taking the farmers into confidence. Second, under Article 123 of the Constitution the President can legislate on a matter when there is great urgency in the nature of an emergency and the sitting of Parliament is quite some time away. Farm laws which make radical changes in the farm sector and affect the life of farmers in very significant ways do not have the kind of urgency which necessitates immediate legislation through the ordinances. Obviously, someone not very familiar with the working of Parliament must have advised the Government to take the ordinance route in order to avoid the standing committees’ scrutiny. It is a wrong impression that Bills which are brought to replace the ordinances are not or cannot be referred to the standing committees of Parliament. There is no such restriction. The Speaker/Chairman has the authority to refer any Bill except a money Bill to the standing committees. It was being adventurous These farm Bills should have been referred to the standing committee on agriculture for a detailed scrutiny. The committee could have held comprehensive discussions with the farmers. They would have thus got an opportunity to present their views before the committee and Parliament. In fact, their main complaint was that they were not consulted at any stage before the ordinances were issued. Radical changes in the farm sector without having any kind of consultation with the farmers was nothing short of adventurous. Parliament is a kind of shock absorber. Its systems have been designed to address issues with a cool head and find solutions. The committees take the heat off the issues and deal with them in a mature manner by listening to all stakeholders. Parliament and its systems require men who govern, not to bypass it. House wisdom is invaluable The English monarchs of the 13th century, powerful and arrogant though they were, felt the need to consult the commoners for running the realm because they became wiser after many battles and wars. Parliament emerged from these consultations. Consultation with Parliament and its time honoured system is a sobering and civilising necessity for governments howsoever powerful they may feel. The accumulated wisdom of the Houses is an invaluable treasure. It is very surprising why important Bills which are coming before Parliament are not being referred to the committees. The experience of centuries shows that scrutiny of Bills by the committees make better laws. The case of the farm laws holds an important lesson for this Government or any government. A series of missteps led to avoidable sufferings to the farmers who do not normally leave their farms and trudge along hundreds of miles to agitate. They lost 700 of their brothers after being exposed to the harshness of the summer, winter and monsoon for almost 14 months. Instead of using water cannons and barricades, had Parliament been allowed to intervene, the head of the Government would not have had to apologise to the nation. However, now that the Government has decided to repeal the farm laws, it will be widely welcomed no matter what political calculations have gone into it. These may be tactical moves What next is an interesting question because the farmers seem to have decided to wait and watch. They will wait till Parliament repeals these laws in the winter session that commences on November 29. A tone of scepticism could be detected in their reactions presumably because the Government has not taken the position that these farm laws are wrong or harmful to the farmers. In fact the Government is of the view that these laws are necessary for reforming the farm sector. The public apology has not changed that position. So the apology and the repeal of laws may be tactical moves by the Government to tide over the emerging political situation in certain regions of the Indo-Gangetic Plain. Repealed laws can be brought back in future may be with certain modifications. There are no legal hurdles in that. The basic approach to corporatisation of the farm sector has not been abandoned. A proper parliamentary scrutiny of pieces of legislation is the best guarantee that sectoral interest will not jeopardise basic national interest. Protection of farmers is an essential part of national interest. So, in any future legislation on farmers it is absolutely necessary to involve the systems of Parliament fully so that a balanced approach emerges. We must not forget that the farm Bills were not referred to either the standing committee or a joint select committee of both Houses of Parliament as has been the practice earlier. A missed step In fact, available data shows that Bills are very rarely referred to the committees these days. House rules have vested the discretion in the presiding officers in the matter of referring the Bills to committees. No reasoned decisions of the presiding officers for not referring them are available. Since detailed examination of Bills by committees result in better laws, the presiding officers may, in public interest, refer all Bills to the committees with few exceptions. Although the relevant rule is not happily worded, the intent is clear, namely, that the committee should examine all the important Bills. In the light of the horrendous experience of the Government over the farm laws, the present practice of not referring the Bills to committees should be reviewed. Speaker Om Birla has spoken about strengthening the committee system in the recent presiding officers’ conference. One way of strengthening it is by getting all the important Bills examined by them. The farmers had to wage a prolonged struggle because the systems of Parliament were bypassed by the Government. A government elected by the people can function only in a democratic way. Other options are not available to it. The farmers who sat at the Delhi border for 14 months, braving heat and cold and death and conducting themselves in the most democratic way, have once again proved that. P.D.T. Achary is Former Secretary General, Lok Sabha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/go-back-to-committees-is-the-farm-laws-lesson/article37618018.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Making Ayurveda a real science||Ayurveda has gained popularity in recent years, but a lot is still to be done to ensure that it stands the scrutiny of science. The COVID-19 pandemic has been a major challenge for science in general and hence, ‘How did Ayurveda deal with the pandemic?’ becomes a pertinent question to ask. In the following paragraphs I share my views as a teacher of Ayurveda with 20 years of experience. Rampant misinformation During the pandemic, we encouraged self-medication among the public by advocating preparations like decoctions. Thus, the message that unscrupulous, excessive and prolonged use of any medicine could be harmful was lost. We did not educate the public on the identification of the correct herbs, though we encouraged their consumption. For example, Giloy (Tinospora cordifolia) and Dalchini (Cinnamomum zeylanicum) are two plants where correct identification matters. Sometimes, Tinospora crispa and Cassia cinnamon are mistakenly identified as Giloy and Dalichini, which could be harmful. Almost every Ayurveda physician came up with his/her own formulations as a purported cure for COVID-19. Many lab reports suggesting clinical improvements with Ayurveda interventions were shared on different social media platforms. However, most of them could not make it to peer-reviewed journals. Thousands of COVID-19 cases treated by Ayurveda physicians could have provided good data that could have been further analysed. Even though the Ministry of Ayush came up with an online case registry, our fraternity could not make any meaningful use of it. Many clinical trials for testing Ayurveda interventions came up for COVID-19 and a few even got published. To show the efficacy of a new intervention in a condition where spontaneous recovery is more than 95%, one needs a large sample size and a robust study design. In most of these trials, the Ayurveda interventions were either in addition to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocols or, when used as independent interventions, they were administered in mild to moderate cases only. Even governmental agencies widely publicised a few patent and proprietary formulations that were tested insufficiently, and drew flak from the scientific community for doing so. Scientifically speaking, ‘immune boosting’ is a vague and potentially misleading term. During the pandemic, every other Ayurveda pharmacy came up with its own patent and proprietary formulation that supposedly boosted immunity. The common public was made to believe that Ayush interventions were safe, of preventive value, and effective in treating the disease. But most of these claims lacked credible evidence. In my view, the Ayurveda sector should not have succumbed to the pressure to show that Ayurveda works in the treatment of COVID-19. Instead, the sector could have been visualised as a potential workforce. People could have been roped in for managing various tasks such as telephonic triaging, teleconsultations and counselling, monitoring home-quarantined patients, and coordinating referral services. Though some Ayush hospitals were converted into COVID-19 care centres, most of these facilities managed only mild to moderate cases. This is where a collaboration was required, between Ayush and conventional healthcare professionals. The protocols of ICMR and Ayush were disconnected and this is one of the reasons why there was no coordination. Moreover, this workforce could have been used to address the needs of non-COVID-19 patients who suffered the most because of various restrictions. Questions to be asked A group of scientists and physicians has recently started a social media campaign calling all Ayush systems ‘pseudoscience’. These activists conduct chemical analysis of many Ayush formulations and demonstrate that many of these products contain high doses of unwarranted constituents such as antibiotics, corticosteroids and heavy metals. They also share publicly the scanned images of the unscientific and outdated content in the textbooks of Ayush graduate programmes. They also publish and share various clinical case reports where adverse events are reported after exposure to Ayush interventions. These activities are crucial and need the support from at least those who believe in rational Ayurveda. This would make Ayush academicians and policymakers introspect seriously about the current system. Academia, at present, has made Ayurveda a pseudoscience by teaching the young students that whatever is written in ancient texts is the ultimate truth and cannot be challenged. This non-falsifiability renders the system unscientific. The only way to make Ayurveda a real science is to present evidence before the scientific community showing that it works. Absence of uniform protocols either for diagnosis or for interventions make Ayurveda too subjective and diverse. An objective evaluation of complex Ayurveda practices is very difficult in the standard accepted format of ‘double blind randomised controlled trials’. The practical alternative is to go for longitudinal observational studies. Initially, around 20 different clinical conditions involving different organ systems can be identified, which practitioners are confident of treating. A large sample size with a long-term follow-up in a multi-centric design would go a long way in establishing the usefulness of Ayurveda. Most of the knowledge we now have about ischemic heart disease comes from a single longitudinal study going on since 1948, which demonstrates the value of observational studies. Need for regulation Formally, we never teach our graduates patent and proprietary formulations. However, as these graduates set up their clinical practice, they start prescribing these formulations. Most of these products are not backed by reliable trials or even pre-clinical and toxicity data. The number of pharmacies that manufacture classical formulations has reduced to a bare minimum over the years, which shows how commercialisation has taken over the sector. This aspect needs to be regulated to ensure that such products go through robust pre-marketing studies. Even classical formulations that contain toxic substances such as heavy metals need to be regulated. Further, maintaining only a manageable number of colleges is essential to ensure that all students get good clinical exposure. The indiscriminate growth of new Ayush colleges is another matter of concern. Kishor Patwardhan works at the Department of Kriya Sharir, Faculty of Ayurveda, Banaras Hindu University, and is Coordinator, Ayurveda Network||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/making-ayurveda-a-real-science/article37618027.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping a close eye on China’s nuclear capabilities||The only real substantive outcome of last week’s virtual summit between Presidents Joe Biden and Xi Jinping has been some unconfirmed reports of the two sides, the United States and China, agreeing to hold strategic nuclear talks sometime in the near future. This development comes against the backdrop of the China Military Power Report (CMPR) recently released by the Pentagon that categorically underscores the growing challenge posed by the increasing capabilities of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and its ambitions across various dimensions of military power. The PRC’s nuclear capabilities, in particular, are undergoing a fundamental transformation and a shift seems to be evident in both the quantity and the quality of the PRC’s atomic arsenal. Even before the release of the CMPR, there was significant concern globally about the trajectory of China’s strategic capabilities. Confirmation provided by the CMPR reveals four specific areas where change is underway — quantitative strength, atomic yield, delivery capabilities and posture. First is the size of the PRC’s nuclear arsenal, which is set to increase. Hitherto, the PRC’s nuclear arsenal has hovered at roughly 200 nuclear warheads, half of which directed at the United States (U.S.). By 2027, the CMPR estimates that this number is likely to increase to 700 weapons consisting of varying yields which is three and half times the current Chinese warhead strength. Low-yield weapons, concerns Second, the PRC is likely to privilege expansion in the direction of low-yield weapons. Low-yield weapons have been an area of interest and development for the PRC. They are weapons meant for battlefield use during conventional military operations and against conventional targets such as concentrations of armoured, artillery and infantry forces. Lower yield warheads help the PRC avoid causing collateral damage. Prior to the release of the CMPR, evidence that the PRC was testing low-yield devices has periodically surfaced in years past. In April 2020, the U.S. State Department’s Findings on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments drew attention to the PRC’s deliberate opacity in the use of explosive containment chambers and excavations at its Lop Nur nuclear facility to test low yield weapons and Beijing’s refusal to grant permission to access data from its International Monitoring System (IMS) stations to the Data Centre under the operational authority of the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO). Actions of this kind have evoked strategic concern and increasingly confirm that China’s atomic arsenal consists of a large number of low-yield weapons ideal for battlefield use. Third, these low-yield nuclear warheads are also likely to find their way into a key delivery capability — the PRC’s Dong-Feng-26 (DF-26) ballistic missile. This missile has already undergone deployment at Korla in the Xinjiang region in Western China. It is an Intermediate-Range Ballistic Missile (IRBM) which is launched from a Transporter Erector Launcher (TEL). Indeed, the DF-26 has featured in extensive training exercises west of Jilantai in inner Mongolia. In addition to the DF-26, China has also developed the JL-2 Submarine Launched Ballistic Missiles (SLBMs) with a range of 7,200 kilometres capable of striking targets across continental Asia. A key shift Finally, China’s move towards a Launch on Warning (LoW) nuclear posture marks an important shift in the PRC’s commitment to ensuring that no adversary doubts its response in the event of a nuclear first strike. A higher alert posture not only risks reducing the threshold for nuclear use in the form of preemption but it could also sow the seeds of miscalculation and unintended nuclear use. Delhi needs to be cautious The PRC’s nuclear competition with the United States will have a cascading effect. For India there are some serious implications with China’s increasingly minatory nuclear military capabilities. First, the size of China’s nuclear arsenal complicates the potency of India’s nuclear arsenal and it is especially true in the face of the PRC’s pursuit of missile defences in the form of the HQ-19 interceptors, which are specifically designed and developed to execute mid-course interception of medium-range ballistic missiles. A significantly larger Chinese nuclear arsenal paired to missile defences will limit damage to the PRC and more menacingly threatens the survivability of the Indian nuclear arsenal. Reinforcing this is Beijing’s pursuit of a Launch on Warning (LoW) posture. Such a posture reduces the decision time for any Indian retaliatory nuclear strike in the heat of a war or crisis and places pressure on India to pursue its own LoW. Despite Beijing’s pursuit of No First Use (NFU), which is reversible, the PRC could also significantly degrade an Indian retaliatory strike if China chooses to resort to First Use (FU) of nuclear weapons, and even worse outrightly decapitate India’s nuclear forces. Indian strategic planners will have to think about the quantitative nuclear balance and India’s nuclear posture vis-à-vis the PRC. Additions, surveys by China Finally, India must pay close attention to the sub-surface leg of the PRC’s nuclear arsenal. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the Chinese have added two new Type 094 (Jin class) SSBNs/nuclear-powered ballistic-missile submarines to their existing fleet. The maritime dimension of China’s nuclear capabilities might not be an immediate strategic challenge but will potentially become one in the coming years for New Delhi. The Chinese Navy has carried out bathymetric and ocean mapping surveys in the Indian Ocean crucial to the execution of sub-surface military operations. The Bay of Bengal whose sea depth is very conducive for nuclear submarine missions will leave India exposed to a Chinese atomic pincer from the maritime domain in addition to the continental domain. New Delhi will have to specifically watch the pattern in the People Liberation Army Navy’s (PLAN) nuclear submarine deployments and address the deficit in its subsurface nuclear delivery capabilities. Harsh V. Pant is Professor of International Relations at King’s College London and Director of Research at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), New Delhi. Kartik Bommakanti is a Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/keeping-a-close-eye-on-chinas-nuclear-capabilities/article37618021.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Reliable data, good policy||When evidence-based policymaking becomes the cornerstone of good governance, it is difficult to overstate the importance of reliable and timely public data. Such data have a direct bearing on the state’s capability to design and implement programmes effectively. Among the emerging economies, India is credited to have a relatively robust public data system generated through its decennial Census and yearly sample surveys on specific themes. The coverage and reporting of Census data have vastly improved since independence. Though errors continue to be higher than in high-income countries, Census data are recognised for their reliability. Nevertheless, certain disquieting trends are visible on this front. Concerns One, despite having adopted latest data processing technologies, there has been a growing delay, sometimes by years, in the release of the collected data. This renders such data less useful for policy intervention. The delay also implies less public scrutiny and hence undermines accountability. In an extreme case, the government refrained from releasing the data collected through the Socio-Economic and Caste Census. The second is the issue of comparability. In recent years, the government introduced changes to the estimation of GDP that made comparisons over time impossible. Adjustments to computation and survey methods are always welcome when they are meant to improve accuracy. In this instance, the arguments for revision and the revisions undertaken do not improve the quality of estimates. Therefore, the revisions, some claim, are driven more by political considerations than by the need to improve accuracy. Third, there has been a slippage in the conduct of sample surveys. The statistical bureau has been revising the sample surveys almost every year. One crucial sample survey is the quinquennial ‘Monthly Household Consumer Expenditure’ (MHCE). The MHCE provides the data base to compute the weightage assigned for commodities in the calculation of Inflation Index, the poverty line and poverty ratio, nutritional standards of people based on their consumption of various food items, and consumption expenditure in the national accounts system. The government also uses the poverty estimates to decide on the State-wise allocation of foodgrains to be sold at subsidised prices through the Public Distribution System. Hence, the MHCE is an important policy instrument despite the fact that the data provided through the MHCE surveys have been widely debated. Such debates have, however, led to refinement of the methods of data collection and made the data more robust. The Government of India (GoI) in November 2019 announced that the MHCE data collected in 2017-18 could not be released due to ‘data quality issues’. Though it did not elaborate on what the issues were, it went on to announce that the sample surveys for consumption expenditure will be conducted in 2020-21 and 2021-22. At present, we do not have information on whether the GoI has conducted these sample surveys. The GoI has further postponed the decennial census in 2021 to 2022 on the grounds that COVID-19 has had a serious impact on migration and livelihood options of the people. It is therefore important that the Census be conducted at the earliest and the results be made available to draw samples for the sample surveys in subsequent years. Challenges If digital data collection tools are to be used as announced earlier, several challenges need to be addressed. As mentioned earlier, we have lost a precious data base and more than five years have lapsed since then. This affects the framing of policies relating to food and nutrition security, among others. Given the significance of education and health in sustaining development, and the adverse impacts that the pandemic is likely to have had on these dimensions, such lapses are disconcerting. Moreover, the robust estimation of individual items in the national accounts system also awaits the Census and the subsequent sample survey results. Unless these surveys are completed and the results announced, we will be left with a doctor prescribing medicines without diagnosis. In the absence of timely and reliable public data, users are increasingly relying on data provided through large-scale surveys conducted by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE). However, users have raised questions about the design and data collection framework of the CMIE’s high-frequency household survey. As they take recourse to other metrics for analysis, the onus is on the government to ensure that the data generation possibilities opened up by new technologies are embedded in a robust system of public data production and use. R. Srinivasan is Member, State Planning Commission, Government of Tamil Nādu; M. Vijayabaskar is with the Madras Institute of Development Studies and is also Member, State Planning Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reliable-data-good-policy/article37618025.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The meat of the matter||Since the population of Gujarat comprises about 15% Scheduled Tribes, nearly 10% Muslims, 7.5% Scheduled Castes and about 50% Other Backward Classes, and migrants — most of whom don’t have an ideological aversion to meat unlike the Jains and Vaishnavas — we can safely say that a predominant share of the population is meat-eating. Recently, the BJP-ruled civic bodies in Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Junagadh launched a drive against hawkers and vendors running non-vegetarian food joints along streets and footpaths on the ground that selling such food in the open “hurts religious sentiments”. Subsequently, hundreds of food carts or stalls dotting the roads selling non-vegetarian food were shut by the authorities. To say that Gujarat is a vegetarian State is akin to saying that the people of the State are teetotallers since prohibition is in place. That liquor freely flows everywhere under the watch of the state is an open secret. Similarly, people regularly consume non-vegetarian food but increasingly not in the open for fear of censure. Idea of vegetarianism This is because Gujarat’s socio-cultural space is dominated by Jains and Vaishnavas. It is to cater to these elites that Pizza Hut opened its first exclusive vegetarian restaurant in Ahmedabad. Celebrity chef Sanjeev Kapoor also opened his first-ever, all-vegetarian restaurant in Ahmedabad in 2009. This dominant Mahajan culture is marked by beliefs in non-violence, teetotalism and austerity — social values emphasised by Mahatma Gandhi. While vegetarianism is seen as central to this culture, meat-eating has become stigmatised despite the fact that large sections of the society are meat-eaters. The Swadhyaya Parivar and Swaminarayan movements have strengthened the idea of vegetarianism too. Most of the roadside food stalls selling meat are operated by the minorities, by lower-class/lower-caste Hindus or by migrants. None of them has any substantive say in the political affairs of Gujarat. Though the BJP has been in power in the State for more than two decades and controls all the urban civic bodies of the main cities with its expanded social base, only upper castes such as the Banias, Patels and Brahmins occupy the top positions in government. Their social and cultural beliefs determine social norms. It is not surprising that the first to protest against non-vegetarian food carts was Minister of Revenue and Law and Justice Rajendra Trivedi, a legislator from Vadodara. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation Town Planning Committee Chairman Devang Dani, a Bania representing the posh locality of Bodakdev, imposed a ban on stalls selling non-vegetarian food along public roads. In Vadodara, the Municipal Corporation Chairman, Hitendra Patel, issued the directive asking all roadside non-vegetarian food stalls to be removed if they are not covered. Fear of censure Reacting to the outcry that followed the ban, Gujarat BJP Chief C.R. Paatil said no action would be taken against vendors selling non-vegetarian food and added that he had directed all the Mayors not to take any coercive action against them. The Chief Minister stressed that the State was not bothered about what people ate. He said action would be taken only against street food carts selling “unhygienic” food or if they are seen obstructing traffic on city roads. However, the fear of censure remains. Bans like these, even if temporary, further stigmatise marginalised communities and religious communities in the State. That such bans are imposed without any contestation shows how dominant communities further assert their dominance and threaten people’s livelihoods and peace. mahesh.langa@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-meat-of-the-matter/article37618029.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Sifting the pile||In what is turning out to be a predictable sequence in the annual ‘Swachh Survekshan’ awards, Indore was ranked the cleanest city for the fifth year, followed by Surat and Vijayawada. Chhattisgarh was the cleanest State, for the third time, in the category of ‘States with more than 100 urban local bodies’. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency, Varanasi, won for the cleanest ‘Ganga city’. The organiser, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, surveyed 4,320 cities for nearly a month and solicited feedback from 4.2 crore people. The metrics (cities) were garbage disposal, open defecation-free ratings, functionality and maintenance of community toilets and safe management of faecal sludge. The ‘Survekshan’ awards have a wide range of categories that segregates cities based on their population. While they attempt to capture the diversity of urban agglomerations on the other, it is hard to deflect criticism: every State has at least a few participants who will top one category or the other, thus making the process a giant appeasement scheme. Along with a category such as ‘States with over 100 urban local bodies (ULB),’ where Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh were ranked second and third, respectively, there was also a top ranker for ‘State with less than 100 ULBs’ where Jharkhand was judged the cleanest. Then there was a category for a ‘Ganga’ city and separate population-wise categories. This year there was a novel ‘Prerak Daaur Samman’ that saw Indore, Surat, Navi Mumbai, New Delhi Municipal Council and Tirupati categorised as ‘divya’ (platinum). They were assessed for solid waste management. Unsurprisingly, these were entities that had already topped ranks in other categories. Rankings serve two broad purposes: a publicity boost and recognition for the other winners but also motivation to climb higher on the totem pole. Though the number of cities surveyed has increased since the first edition of the survey in 2016, it appears that the same cities — Indore, Surat, for instance — keep topping the list. Six years is a good time to take stock of what the ranking programme intends to achieve: is it motivating cities to significantly allocate resources towards improving sanitation? Are cleaner cities cleaner because they are better positioned to access State funds and thus able to pull further away from other cities? Do States focus their energies and funds in keeping some cities clean to avail of a rank in any of the wide number of categories? Reducing a metric as complex as sanitation and cleanliness to blunt rankings can often induce a false sense of progress. Both at the regional level and at the Centre there should be more qualitative analysis of whether India’s cities are getting cleaner in the aggregate or if numbers are hiding inequity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sifting-the-pile/article37618013.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||On the brink||The massive mobilisation of Russian troops on the Ukraine border and occasional outbreak of violence along the line of contact between the Russia-backed rebels in the contested Donbass region and Ukrainian troops have pushed both countries to the brink of an open conflict. There were similar scenes earlier this year, but Moscow, after U.S. diplomatic intervention, pulled back. This time, however, the more emphatic Russian moves appear to be part of a larger strategy of force-projection across Russia’s western perimeter, from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea. On the EU’s Polish border, Belarus, a Russian ally, was blamed for orchestrating a migration crisis. Amid tensions, Russia flew bombers near Poland’s borders earlier this month. In the Black Sea, Russian President Vladimir Putin dispatched vessels to shadow U.S. warships. The U.S. has warned its allies of a possible Russian attack on Ukraine. Russia’s aggressiveness could have partly been driven by Mr. Putin’s assessment that the U.S. was strategically weakened after its Afghan withdrawal and its preoccupation with China’s rise in East Asia. This gives him a window of opportunity to reassert Russian primacy in its backyard which has seen significant NATO advances. This makes Ukraine, which Russia sees, according to scholars at Carnegie, “as a Western aircraft carrier parked just across southern Russia”, at the centre of Russia’s geopolitical tussle with the West. In 2015, an open conflict was averted after the ‘Minsk II’ peace agreement was signed, under the mediation of France and Germany. It was designed to end the fighting in the rebel regions and hand over the border to Ukraine’s national troops. Ukraine was required to delegate more power to the breakaway regions and introduce constitutional reforms, codifying their special status. Russia’s nod for the agreement was possibly because it thought that delegation of power to the rebels would enhance Moscow’s leverage that it could use to prevent Ukraine’s full integration with the West. But Kiev’s reluctance to implement the agreement and its growing military, economic and political ties with the West seem to have prompted Mr. Putin to change his approach — to putting Kiev under direct military pressure. Kiev is now in a tough spot. It lacks the military resources to deter its giant neighbour. While it gets military supplies from the West, there is no guarantee that the West would come to its help in the event of a Russian invasion. On the other side, Russia might make tactical gains from an invasion, like it did from the annexation of Crimea in 2014, but such a move could further deteriorate its already ruptured ties with the West. So a practical solution is to revive the Minsk peace process. The West should push both sides to resume talks and live up to their commitments as per the Minsk agreement to restore relative peace on the border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-the-brink/article37618014.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||China on bigger common market||Paris, Nov. 21: Ministers of the seven-nation Western European Union yesterday heard a suggestion that China favoured an enlarged Common Market to offset domination by the U.S. and the Soviet Union. The suggestion was made by Britain’s chief Common Market negotiator, Mr. Geoffery Rippon, when he opened a debate on China at the second session of the W.E.U's Ministerial Council, grouping Britain and the six Common Market countries. Mr. Rippon noted that the first General Assembly speech by the head of the Chinese delegation to the U.N., Mr. Chiao Kuan-hua, had been intransigent without giving the impression that China intended to act “unreasonably” in the world body. The French Foreign Minister, Mr. Maurice Schumann, suggested that China was not seeking Super-Power status and preferred to act as a spokesman for the third world. However, the difficulties of this role had been shown at the recent third world conference at Lima which saw marked divergencies between the participants based on their degree of underdevelopment, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/china-on-bigger-common-market/article37618022.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ask us||Q.I am a retired pensioner. My PPF account is maturing on March 20, 2022. I had already extended the term by 5 years. Now, I am planning to close the account on maturity. My question is whether the investment in this account during the FY 2021-22 will qualify for rebate under Sec. 80 C of I-T Act. D.R. Prasad A.Contribution towards PPF in a particular assessment year can be availed as deduction under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 irrespective of the maturity of the 5- year additional term. Further, it is to be noted that PPF investments can be extended for any number for a block of 5 years with further deposits and the account retained indefinitely without further deposit after maturity with the prevailing rate of interest. Q.In a year of trading transactions, please advise on below data viz. short-term gains Rs. 3.5 lakh, long-term loss Rs. 5.5 lakh, intraday gain Rs. 0.03 lakh and dividends of Rs. 0.35 lakh. The final profit is negative. Do I have to pay tax on the short-term front? Anil Kumar  A.The nature of incomes earned by you is to treated in the following manner and cannot be set off against other heads. Short Term Capital Gains (STCG) from listed equity securities for which STT has been paid for will be taxed at a special rate of 15%. Long Term Capital Loss (LTCL) cannot be set-off with the STCG; however, the same can be carried forward for eight assessment years until it has been set off appropriately. Intraday trading of equity securities will be treated as speculative business. Turnover is to be computed by adding the gains and the absolute figures of the loss. Related expenses such as brokerage, Internet expenses, depreciation for the assets used and exchange charges can be claimed as expenses. The resultant figure of the gains/loss reduced by the expenses will be treated as either Speculative Profit or Loss. Dividends from AY 21-22 will be taxable in the hands of the receiver and the same will be added to your total income under the head ‘Income from Other Sources.’ Q.I am 31. I booked an under-construction residential flat in 2019 for which I had taken a home loan. I have been paying EMIs since then and submitting the income tax certificate to claim rebate. I have been denied rebate on interest and the principal repaid is also not included in savings under section 80C. Is this correct? Prashant Kumar A.The amount of principal repaid in the assessment year cannot be claimed as deduction under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as only amounts repaid towards the capital borrowed for the purpose of purchase or construction of a residential property whose income is chargeable under ‘Income from House Property’ can be claimed as deduction. In your case, the building is still under construction and the apartment has not been handed over, whereby income accruing from the property cannot be charged under ‘Income from House Property.’ The interest paid on housing loan until the date of completion cannot be claimed as deduction in the year of payment of such interest. The interest paid until such completion is to be divided into 5 equal parts and each part can be claimed as deduction in the form of pre-construction interest from the year of completion of construction. It is to be noted that the maximum deduction under this provision cannot exceed Rs. 2 lakh a year (including the interest paid for that assessment year). Q.My sister and I inherited a residential flat after my mother's demise. Both of us are pensioners and receive FD interest. The flat is self-occupied and there is no other property. We regularly file our I-T returns for our pension and interest income. We plan to sell this property worth Rs. 45 lakh. Since we both have equal share, how will it be reflected in Form 26AS? This property was bought in 1996 for Rs. 4 lakh and the fair market value of the flat in 2001 was Rs. 9 lakh. After applying indexation cost, the value works out to about Rs. 27 lakh. After selling this property, if my sister and I deposit Rs. 22.5 lakh each in our respective savings bank accounts, what will be the capital gains tax? S. Sujatha A.As the value of the sale consideration of the residential flat is lower than Rs. 50 lakh, the buyer is not required to deduct TDS of 1% on the sale consideration; thereby, such transaction will not appear in either of your Form 26AS under the TDS section. However, the transaction shall appear under Specified Financial Transactions in the Form 26AS as a disclosure of the transaction that has taken place in the respective assessment year. You may invest an amount equal to or higher than the difference between sale consideration and the indexed cost of acquisition in specified bonds under Section 54EC within 6 months from the date of transfer to avail the full exemption of tax with respect to the long term capital gains, the maximum amount that can invested under this exemption is Rs. 50 lakh each and you are well within the limit. You may also invest an amount equal to or higher than the difference between sale consideration and the indexed cost of acquisition for purchase or construction of a residential property in India within two years or three years, respectively, from the date of transfer.  (The adviser is partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article37618010.ece
22 November 2021||Galle,||Dimuth Karunaratne’s ton puts Sri Lanka on top||Sri Lanka skipper Dimuth Karunaratne slammed an unbeaten hundred to give his team the upper hand in Sunday’s opening Test against the West Indies, whose debutant Jeremy Solozano was taken to hospital after being hit on the helmet while fielding. Bad light forced an early end to the day’s play in Galle with two overs remaining and the hosts finishing on 267/3. Slow surface Karunaratne batted through the day after winning the toss on a slow surface, making a 139-run stand for the first wicket with Pathum Nissanka. Part-time spinner Roston Chase dismissed Oshada Fernando and Angelo Mathews for three each in quick succession to bring the West Indies back into the game. But Sri Lanka wrestled back the initiative as Karunaratne shared a 97-run partnership with Dhananjaya de Silva for the fourth wicket. This was Karunaratne’s 13th Test century and fourth this year. He has bagged more than 750 runs in 2021, including a career-best 244 against Bangladesh, despite only playing 10 innings. Shannon Gabriel provided the breakthrough for the tourists when he had Nissanka — who was chasing a full delivery wide outside the off-stump — caught by Rahkeem Cornwall at first slip for 56. But they squandered an opportunity to dismiss Karunaratne on 14, when Cornwall found the outside edge of the bat but Jermaine Blackwood at slip was unable to hold on as he attempted a one-handed grab. West Indies unsuccessfully reviewed after Karunaratne played an uncharacteristic reverse sweep off the left-arm orthodox spin of Jomel Warrican and the ball struck his front pad. Television replays showed the impact was outside off-stump. The visitors lost their second review over a caught-behind appeal against Nissanka off the bowling of Chase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dimuth-karunaratnes-ton-puts-sri-lanka-on-top/article37618169.ece
22 November 2021||Kolkata,||Axar on the prowl as India completes series sweep against NZ||Axar Patel’s triple strike derailed New Zealand and handed India a 73-run win in the third T20I at the Eden Gardens here on Sunday. The home team swept the series 3-0 and is on a six-match unbeaten run in T20Is. Set a challenging target of 185, New Zealand lost the plot early. Left-arm spinner Axar scalped three top-order wickets in quick succession to leave the Kiwis reeling at 30 for three. Martin Guptill (51, 36b, 4x4, 4x6) played a lone hand, but once he holed out, it was game over. Immediate strike Axar, introduced into the attack in the third over, dismissed Daryl Mitchell off his very first delivery. Mark Chapman charged at a wide and flighted ball, and was stumped by Rishabh Pant. Glenn Phillips was the next to go, losing his stumps to a failed reverse-sweep. Guptill, severe on the pacers, marched on. Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal, playing his first match of the series, got the danger man to mishit a flighted delivery to Suryakumar Yadav at long-on. Venkatesh Iyer filled the medium-pace all-rounder role left vacant by Hardik Pandya. Venkatesh got the wicket of Adam Milne, though New Zealand had thrown in the towel at this point. Earlier, Rohit Sharma’s fluent 56 helped India to a good total. The skipper and Ishan Kishan, who replaced K.L. Rahul in the XI, gave the Men in Blue the ideal start. Rohit was particularly aggressive, using the pace well to clear the ropes. He executed his favourite pull shot to send a short ball from Trent Boult over deep square-leg, and deposited a leg-stump dart from Lockie Ferguson into the fine-leg stands. India motored to 69 without loss in the PowerPlay. Left-arm spinner Mitchell Santner, who led the visiting team in place of Tim Southee, came into the attack and made an immediate impact. Santner took out Kishan with a length ball outside off, forcing an edge to the wicketkeeper. In the same over, he tempted Suryakumar (0, 4b) to drive another length ball to Guptill at cover. Rishabh (4, 6b), whose ugly hoick lobbed to long-on, was Santner’s third victim. At 83 for three, India was forced to rebuild. Rohit reached his 26th T20I fifty, before he fell to a stunning one-handed reflex return catch by leg-spinner Ish Sodhi. Shreyas Iyer (25, 20b, 2x4) and Venkatesh (20, 15b, 1x4, 1x6) guided India through the middle overs. The latter brought the crowd to its feet with a slog-swept maximum off Sodhi, but for the most part, it was risk-free batting. It took some lusty blows from Harshal Patel (18, 11b, 2x4, 1x6) and Deepak Chahar (21 n.o., 8b, 2x4, 1x6) to liven up proceedings. Deepak blasted Adam Milne for 19 runs in the final over to provide the perfect finish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/axar-on-the-prowl-as-india-completes-series-sweep-against-nz/article37618121.ece
22 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Aronian pips Arjun to the blitz crown||Levon Aronian likes this city and will like it more. The Armenian won the blitz event of the Tata Steel Chess at the National Library on Sunday. But only after quelling a strong challenge from Arjun Erigaisi in the Armageddon could Aronian lay his hands on the trophy. It may have been a disappointing end to the incredible run for the 18-year-old from Telangana, but it still turned out to be a great tournament for Arjun, who won the rapid section and tied for the top prize in blitz. After the end of 18 rounds of blitz, Arjun and Aronian were both on 8.5 points, forcing a tie-breaker. The tie-breaker games — Arjun had a clear winning chance in both — were drawn. In the ensuing Armageddon, Aronian won with white pieces. Aronian will have more reasons to like the City of Joy when he goes on a tour, guided by his friend and Grandmaster Surya Shekhar Ganguly, on Monday.  The results (Indians unless specified):   18th round: Raunak Sadhwani lost to Sam Shankland (US); Nihal Sarin lost to Parham Maghsoodloo (Ira); Le Quang Liem (Vie) lost to Arjun Erigaisi; Dronavalli Harika lost to Levon Aronian (Arm); Vidit Gujrathi lost to D. Gukesh.   17th: Gukesh lost to Sadhwani; Aronian drew with Gujrathi; Arjun bt Harika; Maghsoodloo bt Liem; Shankland lost to Nihal; 16th: Sadhwani lost to Nihal; Liem drew with Shankland; Harika lost to Maghsoodloo; Gujrathi lost to Arjun; Gukesh lost to Aronian.   15th: Aronian bt Sadhwani; Arjun lost to Gukesh; Magshoosdloo lost to Gujrathi; Shankland lost to Harika; Nihal lost to Liem; 14th: Sadhwani bt Liem; Harika lost to Nihal; Gujrathi lost to Shankland; Gukesh b Maghsoodloo; Aronian lost to Arjun.   13th: Arjun drew with Sadhwani; Maghsoodloo drew with Aronian; Shanlkand lost to Gukesh; Nihal bt Gujrathi; Liem bt Harika; 12th: Raunak bt Harika; Gujrathi drew with Liem; Gukesh lost to Nihal; Aronian lost to Shankland; Arjun lost to Maghsoodloo.   11th: Maghsoodloo lost to Sadhwani; Shankland drew with Arjun; Nihal drew with Aronian; Liem lost to Gukesh; Harika drew with Gujrathi; 10th: Sadhwani lost to Gujrathi; Gukesh drew with Harika; Aronian bt Liem; Arjun lost to Nihal; Maghsoodloo bt Shankland.   The standings: 1-2. Aronian and Arjun 11.5; 3-4. Maghsoodloo and Nihal 11; 5. Gukesh 10; 6. Liem 8.5; 7-8. Shankland and Sadhwani 8; 9. Gujrathi 6.5; 10. Harika 4.   Aronia and Arjun both had 8.5 points after 18 rounds of blitz Both the tie-breaker games were drawn||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aronian-pips-arjun-to-the-blitz-crown/article37618112.ece
22 November 2021||Manchester,||Man City sweeps past injury-hit Everton||Raheem Sterling, Rodri and Bernardo Silva got the goals as Manchester City cruised to a 3-0 win over an injury-hit Everton on Sunday to move within three points of leader Chelsea. On Saturday, Liverpool handed Arsenal a reminder of the gulf it has to bridge to compete with the Premier League elite by ending the Gunners’ 10-game unbeaten run with a 4-0 thrashing at Anfield. Xavi Hernandez needed a penalty to start his return to Camp Nou as Barcelona coach with a win. Barcelona’s 1-0 win against Espanyol on Saturday began the way Xavi wanted, his team dominating the ball. But the problems that had led to the downfall of his predecessor soon emerged.  The results: Premier League: Manchester City 3 (Sterling 44, Rodri 55, Silva 86) bt Everton 0.   On Saturday: Premier League: Liverpool 4 (Mane 39, Jota 52, Salah 73, Minamino 77) bt Arsenal 0.   La Liga: Celta Vigo 1 (Mendez 72) drew with Villarreal 1 (Moreno 27); Sevilla 2 (Ocampos 38, Rakitic 90+2) drew with Alaves 2 (Laguardia 5, Joselu 45+7-pen); Atletico Madrid 1 (Felipe 87) bt Osasuna 0; Barcelona 1 (Depay 48-pen) bt Espanyol 0.   Serie A: Lazio 0 lost to Juventus 2 (Bonucci 23-pen, 83-pen); Fiorentina 4 (Duncan 15, Saponara 45+1, D. Vlahovic 60, 85) bt Milan 3 (Ibrahimovic 62, 67, Venuti 90+6-og).   Ligue 1: PSG 3 (Mbappe 2, Appiah 81-og, Messi 87) bt Nantes 1 (Kolo Muani 76) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/man-city-sweeps-past-injury-hit-everton/article37618125.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||East Bengal, Jamshedpur start with a draw||SC East Bengal (SCEB) and Jamshedpur proved inseparable in squandering and utilising chances as they began their campaigns with a 1-1 draw in the Indian Super League at the Tilak Maidan Stadium on Sunday. Croatian Franjo Prce opened the account for East Bengal early on in the first half before Englishman Peter Hartley struck the equaliser in added time. The way the two teams found the target was also similar as the centre-backs — Prce and Hartley — provided the finish off corner kicks. East Bengal drew first blood in the 17th minute when Croatian striker Antonio Perosevic set up Prce on the goalmouth after collecting a clearance from JFC goalkeeper T.P. Rehenesh following a corner. Prce’s volley deflected home after hitting the head of JFC’s Lithuanian forward Nerijus Valskis. The Kolkata side looked to have doubled the lead in the 33rd minute but Perosevic’s effort was ruled off-side. Jamshedpur tried to claw back into the game in the final few minutes of the opening half and found a corner in the second minute of injury time. Alexandre Lima sent a superb floater to Valskis, who headed it down to Hartley. The Englishman nodded the ball past the ’keeper to pull Jamshedpur level.   The result: East Bengal 1 (Franjo Prce 17) drew with Jamshedpur FC 1 (Peter Hartley 45+2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/east-bengal-jamshedpur-start-with-a-draw/article37618118.ece
22 November 2021||KOLKATA,||When Anand wore multiple hats||They all stood up and applauded loudly. Little Akhil must have felt very proud to see his father being honoured like that. His mother, Aruna, had said the other day how proud Akhil was to see his dad on stage at the National Library auditorium. For Akhil, it was his first visit to a chess tournament. For Viswanathan Anand, too, this was a first in many ways. Anand had been wearing multiple hats for the past five days. He was brand ambassador of the Tata Steel Chess. He mentored the young Indian players. He aired his comments during the live streaming of the event. He was also a part-time journalist, posing questions to the players at press conferences. Anand had figured in the first two editions of the tournament here, but didn’t want to play this time as he felt he wasn’t ready. He, however, didn’t want to miss the tournament. “I told the organisers that I didn’t want to play but would be happy to be present,” Anand told The Hindu . “We worked out an arrangement and I am very happy to promote this wonderful event.” And Anand would have been happy with the way his wards performed here. “They are all very strong, creative players,” said the five-time World champion. “They are very young and can grow in unexpected ways. I have been making observations which I can tell them when we work together.” Great service He felt that the Tata Steel Chess is doing great service to the game in the country. “It is a top event that gives something for the fans to follow,” he said. “The format gives an opportunity to a lot of youngsters, not just one or two.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/when-anand-wore-multiple-hats/article37618110.ece
22 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Tarun beats Jatin||Tarun Anirudh Chilakalapudi beat Jatin Dahiya 2-6, 6-3, 11-9 in the first qualifying round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Tennis Project in Baliawas on Sunday.  The results:   Qualifying singles (first round): Faisal Qamar bt Aaditya Tewari 6-1, 6-0; Raghav Jaisinghani bt Chinmaya Dev Chauhan 6-1, 6-2; Gunjan Jadhav bt Pranash Babu 7-6(2), 2-0 (retd.).   Fardeen Qamar bt Ajay Malik 7-5, 6-3; Rishi Reddy bt Rohan Mehra 6-4, 6-3; Arjun Mahadevan bt Anuj Malik 4-6, 6-2, [10-3].   Ajay Pruthvi Nemakal bt Ayush Gurnani 6-3, 6-3; Shahbaaz Khan bt Babji Siva Atturu 7-6(3), 6-2; Kunal Anand bt Parikshit Somani 6-3, 6-0.   Karan Singh bt Neeraj Yashpaul 6-3, 6-2; BR Nikshep bt Yash Yaav 7-6(5), 6-3; Prithvi Sekhar bt Vinay Kumar 6-0, 6-0.   Lakshit Sood bt Yugal Bansal 4-6, 7-6(4), [10-5]; Jagmeet Singh bt Gourav Gulia 6-7(3), 6-2, [10-4].   Abhishek Gaur bt Sandesh Kurale 6-2, 6-2; Bharath Kumaran bt Boopathy Sakthivel 6-3, 7-5; Madhwin Kamath bt Dheeraj Srinivasan 6-1, 6-3.   Nishant Dabas bt Shashank Theertha 6-0, 3-0 (retd.); Sushant Dabas bt Koonwar Gupta 6-2, 6-0; Tarun Anirudh bt Jatin Dahiya 2-6, 6-3, [11-9].   Tushar Madan bt Lohithaksha Bathrinath 6-3, 4-6, [10-2]; Ankit Chopra bt Anurag Agarwal 6-3, 7-6(5); Lakshya Gupta bt Shivank Bhatnagar 6-3, 6-1; Anurag Nenwani bt Dhananjay Singh 7-6(3), 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tarun-beats-jatin/article37618280.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Valentin Vacherot rides Philip Sekulic’s surge||Valentin Vacherot of France rode on the power of his better serve, as he survived three match points to beat a top-25 junior in the world, Philip Sekulic of Australia, 5-7, 6-2, 7-6(3) in the final of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis at the DLTA Complex here on Sunday. In a gripping contest that spanned two hours and 50 minutes, Vacherot found the range of his strokes in the climax to pip the 18-year-old Aussie. It was the the 23-year-old Vacherot’s second title — he lost three finals in recent weeks after having won his maiden title in July this year in Tunisia. It was only the fifth tournament in the men’s circuit for Sekulic but he played like a seasoned professional, teasing Vacherot with his fluent game.  Unbelievable recovery Vacherot served six aces and converted five of 11 breakpoints to pull ahead. It was an unbelievable recovery by the wiry French lad, as Sekulic faced a match point in the ninth game and two more match points in the 10th game of the decider. With a bit of luck in the form of a favourable net chord in the climax, the French man had the last laugh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/valentin-vacherot-thwarts-philip-sekulics-surge/article37618283.ece
22 November 2021||KOLKATA,||German coach expects attractive play||German coach Valentin Altenburg thinks the lack of enough knowledge about opponents may make participating teams in the upcoming men’s hockey Junior World Cup in Bhubaneswar focus on their own game, resulting in some attractive hockey for the fans. “The best strategy is to look at your own team and your own game. Our work as a coaching team is to get the best out of our team and don’t look too much at the opponent. Sometimes you have too much information on the (opposition) key players and tactics (and) you might make the mistake of focusing too much on them. “We would also have to watch our own strengths and try to get them through to the game plan. Probably other nations will also focus on their own strengths. This is going to be interesting for the hockey fans around the world because every team will try to put its own strength through and we will have very open and attractive hockey,” said Altenburg during an interaction on Friday. Surprises possible Altenburg expected some surprises. “All the other nations are having similar problems struggling to travel in order to compete. That’s why I am suspecting a bit of surprises in the tournament because not everybody knows as much (about the opponents). Some of the nations are new in the World Cup. It’s going to be enriching. “We try to connect each other through video analysis throughout the world and try to organise and exchange (those) here in Bhubaneswar,” he said. Germany is in Pool D with Argentina, Egypt and Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/german-coach-expects-attractive-play/article37618150.ece
22 November 2021||Kampala,||Kadam corners glory||India’s Sukant Kadam claimed a gold at the Uganda para badminton international, while compatriot and World No. 1 and Tokyo Paralympics gold medallist Pramod Bhagat bagged three silvers here on Sunday. World No. 5 Kadam defeated compatriot Nilesh Balu Gaikwad 21-16, 17-21, 21-10 in the SL4 category. In the SL3 final, Bhagat was beaten by doubles partner Manoj Sarkar 19-21, 16-21. In the doubles, Bhagat and Sarkar lost 21-10, 20-22, 15-21 to compatriots Mohammad Arwaz Ansari and Deep Ranjan Bisoyee. In SL3-SU5 mixed doubles, Bhagat and Palak Joshi lost 19-21, 16-21 to compatriots Ruthick Ragupathi and Manasi G. Joshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kadam-corners-glory/article37618152.ece
22 November 2021||COIMBATORE,||Diljith and Tijil share the honours||Thrissur’s T.S. Diljith and Bengaluru’s Tijil Rao (both Dark Don Racing) signed off with a race win each in the Formula LGB4 class in Round 2 of the 24th JK Tyre FMSCI National Racing championship at the Kari Motor Speedway on Sunday. In the opening race, Diljith (Thrissur) took the lead and was closely followed by championship leader Vishnu Prasad (MSport) from Chennai. Breathing down Vishnu’s neck were three other Dark Don drivers — Tijil, Sandeep Kumar and Arya Singh. The pressure began to tell on Vishnu, who tried hard defending his position than chasing the leader. Diljith breathed easy from there to finish on top, while Vishnu slipped midway through. Tijil and Sandeep (Chennai) went home with the second and third places respectively. Tijil, Sandeep and Ashwin Datta further made it sweet for Dark Don clinching the top three slots in that order in the second race. Bengaluru’s Ruhaan Alva of MSport made it doubly sweet by winning both the races in the JK Tyre Novice Cup with relative ease. If he was able to continuously strike the winning chord it is because of the way he adapts and thinks in the car. Guwahati’s Jaden R. Pariat (MSport) tried his best to break Ruhaan’s winning streak but had to rest content for the second spot in both races.  The results (provisional): Formula LGB4: Race 2: 1. T.S. Diljith (Dark Don Racing) 23:10.852; 2. Tijil Rao (Dark Don) 23:18.310; 3. A. Sandeep Kumar (Dark Don) 23:18.521. Race 3: 1. Tijil Rao 21:34.441; 2. Sandeep Kumar 21:36.264; 3. Ashwin Datta (Dark Don) 21:36.264.   JK Tyre Novice Cup: Race 2: 1. Ruhaan Alva (MSport) 13:22.885; 2. Jaden R. Pariat (MSport) 13:23.794; 3. Joel Joseph (DTS Racing) 13:42.994. Race 3: 1. Ruhaan Alva 21:08.051; 2. Jaden Pariat 21:12.389; 3. Gaurav Kochar (Momentum Motorsports) 21:12.949.   JK Tyre presents Royal Enfield Continental GT Cup: Race 2: 1. Anfal Akdhar (Thrissur) 5:53.042; 3. Allwin Xavier (Thrissur) 5:53.387; 3. Raj Kumar (Coimbatore) 5:55.744 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/diljith-and-tijil-share-the-honours/article37618161.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tamil Nadu, Karnataka set to go for broke||Almost two years ago, Karnataka handed Tamil Nadu its most agonising white-ball defeat — by one run — to win its second Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at Surat. On Monday, when the teams face off for the same title at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground, TN will look to erase memories of that lingering pain. Southern Derby Though TN went on to win the title last year, Karnataka is only too aware that its rival will hold back nothing. This ‘Southern Derby’ involves teams that have fought some intense battles. No wonder, the result carries more emotions than any other. Unlike in Surat where the teams were almost at full strength, their upcoming clash is without most stars. But the intensity is going to be no less. Bragging rights For the record, the bragging rights are firmly with Karnataka after having beaten TN four times, including thrice in succession, in the last five encounters. However, this season, TN appears a more complete unit as compared to Karnataka. What gives TN a clear edge is its spin resources. With the pitch showing signs of assisting the slower bowlers, Karnataka batters can expect to face up to 12 overs of spin. The 12 noon start almost takes the toss out of the equation. TN has consistently won by chasing targets while Karnataka has proved it is just as good in defending. With such a background, it will be interesting to see if Karnataka wins the toss and forces TN out of its comfort zone of batting second. Karnataka has faced some testing times on its way to the final. This, in a way, has prepared the team well for Monday’s clash. Karnataka has always found the trick to wriggle out of crunch situations — debutant Abhinav Manohar’s counter-punches stunning Saurashtra or Vidyadhar Patil’s final over against Vidarbha. PowerPlay problems However, Karnataka’s bowling in the PowerPlay has been far from impressive in recent times. If the opening over against Bengal went for 20 and the PowerPlay score was 52 for three, Vidarbha began with a 16-run over and reached 56 for one after six overs. TN has no such worries. In its last two victories, the batters and bowlers did their job, by turns. TN looks ready for Karnataka.  The 12 noon start almost takes the toss out of the equation The bragging rights are firmly with Karnataka after having beaten TN four times, including thrice in succession, in the last five encounters Unlike in Surat where the teams were almost at full strength, their upcoming clash is without most stars||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamil-nadu-karnataka-set-to-go-for-broke/article37618164.ece
22 November 2021||KOLKATA,||‘India at home one of the toughest challenges’||Experienced New Zealand batter Ross Taylor says playing India on its home soil is one of the toughest challenges and his team will be the ‘underdogs’ in the upcoming two-Test series, starting in Kanpur on November 25. Returning to action Taylor, who has been out of action after New Zealand’s World Test Championship victory in June, looks forward to playing international cricket again in the upcoming series. “Definitely, it’s going to be a challenge. I think there is no harder assignment than playing India at home or Australia away. They are probably the two toughest challenges in Test cricket at the moment,” said Taylor at a virtual press conference on Sunday. “We will be looking forward to putting up a good performance.” Asked about his plan for ace Indian spinner R. Ashwin, Taylor said, “I don’t want to give my secrets away just here. I don’t know what line-up India decides to go with. Axar Patel played a big role against England. “Now (whether) they are going to play three spinners or two spinners, obviously Ashwin will be one of them. They are very good bowlers, especially in these conditions, and how we play them will play a big part in how the series is going to go.” Taylor said he might employ his slog-sweep to put some pressure back on the Indian spinners. Need to adapt According to Taylor, it would not be prudent to focus only on the home spinners. “Fast bowling still remains a main element with the new ball and reverse swing. But spin more often plays a big part over here. So we could be naive if we assume only spin will play a key part.” Taylor said adapting to different playing conditions in Kanpur and Mumbai would be a key factor for the Kiwis.  Fast bowling still remains a main element with the new ball and reverse swing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/playing-india-at-home-one-of-the-toughest-challenges-says-ross-taylor/article37618172.ece
22 November 2021||Coimbatore,||Coimbatore to get a second racing track||There’s good news doing the rounds that Coimbatore will have its second racing track ready by next year. India’s ace Formula One driver Narain Karthikeyan told The Hindu here on Saturday: “It’s not going to be just a track but a high performance training centre with emphasis on many aspects that can serve automobile engineers, manufacturers and the entire motorsport community. It would be an FIA-certified Grade 2 circuit, Narain added. “Having two tracks would be great for not only Coimbatore but also the entire automotive ecosystem,” said National racing champion Arjun Balu. “I am glad that Coimbatore, the motorsport capital of India, is getting it’s second racing track. It can only help the sport reach greater heights,” said former FMSCI president and Coimbatore Auto Sports Club secretary J. Prithiviraj. Coimbatore Auto Sports and Transport Trust, in partnership with Mumbai Falcons Racing Limited, is working on the project. The foundation-laying ceremony for the track at Karumathampatti — approximately 30km from the city — was performed on Friday. Mumbai Falcons CEO Moid Tungekar thanked the founding members of the Trust and said they had done a lot for motorsports. “It’s a privilege to be associated with them and a tremendous honour to do it at the heart of motorsport in India. It can only help the motorsport community grow.” “Our chairman, Ameet Gadhoke, and our company has taken up the task of delivering a usable track by March 2022,” he added. Is it really possible? “It’s a challenge,” admitted Tungekar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/coimbatore-to-get-a-second-racing-track/article37618230.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vijayveer Sidhu clinches gold||Vijayveer Sidhu beat his twin brother Udhayveer Sidhu by one point to clinch the gold in the junior men 25-metre sports pistol event in the 64th National shooting championship here.  The results:   Junior men: 25m sports pistol: 1. Vijayveer Sidhu 587; 2. Udhayveer Sidhu 586; 3. Shiva Narwal 582 .    India’s Sukant Kadam claimed a gold at the Uganda para badminton international, while compatriot and World No. 1 and Tokyo Paralympics gold medallist Pramod Bhagat bagged three silvers here on Sunday. World No. 5 Kadam defeated compatriot Nilesh Balu Gaikwad 21-16, 17-21, 21-10 in the SL4 category. In the SL3 final, Bhagat was beaten by doubles partner Manoj Sarkar 19-21, 16-21. In the doubles, Bhagat and Sarkar lost 21-10, 20-22, 15-21 to compatriots Mohammad Arwaz Ansari and Deep Ranjan Bisoyee.  In SL3-SU5 mixed doubles, Bhagat and Palak Joshi lost 19-21, 16-21 to compatriots Ruthick Ragupathi and Manasi G. Joshi.       Tarang Gohel’s unbeaten 154 (94b, 12x4, 10x6) , and Adityasinh Jadeja’s five-wicket haul helped Saurashtra beat Tamil Nadu by 55 runs in the BCCI u-25 (Elite E) men’s one-dayer tournament here on Sunday.  The scores:   Saurashtra 298/8 in 50 overs (Tarang Gohel 154 n.o., Arjun Rathod 36, S. Mohan Prasath 3/32) bt Tamil Nadu 243 in 43.5 overs (Arjun P. Murthy 44, S. Lokeshwar 53, Pradosh Ranjan Paul 67, Adityasinh H. Jadeja 5/56, P. Rana 3/57).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijayveer-sidhu-clinches-gold/article37618167.ece
22 November 2021||Doha,||Hamilton wins comfortably, Verstappen second||Lewis Hamilton won Sunday's inaugural Qatar Grand Prix with a commanding performance from pole to cut Max Verstappen's lead to eight points. The Mercedes seven-time champion comfortably held off his arch Dutch rival's Red Bull under the Losail circuit's lights to leave the battle for the F1 drivers' crown delicately poised with only two races remaining. Fernando Alonso took third for Alpine, the former two-time world champion's first podium since 2014. One week on from arguably his toughest and greatest win in Brazil, Hamilton enjoyed one of his easiest. "We needed those points today. I can't wait to watch the race replay to find out what happened behind me," he said after his 102nd career win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-wins-comfortably-verstappen-second/article37618114.ece
22 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Olympics medal not a dream any more: Raman||Calling Tamil Nadu “the China of Indian TT”, Olympian S. Raman said the State has produced several paddlers in both the men and women sections at the National and International level, and that an Olympic medal for India and Tamil Nadu is not a dream anymore. “To help my ward(s) win an Olympic medal is the ultimate goal,” said the 52-year-old at a function organised by Tamil Nadu Table Tennis Association (TNTTA) at the Nehru Indoor Stadium here on Sunday to felicitate him for winning the Dronacharya Award. Raman said that he did his best both as a player and a coach. He credited Olympian G. Sathiyan for him getting the prestigious award. “It is due to the efforts of my players — and, importantly, due to the meritorious performance of Sathiyan — that I have been able to get the Dronacharya award,” he said.  Raman, a four-time National men’s singles champion thanked all his coaches: V. Ramachandran (ICF), Rao brothers (Srinivasa Rao & Muralidhara Rao), V. Chandrasekar, and his wife B. Bhuvaneswari. “When I started out [as a coach] I wanted to do what I couldn’t achieve as a player. The bronze medal at the 2018 Asian Games in Indonesia by the Indian men’s team was a great moment for us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-medal-not-a-dream-any-more-raman/article37618232.ece
22 November 2021||Pune:,||Parisian obliges in the feature event||Parisian, ridden by P.S. Chouhan, won the Serum Institute of India R.W.I.T.C. Ltd Gold Cup, the feature event of Sunday’s (Nov.21) races. The winner is owned by Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke, Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Keki D. Mehta & Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt. Ltd. P. Shroff trains the winner. Shroff stole the limelight by saddling five winners, while Chouhan rode four winners on the day.  1. ASSESSED PLATE (1,800m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: KAMARIA (Bhawani) 1, Walk The Talk (Kaviraj) 2, Chieftain (Kaviraj) 3 and Brazos (Parmar) 4. 2-3/4, Hd and 4-3/4. 1m, 54.55s. Rs. 28 (w), 14, 18 and 14 (p). SHP: 66, FP: 120, Q: 85, Tanala: 331 and 114. Favourite: Kamaria. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  2. GLASNOST PLATE (1,600m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: ZUCCARELLI (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Botero (C. Umesh) 2, Animous (Bhawani) 3 and Esfir (Zeeshan) 4. 5-1/4, 11 and 7-3/4. 1m, 37.74s. Rs. 10 (w), 11 and 13 (p). SHP: 19, FP: 19, Q: 20, Tanala: 17 and 14. Favourite: Zuccarelli. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd., Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP, M/s. Mukul Sonawala & A.S. Narielwala. Trainer: P. Shroff.  3. GULAMHUSEIN ESSAJI TROPHY (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: IMMEASURABLE (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Winter Storm (P. Dhebe) 2, Bold Advance (Dashrath) 3 and Marlboro Man (Sandesh) 4. Not run: Flash Force. 1-3/4, Sh and 4-1/4. 1m, 25.97s. Rs. 16 (w), 11, 19 and 27 (p). SHP: 52, FP: 108, Q: 79, Tanala: 555 and 402. Favourite: Immeasurable. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Bhupinder Singh. Trainer: P. Shroff.  4. PARTY WHIP PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: KINNARA (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Perfect Man (T.S. Jodha) 2, Camden Town (P. Dhebe) 3 and Jughead (Akshay Kumar) 4. 8-1/4, 1-1/2 and 1/2. 1m, 10.37s. Rs. 20 (w), 15, 11 and 28 (p). SHP: 23, FP: 52, Q: 32, Tanala: 260 and 205. Favourite: Kinnara. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Keki D. Mehta & Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  5. SERUM INSTITUTE OF INDIA R.W.I.T.C. LTD GOLD CUP (Gr. 2) (2,000m), (Terms) 4-y-o & over: PARISIAN (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Caprisca (Yash Narredu) 2, Apsara Star (C. Umesh) 3 and Truly Epic (Sandesh) 4. 6-3/4, 3 and 7-1/2. 2m, 6.69s. Rs. 11 (w), 12 and 23 (p). SHP: 25, FP: 29, 33, Q: 33, Tanala: 58 and 19. Favourite: Parisian. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke, Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Keki D. Mehta & Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  6. GULAMHUSEIN ESSAJI TROPHY (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. IV, 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: MULTISTARRER (Sandesh) 1, Northern Lights (Kirtish) 2, Red Carnation (Aniket) 3 and Evangeline (Akshay) 4. 2, Snk and 2. 1m, 26.20s. Rs. 29 (w), 17, 11 and 60 (p). SHP: 49, FP: 179, Q: 41, Tanala: 4,671 and 4,004. Favourite: Northern Lights. Owners: M/s. Homi Mehta, Jehangir Mehta, Nozer Panthaky, Mrs. Liane Luthria, Mr. Milan Luthria & Mrs. Homi Mehta. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  7. VILLOO C. POONAWALLA PUNE CITY GOLD CUP (Gr.3) (1,600m), (Terms) 3-y-o & over: RAMBUNCTIOUS (C. Umesh) 1, Born Queen (Sandesh) 2, Grand Accord (Bhawani) 3 and Augustus Caesar (T.S. Jodha) 4. 2-1/4, 1 and 1. 1m, 39.30s. Rs. 316 (w), 26, 11 and 28 (p). SHP: 42, FP: 820, Q: 361, Tanala: 19, 394. Favourite: Alluring Silver. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pv.t. Ltd. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. ALLIED FORCES PLATE (1,200m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: GRAND ARCHITECT (Kaviraj) 1, Sandra’s Secret (Sandesh) 2, Power Of Neath (Shelar) 3 and Istanbul (P. Vinod) 4. Hd, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 1m, 11.33s. Rs. 72 (w), 19, 12 and 52 (p). SHP: 37, FP: 350, Q: 57, Tanala: 8,529 and 7,311. Favourite: Sandra’s Secret. Owners: Mrs. Bakhtawar B. Chenoy & Mr. Darius B. Chenoy. Trainer: Bezan Chenoy. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 73,290 (c/o) and 30%: 1,083 (29 tkts.); Treble: (i) 34 (191 tkts.), (ii) 687 (10 tkts.); Super Jackpot: 70%: 20, 553 (1 tkt.) and 30%: 801 (11 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parisian-obliges-in-the-feature-event/article37618584.ece
22 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Athul, Akshit and Megha in last eight||Palakkad’s top-seeded Athul John Mathew defeated Thiruvananthapuram’s A.V. Akshay in straight games and moved to the under-19 boys quarterfinals of the Kerala State junior badminton championships at the Fr. Joseph Paikada Stadium, Devagiri, on Sunday. Alappuzha’s S. Akshit and S. Megha, the No. 1 in the under-17 boys and girls sections, also progressed to the quarterfinals.  The results (singles, pre-quarterfinals):   Boys: Under-19: Athul John Mathew (Pkd) bt A.V. Akshay (Tvm) 21-14, 21-18; Mikhael S. Varghese (Tvm) bt Adhin K. Ajay (Ekm) 21-19, 21-12; Fazim Abdu Anzar (Tsr) bt S.M. Aman Suresh (Tvm) 21-18, 21-11; Robens V. Roney (Alp) bt T.K. Ebij (Knr) 21-10, 21-15; Sridhar Sreekumar (Tsr) bt Alister Honey (Tvm) 21-8, 21-15; S.D. Aadithyan (Tvm) bt C.H. Chandrajith (Knr) 21-16, 21-12; Bharath Latheesh (Tsr) bt S. Akshit (Alp) 21-14, 17-21, 21-6; S. Abhishek (Ekm) bt V. Vishnu (Pkd) 21-12, 21-9.   Under-17: S. Akshit (Alp) w.o. Harishankar D. Nair (Ekm); Joseph Dilraj (Tsr) bt Rajatraj Ramesan (Tvm) 21-12, 21-9; T.S. Arjun (Alp) bt P. Amal (Tsr) 21-15, 21-9; Pranav Vallathoor, (Tsr) bt Muhammed Razal (Pkd) 21-15, 19-21, 21-14; Bharath Latheesh (Tsr) bt A.V. Akshay (Tvm) 21-7, 21-13; Aman Suresh (Tvm) bt Arjun Shine (Tvm) 23-21, 21-16; Mikhael S. Varghese (Tvm) bt Shuhaibu Malik (Koz) 20-22, 21-18, 21-14; S. Abhishek (Ekm) bt Parthiv V Nair (Tvm) 21-16, 21-13.   Girls: Under-19: Saniya Baby (Ekm) bt M.K. Eliza Drona (Knr) 21-18, 21-10; Farza Nazrin (Tvm) bt Ninu Maria Thomas (Wyd) 21-4, 21-8; T.R. Gowri Krishna (Pta) bt Gayathri Nambiar (Koz) 21-12, 21-12; Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) bt Anaswara Ajai (Ekm) 21-17, 21-14.   Under-17: S. Megha (Alp) w.o. Sreeya K. Menon (Ktm); Aadhya Shine (Tsr) bt Amrita Kumar (Pkd) 19-21, 21-8, 21-18; Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) bt J. Krishnajaunni (Tvm) 21-6, 21-11; P.G. Alakananda (Ekm) bt Nayonika Rajesh (Tvm) 21-17, 21-14; Pavithra Jayaraj (Alp) bt Saniya Baby (Ekm) 21-5, 21-14; Farza Nazrin (Tvm) bt V. Rosenitha (Pkd) 21-13, 21-12; Meenakshi Vinu (Tvm) bt Vinny Das (Koz) 24-22, 20-22, 21-16; C.H. Keerthika (Knr) bt Aparna Sajeev (Tsr) 21-18, 21-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athul-akshit-and-megha-in-last-eight/article37618480.ece
22 November 2021||Galle,||Solozano injured, but no structural damage||West Indies had a scare when Dimuth Karunaratne attempted a full-blooded pull shot off the bowling of Roston Chase and the ball crashed onto the helmet grill of Jeremy Solozano, who was fielding at short leg. Solozano underwent scans at a hospital in Colombo. Windies Cricket later took to Twitter and wrote, “Jeremy Solozano’s scans show no structural damage. He will be kept at the hospital overnight for observation. We will continue to keep you posted on any further updates from our Medical team.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/solozano-injured-but-no-structural-damage/article37618153.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai begins title defence against Goa||A refreshed Mumbai City FC will begin its Indian Super League (ISL) shield and title defence when it takes on FC Goa at the Fatorda Stadium in Margao on Monday. Club captain and No. 1 goalkeeper Amrinder Singh was released in the summer, while only defender Mourtada Fall and midfielder Ahmed Jahouh were retained among overseas players. Head coach Sergio Lobera was replaced by Des Buckingham, a little over a month back. With the addition of last season’s emerging player of the year, Lalengmawia, Mumbai City boasts of a set of youthful domestic players, who are ready to step up again. On Mumbai’s playing style, Fall, who was named captain earlier this week, said, “Our style of play — it's similar but the coach brings a bit more than what we had last season.” No team has defended the title in the short history of the league and the challenge for Buckingham will be to motivate the side to do it all over again. Ferrando’s Goa finished fourth last season before a semifinal exit to Mumbai City on penalties. After beginning the pre-season three months back, Goa’s preparations, which included a Durand Cup title win, will hold the squad in good stead compared to its competitors. “I think the most important thing for me in this moment is the team is clear on mentality in attack and defense. I hope in our plan, we see a big effort from the players and they enjoy on the pitch," said Ferrando. A win against Mumbai City will help Goa put down an early marker in a bid to stake a claim for the titles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-begins-title-defence-against-goa/article37618583.ece
22 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dahiya gets top seeding||Top seeds Aman Dahiya and Shruti Ahlawat will start as the favourites in the boys’ and girls’ sections of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis here from Monday.  The results (qualifying singles final round): Boys: Jaishnav shinde bt Omaansh Choudhary Saharia 7-5, 6-0; Karthik Pranav bt Nishit Rahane 6-4, 6-4; Lakshya Chugh bt Sagar Kumar 6-4, 7-5; Rethin Pranav bt Vineet Mutyala 7-6(4), 6-2.   Girls: Radhika Mahajan bt Rishitha Reddy 6-1, 4-6, [10-8]; Hitakamya Singh Narwal bt Suryanshi 6-4, 2-6, [10-6]; Niyati Kukreti bt Raja Sarvagnya Kilaru 6-2, 6-1; Tamanna Takoria bt Durganshi 4-6, 6-1, [11-9].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dahiya-gets-top-seeding/article37618281.ece
22 November 2021||Al-Musannah (Oman),||Varun and Ganapathy take 21st spot||The Indian pair of Varun Thakkar and K. C. Ganapathy finished 21st in the World sailing 49er championships at the Mussanah Sports City on Sunday. The other Indian combinations were Prince Noble-Manu Francis (31st spot) and Anand Thakur-Satyam Rangad (35th) The Dutch duo of Bart Lambriex-Floris van de Werken won the gold while the Tim Fischer-Fabian Graf combine from Germany bagged the silver. Denmark's Frederik Rask-Jakob Precht Jensen emerged third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/varun-and-ganapathy-take-21st-spot/article37618165.ece
22 November 2021||Dubai,||COVID-19 scare in SL women’s squad||Three Sri Lanka players have tested positive for COVID-19 at the ICC Women’s Cricket World Cup Qualifier 2021 in Zimbabwe. The players tested positive following a screening of all team members after two players showed mild symptoms, as per the bio-secure protocols in place for the nine-team event, which got underway in Harare on Sunday. The third player is believed to be asymptomatic. All three are isolating and receiving medical care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-19-scare-in-sl-womens-squad/article37618401.ece
22 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Spinners did the job for us, says Rohit||India captain Rohit Sharma looked at the positives from the T20I series win against New Zealand. “The way Harshal (Patel) bowled... it’s not easy when you bowl with a wet ball and try to execute those skills. In Ranchi and Kolkata we saw what he did. “The spinners did the job for us in the entire series. Chahal, playing after such a long time, the way he bowled was critical,” said Rohit. About the Eden T20I, Rohit said, “With the dew coming in, we wanted to get as many as possible in the PowerPlay. We had a plan as a batting group. There is room for improvement in the middle overs but we finished well. A lot of credit to our lower-order batting.” Coach Rahul Dravid said the team needed to be realistic. “We have to keep our feet on the ground. It was not easy for New Zealand to play in the World Cup and play after three days. There is a long journey ahead and we will have our ups and downs. We have given opportunities to younger players who have not played much. We have to see the skills available and build on those.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spinners-did-the-job-for-us-says-rohit/article37618133.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||THE RESULTS||1. Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) 1:24'28.471; 2. Max Verstappen (Red Bull Racing) + 25.743; 3. Fernando Alonso (Alpine) 59.457; 4. Sergio Perez (Red Bull Racing) 62.306; 5. Esteban Ocon (Alpine) 80.570; 6. Lance Stroll (Aston Martin) 81.274; 7. Carlos Sainz Jr (Ferrari) 81.911; 8. Charles Leclerc (Ferrari) 83.126; +1 lap: 9. Lando Norris (McLaren); 10. Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin); 11. Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri); 12. Daniel Ricciardo (McLaren); 13. Yuki Tsunoda (AlphaTauri); 14. Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); 15. Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo); 16. Mick Schumacher (Haas); +2 laps: 17. George Russell (Williams); 18. Nikita Mazepin (Haas); DNF: Nicholas Latifi (Williams); Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes).   Standings: Drivers': 1. Verstappen 351.5; 2. Hamilton 343.5; 3. Bottas: 203; 4. Perez 190; 5. Norris 153.   Constructors': 1. Mercedes 546.5; 2. Red Bull 541.5; 3. Ferrari 297.5; 4. McLaren 258; 5. Alpine 137 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-results/article37618115.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Lord Narayana’s accessibility||Alavandar in his Stotra Ratna says Lord Narayana has placed His feet on his head. He mentions this first, saying ‘mae moordhni.’ Then he says that the Lord is the One the Vedas point to us as the Supreme One. There are many Upanishad vakhyas, which point to His Supremacy. But why does Alavandar first mention the Lord’s feet placed on his head, and then speak of the Vedas? Should the Vedas not be spoken of first, considering that they are timeless and are apaurusheyam (not written by anyone)? But there is a reason for the order followed by Alavandar, said Valayapet Ramachariar in a discourse. When we set a goal for a person, he must have the confidence that it is attainable. Something that seems totally out of reach is not going to attract his attention. The Vedas are not easily comprehended by everyone. And if the Lord being the substance of the Vedas is first mentioned, people will be frightened off, thinking that He is beyond understanding. But if His putting His feet on a human being’s head is mentioned first, then the listener is drawn by the Lord’s quality of saulabhya. Kooratazhvan says that if one visits Hastigiri and sees Lord Varadaraja, then no one needs to instruct him about the Supreme One. He automatically realises that Lord Varadaraja is the Paramatma. The archa form is accessible, and it is this accessibility that people find appealing. So Alavandar first mentions the fact that will put our fears at rest and then takes up the subject of His Paratva (Supremacy). Krishna charmed the Gopikas with His simplicity. When He suddenly hid Himself from view, they rolled on the sand that had His footprints. Kooratazhvan, in his Atimanusha Stava, wishes he had been a particle of sand in Gokula, for then Krishna would have placed His feet on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/lord-narayanas-accessibility/article37618087.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 07:13 IST,||Sudoku — November 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-22-2021/article37618745.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Make learning engaging||Simply put, Cognitive Science is the study of mental processes and brain structures in acquiring, storing and using information. The field has multiple dimensions with cognitive psychology, philosophy and neurosciences being some of the more applied fields. Cognitive Science is being researched and used in any industry that requires human intervention and complex decision making. Right from education, smart cars, medical professions to security systems, cognitive science and related technology is making its mark. The foundation lies in understanding the core of cognitive processes. In education, we start from basic questions like ‘how long can one stay on a particular task before losing focus’, ‘how the brain interprets information’, and ‘how we can manage distractions.’ The objective is to understand how various perceptions like visual, auditory and tactile impact the learner and the process of learning. Educational processes become more engaging if teachers develop a better understanding of cognitive sciences and psychology. With increasing use of technology in all parts of life, data capture and processing have become a possibility that can be explored and used to impact decisions. The difficult part today is not the absence of technology but its abundance; it becomes vital to test and identify which tools can get the targeted outcomes. Understand the tool An educator needs to understand how any teaching/technology tool will be perceived by most learners and what will be the possible impact on visual, auditory and tactile perception. The tools that show more engagement data can be implemented across a wider range of learners. This requires experimentation and trying multiple tools on small groups of learners. So, an understanding and implementation of Cognitive Science and Psychology help in making informed decisions about learner engagement and the tools required. Cognitive sciences can also guide teacher decisions on how to design learning experiences and provide insights on how to use different components of an active classroom. With data on learner preferences and impact of tools, teachers can map time spent in class, teaching methods and assessment criteria with the students’ learning needs. The physical, mental, emotional and intellectual components of the classroom can be designed for better engagement based on learner perception. The big questions for educators and education providers are: How do we get every learner in the class to be engaged? What practices have to be implemented in the classroom so that learner distraction can be managed? How to build active learning processes? All of these can be answered by Cognitive Sciences. Almost every education professional would confirm that managing classroom distractions is a major challenge today. Learners have devices and multiple other sources of distractions. It makes a teacher’s job quite difficult as they are competing against these distractions for attention. This is not to say the learner doesn’t want to study. The problem is that learners think they can multitask and handle the learning as well as their distraction, without realising that they have limited cognitive resources. Cognitive Sciences help teachers in designing experiences that help them win the race for learner attention. Personalisation Another implementation of Cognitive Science in education is in designing a ‘learner-centric classroom’. It has been talked about for over a decade but making learning personal to every learner requires a mix of Cognitive Psychology and Cognitive Technology. This can guide the teacher in making performance-focussed learning plans. A teacher can recognise visual and auditory behaviour cues, and get a major share of working memory capacity of learners by making informed decisions. As classes become technology-enabled and get smarter, Cognitive Science will play a crucial role because, if we don’t see and perceive the situation, we would never be able to visualise abnormalities and won’t be able to diagnose and resolve it. The writer is Cognitive Scientist and Co-founder of Suraasa  Making learning personal to every learner requires a mix of Cognitive Psychology and Cognitive Technology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/make-learning-engaging/article37618006.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Move ahead||I am 20 years old and have graduated this year. I am preparing for UPSC with self-study, and 2022 will be my first attempt. My parents say that I have only one attempt and will get me married if I don’t make it. What should I do? — Mitali Dear Mitali, I am so sorry to hear about the immense pressure your parents are putting you through. Give your attempt the best, but also try and get them to see a family therapist with you. There is more to life beyond marriage and a failed attempt at UPSC for a 20-year-old. Hearing it objectively from a professional may help change their attitude. I am 22, and have completed BE in Civil Engineering this year. I decided to prepare for the UPSC but am also interested in Archaeology. What should I do? – Harinetha Dear Harinetha, Do you want a blue-collar or a white-collar job, as your choices here are diverse? Follow your passion and identify tasks and activities that you enjoy and would love to do for a chunk of your life, while getting paid. A career path is the ultimate pursuit of a lifelong ambition, goal, aim, and you are allowed to take your time to get there. I am a 24-year-old graduate (passed in 2019). I worked in a BPO, then as a steno, and paid an institute money to get a government job, but was unsuccessful. I am also obese and unable to focus on anything. I feel I have wasted my parents’ money, especially when we have financial constraints. What should I do? – Arshdeep Dear Arshdeep, First, please meet a good counselling psychologist in your city and get some help to get clarity of thought. Next, focus on your health and fix that. Get an insight into your skill sets and the kinds of jobs you may be interested in. Then, identify further certifications to spruce up your academic skills and abilities to start your work life. It doesn’t matter if this takes a little time; your mental health and overall wellness should be the main concern. I am a B.Tech. in ECE, and have been preparing for the UPSC CSE for around six years, and opted for History as optional in the Mains. I have developed a keen interest in the subject. Is it possible for me to pursue MA (History) and appear for NTA UGC-NET Exam and pursue a teaching career? – Harsh Vardhan Dear Harsh, Yes absolutely. History is always fascinating with the stories, incidents of the gone by era, culture, dates, past events, their cause and effect and impact. What is limiting you to do your Master’s? I also think it’s about time that you work on plan B and get your life moving ahead.     Disclaimer:  This column provides advice and suggestions on education and careers. It is merely a guiding voice from a practising career counsellor.        The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/move-ahead/article37618008.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Make learning engaging||Simply put, Cognitive Science is the study of mental processes and brain structures in acquiring, storing and using information. The field has multiple dimensions with cognitive psychology, philosophy and neurosciences being some of the more applied fields. Cognitive Science is being researched and used in any industry that requires human intervention and complex decision making. Right from education, smart cars, medical professions to security systems, cognitive science and related technology is making its mark. The foundation lies in understanding the core of cognitive processes. In education, we start from basic questions like ‘how long can one stay on a particular task before losing focus’, ‘how the brain interprets information’, and ‘how we can manage distractions.’ The objective is to understand how various perceptions like visual, auditory and tactile impact the learner and the process of learning. Educational processes become more engaging if teachers develop a better understanding of cognitive sciences and psychology. With increasing use of technology in all parts of life, data capture and processing have become a possibility that can be explored and used to impact decisions. The difficult part today is not the absence of technology but its abundance; it becomes vital to test and identify which tools can get the targeted outcomes. Understand the tool An educator needs to understand how any teaching/technology tool will be perceived by most learners and what will be the possible impact on visual, auditory and tactile perception. The tools that show more engagement data can be implemented across a wider range of learners. This requires experimentation and trying multiple tools on small groups of learners. So, an understanding and implementation of Cognitive Science and Psychology help in making informed decisions about learner engagement and the tools required. Cognitive sciences can also guide teacher decisions on how to design learning experiences and provide insights on how to use different components of an active classroom. With data on learner preferences and impact of tools, teachers can map time spent in class, teaching methods and assessment criteria with the students’ learning needs. The physical, mental, emotional and intellectual components of the classroom can be designed for better engagement based on learner perception. The big questions for educators and education providers are: How do we get every learner in the class to be engaged? What practices have to be implemented in the classroom so that learner distraction can be managed? How to build active learning processes? All of these can be answered by Cognitive Sciences. Almost every education professional would confirm that managing classroom distractions is a major challenge today. Learners have devices and multiple other sources of distractions. It makes a teacher’s job quite difficult as they are competing against these distractions for attention. This is not to say the learner doesn’t want to study. The problem is that learners think they can multitask and handle the learning as well as their distraction, without realising that they have limited cognitive resources. Cognitive Sciences help teachers in designing experiences that help them win the race for learner attention. Personalisation Another implementation of Cognitive Science in education is in designing a ‘learner-centric classroom’. It has been talked about for over a decade but making learning personal to every learner requires a mix of Cognitive Psychology and Cognitive Technology. This can guide the teacher in making performance-focussed learning plans. A teacher can recognise visual and auditory behaviour cues, and get a major share of working memory capacity of learners by making informed decisions. As classes become technology-enabled and get smarter, Cognitive Science will play a crucial role because, if we don’t see and perceive the situation, we would never be able to visualise abnormalities and won’t be able to diagnose and resolve it. The writer is Cognitive Scientist and Co-founder of Suraasa  Making learning personal to every learner requires a mix of Cognitive Psychology and Cognitive Technology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/make-learning-engaging/article37618005.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Make learning engaging||Simply put, Cognitive Science is the study of mental processes and brain structures in acquiring, storing and using information. The field has multiple dimensions with cognitive psychology, philosophy and neurosciences being some of the more applied fields. Cognitive Science is being researched and used in any industry that requires human intervention and complex decision making. Right from education, smart cars, medical professions to security systems, cognitive science and related technology is making its mark. The foundation lies in understanding the core of cognitive processes. In education, we start from basic questions like ‘how long can one stay on a particular task before losing focus’, ‘how the brain interprets information’, and ‘how we can manage distractions.’ The objective is to understand how various perceptions like visual, auditory and tactile impact the learner and the process of learning. Educational processes become more engaging if teachers develop a better understanding of cognitive sciences and psychology. With increasing use of technology in all parts of life, data capture and processing have become a possibility that can be explored and used to impact decisions. The difficult part today is not the absence of technology but its abundance; it becomes vital to test and identify which tools can get the targeted outcomes. Understand the tool An educator needs to understand how any teaching/technology tool will be perceived by most learners and what will be the possible impact on visual, auditory and tactile perception. The tools that show more engagement data can be implemented across a wider range of learners. This requires experimentation and trying multiple tools on small groups of learners. So, an understanding and implementation of Cognitive Science and Psychology help in making informed decisions about learner engagement and the tools required. Cognitive sciences can also guide teacher decisions on how to design learning experiences and provide insights on how to use different components of an active classroom. With data on learner preferences and impact of tools, teachers can map time spent in class, teaching methods and assessment criteria with the students’ learning needs. The physical, mental, emotional and intellectual components of the classroom can be designed for better engagement based on learner perception. The big questions for educators and education providers are: How do we get every learner in the class to be engaged? What practices have to be implemented in the classroom so that learner distraction can be managed? How to build active learning processes? All of these can be answered by Cognitive Sciences. Almost every education professional would confirm that managing classroom distractions is a major challenge today. Learners have devices and multiple other sources of distractions. It makes a teacher’s job quite difficult as they are competing against these distractions for attention. This is not to say the learner doesn’t want to study. The problem is that learners think they can multitask and handle the learning as well as their distraction, without realising that they have limited cognitive resources. Cognitive Sciences help teachers in designing experiences that help them win the race for learner attention. Personalisation Another implementation of Cognitive Science in education is in designing a ‘learner-centric classroom’. It has been talked about for over a decade but making learning personal to every learner requires a mix of Cognitive Psychology and Cognitive Technology. This can guide the teacher in making performance-focussed learning plans. A teacher can recognise visual and auditory behaviour cues, and get a major share of working memory capacity of learners by making informed decisions. As classes become technology-enabled and get smarter, Cognitive Science will play a crucial role because, if we don’t see and perceive the situation, we would never be able to visualise abnormalities and won’t be able to diagnose and resolve it. The writer is Cognitive Scientist and Co-founder of Suraasa  Making learning personal to every learner requires a mix of Cognitive Psychology and Cognitive Technology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/make-learning-engaging/article37618004.ece
22 November 2021||November 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Inside Lin-Manuel Miranda’s meta musical||In Lin-Manuel Miranda’s world, throwing a shoe at a performer is the highest form of praise. For early rehearsals of Tick, Tick... Boom! , lead actor Andrew Garfield was not exempt from the custom. Miranda laughs at the memory and says, “I wasn’t aiming at him, just to be clear. It’s just choir! When someone has a killer solo, you take off your shoe, chuck it and go ‘damn it, that’s amazing!’ It started with In The Heights [his 2005 musical] , and that’s what I do when I run out of words to express myself.” Miranda, 41, is all smiles over a video interview as he gears up for the world to watch his feature film directorial debut . The stage-to-screen adaptation follows the late Jonathan Larson during one of his most vulnerable moments as a playwright and composer. Set in a 90s New York of curly-coiled telephone cords and oversized trench coats, Tick, Tick... Boom! is a musical within a musical. It narrates how Larson, after working for eight years on his dystopian rock musical Superbia , had to eventually give up his dream. Audiences follow his story of creative loss, financial woes, and personal turmoil as he races towards a deadline — the metronomical tick, tick, tick — to put together a workshop for the musical, as he nears his 30-year milestone. Even after his passing in 1996, Larson’s legacy as a game-changer for American theatre holds strong, and Miranda hopes no one ever forgets it. It was after watching Rent — the rock musical that won Larson three posthumous Tony Awards and a posthumous Pulitzer Prize for Drama — as a 17-year-old, that Miranda realised he, too, could write a play and have a diverse cast in a Broadway show. When he watched Tick, Tick... Boom! in its Off-Broadway incarnation in 2001, he “loved that it was not about the story of writing Rent or of a guy writing his masterpiece. It felt like a private message in a bottle from Jonathan, that said ‘This is harder than you think it’s going to be, but it’s worth it if you really love it.’ It was scary and incredibly clarifying for me”. Miranda enjoyed Tick, Tick... Boom! so much that he ended up playing Larson in the 2014 Encores! Off-Centre Revival. That said, he hopes the Netflix film, which released on November 19, will be “a whole new homing beacon for artistes questioning whether they are pursuing the right path”. Because it is, ultimately, a love letter to American theatre — as was Miranda’s magnum opus Broadway show, Hamilton . The ripple effect of the 2015 production (which raked in $30 million in advance ticket sales alone) was global; people in other countries booked flights to New York just so they could watch the rap musical, which follows the story of USA founding father, Alexander Hamilton. Disney+ later inked a deal with Miranda to get a filmed version on the platform and it proved successful: between July 3 and 13, 2020, more than 2.7 million households streamed it.  More power to musicals  The post- Hamilton boom has ignited a new appreciation for musicals everywhere. Miranda has always believed that “musicals are like real life, but better”. He tells me: “Wouldn’t it be wonderful to live in a world where you can break into song and express your heart’s desires, and you have just the right lyrics to express how you’re feeling in that moment? ” “Basically, every project I’ve done since Hamilton has been the film school I could never afford,” says the composer. He has worked with Rob Marshall on Mary Poppins Returns (2018), produced Fosse/Verdon (2019) with Tommy Kail, and shadowed John M Chu when he directed the 2020 film In The Heights (the earliest draft of the stage musical was written by Miranda in 1999). His new projects include South America’s first Disney feature film, Encanto , and the Halle Bailey-starrer The Little Mermaid .  Fearless Garfield  For Tick, Tick... Boom! , it made sense that Miranda would want to work with like-minded people, needing “a theatre animal” to play Larson. In 2017, Garfield’s emotive portrayal of Prior Walter in the six-hour production Angels of America at the National Theatre in London, caught his eye. Trained by vocal coach Liz Caplan, The Amazing Spider-Man star was encouraged to think about singing in a new way, which worked well. “Liz is not someone who says ‘this is how you sing’ but rather ‘what’s blocking you from singing?’ Andrew had an inherent musicality that had barriers, and it was amazing watching, during reading after reading, how he would sing a little more and louder,” Miranda says. He conveys nothing but “amazed respect” for the actor. “These notes are hard for even the most seasoned of singers to pull off, and he got himself there.” Like few others in the industry, Miranda — who is one Oscar away from EGOT (Emmy, Grammy, Oscar, Tony) status — understands the weighted responsibilities of adaptations, particularly those of the stage-to-screen variety. That said, the story of Tick, Tick... Boom! has been foundational to Miranda’s career and life, given there is a strong parallel to the sentimental value of In The Heights . “I still feel connected to those times of not knowing if I was going to pay my rent; I needed teachers to get sick so that I could get enough substitute teaching gigs to do so. That was my main job while I was in my first theatre show In The Heights ,” he shares. “But there is real wisdom in that lesson.” As expected, the film builds upon the original story to aid Larson’s journey, and Miranda worked with screenwriter Steven Levenson to bring even more humanity to it, to the point where audiences leave pondering the bigger picture of the pursuit of happiness. He also wanted to be as close to Larson as possible — speaking with Ira Weitzman, who had fought with Larson over production issues; Roger Bart, who sang backup for the one-man show of Tick, Tick... Boom! ; composer Steven Sondheim (who was also a mentor to Miranda); Matt O’Grady (his best friend) and even past girlfriends. “They knew we weren’t going for sainthood in making this movie, given it is semi-autobiographical.” Miranda wanted to create the right world for this intimate story, sourcing the very furniture that sat in Larson’s closet-sized apartment. He also wanted the film to be a springboard for Larson’s other music that the world never got to hear. As Miranda delves into the essence of the story, he talks with his hands as though he is physically unravelling how intricate and intimate the story of Larson is. “It’s the story of a guy spending years writing a show no one got to see. What do you take out of that? Well, the first is you write a show called Tick, Tick... Boom! and say, ‘No one is making my things!’ So much of Tick, Tick... Boom! is inadvertently a portrait of this great young man while he was still finding his voice — and you really feel his influences here.” He motions to his left, offering examples: “This sounds like the work of composer Steven Sondheim,” and then to his right, “The structure is similar to Company and Sunday in the Park w ith George ,” then brings it forward, “And then you hear songs and think ‘This sounds like Rent but it’s not Rent yet!’” He settles down and ponders before concluding, “I get hopeful with stories like that; this guy hasn’t even started writing Rent yet and he was able to find the inner resources to get back on the horse, get back at the piano, and start again. And that’s a lesson we are always learning.” Continued on page 3||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/inside-lin-manuel-mirandas-meta-musical/article37618512.ece
