23 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||We care more for a policy on MSP than PM’s apology: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that the withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was not enough, stressing that farmers had other issues that needed to be resolved, the most important among them being a law for guaranteed minimum support price (MSP). Speaking at a day-long Kisan Mahapanchayat in Eco Garden Park in Lucknow, where the farmers vowed to carry on their agitation, Mr. Tikait said there was no need to set up a new committee for a law on MSP; nor do the people have time for such a committee. He said a report submitted in 2011 by a group of Chief Ministers, led by Mr. Modi, who was ruling Gujarat then, to then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had recommended a law for MSP. The report was still lying in the PMO, Mr. Tikait said. Mr. Modi should give a clear answer to the people of the country if he would implement this report or not, said the BKU leader, stressing that they cared more about a policy for MSP than his apology. He also accused the Government of lying that it had formed a committee on guaranteed MSP, and said the government wanted to convert the entire country into a “private mandi ”. He said Mr. Modi had spoken sweet words and his voice was even sweeter than honey when announcing the repeal of the laws. However, he said, “I have doubts. We want a strong PM. We don’t want a weak PM. You can talk tough but also provide solutions to our problems.” The BKU leader said a sangharsh-vishram (ceasefire) had been declared by the Government and not farmers. “The struggle will continue. The Government should talk to farmers about the issues related to them or else we are not going to go away. Meetings will be held all over the country and we will tell the people about your work,” he said. He told the Mahapanchayat that while the BJP Government would go on selling the country, mandis and village land, it would keep people enmeshed in issues around “Hindu-Muslim,” “Hindu-Sikh” and “Jinnah.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/we-care-more-for-a-policy-on-msp-than-pms-apology-tikait/article37637070.ece
23 November 2021||Vijayawada,||Three-capital Act revoked||The Andhra Pradesh government passed a Bill to repeal the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, and the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) Repeal Act of 2020 on Monday to come up with a more comprehensive legislation that ‘dispels the wrong notions of the land-givers in Amaravati’ and clarifies its position on the legalities raised by the petitioners in the Andhra Pradesh High Court. However, it laid out no timeframe for the exercise. According to the Bill, which was moved by Finance and Legislative Affairs Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, the repeal of the Acts was intended to undertake further study and consultations to impart more clarity to the policy of decentralisation and an exhaustive explanation to all sections of people. Making a statement on the issue, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said his government was against committing the historic blunder (of copying the mega city model in seeking to construct a greenfield capital city in Amaravati at a huge cost) which the previous dispensation did with scant regard to the aspirations of people of all regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-capital-act-revoked/article37637061.ece
23 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Crops on over 1.05 lakh hectares lost in Dharwad||Heavy rainfall during November has come as a shock to farmers of Dharwad district where agricultural crops in 96,583 hectares of land have been damaged and horticultural crops in 8,759 hectares of land affected. According to an assessment made by the officials of departments of Agriculture and Horticulture, untimely rain has damaged chilli, cotton, Bengal gram, maize and paddy crops, apart from horticultural crops. Cotton and chilli crops have suffered heavy damage, followed by Bengal gram, maize, paddy and jowar. Farmers are apprehensive of continuous rainfall increasing the chances of pest attack. Red chilli grown in Kundgol and Hubballi taluks has been damaged in nearly 7,000 hectares. Chilli was grown in 22,000 hectares and almost 40% of the crop has been damaged. Horticultural crops, including onion, flowers and tomato, and various other vegetables in 8,759 hectares have been damaged. As per the initial assessment report, cotton in 11,616 hectares, maize in 4,213 hectares, paddy in 2,138 hectares, jowar in 755 hectares and wheat in 535 hectares have been damaged due to heavy downpour and incessant rainfall. Standing crops in 3,455 hectares of agricultural land in Dharwad taluk, 1,701 hectares in Alnavar, 14,071 hectares in Hubballi Rural taluk, 964 hectares in Hubballi Urban, 4,058 hectares in Kalghatgi, 31,805 hectares in Kundgol, 26,121 hectares in Navalgund and 14,408 hectares in Annigeri taluk have been completely damaged. According to the report, floriculturists in Uppin Betageri, Mangalgatti, Kurubgatti have suffered the maximum loss. Marigold flowers which used to fetch Rs. 250 per kg have been totally damaged. A majority of farmers in these villages who opted for flower cultivation have incurred losses. Various flowers grown in more than 130 hectares have been damaged, the report said. Visit Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil visited some of the fields in Kundgol, Dharwad and Hubballi taluks and to assess the ground reality. He said that a joint survey by officials of revenue, agriculture and horticulture departments has been initiated to assess the crop damage. While rain has subsided, it has left behind a trail of destruction and a report on crop and property damage will be submitted to the government immediately, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crops-on-over-105-lakh-hectares-lost-in-dharwad/article37637338.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Six MLC nominees from TRS elected unanimously||As expected, all six candidates nominated by the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) from the MLA quota were elected unanimously as no other candidates filed nomination papers. Returning Officer and Joint Secretary of the State Legislature Upender Reddy reported that the biennial election is uncontested and therefore, the candidates are declared elected, the Election Commission said in a press release. Of the 119 seats in the Assembly, the TRS has representation of over 100 in addition to support of MIM, which has seven seats. The Congress and BJP have therefore decided not to contest as the result would anyway be one-sided. The Commission said no nomination had been withdrawn till the 3 p.m. deadline set for withdrawal of nominations on Monday. It was a foregone conclusion that TRS would retain the six vacant seats under the MLA quota in the biennial election given the majority it has in the Assembly. Those who were elected are — Gutha Sukender Reddy, Kadiyam Srihari, Banda Prakash, Padi Koushik Reddy, T. Ravinder Rao and P. Venkatarami Reddy. Announcing their unanimous election Mr. Upender Reddy handed over the certificates to all of them on Monday evening. Later speaking to reporters, all the newly elected MLCs thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for providing them an opportunity to serve the people. “Telangana is ahead of all other States in the country in development. We work for the development of Telangana under the leadership of Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. The Chief Minister has been trying to do justice to all sections in society. The BJP government at the Centre has been trying to create hurdles in the path of Telangana unable to digest the development taking place here. It is seven years since Narendra Modi led BJP came to power at Centre. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has fallen drastically during the BJP rule and it went to minus during the COVID-19 pandemic. Why has GDP fallen if Modi is a successful and capable leader?” asked the TRS MLCs. Minister V. Prashanth Reddy was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-mlc-nominees-from-trs-elected-unanimously/article37637363.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||Capital on a short fuse: rage crimes shoot up||Last month, the national capital witnessed at least six incidents — the highest in a month this year so far — of rage crimes or murders under sudden provocation over trivial issues. These crimes have been perpetrated for reasons such as disputes over parking space, not paying for cigarettes, playing loud music, grazing cars or cycle rickshaws on the road and the price of a commodity, among others. They also include drunken quarrels over matters such as speaking ill about someone’s wife or girlfriend, police said. Senior police officers said every year, over 18%-19% murders take place due to “sudden provocation over trivial issues”. According to police data, 379 murder cases have been registered till October 31 while 640 cases of attempt to murder have been lodged till the same period. Traffic police officers said last year, 32 cases of road rage were reported while this year, 16 such incidents have been recorded so far. Police said in 2018 too, 21% of the total murder cases were due to “sudden provocation” while 38% were due to personal enmity. Moreover, 11% of the murders were crime related and 11% crimes of passion. In most cases this year, a knife or a sharp object such as a blade constituted the most used weapon. ‘Low on patience’ Several officers The Hindu spoke to said such crimes are not preventable as they have more to do with an individual’s hot-headedness at the time of the incident rather than strict law enforcement mechanisms. “Nowadays there is no patience left among the public... everyone is in a hurry and murders have taken place if someone is not given a parking space or is holding up the traffic on the road,” said DCP (Outer District) Parvinder Singh. “A fast-paced lifestyle, economic imbalance in society and constant work pressure also prompt a person towards taking such a step,” said Dr. Samir Parikh, psychiatrist at Fortis Healthcare.  Everyone is in a hurry and murders have taken place if someone is not given parking space or is holding up traffic on the road Parvinder Singh DCP (Outer District)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-on-a-short-fuse-rage-crimes-shoot-up/article37637261.ece
23 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Tatkal fares reversed to normal||Southern Railway has completed at its Chennai Data Centre changes in Tatkal fare to normal fare for 39 holiday/festival special trains of Southern Railway and 47 holiday/festival special trains of South Western Railway. Other Zonal Railways too have followed suit. Meanwhile, the Centre for Railway Information System (CRIS) and five Regional Data Centres of Indian Railways have completed renumbering of all mail/express trains running on Indian Railways by 5.30 a.m. on Sunday, that is within six days as against the seven-day target. The Railways had announced that the Passenger Reservation System (PRS) will remain shut for six hours between 11.30 p.m. and 5.30 a.m. from November 14 to November 21 to facilitate change in train numbers from special (starting with 0) to regular (starting with 1 or 2). With this exercise, all train numbers have been brought back to the old train numbers as it existed before the pandemic struck. In Chennai Data Centre, train numbers of 314 trains originating in Southern Railway and 172 trains originating in South Western Railway were renumbered during the period. A release from Southern Railway said that train services that were suspended in March 2020 due to COVID-19 were reintroduced as mail/express specials and holiday specials in June 2020. While the Railways did not collect excess fares for mail/express trains, though they were called special trains, it did collect Tatkal fares for holiday/festival special trains. Indian Railways decided to run all these trains as regular services with train numbers and fares that existed before COVID-19. Notwithstanding the introduction of regular train services, some restrictions introduced during COVID-19 will continue to be enforced. General coaches of these trains will be run as reserved coaches (second sitting class) unless they are notified as unreserved coaches by the respective zones. The zones are working towards de-reserving general coaches in a phased manner on mail/express trains. Also, passengers have to follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, including social distancing, wearing face covers, while they are on Railway premises and on trains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tatkal-fares-reversed-to-normal/article37637526.ece
23 November 2021||MYSURU,||Curbs for jatra inside Bandipur Tiger Reserve||The Forest Department has introduced stringent curbs to regulate a temple festival in the core area of Bandipur Tiger Reserve. The festival is slated to take place from November 27 to December 1. The authorities have said that the curbs for the Beladakuppe jatra mahotsava in the Hediyala range of Bandipur is a precautionary measure in view of the pandemic and the imperatives of ensuring COVID-19 guidelines besides implementation of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA). As per the guidelines issued by the authorities only the temple priest and the trustees can visit the temple for the religious rites but the temple will remain out of bounds for the public and the devotees. In addition, those who will be permitted to enter the core area for the religious rites should carry a COVID-19 negative certificate not older than 72 hours before seeking entry to the forests to take part in the jatra. The Beladakuppe jatra mahotsava has become a delicate issue with the Forest Department striving to strike a balance between implementation of the WPA 1972 and also ensuring that the religious sentiments of the local community is respected.  However, the jatra mahotsava over the last few years is growing in scale and becoming unwieldy as a result of which wildlife activists have sought the relocation of temple or scaling down the event to allow only the priests and temple trustees to carry out the religious rites. The concern stems from the habitat disturbance due to the congregation of thousands of people inside the tiger reserve. Besides, wasted cooked food tends to be left behind which attract wild animals who could get habituated to them and enter human landscape in search of it in future accentuating human-animal conflict which is already high in the region. Efforts to relocate the temple has not been backed by political leadership and a stakeholders’ meeting attended by seers a few years ago had fizzled out with no follow-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-for-jatra-inside-bandipur-tiger-reserve/article37637550.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,||CRDA Act revived||The Repeal Bill led to the revival of CRDA Act, 2014 and the resultant retransfer of all assets and liabilities of the Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA) to the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA). All employees of the AMRDA will now be deemed to be employed under CRDA once again. Meanwhile, a full bench of the High Court led by Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra directed Advocate General S. Sriram to file an affidavit by November 26 to enable it to hear the three capitals cases in the context of the passage of the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of all Regions Repeal Bill, 2021 in the Assembly, from November 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crda-act-revived/article37637067.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear Mullaperiyar dam case on Dec. 10||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to expeditiously and comprehensively hear questions on the safety and maintenance of the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam, especially during heavy rain. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar fixed a hearing of the case on December 10 for directions, immediately after the conclusion of two ongoing cases before it. The Bench said the Registry would put up the Mullaperiyar case even earlier than December 10 if the two part-heard matters were concluded sooner than expected. Justice Khanwilkar said the diverse petitions filed on the various aspects of safety, maintenance of the dam and security of the people living near it should be heard comprehensively. Court’s assurance The court assured the parties it would go into the details of every aspect put forth before it in the various petitions. The Tamil Nadu government has so far stood firm by its position in the court that the dam is “hydrologically, structurally and seismically safe”. It had blamed a “social media campaign” triggered in Kerala against the dam. It said the steady flow of petitions to the court from Kerala, questioning the dam’s safety, even calling for its decommissioning, was a bid to harass it. It accused Kerala of trying “somehow to prevent Tamil Nadu to raise the level to 142 ft. at the Mullaiperiyar dam on one pretext or the other by raising issues which have been fully addressed by experts from Central Water Commission [CWC]”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-to-hear-mullaperiyar-dam-case-on-dec-10/article37637068.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi/ Kolkata,||Tripura violence finds an echo in North Block||After a nearly four-hour protest in front of North Block, which houses the Union Home Ministry here, the Trinamool Congress MPs met Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday, to flag the reported violence against their party workers in Tripura. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also reached Delhi for a four-day visit. A 17-member Trinamool delegation reached North Block at 11.30 a.m. to meet Mr. Shah. When they were told that he was not available for a meeting, they staged a sit-down protest. At 4 p.m., Mr. Shah finally met the delegation. The party has accused the BJP of orchestrating the attacks in Tripura and alleged that the police were sheltering the perpetrators from the ruling party. Trinamool national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, who reached Agartala on Monday, was denied permission to hold a rally by the police, citing the law and order situation and political violence. Civic elections in the State are scheduled for November 25. Kalyan Banerjee, MP, told reporters after the meeting: “We told him in detail how leaders were arrested and MPs were beaten up. He said he spoke to the Tripura Chief Minister over phone yesterday and will seek a report from the State”. Ms. Banerjee told reporters in Kolkata that she would be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tripura-violence-finds-echoes-in-national-capital/article37637064.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,||CM to ink MoUs worth over Rs. 35,200 cr. today||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will ink deals with 59 firms across various sectors, entailing investments of over Rs. 35,200 crore, with a potential to generate over 75,000 jobs, at an investment conclave in Coimbatore on Tuesday. He will also lay the foundation stone for 13 projects involving an investment of Rs. 13,413 crore, and inaugurate 10 projects completed at a cost of around Rs. 3,928 crore. Government sources said the Tamil Nadu FinTech policy will be released after the Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) are signed. A single-window mobile app and an aerospace and defence directory will also be launched. Of the 59 MoUs, two are SPA (structured package of assistance) – with Japanese firm Daicel Corporation, who will be investing Rs. 230 crore to make auto-components at Chengalpattu, and the second one is with PCBL (TN) Limited, who will invest Rs. 600 crore at Tiruvallur. France-based Dassault Systèmes will set up a centre of excellence for virtual and design engineering. Sources added that Dalmia Bharat Green Vision Limited will set up a cement grinding unit at Coimbatore, Chengalpattu and Virudhunagar. The firm has given an investment commitment of Rs. 2,600 crore. In the food space, Hindustan Unilever Limited will invest Rs. 1,900 crore to manufacture nutritional and beverage products. TVS Motor will be exchanging an MoU worth Rs. 1,200 crore for manufacturing of electric vehicles at Krishnagiri. Another big ticket deal worth Rs. 2,455 crore will be from Welspun One Logistics Parks for an industrial park venture at Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. “Some aerospace and defence deals will also be signed for manufacturing components for these two sectors. One of the projects that will be signed will entail establishing a flight training organisation for aircraft and drone pilots,” an official source said. He further said considering the rapid increase of electric vehicles, deals would be inked with companies that were involved in e-vehicle charging stations.  The firm has given an investment commitment of Rs. 2,600 crore. In the food space, Hindustan Unilever Limited will invest Rs. 1,900 crore to manufacture nutritional and beverage products. TVS Motor will be exchanging an MoU worth Rs. 1,200 crore for manufacturing of electric vehicles at Krishnagiri. Another big ticket deal worth Rs. 2,455 crore will be from Welspun One Logistics Parks for an industrial park venture at Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. “Some aerospace and defence deals will also be signed for manufacturing components for these two sectors. One of the projects that will be signed will entail establishing a flight training organisation for aircraft and drone pilots,” an official source said. He further said considering the rapid increase of electric vehicles, deals would be inked with companies that were involved in e-vehicle charging stations. There are six MoUs pertaining to data centres, and some of them are phase-2 expansion deals. In the recent months, the State government has been betting big in the data centre space and wooing firms to invest here. Data shows that with a current capacity of 54MW, Chennai is slowly emerging as a data centre hub, and is likely to increase supply by 1.3 times over the next two years, with a planned pipeline of 79 MW. Currently, the city has the third highest data centre capacity in India after Mumbai (199MW) and Bengaluru (57MW).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-cm-to-ink-mous-worth-over-rs-35200-cr-today/article37637137.ece
23 November 2021||GUNTUR,||CM orders quick relief for flood victims||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed his officials to ensure that an immediate aid consisting of 25 kg rice, 1 kg each of dal, cooking oil, onion and potato and Rs. 2,000 should be provided to each family affected by the recent floods in the State. During a video conference at the Secretariat here on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the Collectors of the flood-affected districts to ensure that village and ward secretariat is considered as a unit and the services of volunteers should be utilised to extend support to each family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-orders-quick-relief-for-flood-victims/article37637066.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Helping hand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/helping-hand/article37637107.ece
23 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha puts radio-collaring of elephants on hold||The Odisha Forest and Environment department on Monday put its ambitious project of putting radio collars on elephants on hold after five persons sustained injuries when they were attacked by an elephant while attempting to tranquillise it for that purpose. On Monday morning, Forest department employees along with experts from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, had tried to fasten a tusker with a radio collar near Khordha. According to Forest department sources, the team had successfully darted the tranquilliser at the tusker, but it was not fully sedated. When they approached it to fasten the radio collar, the elephant awoke and attacked them. One of those attacked was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bhubaneswar, while four others were discharged after preliminary treatment. The department had also failed during a similar exercise to fix a radio collar on another elephant near Chandaka Wildlife Sanctuary on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar a few days ago. The department in collaboration with the Asian Nature Conservation Foundation and IISc, Bengaluru, was implementing the radio collar project in the State for the first time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-puts-radio-collaring-of-elephants-on-hold/article37637573.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Join probe, SC tells Param Bir||The Supreme Court on Monday granted former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh protection from arrest and directed him to join the investigation against him after he said he was “very much in the country” and had not fled abroad. He said he was fighting the might of a “draconian” State and its police, which has hounded him for having the “courage to expose” the alleged doings of former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who is facing money laundering charges. Mr. Singh, who is accused of corruption and extortion, portrayed himself as a whistle-blower who “does not want to give the impression that I am afraid of anything”. Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, leading a Bench with Justice M.M. Sundaresh, remarked, “The matter has become curiouser and curiouser in the battle between the former Home Minister and the Police Commissioner.” ‘Don’t want to leave India’ Advocate Puneet Bali, for Mr. Singh, said his “client does not want to leave the country”. He was willing to cooperate, except for the imminent threat against him. “What faith will I have in the police now?” he argued. Justice Kaul said, “We find this picture very disturbing... If the former Police Commissioner says he faces threats and has lack of faith in the police, what would be the fate of the common man?” Mr. Bali said his client had recorded and handed over transcripts of WhatsApp communications with a senior police officer, who advised him to back off or face serious cases that would be mounted against him as a retaliation for complaining against Mr. Deshmukh. “He said I cannot fight the State... That officer does not deny anything. With this, what expectations can I have from the State? All hell broke loose after I made the complaint,” Mr. Bali said. The court directed Mr. Singh to cooperate with the probe against him but said he “shall not be arrested”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-protects-param-bir-from-arrest/article37636846.ece
23 November 2021||Chennai,||Central team visits flood-hit pockets||A four-member team of the Union Government, led by Rajiv Sharma, Joint Secretary in the Home Ministry, visited flood-affected areas of the city on Monday to assess damage. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi accompanied the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-team-visits-flood-hit-pockets/article37637155.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,||S.R. Patil fails to make it to Cong. candidate list||The Congress on Monday evening released its list of 20 candidates for the Legislative Council elections, with several new faces figuring on it. One of the biggest surprises was Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council S.R. Patil being denied the ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sr-patil-fails-to-make-it-to-cong-candidate-list/article37637109.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||IRCTC yields, changes staff’s saffron attire||Following objections and threats by seers from Ujjain over the saffron attire of waiters aboard the Ramayana Express, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation on Monday said it had changed the staff dress code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/irctc-yields-changes-staffs-saffron-attire/article37637262.ece
23 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Congress strikes a balance in Rajasthan||The Cabinet expansion carried out in Rajasthan has sought to bring together the rival camps in the ruling Congress in a balancing act with an eye on the 2023 Assembly election. The exercise has also made an attempt to correct caste and regional imbalances in the Council of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-strikes-a-balance-in-rajasthan/article37637263.ece
23 November 2021||Patna,||LJP-RJD alliance likely in Bihar polls||The Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) is likely to form a new alliance with the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal in Bihar to contest the upcoming Legislative Council elections to 24 seats. The party chief, Chirag Paswan, may make this announcement on November 28, the party’s foundation day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ljp-rjd-alliance-likely-in-bihar-polls/article37637492.ece
23 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab poll: AAP promises Rs. 1K per month for women||In a bid to garner the support of women in Punjab ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll, AAP chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday promised to give Rs. 1,000 per month to women above the age of 18 if the party comes to power in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-poll-aap-promises-rs-1k-per-month-for-women/article37637493.ece
23 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Congress strikes a balance in Rajasthan||The Cabinet expansion carried out in Rajasthan has sought to bring together the rival camps in the ruling Congress in a balancing act with an eye on the 2023 Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-strikes-a-balance-in-rajasthan/article37637494.ece
23 November 2021||Patna,||LJP-RJD alliance likely in Bihar polls||The Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) is likely to form a new alliance with the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal in Bihar to contest the upcoming Legislative Council elections to 24 seats. The party chief, Chirag Paswan, may make this announcement on November 28, the party’s foundation day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ljp-rjd-alliance-likely-in-bihar-polls/article37637569.ece
23 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab poll: AAP promises Rs. 1K per month for women||In a bid to garner the support of women in Punjab ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll, AAP chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday promised to give Rs. 1,000 per month to women above the age of 18 if the party comes to power in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-poll-aap-promises-rs-1k-per-month-for-women/article37637570.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks info on ex gratia for COVID-19 victims||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Centre to “gather information” from the States on the progress made by them in disbursement of the ex gratia compensation of Rs. 50,000 to the kin of those who died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-seeks-info-on-ex-gratia-for-covid-19-victims/article37637571.ece
23 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Congress strikes a balance in Rajasthan||The Cabinet expansion carried out in Rajasthan has sought to bring together the rival camps in the ruling Congress in a balancing act with an eye on the 2023 Assembly election. The exercise has also made an attempt to correct caste and regional imbalances in the Council of Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-strikes-a-balance-in-rajasthan/article37637572.ece
23 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Rs. 7.5 crore for flood relief in Dharwad||Dharwad district in-charge Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa has said that the State Government has released Rs. 7.5 crore for Dharwad district for taking up immediate flood relief works. Steps will be taken to find a permanent solution to the problem of frequent floods, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-75-crore-for-flood-relief-in-dharwad/article37637340.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Unpredictable norms key impediment to bilateral trade’||U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai on Monday flagged India’s ‘unpredictable’ regulatory norms, high tariffs and market access restrictions as key impediments to bilateral trade, emphasised America’s continued interest in agriculture market access, and conveyed that “worker-centric” policies will be the pivot for the Joe Biden administration’s approach to trade policy. On a maiden two-day visit to revive the U.S.-India Trade Policy Forum (TPF) after a four-year hiatus, Ms. Tai said the relationship is a top priority both for President Biden and for her, but highlighted that bilateral trade “never seems to quite live up to its significant potential”. “At the USTR’s office, we hear very frequently from our stakeholders, who are not shy, on issues that will be familiar to those of you involved in moving goods and services between our two countries — market access restrictions, high tariffs, unpredictable regulatory requirements, restrictive trade measures… These are issues where we intend to make progress on and they will be on the top of my list while I am here,” Ms. Tai said. Signalling a major switch to a “worker-centric” focus in the U.S. policy, Ms. Tai said: “President Biden is convinced that the U.S. policy needs a fundamental shift to ensure that our policies and actions focus on the impact that trade and trade agreements have on the lives of real working people.” She said she will work closely with the Indian Government ‘colleagues’ including Labour and Employment Minister Bhupendra Yadav on connecting trade “more directly with working people”. “There is a huge potential for growth in our two countries, in areas like the digital economy, services, health-related trade and yes, even agriculture. I believe that a revive TPF can help our trade relationship keep pace with our other areas of engagement,” she said after a meeting with Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. “India and the U.S. also face shared challenges like climate change and sustainability, vulnerable supply chains and promoting market-oriented principles and structures. These are areas that are ripe for closer collaboration now,” Ms. Tai said, underlining that the U.S. is committed to ensuring a robust and sustainable trade partnership. “Delivering results and further integrating our two economies will require concerted efforts from our Governments, businesses, civil society, our people as both workers and consumers,” she said on the eve of the TPF meeting on Tuesday. Mr. Goyal said he was pleased that the trade policy forum is being rejuvenated after “languishing for four years” and expressed confidence that the two sides will be able to resolve issues in an amicable manner and send a message to the world that the U.S. and India are strong partners. “Citizens from both our countries look towards India-U.S. partnerships with great optimism and hope. The U.S. and India share a partnership that can not only help each other but the entire world to recover, if we were to work together,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unpredictable-norms-key-impediment-to-bilateral-trade/article37636854.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||JPC retains exemption clause, adopts personal data Bill||A secure nation alone provides the atmosphere which ensures personal liberty and privacy of an individual, the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on the Personal Data Protection (PDP) Bill, 2019, has argued in its report defending the controversial exemption clause that allows the Government to keep any of its agencies outside the purview of the law. The committee has retained the clause with a minor change. The report on the PDP Bill was adopted on Monday at the committee meeting in Delhi. The committee has been deliberating on the report since 2019. Clause 35, in the name of “public order”, “sovereignty”, “friendly relations with foreign states” and “security of the state”, allowed any agency under the Union Government exemption from all or any provisions of the law. Six of the 30 members of the committee have filed dissent notes against the exemption clause. Sources said two more members would be filing a dissent note in the next few days. Widely debated This was one of the widely debated clauses in the panel meetings, where the members had argued that “public order” should be removed as a ground for exemption. They had also pressed for “judicial or parliamentary oversight” for granting such exemptions. The members had also suggested that “there should be an order in writing with reasons for exempting a certain agency from the ambit of the Bill”. Some of them had asked that only partial exemption should be given to the agency if needed. The final report that The Hindu has accessed did not accept any of these suggestions, arguing that there was a need to balance the concerns regarding national security, liberty and privacy of an individual. Conceding that there could be no easy choice between these concerns, the report said, “A secure nation alone provides the atmosphere which ensures personal liberty and privacy of an individual whereas multiple examples exist where without individual liberty and privacy, national security itself gives rise to autocratic regimes.” The report noted that this clause was for “certain legitimate purposes” and also said there was precedent in the form of the reasonable restrictions imposed upon the liberty of an individual, as guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution and the Puttaswamy judgment. At the same time, the committee expressed concerns with possible misuse. The committee, therefore, said though the State had rightly been empowered to exempt itself from the application of this Act, this power may, however, be used only under exceptional circumstances and subject to conditions as laid out in the Act, the report said. In one of the longest dissent notes, Congress leader Manish Tiwari rejected the Bill in its present form in entirety for its design flaw. He raised specific objections to 37 clauses. This included an objection to the Government exemption clause of 35. He said the Bill created two parallel universes — one for the private sector where it would apply with full rigour and one for the Government where it was riddled with exemption, carve outs and escape clauses. “A Bill that seeks, therefore, to provide blanket exemptions either in perpetuity or even for a limited period to the ‘state’ and its instrumentalities, in my estimation is ultra vires of the Fundamental Right to privacy as laid down by the nine-judge Bench of the Supreme Court of India in Puttaswamy (2017) judgment,” he said. ‘No adequate safeguards’ In a joint dissent note, Trinamool Congress leaders Derek O’Brien and Mahua Moitra said the Bill did not provide adequate safeguards to protect the right to privacy and gave an overboard exemption to the Government. Clause 35 was open to misuse since it gave unqualified powers to the Government. Among its key recommendations, the committee pitched for stricter regulations for social media platforms. It recommended that all social media platforms, which did not act as intermediaries, should be treated as publishers and be held accountable for the content they host, and should be held responsible for the content from unverified accounts on their platforms. It said no social media platform should be allowed to operate unless the parent company handling the technology sets up an office in India and that a statutory media regulatory authority, on the lines of the Press Council of India, may be set up for the regulation of the contents on all such platforms irrespective of the platform where their content is published. Some of the other recommendations of the committee included development of an alternative indigenous financial system for cross-border payments on the lines of Ripple (U.S.) and INSTEX (European Union).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parliamentary-panel-retains-exemption-clause-in-data-bill/article37636874.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rope in NGOs and community leaders to drive jabs: Minister||The Union Health Ministry has now advised the States and Union Territories to rope in all stakeholders, including NGOs, faith-based organisations, religious leaders, community influencers and other partners, to motivate and mobilise all eligible people to get full COVID-19 vaccination. Stating that India is now in the last lap of COVID vaccination, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya sought an aggressive campaign to ensure full COVID-19 vaccination, and said the States should deploy Government officials, one day each week, to visit each eligible household to motivate and mobilise them towards full vaccination. Dr. Mandaviya on Monday held a virtual interaction with the Health Secretaries and senior officials of the Health Departments from Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Puducherry. At the meeting, he reviewed the status of vaccination in these States and the Union Territory and the progress under the Har Ghar Dastak campaign. They have been reporting low vaccination coverage. While India’s first dose coverage is at 82% and second dose coverage at 43%, Puducherry (66%, 39%), Nagaland (49%, 36%), Meghalaya (57%, 38%) and Manipur (54%, 36%) lag behind the national average, a Ministry release said. Reiterating that vaccination is the most potent weapon in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the Minister said the entire machinery should work collectively so that no eligible citizen was left without the ‘ Suraksha Kawachh ’ of COVID-19 vaccine in the country and to address issues of hesitancy, misinformation, superstition and so on. The Minister reiterated the Prime Minister’s mop-up strategies for strengthening the ‘ Har Ghar Dastak ’ campaign, including deploying Prachar Toli in advance to villages which would ensure mobilisation and counselling of the eligible population along with awareness campaigns, followed by the vaccination Toli which would ensure that all eligible citizens are vaccinated with the first and second dose. “I have observed during my recent visit to Arunachal Pradesh the use of stickers identifying “fully vaccinated homes”. Similar innovative strategies can be used,” he said. The States can also make children and students COVID-19 vaccination ambassadors to urge and motivate the elders and eligible members in their families to take both doses of COVID-19 vaccine, he added. Dr. Mandaviya asked the States to prepare detailed district-wise micro plans, deploy adequate number of teams and to regularly review the daily progress of the low performing districts. At the meeting, the States were urged to make innovative short videos to address target groups for hesitancy, along with use of various social media platforms and traditional media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rope-in-ngos-and-community-leaders-to-drive-jabs-minister/article37636882.ece
23 November 2021||Srinagar,||‘Central funds to meet J&K people’s aspirations’||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the funds provided by the Centre in the past two years were aimed to meet the aspirations of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. On her maiden visit to the Union Territory (UT) after the abrogation of Article 370 in 2019, she said, “People want to grow, their aspirations are there to be realised. It is this common aspiration for which every citizen should be given space and that is being given to the people of Jammu and Kashmir post abrogation of Article 370.” She was inaugurating ‘The Chinars’, a new Aayakar (income tax) Bhavan and a residential complex at Rajbagh here. “A principal commissioner has been allotted to the UT of J&K, which is the 21st in the northwest region of India and 251st all over India. The experienced officer will provide greater information so that tax settlements can be made, facilities can be provided to taxpayers, technology driven facilities would be given,” she noted. The Minister also inaugurated works amounting to Rs. 130.49 crore and laid the foundation stone for UT Level Emergency Operation Centre and SCADA control building at Budgam, Kashmir, under the Jhelum and Tawi Flood Recovery Project (JTFRP), a project assisted by a credit of $250 million from the World Bank. Favourable GST rates She suggested favourable GST rates for Kashmir-based products. “Papier mâché articles will have a discounted rate of GST. Handmade carpets, textiles, floor coverings also get a concessional rate. Besides, hand paintings, drawings, including Bhasoli paintings, will also get a good GST rate,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-funds-to-meet-jk-peoples-aspirations/article37636849.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||President gives away Gallantry awards||Group Captain Abhinandan Varthaman, who was held captive for three days by Pakistan after he chased and downed a Pakistani fighter jet in 2019, was awarded Vir Chakra, the third highest wartime gallantry award, by President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday. He was among several other military officers who were presented Gallantry awards and Distinguished Service decorations in a defence investiture ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and several other dignitaries were present. ‘Conspicuous courage’ “President Kovind presents Vir Chakra to Wing Commander (now Group Captain) Varthaman Abhinandan. He showed conspicuous courage, demonstrated gallantry in the face of the enemy while disregarding personal safety and displayed exceptional sense of duty,” the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted. Group Captain Varthaman (a Wing Commander then) downed a Pakistani jet on February 27, 2019, before his MiG 21 Bison was hit and he had to eject in Pakistani territory. A day after the Balakot airstrike, Pakistan launched a retaliatory strike against India. The award citation read out at the ceremony said several Pakistan Air Force fighter aircraft, consisting of advanced fourth-generation F-16 and JF-17, were detected heading toward the Line of Control (LoC) around 9:55 a.m. that day. The citation pointed out that Wing Commander Varthaman, displaying exceptional air combat acumen and knowledge of the enemy’s tactics, scanned the low-altitude airspace with his Airborne Intercept (AI) radar and picked up an enemy aircraft that was flying low to ambush the Indian fighter-interceptor aircraft. He alerted the other formation pilots about the “surprise threat” and then consolidated the riposte against the hostile aircraft that were attempting to drop weapons on the Indian Army positions. “This audacious and aggressive manoeuvre forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos. All the enemy aircraft thereafter turned back including the rear echelon aircraft that were yet to launch their air to ground weapons,” it said. Wing Commander Varthaman then pursued a retreating enemy fighter bomber aircraft, and in the ensuing aerial combat, shot down an F-16 aircraft with his onboard missile, it noted. “However, in the melee, one of the enemy aircraft fired multiple advanced BVR (beyond visual range) missiles, one of which hit his aircraft forcing him to eject in enemy territory,” it stated. The citation added that despite being captured by the enemy, he continued to display exceptional resolve in dealing with the adversary in a brave and dignified manner till he was repatriated on March 1, 2019. Shaurya Chakra awarded Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal was posthumously given Shaurya Chakra for his role in a counter-insurgency operation, where five terrorists were eliminated and 200 kg of explosive material was recovered. The award was received by his wife, Lt. Nitika Kaul, and his mother. The second highest peacetime gallantry award, Kirti Chakra, was posthumously awarded to Sapper Prakash Jadhav for neutralising terrorists in an operation in Jammu and Kashmir. President Kovind also presented Shaurya Chakra posthumously to Naib Subedar Sombir for killing a dreaded terrorist in an operation in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-gives-away-gallantry-awards/article37636857.ece
23 November 2021||Patna,||LJP-RJD alliance likely in Bihar polls||The Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) is likely to form a new alliance with the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar to contest the upcoming Legislative Council elections to 24 seats. The party chief, Chirag Paswan, may make this announcement on November 28, the party’s foundation day. The party’s Parliamentary Board, at its meeting here on November 20, decided to send a proposal to party chief Chirag Paswan to explore the option of forming a new alliance to contest the upcoming council elections, which were likely to be held early next year. “In our meeting, we reviewed our performance in the recently held two byelections in the State and decided to contest the MLC elections to 24 seats with a new alliance. But it is up to our party’s national president to take a final call on this,” LJP (Ram Vilas) spokesperson Ashraf Ansari told The Hindu . Mr. Ansari further added, “If we contest the upcoming polls in a new alliance, it will be more openly against Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and have more impact in the political scenario of the State.” In the LJP (Ram Vilas) meeting, which was held under the chairmanship of party leader Hulas Pandey, members were unanimous that the party should contest the Council poll forging a new alliance. State party president Raju Tiwari, too, was present in the meeting. Party sources said out of the 24 Council seats that were going to be vacant, the RJD was ready to spare five or six to the LJP. The dates for the State Council poll are yet to be announced. “Our party leader, Tejashwi Yadav, has always been willing to welcome Chirag Paswan into the mahagathbandhan [grand alliance],” said a senior RJD leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ljp-rjd-alliance-likely-in-bihar-polls/article37636862.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks info on ex gratia for COVID victims||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Centre to “gather information” from the States on the progress made by them in disbursement of the ex gratia compensation of Rs. 50,000 to the kin of those who died of COVID-19. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravikumar also sought information on the headway made so far by the States in constituting grievance redressal committees to hear complaints made by the families regarding compensation payment. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said the information would be available on Monday. The Bench, however, expressed its dissatisfaction with a modified Government resolution (GR) issued by the Gujarat Government on the process of compensation payment. In the previous hearing, the Bench pulled up Gujarat for “overreaching the directions” of the court by constituting a scrutiny committee to check on the genuineness of the applications made by the victims’ kin for compensation. The court said the compensation should be automatically paid on the presentation of the death and RT-PCR certificates of the patient. But Justice Shah said the process continued to be complicated. Now, the State has come out with a list of documents to be presented before the scrutiny committee. Mr. Mehta, who is appearing for Gujarat along with the Centre, sought more time to sit with officials and iron out the issues with them. “I will sit with the responsible officers and take a call on the same. Let me examine this. let me examine...” he observed. The court gave him time till Monday. It asked the Gujarat Chief Secretary, who was virtually present, to discuss the issue with Mr. Mehta. The court stated that in the meanwhile, the Government should start disbursing compensation to families of victims whose details are already available on the CoWin website. Gujarat cautioned It cautioned Gujarat that it would be compelled to appoint Secretary of the Legal Services Authority as ombudsman, as during the Gujarat earthquake, unless the compensation is paid, at least as a starting point, to the families of 10,000 victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-info-on-ex-gratia-for-covid-victims/article37637012.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP Govt. has improved law and order in Manipur: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said the previous Governments in Manipur were hand in glove with armed insurgent groups, but under the BJP Government, there had been a significant improvement in the law and order situation in the State. Mr. Shah, who participated virtually in the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Rani Gaidinliu tribal freedom fighters’ museum in Manipur, said the Centre and the Biren Singh Government in the State had brought tremendous improvement in the law and order situation, education, power and other infrastructure sectors. “Before coming to power in Manipur, we had promised to end bandhs, hartals and blockades. We have ended all three and significantly improved the law and order situation,” he said. If a comparison was made between the development witnessed in the last five years and the development in the previous 70 years in the State, one could see more progress in the last five years, he added. The BJP came to power in Manipur for the first time in 2017. The State goes to the polls next year. Mr. Shah said, “The people living in hills got power and gas connections, free toilets and saw the setting up of schools. The Governments of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Biren Singh brought all these developments. I am sure the people will elect the BJP to power again.” The Rani Gaidinliu tribal freedom fighters museum would be set up at Luangkao village in Tamenglong district of Manipur, where she was born.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-govt-has-improved-law-and-order-in-manipur-shah/article37636869.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||No evidence to back need for boosters: ICMR chief||There is no scientific evidence so far to support the need for a booster vaccine dose against COVID-19, ICMR Director-General Dr. Balram Bhargava said on Monday underlining that the completion of the second dose for the adult population is the priority for the Government for now. According to sources, the booster dose issue is likely to be discussed in the next meeting of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI). “Administering the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine to all adult population and ensuring that not only India but the entire world gets vaccinated is the priority of the government for now.” “More so, there is no scientific evidence so far to support the need for a booster vaccine dose against COVID-19,” Mr. Bhargava said. On the probability of administering a booster dose, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya recently said that adequate stocks were available and the aim was to complete the vaccination of the target population with two doses. After that, a decision on booster dose would be taken based on expert recommendation, he had said. “The Government cannot take a direct decision in such a matter. When the Indian Council of Medical Research and expert team will say that a booster dose should be given, we will consider it then,” he had said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always depended on expert opinion, be it vaccine research, manufacturing or approval. According to officials, around 82% of the eligible population in India have received the first dose of the vaccine while around 43% have been fully inoculated. The total number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 116.87 crore, according to provisional reports till 7 a.m. on Monday. The Government has launched a month-long ‘ Har Ghar Dastak ’ campaign for house-to-house COVID-19 vaccination of those who are yet to take a dose and for people whose second dose is overdue. According to officials, over 12 crore beneficiaries are overdue for their second dose of COVID-19 vaccine after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two doses.  Ensuring that not only India but the entire world gets vaccinated is the priority of the Government now Balram BhargavaICMR Director-General||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-evidence-to-back-need-for-boosters-icmr-chief/article37636876.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. plans mega rally against price rise in Delhi in December||The Congress is planning to hold a mega rally against price rise by the second week of December to conclude its two-week Jana Jagran Abhiyan against inflation under the Narendra Modi Government. This was decided on Monday at a meeting of general secretaries, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCCs) chiefs and the Congress Legislature Party leaders of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Ajay Maken were among those present in the meeting. AICC in-charge for U.P. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra did not attend the meeting. Though a date has not been decided, it is likely to be held on a Sunday, either December 5 or 12, depending on the venue of the rally. Awareness campaign On November 14, the Congress kicked off a two-week awareness campaign against price rise. The party also plans to make it a major poll issue for the upcoming Assembly elections in U.P., Punjab, Goa, Manipur and Uttarakhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-plans-mega-rally-against-price-rise-in-delhi-in-december/article37637057.ece
23 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Congress strikes a balance in Rajasthan||The Cabinet expansion carried out in Rajasthan, followed by portfolio allocations to the newly inducted 15 Ministers and others on Monday, has sought to bring together the rival camps in the ruling Congress in a balancing act with an eye on the 2023 Assembly election. The exercise has also made an attempt to correct caste and regional imbalances in the Council of Ministers. The expansion has taken the Council of Ministers to its full strength of 30, including 19 Cabinet Ministers and 10 Ministers of State, besides Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. In addition to the inclusion of five loyalists of Congress leader Sachin Pilot, the new Cabinet has given due representation to the Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST) and the politically powerful Jat community. The eastern Rajasthan districts of Bharatpur, Dausa, Karauli and Jaipur, which were not adequately represented in the Cabinet earlier, have received a fair share in the new appointments. However, this has resulted in no Minister being inducted from as many as 12 of the 33 districts in the State. The prominent among those taken in from the eastern districts are Deeg-Kumher MLA Vishvendra Singh, Sapotra MLA Ramesh Meena and Dausa MLA Murarilal Meena, who had joined the rebellion of Mr. Pilot in July 2020. Others are Zahida Khan (Kaman), Parsadi Lal Meena (Lalsot), Mamta Bhupesh (Sikrai), Bhajanlal Jatav (Weir) and Subhash Garg (Bharatpur). In an attempt at social engineering, nine of the 30 ministerial seats have been given to Dalits and tribals, while five Jats, three Rajputs, two Brahmins, three Vaishyas, two Muslims, two Gujjars, one Yadav and one Bishnoi have secured the ministerial berths. Mr. Gehlot, himself, comes from an Other Backward Class (OBC) community. These Ministers include those who were serving before the reshuffle. Hawamahal (Jaipur) MLA Mahesh Joshi, given the Public Health Engineer Department portfolio, and Bikaner West MLA Bulaki Das Kalla, appointed the Education Minister, are the two prominent Brahmin faces of the Cabinet. While Mr. Joshi was the ruling party’s chief whip in the State Assembly, Mr. Kalla was earlier the Energy Minister. Tribal leader Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, representing the Bagidora constituency in Banswara district, has been inducted as a Cabinet Minister in an apparent attempt to check the growing influence of the Bharatiya Tribal Party in the tribal-dominated southern Rajasthan districts. While Saleh Mohammed, representing Pokaran constituency in Jaisalmer district, is already a Muslim face in the Cabinet, Ms. Zahida Khan has been made a Minister of State and given the independent charge of Science & Technology Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-strikes-a-balance-in-rajasthan/article37636872.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Domestic workers’ survey kicks off||The first All-India Survey on Domestic Workers was flagged off by Labour and Employment Minister Bhupender Yadav on Monday. The Ministry said the work would be completed in a year. The survey, being carried out by the Labour Bureau, was aimed at estimating the number of domestic workers at the national and State levels, those engaged in informal employment, and migrant and non-migrant workers; the proportion of domestic workers who stay at their employers’ homes and those who do not; the wages of such workers; and other socio-economic factors, a Ministry statement said. The survey would also include details of the number of households with “live-in and live-out” domestic workers and the average number of workers engaged by various kinds of households, it said. Questionnaire given out The questionnaire, which was released by Mr. Yadav at Monday’s function, would include details about the size of the household, religion, social group, monthly consumption expenditure and the nature of the dwelling unit. Information about the domestic workers, including their age, social group, migrant status, duration of work and type of remuneration, would be collected as well, the Ministry noted. The impact of COVID-19 on wages would be a part of the survey in the States and Union Territories, covering 1.5 lakh households in 742 districts. The result was expected within one year. Addressing the virtual launch, Mr. Yadav said this was a first such survey in Independent India, which showed the “commitment of the Government towards evidence-based, data-driven policy”. Though domestic workers were a significant part of the total informal sector employment, there was a lack of data on the employment conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/domestic-workers-survey-kicks-off/article37636884.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC raps IIT admission authority’s ‘wooden’ approach||The Supreme Court on Monday used its extraordinary powers to render justice to a student belonging to the Scheduled Caste community who was denied his seat in IIT Bombay following a banking error while paying his advance fee for the course. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said there are times when the court has to go beyond the written rigours of the law to deliver justice, and this was just such a case. The Supreme Court refused to heed submissions by authorities that the case would become a wrong precedent and it was too late in the day to find a seat for the student, Prince Jaibir Singh, in any of the IITs. The court admonished the Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JOSAA) of being “wooden” in its approach to what was a humanitarian cause. “You better do something for this young man... You cannot leave him in the lurch. You can do everything if it fits you,” Justice Chandrachud spoke sternly. The court said it was only common sense that the young man, who is from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, fought against the odds to accomplish his cherished dreams. It said there is no doubt Singh did his best to pay and could not do so due to the technical glitch. It was not his fault he did not pay the fee to confirm his seat on time. “Which student would get into IIT Bombay and not pay the Rs. 50,000 fee? It is obvious that he had some financial problems. You have to look at what the reality on the ground is — the reality of our social life,” Justice Chandrachud, accompanied by Justice A.S. Bopanna, said. The court said admissions to premier institutes should be “more robust” and take into consideration the fact that many students come from small towns and villages where the banking facilities are minimal. Not everybody can be expected to have multiple credit cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-raps-iit-admission-authoritys-wooden-approach/article37637010.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pak. to allow wheat transit to Afghanistan||One month after India offered humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan said his Government would allow the aid to transit over the land route through Pakistan. India had protested against the delay in Pakistan’s permissions for the aid to be facilitated, including most recently at the eight-nation Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan in New Delhi, which had ended with a declaration that called for assistance to be ‘unimpeded’. “[The Prime Minister] announced Pakistan’s decision to allow the 50,000 MT of wheat India has offered to provide Afghanistan as humanitarian assistance to go through Pakistan as soon as modalities are finalised with the Indian side,” the Pakistan PM’s office said, adding that Pakistan has also decided to facilitate “the return of Afghan patients who had gone to India for medical treatment and are stuck there”. The Ministry of External Affairs did not respond to the announcement from Pakistan. On November 11, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had said India was looking at all possibilities to transfer the aid “but there have been difficulties due to lack of unimpeded access”. Asked why India had not sent the aid through the Chabahar port in Iran, the route it had employed in the last few years, officials declined to comment, but suggested that the route would prove too circuitous given the immediate need in Afghanistan. The offer of wheat and other medical supplies was made formally to the Taliban regime by a Ministry of External Affairs delegation that attended the Moscow format conference in Russia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistan-to-allow-wheat-transit/article37636852.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||TRS nominees elected unanimously||The Commission said no nomination had been withdrawn till the 3 p.m. deadline set for withdrawal of nominations on Monday. It was a foregone conclusion that TRS would retain the six vacant seats under the MLA quota in the biennial election given the majority it has in the Assembly. Those who were elected are — Gutha Sukender Reddy, Kadiyam Srihari, Banda Prakash, Padi Koushik Reddy, T. Ravinder Rao and P. Venkatarami Reddy. Announcing their unanimous election Mr. Upender Reddy handed over the certificates to all of them on Monday evening. Later speaking to reporters, all the newly elected MLCs thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for providing them an opportunity to serve the people. “Telangana is ahead of all other States in the country in development. We work for the development of Telangana under the leadership of Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. The Chief Minister has been trying to do justice to all sections in society. The BJP government at the Centre has been trying to create hurdles in the path of Telangana unable to digest the development taking place here. It is seven years since Narendra Modi led BJP came to power at Centre. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has fallen drastically during the BJP rule and it went to minus during the COVID-19 pandemic. Why has GDP fallen if Modi is a successful and capable leader?” asked the TRS MLCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trs-nominees-elected-unanimously/article37637364.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||AQI remains ‘very poor’ in Delhi, some curbs lifted||The city’s air quality continued to be in the “very poor” category on Monday and is likely to improve on Tuesday, according to the authorities. The Delhi Government has lifted the ban on construction and demolition activities keeping these trends and improvements in mind, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said. “After seeing the labourers and daily-wage workers suffer due to the ban, a decision to lift it has been taken,” he said. A total of 585 teams have been set up to monitor all construction and demolition sites throughout the city and action will be taken against violators, Mr. Rai said. The Minister said that the Delhi Government’s “stringent and comprehensive measures” helped “significantly” reduce the pollution level that had been rising since Deepavali. Last week, the Minister had said that 70% of Delhi’s pollutants were coming from outside the city and “people of Delhi have been blamed unnecessarily” for the high pollution. Local surface wind speed was relatively high on Monday and it helped disperse the pollutants and it is expected to remain high on Tuesday too. “The AQI today indicates the ‘lower end of very poor’ category, a significant improvement from yesterday due to low fire count and strong winds at transport level blowing from the north-west direction dispersing pollutants. These winds are likely to continue tomorrow also leading to further improvement in air quality to the ‘poor’ category (if no increase in fire count),” government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research) said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-quality-remains-very-poor-govt-lifts-ban-on-construction/article37637276.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Join probe, SC tells Param Bir Singh||Mr. Singh portrayed himself as a whistle-blower who “does not want to give the impression that I am afraid of anything”.  Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, leading a Bench with Justice M.M. Sundaresh, remarked, “The matter has become curiouser and curiouser in the battle between the former Home Minister and the Police Commissioner.”  Senior advocate Puneet Bali, for Mr. Singh, said that his “client does not want to leave the country”.   He was willing to cooperate, except for the imminent threat against him. “What faith will I have in the police now?” he argued. Justice Kaul remarked, “We find this picture very disturbing... If the former Police Commissioner says he faces threats and has lack of faith in the police, what would be the fate of the common man?” Mr. Bali submitted that his client had recorded and handed over transcripts of WhatsApp communications with a senior police officer, who advised him to back off or face serious cases that would be mounted against him as a retaliation for complaining against Mr. Deshmukh. “He said I cannot fight the State... That officer does not deny anything. With this, what expectations can I have from the State? All hell broke loose after I made the complaint,” he said. Six cases were registered against Mr. Singh by bookies, extortionists and “people against whom I had taken action against”, he stated. “If every person I had taken action against, that too, way back in 2015, files cases against me, how will I function as a police officer? How will my colleagues function?” he contended. Directive for probe Both the Bombay High Court and the Supreme Court had found the charges levelled by Mr. Singh against Mr. Deshmukh very serious. The top court said in April the charges should be probed into by an independent investigative agency, he pointed out. The court directed Mr. Singh to cooperate with the probe against him but said he “shall not be arrested”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/join-probe-sc-tells-param-bir-singh/article37637055.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We care more for MSP policy than apology’||At the mahapanchayat organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Mr. Tikait appealed to the Government to hold discussions and resolve the remaining issues of farmers, including MSP law.The farmers would not go back from the protest site even after Parliament repeals the three farm laws in the upcoming session, he said. He demanded the arrest of Union Minister Ajay Mishra , whose son Ashish Mishra is accused of murder in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. He warned that if the Minister inaugurates a sugar mill in the district, farmers would dump their sugarcane at the district magistrate’s office instead of taking it to the mill. “It doesn’t matter if we have to face losses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-care-more-for-msp-policy-than-apology/article37636847.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Tripura violence finds an echo in North Block||The party has accused the BJP of orchestrating the attacks in Tripura and alleged that the police were sheltering the perpetrators from the ruling party. Ms. Banerjee, before leaving for Delhi, told presspersons in Kolkata that she would be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. This is the second visit of the Trinamool Congress chairperson to Delhi after the Assembly polls in which her party registered a big win over the BJP. “I am going to Delhi today because the day after tomorrow, I have an appointment with the Prime Minister on the BSF issue and other development issues related to West Bengal,” she said. She accused the Union government of using its forces for the BJP’s benefit. ‘BJP thinks BSF is BJP’ “The BSF is not my enemy. But the BJP thinks that the BSF is the BJP. Law and order is a State subject and apart from the State police, there are so many agencies who all have their respective jurisdiction,” she stated. The recent MHA notification extending the jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 km to 50 km along the border has become a flashpoint between the Centre and the State government. The Trinamool Congress government has passed a resolution in the Assembly urging the Centre to withdraw the notification. The other issue which Ms. Banerjee is likely to discuss is the State’s pending funds with the Centre. She has blamed the Centre for not making enough funds available to the State, particularly after it bore the brunt of calamities like cyclones and floods. Ms. Banerjee’s visit comes ahead of the winter session of Parliament and she is likely to meet leaders of the Opposition parties. Since her earlier visit, which was in July last week this year, the Trinamool Congress has made inroads in Tripura and Goa. One of the highlights of her visit in July was meeting Congress president Sonia Gandhi. In the past few months, a number of Congress leaders, which includes former Congress Mahila Morcha president Sushmita Dev and former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro have joined the TMC. It will be interesting to watch whether the Congress’s top leadership is reaching out to Ms. Banerjee or she will be reaching out to senior Congress leaders during this visit. Mr. Abhishek Banerjee held Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb responsible for attacks on party leaders and workers. He condemned the violence at the East Agartala women police station on Sunday after West Bengal Trinamool Youth Congress chief Saayoni Ghosh was detained on the attempt to murder charge. Ms. Ghosh was granted bail earlier on Monday. Speaking to reporters after being denied permission to hold a roadshow, Mr Banerjee said, “BJP goons attacked our leaders and workers inside the police station. They did not even spare journalists, police officers and personnel.” Mr. Banerjee said violence in Tripura had been continuing and the police remained silent spectators despite a Supreme Court order which directed the Government to ensure peace and security to ranks of all political parties during the municipal polls. Mr. Banerjee alleged that anarchy and lawlessness prevailed in Tripura, and the reason for the violence was to oppose the Trinamool, which was “fast gaining a support base in the State”. “If Saayoni Ghosh can be arrested for uttering two words ‘Khela Hobe’ [Will Play] from her car then top central BJP leaders should also be arrested for raising the same slogan during the West Bengal Assembly elections,” Mr. Banerjee said. Chief Minister Mr. Deb slammed the Trinamool for allegedly attempting to malign the State’s image by making false allegations. “Scam-tainted and corrupt leaders from a State [Bengal] are spreading canards about Tripura,” Mr. Deb told an election rally at Ambassa in Dhalai district.  (With inputs from   Agartala Correspondent)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripura-violence-finds-echo-in-delhi/article37636858.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Authoritarianism is on the rise, says report||The number of countries moving towards authoritarianism in 2020 was higher than that of countries going in the other direction, towards democracy, the Global State of Democracy Report, 2021 released by the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (International-IDEA) on Monday said. While 20 countries moved in the direction of authoritarianism, seven countries moved towards democracy, the report said. “The pandemic has prolonged this existing negative trend into a five-year stretch, the longest such period since the start of the third wave of democratisation in the 1970s. Democratically elected Governments, including established democracies, are increasingly adopting authoritarian tactics. This democratic backsliding has often enjoyed significant popular support,” the report said. The report highlighted the case of Brazil and India as “some of the most worrying examples of backsliding”. However, India remained in the category of a mid-level performing democracy as it has since 2000, the report showed. “The United States and three members of the European Union (EU) [Hungary, Poland and Slovenia, which holds the chair of the EU in 2021] have also seen concerning democratic declines,” the report said. In non-democratic regimes, the trend was deepening, it said. “The year 2020 was the worst on record, in terms of the number of countries affected by deepening autocratisation. The pandemic has thus had a particularly damaging effect on non-democratic countries, further closing their already reduced civic space,” the report said. “The uneven global distribution of COVID-19 vaccines as well as anti-vaccine views undermine the uptake of vaccination programmes and risk prolonging the health crisis and normalising restrictions on basic freedoms,” the report said. However, the report also pointed out that many democracies had proved to be resilient to the pandemic. “Despite pandemic restrictions on campaigning and media space unfairly favouring Governments in some countries, the electoral component of democracy has shown remarkable resilience. Countries around the world learned to hold elections in exceedingly difficult conditions.” The International-IDEA, which is an inter-governmental organisation supporting democracy, was chaired by Australia and includes India as a member-state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/authoritarianism-is-on-the-rise-says-report/article37636870.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||All-party meetings lined up before winter session||The customary pre-session meetings have been lined up for the weekend before the start of the winter session of Parliament on November 29. Speaker Om Birla will be calling a meeting of floor leaders of various parties in the Lower House on Saturday, while Rajya Sabha Chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu will do the same for the Upper House on Sunday. An all-party meeting called by the Minister for Parliamentary Affairs would be held on Sunday morning, which would be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior leaders of all political parties represented in Parliament. Mr. Modi is expected to attend a BJP parliamentary core committee meeting on the same day and a National Democratic Alliance (NDA) leaders’ meeting. One of the first orders of business in the session would be the repeal of the three farm laws as announced by Mr. Modi on Friday in a television broadcast. The three laws — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act — would first be taken up in the meeting of the Union Cabinet on Wednesday and then in Parliament to complete the legal process of repealing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-party-meetings-lined-up-before-winter-session/article37636864.ece
23 November 2021||Srinagar,||Kashmir human rights activist Parvez arrested||Kashmir-based human rights activist Khurram Parvez was arrested on Monday in Srinagar, hours after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searches at his residence and the office of the J&K Coalition of Civil Society (JKCCS) in Srinagar, according to his family. Sources said the family was intimated about Mr. Parvez’s arrest in the evening in a case registered earlier this year by the NIA. Earlier in the day, electronic gadgets and a few books of the activist were also seized, family sources said. Mr. Parvez was also questioned by the NIA during the day. Official sources said Mr. Parvez has been arrested in a First Information Report (FIR) filed on November 6. The NIA teams, accompanied by the paramilitary and the police, since Monday noon carried out searches of Mr. Parvez’s house at Sonawar and the JKCCS office at Amira Kadal in Srinagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmir-human-rights-activist-parvez-arrested/article37637056.ece
23 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘Defer defamation case hearing against Rahul’||The Bombay High Court on Monday deferred the hearing of a defamation suit filed by a local BJP leader in a magistrate court against former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. A single Bench of Justice S.K. Shinde was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Gandhi seeking to quash the summons issued to him by the magistrate court on the suit filed by Mahesh Shrishrimal in 2018. The High Court said it would hear Mr. Gandhi’s plea on December 16 and directed the magistrate to defer the hearing beyond December 20. In his plea, the local BJP leader had alleged that Mr. Gandhi had called Prime Minister Narendra Modi a “commander-in-chief” and since Mr. Modi was head of the country and not the head of the party, Mr. Shrishrimal, being a member of the party, was defamed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defer-defamation-case-hearing-against-rahul/article37636866.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A.P. to rework law on three capitals move||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said his government was against committing the historic blunder of copying the mega city model in seeking to construct a greenfield capital city in Amaravati at a huge cost. He observed that there were many misgivings on the concept of decentralisation due to the provocation of farmers by opposition parties, mainly the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), which also created legal hurdles in the last two years with ulterior motives. The Chief Minister said the cost of creating basic infrastructure (roads, electricity and drains) alone in Amaravati as per the TDP government’s estimates would cost a staggering Rs. 2 crore per acre amounting to Rs. 1 lakh crore for 50,000 acres. He wondered how a State that was saddled with a massive fiscal deficit and had few resources to fall back upon could afford projects of such magnitude. Further, he alleged that the TDP government paid no heed to the recommendations of the Srikrishna and Sivaramakrishnan Committees both of which recommended distributed development. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said he was not against the wishes of farmers in Amaravati but he would like them to appreciate the fact that development could not be concentrated here going by previous experiences. “This place is neither in Vijayawada nor Guntur and transforming it into a world class capital city would cost the government a fortune. After all, the government has to think about the larger interests of the State,” he observed. He insisted that Visakhapatnam could be shaped into a vibrant executive capital that could compete with metro cities in about 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ap-to-rework-law-on-three-capitals-move/article37636844.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||SC to hear Mullaperiyar dam case on Dec. 10||Tamil Nadu said the steady flow of petitions to the court from Kerala, questioning the dam’s safety, even calling for its decommissioning, was a bid to harass it. It accused Kerala of trying “somehow to prevent Tamil Nadu from raising the level to 142 ft. at the Mullaperiyar dam on one pretext or the other by raising issues which have been fully addressed by experts from Central Water Commission [CWC]”.Tamil Nadu, in an affidavit, noted that the safety of the dam had been supported by reports of the expert committee and the empowered committee after extensive study. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, for the Supervisory Committee, said the issues had been “thrashed out” between the two States in several meetings.Kerala, in turn, has demanded a reconsideration of the rule curve, as the dam was situated in a seismic zone. It accused Tamil Nadu of adopting an “obsolete” gate operation schedule dating back to 1939. The petitioners, including Dr. Joseph, had accused the Supervisory Committee of having become “lethargical” in the safety inspection and survey of the dam, saying it has delegated its duties to a sub-committee of local officials. Advocate V.K. Biju, appearing for the Idukki-based Periyar Protection Movement, alleged that there was “deep” seepage issues in the dam structure. Tamil Nadu cannot dismiss the apprehensions of 50 lakh people in Kerala about the dam’s safety by calling it a social media campaign, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-mullaperiyar-dam-case-on-dec-10/article37636859.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Cause of bondage||The circular and cyclic pattern of karma and birth in which we are entangled is the mystery of samsara. All beings are bound by their karma and are caught in the cycle of birth. Sastras have explained that the atma is nitya and exists always. It is also shown that karma too has always existed. So unless this karma is lost the atma cannot be liberated. Trying to analyse and explore this association of the atma with karma is as inconclusive an effort as trying to find an answer to the root cause of the seed that brings forth a tree. But preceptors and acharyas have delved into the sastras and have found that there is a way out of this cycle for all of us, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. It is shown that the saving feature is that though karma is beginningless and always associated with the jiva, it can be shed by God’s grace. One has to only think how the immortal atma is compelled to undergo the stress and strain of residing in various sariras for very brief periods in every birth, says Nammazhwar by way of advice. Ruminating on the nature of such existences should help one to develop vairagya towards samsara and its harmful effects. When Azhwar says, “Leave aside all those matters that are opposed to God,” he refers to our tenacious hold on ahamkara and mamakara which is the bane for humanity. Sadly, the ego sense follows the jiva right from birth and is the most undesirable for the jiva by any standards as it puts us on the wrong track. Once this is left alone, one automatically gets drawn to the Lord who rules Supreme over the Nitya and Leela Vibhutis in all His glory. We should seek Him for, He alone can release us from this dreadful samsara, and grant us moksha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cause-of-bondage/article37636885.ece
23 November 2021||Srinagar,||Protest on in Ramban for body||The family of Amir Magray, one of the four men killed during the Hyderpora operation in Srinagar on November 15, continued their protest on Monday in Jammu’s Ramban to press for the return of his body. “My father was commended with a bravery award by the Army for killing a militant. We live under security and the same Army has now accused my brother of being a militant. He is innocent. He had gone to Srinagar to earn his livelihood,” Mr. Magray’s brother said. The fresh protest came a day after the victim’s father, Abdul Lateef Magray, said the police were reluctant to return the body and wanted him to “just see the face of his 22-year-old son”. Mr. Magray, who worked as an office boy, was buried more than 100 km away from his native place in north Kashmir’s Handwara after the Hyderpora operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protest-on-in-ramban-for-body/article37637054.ece
23 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Grenade blast in Pathankot cantonment||A hand grenade blast occurred near the Pathankot cantonment late on Sunday, the police said on Monday. It was hurled by motorcycle-borne assailants near the Triveni gate of the cantonment. A search operation was on to nab the suspects. “The attack took place close to 9 p.m. There has been no casualty. We are screening the CCTV images. So far, no arrest has been made and investigation is on,” Senior Superintendent of Police Sudrinder Lamba told The Hindu . They were leaving nothing to chance and security had been beefed up in Pathankot and neighbouring areas to trace the suspects, Mr. Lamba said. Pathankot district, which shares the International Border with Pakistan, saw a major terror attack in January 2016, when heavily armed terrorists sneaked in from across the border and attacked the airbase. In 2015, a police station in Dinanagar was targeted by terrorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/grenade-blast-in-pathankot-cantonment/article37636855.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Laadli awards for 2 reporters of The Hindu||Two articles published by The Hindu , including one from The Metroplus supplement, have won laurels at the 11th edition of the Laadli Media and Advertising Awards for gender sensitivity 2021 (regional) announced online on Friday evening. Soma Basu from the Madurai bureau of The Hindu Metroplus won the award for gender sensitivity in the southern region for article category for her article on “A parallel pandemic as domestic abuse victims trapped with their abusers”. Navamy Sudhish from the Kollam bureau of The Hindu was also awarded the Laadli Media award under the print features category for ‘Don’t set us straight’. The event had Faye D’Souza, independent journalist, and Sriram Haridass, Country Representative of the UN Population Fund, participating as chief guest and guest of honour, respectively. The annual awards were presented to 98 winners from across the country and representing 10 languages. Laadli, a campaign that works for the empowerment of women and gender equality, is an initiative of Population First, a non-governmental organisation. Instituted to promote gender sensitivity in media, the awards are given for print, electronic and web media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/laadli-awards-for-2-reporters-of-the-hindu/article37636860.ece
23 November 2021||Raipur,||Chhattisgarh cuts VAT on petrol, diesel||The Chhattisgarh Government on Monday decided to reduce the value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by 1% and 2%, respectively. The Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel-led Cabinet took the decision and the Government would bear the loss of about Rs. 1,000 crore, the Chief Minister’s Office said in a tweet in Hindi. The decision was taken at the Cabinet meeting held at Mr. Baghel’s residence. The Congress Governments in Punjab and Rajasthan had reduced the VAT on fuel. The Union Government slashed the excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 a litre, respectively, on November 3. The Cabinet also approved a two-member judicial commission to probe the May 2013 Jheeram Ghati massacre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chhattisgarh-cuts-vat-on-petrol-diesel/article37636863.ece
23 November 2021||Pune,||Sena lauds bail order in Aryan case||Lashing out at the BJP-ruled Union Government’s alleged misuse of Central agencies, the Shiv Sena on Monday lauded the Bombay High Court’s bail order not noticing any positive evidence against Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, in the Mumbai cruise drug bust case of October 2. An editorial in the Sena’s mouthpiece, Saamana , called the court’s order a slap on the Union Government’s face, while accusing the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) of spinning its own tale to arrest Mr. Khan along with eight others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-lauds-bail-order-in-aryan-case/article37636865.ece
23 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Stay vigilant till farm laws go: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday said the farmers’ agitation against the three “black laws” will be remembered as a watershed in the fight to protect democratic and human rights in the country, even as he urged farmers to stay vigilant until the laws are repealed. Mr. Channi said the farmers’ agitation would inspire the countrymen to fight for their rights while relentlessly waging a peaceful battle. “Fresh conspiracies are being hatched to harm the interests of the farmers besides derailing the progress and prosperity of Punjab. The leaders who are welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to repeal the laws are pseudo nationalists and are part and parcel of these anti-Punjab conspiracies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stay-vigilant-till-farm-laws-go-punjab-cm/article37636867.ece
23 November 2021||Mumbai,||HC puts no restraint on Nawab Malik||The Bombay High Court on Monday refused to restrain Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik from making comments on social media against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede and his family. A single Bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar was hearing a defamation suit filed by Mr. Wankhede’s father, Dnyandeo, who sought Rs. 1.25 crore in damages. The petition mentioned that Mr. Malik had leaked a purported birth certificate of his son on Twitter that allegedly stated that he was a Muslim. The court said, “Right to privacy is implicit in the right to life and liberty. Public have right to comment on the life of public officer, but that has to be done with reasonable verification. These are only prima facie observations. At prima facie stage, it cannot be said that allegations are totally false.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-puts-no-restraint-on-nawab-malik/article37636850.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||Plea in SC to retain original CBSE results||The Supreme Court on Monday said it will hear on December 6 a plea filed by some students seeking a direction to the CBSE to retain their original results and not award them the marks obtained in the improvement examination. The plea has been filed by 11 students who were declared passed in the original results by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on the basis of the evaluation policy of 30:30:40 and were subsequently allowed to appear in the improvement exams held in August-September this year. It said the petitioners have been either declared failed or awarded very less marks in the improvement examinations and they apprehend that their original results, in which they were declared pass, will be cancelled. When the matter came up for hearing, counsel for the CBSE said he had received a copy of the plea and needed time to seek instructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-in-sc-to-retain-original-cbse-results/article37636877.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||IRCTC yields, changes staff’s saffron attire||Following objections and threats by seers from Ujjain over the saffron attire of waiters (in picture) aboard the Ramayana Express, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) on Monday said it had changed the staff dress code for a more professional look. “It is to inform that the dress of service staff is completely changed in the look of professional attire of service staff,” an IRCTC spokesperson said. As per a PTI report, seers from Ujjain had threatened to stop the train in Delhi on December 12 if the dress code is not withdrawn. “Donning saffron attire with a sadhu-like headgear and wearing malas [necklaces] of rudraksha is an insult to the Hindu religion and its seers,” Ujjain Akhada Parishad’s former general secretary Avdeshpuri had told the news agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/irctc-yields-changes-staffs-saffron-attire/article37637014.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central team visits flooded areas in city to assess damage||A four-member team of the Union government, led by Rajiv Sharma, Joint Secretary in the Home Ministry, visited various flood affected areas of the city on Monday for damage assessment. The team visited areas such as Kolathur, Pulianthope and Royapuram to assess damage, in the presence of Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. Greater Chennai Corporation officials said the committee will assess the actual damage caused to the civic infrastructure based on the information collected from various sources shortly. According to estimates made by various MLAs of constituencies in the city, damage to sewer network in many places has been estimated to be more than Rs. 20 crore. Similarly, damage to stormwater drains is also significant, estimated to be over Rs. 250 crore. The team assessed damage caused to drains on flooded roads, such as Siva Elango Salai in Kolathur. Old drains constructed using brick and mortar in areas such as Jawahar Nagar have been damaged during the flood mitigation measures taken by the Corporation officials. As the flood level was high, Corporation engineers decided to demolish the brick and mortar drain to bail out water in Kolathur. Heavy-duty equipment Former Chennai Corporation Councillor Deva Jawahar said the water was drained from flooded areas of Kolathur using heavy-duty pumps and machinery. Many drains and roads in 778 flooded areas have been damaged because of efforts taken by officials to mitigate flooding. More than 48 of the 471 bus route roads have been damaged, according to a survey conducted by Corporation officials after the floods. Over 10% of the interior roads in many of the constituencies have been damaged. As the civic body prepares for another spell of rain starting November 26, more damage to civic infrastructure is expected. Many urban primary health centres, such as the Manali UPHC, have been damaged in the floods caused by the release of water from the Poondi reservoir. Egmore MLA I. Paranthamen said 80% of the roads in his constituency have shown signs of damage during the rain. Ambattur MLA Joseph Samuel said the damage to sewer network in his constituency has been estimated at Rs. 20 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-visits-flooded-areas-in-city-to-assess-damage/article37637189.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Record statement of mentally challenged person afresh: HC||The Madras High Court has disapproved of the act of a Metropolitan Magistrate in having refused to take the assistance of a special educator/interpreter while recording the statement of a mentally-challenged rape victim. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar set aside the statement recorded by XVIII Metropolitan Magistrate at Saidapet in Chennai on August 25 and ordered fresh recording of the statement under Section 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure. The judge directed the prosecution to approach the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate to nominate another Magistrate to record the statement afresh and insisted that a woman Magistrate should be nominated since the victim would have to explain the sexual assault in detail. He also made it clear that a special educator/interpreter, preferably the victim’s school teacher with whom she would be comfortable, should be permitted to assist the Magistrate in recording the statement. The judge said the rape case had been registered at the All Women Police Station at Mylapore in Chennai on August 15. The case was booked at the instance of the victim’s mother who had accused their neighbour of the ghastly act. According to the complainant, her 21-year-old mentally-challenged daughter was studying in Class X at a special school in Chennai. Taking advantage of her condition, their neighbour Dinesh Kumar had raped her, the complainant alleged. After registration of the case, the victim was subjected to several rounds of medical examination and was made to undergo psychiatric assessment too at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital where her intelligence quotient was assessed. The victim was found to be suffering from moderate intellectual disability. Nevertheless, when she was produced before the Magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., the Magistrate recorded it on his own. Though a special educator who teaches the victim at the special school was also present before the Magistrate, the latter refused to take her assistance in recording the statement, the complainant told the High Court. The petitioner feared that the statement recorded by the Magistrate directly, without the assistance of a special educator/interpreter, might help the accused to escape from the clutches of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/record-statement-of-mentally-challenged-rape-victim-afresh-hc/article37637194.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court calls for ICC report against suspended Special DGP||The Madras High Court on Monday called for the inquiry report filed by an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) against suspended Special Director General of Police Rajesh Das in a sexual harassment complaint lodged by a woman Superintendent of Police. Justice V. Parthiban asked Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram to submit the report in a sealed cover on December 9. He was hearing a writ petition filed by Rajesh Das challenging the ICC inquiry on various grounds, including bias. Since the Director General of Police alone had filed a counter affidavit to the writ petition, the judge insisted upon a counter affidavit by the ICC within a fortnight. In his counter, the DGP urged the court to dismiss the case filed by Rajesh Das with costs. The counter filed by an Assistant Inspector General of Police, on behalf of the DGP, said the victim officer had lodged the complaint against the writ petitioner on February 22. Then, the ICC was headed by Additional Director General of Police Seema Agarwal. Since the ADGP was junior in rank to the writ petitioner, the complaint was forwarded to the State government with a request to constitute the ICC with officers of appropriate seniority. Accordingly, the government asked Additional Chief Secretary Jayashree Raghunandan to head the committee. The ICC wrote to the DGP on March 18 and 26 requesting him to provide CCTV footage of the corridor leading to his office. However, on March 30, the DGP wrote back saying the footage between February 21 and March 3 could not be retrieved since the CCTV on that corridor was installed in 2014 and it had the capacity to store only 15 days of footage. On the other hand, the CCTV footage on the corridor leading to the ADGP’s office was handed over to the ICC since that camera was installed in 2018 and had the capacity to store 30 days of footage, the DGP’s counter affidavit read. The A-G said the writ petitioner had insisted upon those CCTV footages to prove that the complainant met Ms. Agarwal who was made a part of the reconstituted ICC. Even if such meeting had taken place, there was nothing wrong in the complainant having met the then presiding officer of the ICC for lodging the complaint, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-calls-for-icc-report-against-special-dgp/article37637210.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Acting Chief Justice Bhandari takes charge at Madras High Court||Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi on Monday administered the oath of office to Madras High Court Acting Chief Justice (ACJ) Munishwar Nath Bhandari at the Raj Bhavan. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, outgoing ACJ M. Duraiswamy, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, judges, ministers, bureaucrats, police officers and others attended the event. Later, in the High Court, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram and office-bearers of the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry as well as various Bar associations, welcomed the ACJ. In his response to the welcome extended to him, ACJ Bhandari assured the Bar that he and his companion judges would serve the litigant public without fear or favour in accordance with the oath that they had taken. “I will not say much today, but you will see it in action,” he told the gathering after expressing happiness over having got an opportunity to preside over the prestigious Madras High Court. Born on September 30, 1960, ACJ Bhandari enrolled as a lawyer on May 29, 1983. He was elevated from the Bar to the Bench of the Rajasthan High Court on July 5, 2007 and transferred to the Allahabad High Court on March 15, 2019. During his practice as a lawyer, he had appeared in constitutional, civil, service, labour, criminal and arbitration matters and specialised in constitutional, service, labour and arbitration laws. He had also served as standing counsel for the Railways, Rajasthan Road Transport Corporation, Nuclear Power Corporation, State Election Commission, Rajasthan University, Jaipur Development Authority, Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Rajasthan Housing Board and so on. During his stint at the Allahabad High Court, he had served as its Acting Chief Justice between June 26, 2021 and October 10, 2021. According to court sources, Justice Bhandari would be considered for the post of Chief Justice of the Madras High Court after December 23 this year. At present, two judges — Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Mohammad Rafiq — from his parent Rajasthan High Court are serving as Chief Justices of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh High Courts. Of them, Chief Justice Chauhan is due to retire from service on December 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhandari-takes-charge-as-acting-chief-justice-of-hc/article37637207.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Agencies mull integration of e-services, plan permission||Planning agencies and local bodies are set to have consultations with stakeholders to improve the process of granting planning permission for building construction in Chennai and suburbs. The need for obtaining multiple NOCs (no objection certificate) from line agencies, duplication of process and inadequate work done in the past to integrate the e-services with planning permission applications online have been the main reasons for a delay in approval. Officials said people had started submitting representations pertaining to delay in approval of building construction projects in Chennai. Former Greater Chennai Corporation Council floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said various stakeholders and residents had demanded a proper study of the issues in measurements given in land records by the Revenue Department. Procedural delays CREDAI Tamil Nadu president Suresh Krishn said the approval process had been delayed because of the requirement of physical copy for record available online. The average time taken for approval of a building construction is six months. “Now the existing challenge in the approval process is that whatever records are available online, the officials are asking us to get a physical copy certified by respective authorities. This is not necessary. We have been talking to the CMDA, the DTCP and other agencies. Now, the government is taking initiatives. One of the biggest request from CREDAI is to have online single window approval in 30 days with deemed approval. There are so many NoCs we get from various authorities. It is delaying the process. Single window online system is implemented in other States also. We should not be lagging behind,” said Mr. Krishn. “Deemed approval is very important because there is a likelihood of some delay which we will not be able to take up with the government. As soon as we apply online, we want all departments to process our applications and each of them should have a time to react. If it is traffic NoC, they have to say yes or no in 15 days. Otherwise, it should be deemed approved. Only if we have a cut-off time we will see things improve in India,” said Mr. Krishn. Registered Engineer Welfare Association president A. Balasubramani said the process of obtaining approval had been delayed by more than three years in some cases. “The records in the taluk offices have not been updated. Many details about Outer Ring Road and Inner Ring Road in Chennai have not been proper in the records of the Revenue Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agencies-mull-integration-of-e-services-plan-permission/article37637612.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Activists, residents to initiate process to restore waterways||Water activist Rajendra Singh on Monday launched an initiative for mobilisation of residents’ associations in the city to restore waterways for management of floods and drought. The initiative is part of the Tamil Nadu River Retrieval Movement, co-organised with the Indian Peninsular River Basins Council. A gathering of activists and residents was organised in T. Nagar on Monday to explore various options to save waterways and promote policy measures. “Encroachments on waterbodies is the biggest challenge in the city. For most waterbodies, which are government property, the record is not good. The land value is high, and the people build houses in waterbodies. That encroachment is really bringing disaster,” Mr. Singh said. “I visited Chennai after the floods in 2015. I spent more than a month in the city.In 2016, I suggested that officials identify and demarcate waterbodies. I am not saying you destroy the buildings constructed in waterbodies in urban areas, but rather prevent further encroachments in areas with rapid urbanisation. There is also silt in waterbodies,” he said. Former Madras Institute of Development Studies professor S. Janakarajan pointed to the challenges in retrieval of waterways in cities such as Chennai, and the money spent on development of infrastructure to mitigate flooding. V. Rama Rao, founder of the United Forum of Nanganallur Welfare Associations, said residents would launch a campaign for better policy measures to manage floods and droughts. K. Balasubramanian, executive president of Vanam, stressed the need for initiatives to mobilise residents in the city, and farmers in rural areas for retrieval of rivers such as Palar, Thenpennai, Cauvery, Thamirabarani, Vaipar and Vaigai. Chairman of the Tamil Nadu River Basin Council Guruswamy said the residents part of activities in each river basin would stay integrated with the national level activities. Tamil Nadu River Basin Council convenor S. Senthur Pari stressed the need for water literacy programmes through cooperation between river activists and residents in cities such as Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activists-residents-to-initiate-process-to-restore-waterways/article37637177.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IT advisory council holds first meeting||The Advisory Council for Future-IT Sector and Emerging Technologies constituted by the State government in October had its first meeting on Monday. The members discussed preparing a roadmap to help Tamil Nadu attract more companies and expand business in the State and create more job opportunities in tier-2 and tier-3 cities. The discussion on IT/ITES starkly highlighted the fact that all sectors and products were now IT-based with embedded software and there was growing recognition that the growth in services sector has to be captured to achieve the $1 trillion goal by 2030. Improving Tamil Nadu's readiness to adopt new technologies in hardware manufacturing was highlighted. A senior government official said that the committee also decided to focus more on the start-up ecosystem so that Tamil Nadu can churn out more unicorn companies.The need for skill development and curriculum update to ensure employability of the workforce in the light of emerging technologies was discussed, the official said. “We had discussions on how we can leverage on Nasscom’s skilling courses,” the official pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-advisory-council-holds-first-meeting/article37637197.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 750 fresh cases, 13 deaths||As many as 750 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday. The State’s active caseload dropped to 8,616, with 18 districts accounting for less than 100 active cases each. Three districts — Perambalur, Ranipet and Tirupattur — did not report any fresh case, while 16 districts saw less than 10 cases each. Of these, Tenkasi and Theni recorded just one case each. Coimbatore continued to report the most number of infections, at 125. There were 110 cases in Chennai, while Erode and Tiruppur recorded 75 and 59 cases respectively. Salem recorded 42 cases and Namakkal 41. With this, Chennai’s tally rose to 5,57,206 and that of Coimbatore to 2,49,276 cases. Monday’s fresh cases took the State’s tally to 27,21,021. Another 13 persons died of the infection, taking the toll to 36,388. Fatalities were reported in 10 districts, including three deaths in Tiruppur and two in Chennai. As per Sunday’s data, the State’s overall test positivity rate continued to stand at 0.8%. A total of 1,01,397 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,34,59,623. On Monday, 67,031 persons were vaccinated. This took the overall coverage of government centres to 6,41,00,946.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-750-fresh-cases-13-deaths/article37637163.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand linking of Anai Eri and Narayanapuram lake||For over a week, water from Anai Eri, a large lake in Pallikaranai, has been flowing through the streets in Anna Nagar, Dilli Babu Nagar, Ambal Nagar and Chettinad Enclave. “The water just keeps gushing without a pause, making walking or riding two-wheelers next to impossible. The flooding has also brought in snakes. The stormwater drain on our streets is hardly enough to carry the volume of water that is flowing,” said Srikanth, a resident of Chettinad Enclave. At some points, during and after heavy rain, the water level reached over four feet, forcing residents to remain inside their houses. Though Anai Eri has been desilted and restored with bunds all around, a proper outlet channel has not been planned, pointed out an environmental activist, who did not want to be named. “If there is a waterbody, then water will flow both in and out of it. Restoration does not mean beautification. Are there any guidelines for restoration that have been set or followed,” he said. A senior citizen, who pointed to the stagnant water on an open plot behind his house, said a large and proper channel must be formed to carry the water to the Narayanapuram lake, which is its natural course. Though the Greater Chennai Corporation had made a proposal last year to construct a channel, it is yet to be implemented. “Land acquisition has to be carried out since private plots are also along the chosen alignment. We are requesting the Corporation to construct the channel as soon as possible,” said Venkatesan, another resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-demand-linking-of-anai-eri-and-narayanapuram-lake/article37637185.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC rejects plea against govt. order on teachers getting vaccinated||The Madras High Court has refused to entertain a public interest litigation petition which had challenged the State government's insistence that teachers of schools and colleges must be double vaccinated against COVID-19 before handling physical classes. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu were of the view that the case was actually against public interest, especially when such insistence on double vaccination appeared to have been made with the intention of protecting students from COVID-19. Justice Bhandari said the teachers who did not want to get vaccinated for personal reasons could stay at home and not attend physical classes. When the petitioner’s counsel insisted that such teachers should not be terminated from service, the acting Chief Justice said service matters could not be decided in a PIL petition. After not finding favour with the bench, the counsel chose to withdraw the case. Academic Resources Advancement Movement (ARAM), a public trust which had received donations to the tune of Rs. 25.60 lakh in 2020-21 for espousing various causes, had filed the PIL petition. Its chairman A. Umar Farook said the Centre had made it very clear that no citizen could be coerced or compelled to get vaccinated against COVID-19 though the government would encourage all adults to get vaccinated. He said there was no conclusive proof that the vaccine would not have any side-effects or that it would prevent COVID-19. Stating that there were several remedies under different forms of Indian medicine too for treating and preventing COVID-19, the petitioner trust said the citizens must be allowed to exercise their choice freely without being coerced to go for an allopathic remedy in the form of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-rejects-plea-against-govt-order-on-teachers-getting-vaccinated/article37637203.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police inspect massage parlours and spas||The police inspected massage parlours and spas across the city, and booked cases against establishments without licences or flouting the regulations. Sources said the checks were conducted on the order of City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal across several places in the city on Sunday. Special teams visited massage parlours and spas, verified their records and checked whether the businesses were genuine and have been functioning with necessary licences. Recent complaints A senior police officer said, “These checks were conducted following a few complaints recently. They should have obtained necessary licences from the Greater Chennai Corporation and should also follow the civic body’s rules. We detected certain violations, booked cases and initiated further action. We are also arresting those who are running brothels in such places.” The Corporation had issued orders mandating licences from April 1 to prevent misconduct in the name of massage centres and spas. The rules also included police verification and a no-objection certificate. Installation of CCTV cameras, a stipulated time of functioning and minimum qualification of employees are some of the rules. In addition to this, massage services should not be provided behind a locked door and external doors should be kept open during working hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-inspect-massage-parlours-and-spas/article37637178.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Boy loses eye to stray firecracker, three arrested||The MGR Nagar police have arrested three youth after a 14-year-old boy was injured in the eye by a firecracker during a funeral procession in Jafferkhanpet. The boy’s eye was surgically removed owing to the injury, the police said. The police said the victim was standing at Pachaiyappan Naicken Street on November 15 and watching the procession when a burning piece of firecracker hit his eye. The boy is undergoing treatment at the Egmore Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children. Following a complaint from the boy’s family, the police arrested Gunasekaran, Shanmugavel and Selvakumar for causing injury due to negligence. They were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-loses-eye-to-stray-firecracker-three-arrested/article37637179.ece
23 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Provide compensation for the rain-affected: OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday urged the Chief Minister to take steps to grant compensation to rain-affected people in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam alleged that the people cited the DMK government’s inefficiency in administration to be the reason behind the loss of livelihood of many of them, as hundreds of areas still remained flooded by the heavy rain in these districts. Citing reports, he claimed that the unexpected additional release of water in Thenpennai river was the primary reason behind the flooding. People have been left to suffer without electricity and drinking water for two days, the former Chief Minister said. “Though people have been moved to safety, it is the duty of the government to ensure their rehabilitation and to provide compensation for the loss of lives, cattle and property,” the AIADMK leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-compensation-for-the-rain-affected-ops/article37637626.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man beats father to death in Tiruvallur||A 51-year-old man was beaten to death by his son at their house in Vengathur village, Tiruvallur. The victim was identified as Balakrishnan, whose son Pandian, 28, is mentally unstable. . On Sunday,when a power cut occurred, Pandian asked his father to fetch a candle, but when Balakrishnan could not find one, a quarrel ensued. In a fit of rage, Pandian beat him to death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-beats-father-to-death-in-tiruvallur/article37637687.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Colleges to function six days a week||In a letter to registrars of all State and deemed universities, self-financing and autonomous colleges, Higher Education Department has instructed that all students should be offered offline classes six days a week. Though the department issued a letter on Monday and it was circulated widely to the media, university officials said they would await a formal government order. The department has instructed that all institutions must comply with the standard operating procedures/guidelines for COVID-19 safety issued on August 27, in anticipation of the reopening of colleges on September 1. At that time students were to report in batches on alternate days. Model exams While end-semester theory examinations will be conducted after January 20 the institutions must prepare to hold model exams prior to that date. Institutions have been instructed to provide course material to students for preparation and “conduct revision classes in institutions where the syllabus has been completed, especially in the online mode, so that the student could grasp and understand the subjects in a much better manner,” the letter read. The directors of technical and collegiate education have been directed to ensure that the instructions are scrupulously followed and also that colleges function with full sanctioned strength of teaching and non-teaching staff. University registrars have been advised to revise the exam schedule and apprise the department of it. The letter has also requested the District Collectors to ensure that all higher education institutions abide by the instructions of the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-students-to-have-offline-classes-6-days-a-week/article37637209.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s stand on fuel prices unfair: Panneerselvam||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Monday termed as unfair the position taken by the State government on the issue of the reduction of prices of petrol and diesel. “When the Central government’s taxes are applicable all over the country and many States have come forward to decrease the prices, people regard the argument of the State Government against the reduction as unfair,” he said in a statement. Expressing sadness over Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan’s stand on not cutting down the fuel prices further, Mr. Panneerselvam referred to the price cut by 25 States, including Rajasthan and Punjab, where the DMK’s ally, Congress, was in power. He also recalled that in June 2018, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, then in the Opposition, had called for reducing the prices of diesel and petrol, citing a move by the Kerala Government, even though fuel prices in Tamil Nadu were lower than the neighbouring State. He said the DMK, at the time of Assembly election, did not stipulate any condition for its promise of reducing fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tns-stand-on-fuel-prices-unfair-panneerselvam/article37637167.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||510 tonnes of fortified rice meant for PDS expires||About 510 tonnes of fortified rice, meant for distribution to consumers through the public distribution system (PDS), has expired, and the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) has decided to sell the stock as animal feed. Since the stock did not meet quality standards during lab tests, it has been decided that it will be sold, a senior official said. The stock was part of the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab’s (J-PAL) “Alleviating anaemia” project, launched in collaboration with the Tamil Nadu Government. It aimed at addressing anaemia through food fortification, at scale, by distributing fortified rice with vitamins and micronutrients to consumers. Major international funders too supported it. “Due to unavoidable circumstances, the 510 tonnes of fortified rice got expired before being issued to PDS shops. Therefore, it has been decided that the 510 tonnes of expired fortified rice will be sold through e-tenders, for use as animal feed (not for human consumption),” a document relating to the tender issued for the sale of the stock stated. At present, the stock is in a godown in Manalur, Chidambaram taluk, Cuddalore district. “The expired fortified rice should strictly be used as animal feed. The expired fortified rice should not be used for human consumption under any circumstance,” the document said. The rice was meant for distribution to PDS beneficiaries from Bhuvanagiri and Chidambaram taluks in Cuddalore district. A government order about the project, issued by the Planning, Development and Special Initiatives Department of the State Government in November 2015, said it aimed to address anaemia in the State, where such deficiencies remained prevalent among the poor, by providing multi-fortified rice (ultra rice) through the universal PDS. When contacted, TNCSC managing director S. Prabhakar told The Hindu : “Since it did not meet quality standards during lab tests, with the permission of the government, it has been decided that the rice will be sold.” He said the rice did not meet the quality standards during lab tests twice — once in a lab in Tamil Nadu and another in Mysuru, Karnataka. Fortification is the practice of increasing the content of essential micronutrient — vitamins and minerals — in food. “Rice can be fortified by adding a micronutrient powder to it that adheres to the grains or by spraying the surface of ordinary rice grains, in several layers, with a vitamin and mineral mix...,” according to WHO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/510-tonnes-of-fortified-rice-meant-for-pds-expires/article37637173.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 women in critical condition after balcony collapses||Three women were injured critically after a huge balcony of a 40-year-old building in Perambur collapsed on Monday due to rain. The single-storey house, belonging to Rajesh, is located in Sabapathy Nagar in Perambur and was built in the late 1970s. Police said the owner had built a 30-foot balcony protruding from the building. On Monday morning, after a sudden downpour, the rainwater stagnated on the balcony. While the three women were standing on the balcony, it collapsed to the ground. Residents in the ground floor were stuck inside due to debris. The women were identified as Sudha, 40, Mohana, 42, and Jayalakshmi, 61. They were rushed to the Government Stanley Hospital. Personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services rushed to the spot and evacuated 10 people from the first and ground floors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-women-in-critical-condition-after-balcony-collapses/article37637180.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin lauds Abhinandan||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin congratulated Group Captain Abhinandan Varthaman of the Indian Air Force, who was awarded the Vir Chakra by President Ram Nath Kovind in NewDelhi on Monday. In a social media post, Mr. Stalin quoted from the Purananuru , which is part of the ancient Sangam literature, to laud the officer for protecting the motherland. Mr. Varthaman was held captive for three days by Pakistan after he downed a Pakistani fighter jet in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-lauds-abhinandan/article37637205.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor interacts with students||Governor R.N. Ravi interacted with students and teachers of the Eklavya Model Residential Schools on Monday. He also paid floral tributes to the portrait of freedom fighter Birsa Munda. During his interaction with them at the Raj Bhavan, the Governor advised students to dream big and work hard to achieve their dream. He exhorted them to look at challenges as opportunities for growth. “He advised the students to keep pushing their limits, framing higher aims in life. He also urged them to develop book reading habit,” an official release said. The Governor asked the teachers to be a source of inspiration for the students and ignite their dreams and aspirations. He also presented books to the school libraries. The students had a tour of the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-interacts-with-students/article37637176.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against recruitment in college||A writ petition has been filed in the Madras High Court to quash a notification issued on October 13 for recruiting Assistant Professors at the Arulmighu Kapaleeshwarar Arts and Science College at Kolathur in Chennai. Justice V. Parthiban on Monday ordered notices, returnable by eight weeks, to the State government and the HR&CE Department on the writ petition filed by K. Anusha, a candidate belonging to Arunthathiyar community. She said Arunthathiyar candidates were entitled to 3% internal quota, within the 18% meant for Scheduled Castes. Stating that three SC candidates were selected by the college, she said, not one of them was from Arunthathiyar community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-recruitment-in-college/article37637204.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized in Chennai||The Chennai Customs seized 1.22 kg of gold worth Rs. 54.87 lakh and other goods worth Rs. 3.86 lakh at the airport. Two passengers, who came from Kuwait on Saturday and Sunday, were held. When their check-in baggage was searched, officials found six gold cut bits hidden inside the handles of glass-lid casserole dishes and seized them, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized-in-chennai/article37637619.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure justice to Irula women’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Monday urged DGP Sylendra Babu to ensure justice to four Irula women who were sexually assaulted allegedly by personnel of Tirukoilur police station 10 years ago. He charged that the case had not been investigated and a “corrected chargesheet” had not been filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-justice-to-irula-women/article37637201.ece
23 November 2021||Chennai/Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore, Tiruppur get urban development bodies||The State Government on Monday issued orders, establishing urban development authorities for Coimbatore and Tiruppur, on the lines of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). This follows an announcement made in the Budget placed before the Assembly in August. Madurai and Hosur too will have such bodies, the orders for which will be issued shortly, said a senior official from the State Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Department. Housing Minister S. Muthusamy said the purpose of the new bodies was to accelerate the pace of development of the cities and provide “focused attention” to issues concerning the cities. For the time being, ad hoc bodies, along with advisory councils, have been set up. The exact composition of the authorities will be decided at the time of framing laws for the new bodies. Principal Secretary of the HUD department [Hitesh Kumar S. Makwana] has been made the chairman for the two bodies, while Collectors of the districts concerned will hold the post of vice-chairperson. Apart from several officials drawn from various departments, including Finance, Transport, Industries, Municipal Administration and Water Supply, the managing director of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has been included as a member of the authorities. The presence of the CMRL MD will be useful as and when the government decides to implement the Metro Rail project in Coimbatore, the official said. There will be three non officials, two of whom will be nominated by the State Government, from fields like housing, trade and industry, and the other from the world of academia. Secretary of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises [V. Arun Roy] will head the advisory councils. The statutory authorities are expected to be in place in three to four months The official said the Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP), by the very nature of its functioning, had been concentrating on the matter of planning. But cities such as Coimbatore and Madurai were now in need of greater attention than what they were getting. Besides, while planning their development, the surrounding areas too had to be covered. These functions could be served only by creating urban development bodies. In addition, the new bodies would be useful for taking up projects like the Koyambedu wholesale market, Koyambedu mofussil bus terminus and the Sathangadu iron and steel market, all of which were executed by the CMDA, the official said. The two G.O.s said the existing master plan for Coimbatore was prepared in 1994 for the local planning area (LPA) of 1,276 sq km. It was planned to increase the LPA to 1532 sq km, covering the Coimbatore Corporation, 25 town panchayats and 71 revenue villages. In respect of Tiruppur, the present plan was formulated in 2006 for the LPA of 220 sq km. The idea is to take the LPA to 617 sq km, encompassing the Tiruppur Corporation, 4 town panchayats and 31 villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-tiruppur-get-urban-development-bodies/article37637168.ece
23 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Semmozhi Poonga announcement shuts door on zoo development project||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s announcement that the State government would fund the construction of a Semmozhi Poonga at the Coimbatore Central Prison ground has effectively stalled the plans to shift the Coimbatore Corporation VOC Park Zoo there. Funding At a function held in the city on Monday, Mr. Stalin said that at Rs. 200 crore the State government would develop the Poonga that would include a meeting hall, open auditorium among others and improve amenities in Gandhipuram after shifting out the Coimbatore Central Prison. The Semmozhi Poonga was a project that was inaugurated by the then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi in 2010 on the eve of the State Government conducting the World Classical Tamil Conference in the city. After the change of government in 2011, the AIADMK government did not take up the Semmozhi Poonga project. This led the Coimbatore Corporation to pursue alternative proposal like developing the VOC Park Zoo. The Corporation came up with a proposal to develop the zoo on 30 acre, after taking 20 acre from the Prison administration (Home Department). The Corporation said it had 10 acre on hand and by adding 20 acre prison land it could develop the zoo, which would be in line with the rules of the Central Zoo Authority and enable it house more animals. It had also prepared a funding proposal for the project saying it would utilise Rs. 20 crore from the Smart Cities Mission project. Later, it changed the funding pattern to say that it would approach the Central and State governments. And, to strengthen the proposal, the Corporation said retaining the zoo in Gandhipuram would add green space to the city. The Corporation, however, could not secure funds for the zoo development project. The change of government in the State and Monday’s announcement had effectively put a full stop to the zoo development project, said the Corporation sources and added that it was back to square one for the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/semmozhi-poonga-announcement-shuts-door-on-zoo-development-project/article37637218.ece
23 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rescued tiger cub shifted to larger cage||The tiger cub that was rescued by the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) authorities from a tea estate near Valparai in September has been shifted to a larger cage. Officials said that the cub was shifted to a cage three times bigger than the one in which it was kept after being rescued from a tea estate at Thaimudi. ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian said that the new cage was 20 feet long. This was to aid free movement of the nine-month-old cub. “The cub is healthy. It was shifted to the large cage as works of setting up the proposed enclosure in the forest are under way,” he said. The enclosure of 10,000 sq ft is coming up in a dense forest area in Manambolly range. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj had visited the place in October and given directions to ATR administration on executing the re-wilding of the tiger, touted to be the first of its kind in Tamil Nadu. The cub is currently kept in the Department’s rest house at Manambolly. Very limited number of people including caretakers and veterinarians are allowed to go close to the cage so that the cub does not get accustomed to human beings. Its diet mainly consisted of meat, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rescued-tiger-cub-shifted-to-larger-cage/article37637231.ece
23 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CM announces development projects for city||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has said that five scheme roads would be developed and roads would be re-laid at Rs. 200 crore in the city. At a function here on Monday, Mr. Stalin also announced a Rs. 309-crore project for providing underground drainage in Vellakinaru, Chinnavedampatti and Saravanampatti. The other projects are improving solid waste management at Rs. 11 crore and developing Semmozhi Poonga and building auditoriums at Rs. 200 crore, after shifting out the Central Prison from Gandhipuram . Airport expansion The Chief Minister also said the State government would soon begin the land acquisition process for Coimbatore airport expansion as it had allotted Rs. 1,132 for the project. His other announcements included improving street light coverage in city at Rs. 20 crore and improving water supply. State ministers, Members of Parliament, BJP MLA Vanathi Srinivasan and others spoke at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-development-projects-for-city/article37637219.ece
23 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||ATR plans more knowledge tours with the success of hornbill festival||The Pollachi Division of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) is planning to organise more nature workshops and field trips following the success of the ongoing hornbill festival. The workshop-cum-field trip on hornbills held on November 13 and 20 saw the participation of the maximum number of persons permitted per session, officials said. The administration is getting booking calls for the next session to be held on November 27. ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian said that the Forest Department received great response from nature enthusiasts and students for the two sessions. “We are planning to continue this programme,” he said. Under the supervision of Deputy Field Director (Pollachi) M.G. Ganesan, the programme is organised by a team headed by Assistant Conservator of Forests S. Selvam. Mr. Selvam said that the tiger reserve administration was planning for a primate festival and a landscape festival next. Under the primate festival, the Department will arrange workshop-cum-field trip on lion-tailed macaque and other primate species. A total of 20 persons who make advance bookings will be allowed per session. The one-day session charged at Rs. 500 includes visits to history museum, butterfly garden, orchidarium, habitats of key species, workshop at the Advanced Wildlife Management Training Centre at Attakatti and interactions with experts. For inquiries, contact at atrreception@gmail.com, 94425 47654, 75984-99420, 98425 95826.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atr-plans-more-knowledge-tours-with-the-success-of-hornbill-festival/article37637222.ece
23 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held with foreign currencies at airport||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Monday apprehended a passenger at the Coimbatore International Airport on charges of attempting to fly to Sharjah with foreign currencies. A release said that the DRI sleuths intercepted Kokula Kodeeswaran, a native of Kallakurichi, based on specific information. The man attempted to smuggle Saudi riyals, UAE dinars and US dollars (totally worth Rs. 26.62 lakh) to Sharjah. The currencies were concealed in his checked-in luggage and the pockets of his trousers. The passenger was arrested for the smuggling attempt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-with-foreign-currencies-at-airport/article37637224.ece
23 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||The police on Sunday arrested a 24-year-old man from a village near Sulur on charges of sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl, his neighbour. According to the police, the Class XI student had left home for school on November 17 morning and she did not return. The girl’s father lodged a complaint based on which the Sulur police registered a case. The investigating team led by Inspector R. Mathaiyan traced the missing girl to Thiruthuraipoondi in Thanjavur district. The police found that the man had taken the girl to Thiruthuraipoondi after promising to marry her. According to the police, the accused abducted the girl in his van on November 17 and took her to Anupatti village in Tiruppur district. From there, he took her to Thiruthuraipoondi. He married the girl at a roadside temple and took her to his friend’s house at Thiruthuraipoondi and sexually assaulted her, the police said. The youth was arrested for abducting the girl and for offences under Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was produced before a judge and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault/article37637225.ece
23 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ex-convict in bomb blasts case dies||A 45-year-old man from Podanur who had served prison term in the Coimbatore serial bomb blasts case died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Monday. The police said that a group of men took the man, Sait Fakruddin, to Podanur Police Station on Sunday night, accusing him of stealing a goat. The police asked Fakruddin to come to the station the next morning. Fakruddin was found unconscious on Monday morning and he was rushed to CMCH. He died at the hospital a few hours later. The man’s relatives complained to the Podanur police that he could have died of the assault on Sunday night and sought to investigate his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-convict-in-bomb-blasts-case-dies/article37637226.ece
23 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||School student attempts to end life over alleged sexual assault||A Class VIII student from a village near Coimbatore attempted to end her life on the school premises on Monday, following alleged sexual assault by her neighbour. The girl, who fainted after her lunch, was admitted to a private hospital where her condition was said to be stable on Monday evening. The doctors found that she had consumed poison. According to the police, the girl, after regaining consciousness, said that she was sexually assaulted by her neighbour, a native of Sivakasi, who was staying alone near Coimbatore. The accused allegedly trespassed into the house of the girl when she was alone earlier this month and assaulted her sexually, she told the police. The Karumathampatti police registered a case against the neighbour. The police were questioning the neighbour late on Monday. Boy found dead A Class IX student ended his life at Pollachi on Sunday, after his mother refused to give him her mobile phone allegedly due to his addiction to a game. The police said that the 14-year-old boy hailed from Kumaran Nagar at Pollachi. The boy had been taking bed rest for the past few weeks after he underwent a surgery. The boy allegedly got addicted to a game during the period. The mother snatched the phone from him on Sunday.He was found dead in the house after some time, the police said.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-student-attempts-to-end-life-over-alleged-sexual-assault/article37637233.ece
23 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 125 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 125 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Monday. The Health Department said that 107 persons recovered from the disease on Monday and the district had 1,248 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 59 new cases on Monday. The district had 548 active cases of the disease as 52 persons recovered on Monday. Three persons from Tiruppur died of the disease, taking the toll to 993. Eighteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Monday and 210 people are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-125-new-covid-19-cases/article37637232.ece
23 November 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore logs seven fresh cases||Cuddalore district recorded nil COVID-19-relateddeaths on Monday. As many as seven persons tested positive, taking the tally to 64,351. The district saw 63,370 recoveries and the active case count stood at 109. Other districts In Villupuram district, two persons tested positive. This took the total number of cases to 45,980. Kallakurichi district reported three cases, which took the total number of cases here to 31,538.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-logs-seven-fresh-cases/article37637627.ece
23 November 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||SFI cadre demand arrest||Students’ Federation of India (SFI) cadre urged Dindigul police to arrest private nursing college correspondent Jothi Murugan, who is facing charges of sexually abusing some girl students. After submitting a memorandum to Collector S. Visakan at the Collectorate, the SFI cadre told newsmen that though the police had arrested college warden Archana, there was a delay in arresting the key accused. Only a committee should run the college, they said. In Theni, Democratic Youth Federation of India cadre submitted a petition to Collector K.V. Muralidharan in connection with the death of a homeopathic practitioner, Srinivasan. They told reporters that Srinivasan committed suicide at his clinic in Periyakulam three days ago. His wife, also a homeopathic, stated in her complaint to the police that a top official in Health Department, who had demanded bribe to allow the clinic to run, was responsible for her husband’s death. They said the official’s premises should be raided by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police as there were numerous complaints of corruption against him. He should be immediately arrested and suspended from the post, the petitioners demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-cadre-demand-arrest/article37637313.ece
23 November 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Police will hold impartial probe into sexual abuse case: Minister||POCSO Act accused Jothi Murugan, the correspondent of a private nursing college, would be arrested soon, following which there will be an impartial investigation into the sexual abuse case by the police, said Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy here on Monday. Speaking to reporters, he said the police had registered cases against Jothi Murugan. While the hostel warden had been arrested, the police were searching for the prime accused. The government, Mr. Periyasamy said, would take stern action against the accused as Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had instructed the police to ensure the safety of students in educational institutions. The issue came to light when the victims complained that Jothi Murugan, in connivance with the warden, had physically abused some girls. Elephant raids On another issue regarding about humans-wild animals conflict on vilalges along western ghats, the Minister said Forest Department officials were examining the modalities to prevent raids on crops and attacks on farmers by wild elephants. He recalled that when the DMK was in power in 2006, the government had brought in a ‘kumki’ elephant and chased away the wild elephants into Mudumalai and other interior forests. “We are discussing the issue with officials and Forests Minister K. Ramachandran,” Mr. Periyasamy said. Earlier, accompanied by Food Minister R. Sakkarapani and in the presence of Collector S. Visakan, Mr. Periyasamy gave away saplings to beneficiaries at a function organised by Forests and Agriculture departments. The State government had proposed to offer free coconut saplings to all farmers across the State under a scheme, ‘Tamil Nadu mission on sustainable green cover in farmlands.’ The objective was to ensure that there was no fallow land in the State. Every farmer should benefit economically even while protecting the environment, he said. Each farmer will get 160 saplings per acre of land and monetary assistance for raising the crop in phases for four years until the coconut trees started yielding. About 2.51 lakh saplings will be distributed in Dindigul district during the current financial year. Farmers can approach the officials directly or place requirements on UzhavanApp on their mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-will-hold-impartial-probe-into-sexual-abuse-case-minister/article37637305.ece
23 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Nod awaited for high-level bridges in Guthiyalathur forest area||The long pending demand for the 22,000 people living inside the Guthiyalathur reserve forest for having two high-level bridges across forest streams on Kadambur – Makkampalayam road is delayed further as approval is yet to be obtained for the revised project estimate of Rs. . 8.1 crore which was earlier Rs. 6.39 crore. People live for many centuries in Guthiyalathur and Koothampalayam panchayats in Sathyamangalam taluk that can be reached by traversing the 20.90 km forest and revenue road from Kadambur. During the rainy season, flash floods occur in the two forest streams, Guthiyalathur Pallam and Sakkarai Pallam, thus cutting off their villages. They were demanding bridges across the streams for many years and the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) submitted a proposal for constructing the bridges at Rs. 3.04 crore and Rs. 3.35 crore respectively with funding under NABARD scheme 2019-20. Administrative and technical sanctions were obtained for the project. Due to COVID-19 pandemic and escalating cost of raw materials, the project cost was revised to Rs. 3.6 crore and Rs. 4.5 crore respectively and the proposal was sent to the previous State government last year. However, approval is awaited. Sources said that only after the administrative sanction, funds would be obtained from NABARD and a tender would be floated for construction of the bridges. It may be noted that due to recent floods in the streams in the first week of November, students and workers were unable to reach their village and Kadambur and were stranded for a day. They staged a sit-in-protest urging authorities concerned to expedite the process of constructing bridges. Collector H. Krishnanunni inspecting the streams recently held discussions with officials on the developments in obtaining approval from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nod-awaited-for-high-level-bridges-in-guthiyalathur-forest-area/article37637327.ece
23 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged not to increase GST on textile products||The Powerloom Development and Export Promotion Council (PDEXCIL) has urged the State government not to increase Goods and Services Tax (GST) rates for any textile products as it would further affect the industry. In a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, its chairman M.A. Ramasamy said PDEXCIL catered to the needs of power loom industry that comprised synthetic fabrics and man-made fibre (MMF). The GST council had proposed to correct inverted duty structure from the present 5% to 12% for fabrics and apparels. The letter said increasing the rate would discourage the whole value chain and it would affect a lot of factors associated with it. The letter said earlier there was no VAT on fabrics and 5% tax was imposed after GST was introduced. Increase in yarn price, fuel price and packaging materials had caused hardship to the manufacturers and entrepreneurs who were facing loss. “This has resulted in cut in wages, reduction in quality of products and fall in consumption,” the letter said and added that further increase in rates would worsen the situation in survival of small fabric and garment manufacturers. The textile industry was providing jobs to 17 million workers in the country which was the second largest employer in the country. Increase in tax would affect millions of workers as manufactures would be pushed to go for job cuts. Most of the power loom units functioned on credit basis and further increase in rates would affect the weavers. The letter said any hike in rates would discourage producers to diversify their products and enter the field. Hence, considering the above factors, the Centre and State government and GST council should review their decision and find an alternative solution to resolve the issue of inverted duty structure without any increase in taxes, the letter urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-urged-not-to-increase-gst-on-textile-products/article37637329.ece
23 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murdering woman||A supervisor, who murdered a 40-year-old woman and wrapped the body in a gunny bag, was arrested by the police on Monday. On November 13, residents of K.K. Nagar alerted Erode Taluk Police Station that an abandoned gunny bag was found on a vacant plot in their area. Police found the body of a woman in the bag and registered a murder case. CCTV footage revealed that a man passed the area in a two-wheeler with the bag and returned without the bag. Using the vehicle registration number and mobile tower location tracking, the police picked up Yoganathan (48) of Lakshmi Garden, located near K.K. Nagar. The victim was identified as Jeyalakshmi of Kallakurichi district who was working as a housemaid in Coimbatore. Yoganathan told the police that both his wives have left him and he was looking for a bride and registered in a matrimonial portal. The victim, who lost her first husband, had registered in the portal and was looking for a bridegroom. Both expressed willingness to marry and Yoganathan met her in Coimbatore on November 9. But, he refused to marry her. Jeyalakshmi told him that she left the job and was returning to her native and wanted to stay with him for a day. Yoganathan took her to his house and she stayed there till November 11. Police said that Jeyalakshmi insisted on marriage and demanded 10 sovereign gold jewellery from him if he refused to marry. Angered by it, Yoganathan committed the crime. He was produced in the court and lodged at prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-murdering-woman/article37637318.ece
23 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Mega job fair to be held on November 27||The district administration, the District Employment and Career Guidance Centre and Tamil Nadu State Rural Livelihoods Mission will conduct a mega job fair at Erode Arts and Science College on November 27 in which over 100 private companies will participate to fill over 5,000 vacancies. A release from Collector H. Krishnanunni said the companies would be recruiting candidates for various posts with qualifications ranging from Class 8 to Plus two, graduates, post graduates, ITI, engineers, computer operators, drivers, tailors and other jobs. Registration He said registration with Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation can be done on the spot while registration for getting jobs in foreign countries, counselling for entrepreneurs who wished to start their own units through District Industries Centre and various loans available from banks would also be done during the mela. Interested persons can register and participate in the camp along with copies of resume, educational qualification certificates, Aadhaar card and necessary documents. For details, contact 0424-2275860 and emailerodejobfair@gmail.com, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-job-fair-to-be-held-on-november-27/article37637317.ece
23 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Headmaster suspended||The headmaster of a government model higher secondary school in Perundurai taluk was, on Monday, placed under suspension for failing to take action against a teacher, after three girls from Class XII lodged a sexual harassment complaints against the teacher. The girls lodged complaints against V. Thirumalaimoorthy, a biology teacher. They took up the issue with the headmaster, who failed to initiate action and asked the students not to disclose the issue to anyone. However, the girls alerted Childline, 1098, after which the District Child Protection Unit conducted an inquiry and lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station, Erode. Thirumalaimoorthy was arrested on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/headmaster-suspended/article37637165.ece
23 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Chennimalai sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on November 24 at Chennimalai Town, Poonga Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Chinna Pedariyur, Uthukuli Road, Ingur Road, Kumarapuri, Sakthi Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Namakkalpalayam, Arachalur Road, Kuppuchipalayam, Ramalingapuram, Orathupalayam, Ayyampalayam, Kodumanal, Chennimalaipalayam, Veppili, K.G. Valasu, Pasuvapatti, Murungatholuvu and M.P.N. Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37637328.ece
23 November 2021||Erode/Salem,TAMIL NADU||BJP demands reduction of VAT on petrol, diesel||Urging the State government to reduce Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel as done by the Central government, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cadre staged a demonstration at Veerappanchatiram bus stand on Monday. They said that the Central government had made petrol and diesel cheaper by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 per litre respectively. But the State government failed to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel. They said that the DMK in its election manifesto had assured to reduce the price of petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 4 a litre. In Salem, the party staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate. The members said that BJP-ruling states have reduced State taxes in line with Centre’s reduction and fuel prices have reduced below Rs. 100 in those States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-demands-reduction-of-vat-on-petrol-diesel/article37637325.ece
23 November 2021||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Central team inspects rain-ravaged areas||A three-member inter-ministerial Central team on Monday visited rain-affected areas in Kanniyakumari district where paddy crop has been damaged, river bunds have been breached and houses inundated. The delegation, comprising R.B. Kaul, consultant, Ministry of Finance; R. Thangamani, Director, Ministry of Water Resources; Bhavya Pandey, Assistant Director, Ministry of Power; Nodal Officer Kumar Jayanth, Principal Secretary of Revenue Department and Liaison Officer S. Venkatesh arrived here from Thoothukudi. Collector M. Arvind and senior officials presented an overview of the damage caused by the rains. Later, the team members inspected the rain-affected areas and interacted with the public, including farmers. AIADMK MLA Thalavai Sundaram, in a memorandum submitted to the Central team, sought Rs. 80 crore as relief for the district. Speaking to reporters, he said that the calamity was so severe that the government had to compensate for lives lost during the rains. Many people’s dwellings which were in low-lying areas were totally inundated. Apart from damage to the houses, essential items and certificates and documents like Aadhaar card and ration card had been washed away. The revenue officials said that they have submitted a list of roads damaged in the district and the estimated cost to relay them. Similarly, the PWD officials said that the river bund breach, canal bund breach at Anaicut, North Thamaraikulam and other locations were inspected by the team members. The central team, after inspection, proceeded to Thoothukudi from where they are expected to proceed to Chennai on Tuesday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-inspects-rain-ravaged-areas/article37637303.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minister, others move HC in House ruckus case||General Education Minister V. Sivankutty and five Left Democratic Front (LDF) leaders have moved revision petitions in the Kerala High Court challenging an order of the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Court, Thiruvananthapuram, which rejected their discharge petition in the Assembly ruckus case. Rejecting their plea earlier, R. Rekha, the CJM, had asked them to be present before the court on Monday to frame charges. The petitioners, K. Ajith, Kunjammadu Master, E.P. Jayarajan, C.K. Sadasivan and K.T. Jaleel, MLA, were accused of entering the dais of the Speaker and causing damage to public property in their attempt to prevent the then Finance Minister K.M. Mani from presenting the annual Budget on March 13, 2015. ‘Totally innocent’ The accused submitted that they were totally innocent of the allegations raised against them and the findings in the final report of the case were not supported by any legal evidence. The final report conspicuously excluded the Speaker and the nearly 130 MLAs, who were present in the Assembly, from the list of witnesses. The final report was the product of a highly tainted and biased investigation to project a totally distorted version of incidents which took place in the Assembly, they argued. The CJM, according to the petitioners, dismissed their prayer through a gross misappreciation of their contentions and the erroneous interpretation of the prosecution records and findings. The order of the CJM was incorrect, illegal and improper and was made on a totally erroneous interpretation of the applicable laws as well as materials and records available in the case, they argued. The CJM ought to have found that there was no complaint by the Speaker of the Assembly, who is the competent person to take action against any member of the House for the acts done by the member inside the House. In the absence of a complaint from the Speaker, the criminal proceedings against the petitioners will not stand, they argued. The LDF leaders contended that the final report, even if accepted in toto, would not bring home any of the offences alleged against them as the necessary ingredients of the offences alleged against them were absent in the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-others-move-hc-in-house-ruckus-case/article37637021.ece
23 November 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Students protest against physical exams||Students of engineering and arts colleges here demanded cancellation of physical exams as announced by the State government. The government had announced conduct of physical exams for the semester starting January 20. The announcement comes a year and after unconventional teaching and learning methods forced by the pandemic. Until now, since the reopening of college after a long hiatus, evaluation was being done through online testing mode including conduct of exams online. The online testing involved open book tests. “The online classes were often seen as a farce, since no actual learning and teaching happened,” said a student. “They taught us through online classes, so now they should also conduct exams online. The sudden announcement that exams will be held physically, while the syllabus was not covered or taught to us is a problem,” says Vignesh, one of the students. A second year mechanical engineering student Vignesh asked,“without teaching us anything, how can they insist on testing us through physical exams?” According to him, students had come from as far as Uthangarai and Tirupathur colleges and other arts and science colleges and not just engineering colleges to take part in the protest. Over 300 students took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-protest-against-physical-exams/article37637316.ece
23 November 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Poll observer reviews draft roll revision in Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri||The draft electoral roll revision process was reviewed by the special observer for roll revision and the Managing Director, Handicrafts Development Corporation limited V. Shobana here at the Collectorate. The draft voter roll is being revised with January 1, 2022 as the qualifying date for inclusion of those who have attained 18 years of age and eligible to vote. The roll revision will be carried out till November 30. Special camps were organised on November 13 and 15 and two more camps will be organised on November 27 and 28 at the respective polling booths. All voters seeking to make revisions to their voters details, and those seeking inclusion of their names may apply with the requisite documents at the camps or to the Booth level officers(BLOs). Reviewing the progress of the camps, Ms. Shobana called upon the officials to strengthen new voter enrolment and create awareness among the first time voters. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy presided over the meeting. Ms. Shobana also reviewed the progress of the draft electoral roll revision process in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-observer-reviews-draft-roll-revision-in-krishnagiri-and-dharmapuri/article37637322.ece
23 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Goats killed as wall collapses||Seven goats were killed in a wall collapse at Samanthamalai in Vepanapalli. The goats belonged to Muniraj of Samanthamalai, a differently-abled man, whose only source of livelihood was goat rearing. VAO, and animal husbandry officials promised Muniraj of compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goats-killed-as-wall-collapses/article37637323.ece
23 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||BJP wants State government to cut VAT on fuel prices||Bharatiya Janata Party urban district leader P. Saravanan accused the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam of taking double standards with respect to its poll promises and their implementation. Addressing a protest held to urge the State Government to reduce value-added tax on fuel prices here on Monday, Mr. Saravanan said that the DMK had demanded the then AIADMK Government to give Rs. 30,000 per hectare for the paddy crops that were lost in floods. "However, the DMK after coming to power was offering only Rs. 20,000 per hectare now," he said. He said that while the Centre was giving higher subsidy for the rice supplied through ration shops, the State Government was trying to make it look like that the State Government was offering rice for free. "The State Government was usurping the credit of the Centre in various development and welfare schemes. We want that the portrait of Prime Minister Narendra Modi be displayed in all the ration shops and other Government departments where Centre was making a significant contribution," he said. Claiming that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Government in the Centre was forced to increase the fuel price due to the debt burden created by the previous Congress-led Government, Mr. Saravanan said that despite that the Centre had reduced the fuel price by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 respectively on a litre of petrol and diesel. But, the DMK was refusing to reduce the VAT on fuel. "It has promised to reduce higher amount of VAT on fuel, but has till now implemented the promise only partially," he said. He claimed that the BJP would win the post of Mayor in Madurai Corporation during the urban local body polls to be held soon. Party leaders Maha. Suseendran and A.R. Mahalakshmi were among those who took part in the protest. BJP cadres travelled in a bullock cart and rode on a horse to highlight the burden of high fuel price on the common man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-wants-state-government-to-cut-vat-on-fuel-prices/article37637520.ece
23 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to upgrade primary health centre as GH||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday has sought an action taken report from the Madurai district administration on a public interest litigation petition that has sought a direction to authorities to upgrade the healthcare centre at Saptur the district to a government hospital. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought a response from the authorities in two weeks on the petition filed by G. Gurunathan of Saptur. The government hospital was downgraded to a primary health centre, the petitioner complained. He complained that the quality of treatment and the working hours reduced in time and now doctors visit the hospital occasionally. No treatment is being provided at night and no ambulance is available. No life-saving medicines are available at the centre stating that it was a primary health centre, the petitioner complained. He said that the area was densely populated and no other hospital was nearby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-upgrade-primary-health-centre-as-gh/article37637516.ece
23 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Changes in train services||Following landslip in Nagercoil-Thiruvananthapuram section, the Southern Railway has made certain changes in the pattern of train services. Train No. 06426/06427 Nagercoil-Thiruvananthapuram-Nagercoil Express, Train No. 06425 Kollam-Thiruvananthapuram Express and Train No. 06435 Thiruvananthapuram-Nagercoil Express are fully cancelled on Tuesday. Train No.16730 Punalur–Madurai Junction Express scheduled to leave Punalur at 5.20 p.m. on Tuesday is partially cancelled between Punalur and Tirunelveli and will leave Tirunelveli at the rescheduled time of 4 a.m on Wednesday. Partial cancellation Eighteen other trains have been partially cancelled between various sections, according to statement issued here on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/landslip-changes-in-train-services/article37637308.ece
23 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Repair highway stretch ’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought the response from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the authorities to repair the National Highway stretchfrom Madurai to Nagercoil. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought the response in two weeks on the petition filed by advocate S. Govindan of Tirunelveli. He complained that the road was in a poor condition. The petitioner said that he frequently used the road. Due to its poor condition a major portion of the road was under maintenance. Vehicles had to move slowly along the stretch and this increased the travel time as well as the fuel consumption. He said that toll fees were being collected at three places along the stretch between Madurai and Tirunelveli. It was collected at the toll plazas in Salaipudur, Etturvattam and Kappalur. For the single way use of the road Rs. 275 was being charged. Due to the maintenance works at several places, the four lane highway road had turned into a two lane road and caused inconvenience to the vehicles users. This resulted in traffic congestion. Without considering the plight of the vehicle users, full toll fees were being collected by the authorities, he said. The NHAI ought to have announced temporary exemption of toll fees for the welfare of the public. A representation was also made to the authorities but they did not take any steps, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-repair-madurai-nagercoil-highway/article37637306.ece
23 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to set aside detention order||Considering the fact that Madurai was facing a peculiar law and order problem due to a ‘war’ between groups leading to a chain of murders one after another in retaliation and revenge, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has refused to set aside the detention order under Goondas Act invoked against four persons. The court was hearing a habeas corpus petitions filed by the family members of Dineshkumar, Alexpandian, Alaguraja and Raja seeking to quash the detention orders. The accused were involved in the murder of one P. Muruganandam. A gang had beheaded Muruganandam in 2020 near St. Mary’s church. The investigation unravelled that the murder was a sequel to a murder in 2019 where M.S. Pandi was killed by another gang. It was submitted that the investigation was completed and the final report was filed. It was said that out of the 12 accused, the detention order was passed against the four. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed the detention was recommended in order to maintain law and order. The detaining authority had applied the mind, scrutinised the documents and the reasons for detention were recorded. The detention order was passed only against the four accused since their antecedents and association are prejudicial to the maintenance of public order and peace. The reason for the detention speaks for itself. The court dismissed the habeas corpus petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-refuses-to-set-aside-detention-order/article37637515.ece
23 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Madurai Water level in Periyar dam on Monday stood at 141 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,992 cusecs and a discharge of 2,000 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.42 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,387 cusecs and a discharge of 2,355 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,738 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday was (in mm): Manjalar dam 20.2, Maruthanadhi dam and Sothupparai dam 1 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37637307.ece
23 November 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Nurses complain about non-payment of salary||Nurses, who were appointed at COVID-19 care centres in the district on consolidated salary basis, on Monday demanded the administration and State government to clear their salary dues. In a petition to the District Collector, the nurses said they were appointed on temporary basis to work at COVID-19 care centres in the district. They lamented that they have not received their salary dues for over five months. The petitioners said that over 50 nurses who worked at various COVID-19 care centres have not received salary since July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurses-complain-about-non-payment-of-salary/article37637331.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Two Rohingya families have no links to IS or ISI: Kerala||The Kerala Government has informed the Supreme Court that the two Rohingya refugee families from Myanmar, which include two newborns, have no links to the Islamic State (IS) or ISI. The district police chief of Wayanad, where they live, is maintaining a “close watch” on them. The State assured the Supreme Court that “so far no anti-national activities” have been detected among them. “So far, no instances of Rohingya being associated with the ISI/IS is reported in the State,” Kerala has said. It even reassured that “no vital installations are present in the vicinity of places of stay of Rohingya at Muttil in Kalpetta limits in Wayanad”. Kerala clarified that in the last five years, no case under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 was reported against illegal Bangladesh immigrants or Rohingya in the State.  ‘No cross-border threat’ It said “no cross-border threat existed in the State”. Kerala was replying to a petition filed by BJP leader and Supreme Court advocate, Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, to identify, detain and deport illegal immigrants from Bangladesh and Myanmar, including Rohingya. Mr. Upadhyay urged that the exercise needed to be done in a year, and that too, across the country. But Kerala said the 12 Rohingya refugees, who are members of the two families which fled violence in native Myanmar, had UNHCR cards on arrival. A November 19 letter from the Kerala Home Department informed that UNHCR cards of 11 members of the two families, except one of the newborns, has been renewed. Kerala said the members had faced trouble in travelling to Chennai for renewing their cards due to financial hardships and the pandemic. The State said it is keeping a constant vigil on the migrant labour community, mostly drawn from West Bengal, Assam, Bihar and Jharkhand, to spot any illegal foreigner with forged documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-rohingya-families-have-no-links-to-is-or-isi-kerala/article37637033.ece
23 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Central team meets U.T. officials, to visit rain-hit regions today||An Inter-Ministerial Central team, headed by Rajiv Sharma, Joint Secretary, Union Ministry of Home Affairs, on Monday reached Puducherry to assess the damage caused by recent rain. The team, which reached here on Monday evening, held a meeting with senior officials at the Chief Secretariat to gather inputs on the impact of rain on civic infrastructure, agriculture sector and property. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar gave a detailed presentation on the impact of rain in the Union Territory. On-spot assessment Collector Purva Garg and senior officials attached to the Public Works Department, Electricity, Revenue and Agriculture were present. Following the meeting with officials, the team called on Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Nivas and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy at the Legislative Assembly. The Central team will visit rain-affected areas on Tuesday morning for an on-the-spot assessment of the damage caused by the rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-meets-ut-officials-to-visit-rain-hit-regions-today/article37637621.ece
23 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 17 fresh cases of COVID-19 , zero deaths||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory while 17 new cases were confirmed on Monday. Puducherry logged 11 of the new cases, which were detected from 1,265 tests. Karaikal reported two cases and Mahe reported four.No new case was reported from Yanam. The cumulative toll in the Union Territory remained at 1,870 of which Puducherry logged 1,463, Karaikal 250, Yanam 108 and Mahe 49. With 36 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 304. Of this, 54 patients were in hospital and 250 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.34% , case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.31%. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,28,680 cases against 1,26,506 recoveries so far.. Of an estimated 19.65 lakh tests conducted to date, over 16.65 lakh were negative. Meanwhile, 929 persons took the COVID-19 vaccinein the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered 11,76,677 doses so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-17-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-zero-deaths/article37637623.ece
23 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reworks strategy to boost vaccination coverage||The health administration has decided to rope in anganwadi workers and community influencers in a bid to boost COVID-19 vaccination coverage in the Union Territory. The move comes amid less than expected vaccine offtake in spite of several initiatives undertaken by government, from non-stop vaccination drives, street corner sessions to rural camps. The Health Department had launched targeted door-to-door delivery of vaccines in low-coverage neighbourhoods to tackle lingering hesitancy or misplaced anxieties. Now, the plan is to utilise the grass-roots reach and familiarity of anganwadi workers to mobilise the unvaccinated to take the jab, an official said. Health Secretary C. Udayakumar convened a meeting on Monday to chalk out a plan to achieve 100% vaccination coverage in the U.T. It was decided to task the medical officers of the PHCs to check the information of those who had not been vaccinated and to coordinate with the Child Development Project Officers (CPDOs) to vaccinate these sections. It was decided to continue with awareness programmes to urge the people to utilise the facilities set up by the administration for hassle-free vaccinations and to highlight the medical evidence of only unvaccinated patients developing serious consequence and accounting for about 97% of ICU admissions. G. Sriramulu, Health Director; P. Muthumeena, Director (Women and Child Development); and other officials attended the meeting that stressed on the importance of sustaining Covid-appropriate behaviour in the community. Virtual conference Meanwhile, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday convened a virtual meeting with officials from Puducherry, Manipur, Meghalaya and Nagaland where vaccination coverage remained below par. As of Monday, the Union Territory of Puducherry had administered 11,76,677 vaccine doses, including 4,38,981 second doses. Mr. Mandaviya’s message to officials was to adopt vaccination as the cornerstone of the strategy against the pandemic and to push the campaign aggressively. States should prepare district-wise micro plans, deploy teams and rigorously track the daily progress of vaccination in low-offtake areas, Mr. Mandaviya said. He urged officials to rope in all stakeholders, from NGOs, religious leaders and influencers, to expand the vaccination coverage. All officials could set apart one day a week to visit households and mobilise the unvaccinated towards full vaccination, he said. The Minister suggested deploying students and children as COVID-19 vaccine ambassadors to motivate elders and other family members to take the first and second doses. Recently, the Union Health Ministry sounded an alert on the recent rise of weekly cases across the Union Territory and prescribed a set of remedial measures.In a letter to authorities in Puducherry (and Ladakh), Additional Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Arti Ahuja said the Union territory had recorded a 41.7% rise in weekly cases and the positivity rate had been prominent in multiple districts of the region in the U.T. Karaikal, Yanam, Mahe and Puducherry had specifically shown a sharp rise in weekly fresh infections. All four districts Karaikal (27.45%), Mahe (1.59%), Puducherry (32.57%) and Yanam (0.59%) have less RT-PCR contribution than the government mandate of 70%, the official said. The letter underscored strict compliance with the basic health strategy, which includes routine submission of RT-PCR positive samples from foreign travellers and from the community for genomic analysis at the designated INSACOG network labs. Sample collection The Ministry has called for prioritising collection of positive samples from suspected vaccine breakthrough infections, super-spreader events and clusters of cases, which had high mortality and/or morbidity rate, and sending them to labs, maintaining sufficient level of COVID-19 testing for timely detection of cases across all districts, especially because the festive event was ongoing along with marriages. Prioritising second dose of COVID-19 vaccination and strict adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour and daily review of COVID-19 cases and fatalities and promptly communicating necessary corrective measures to the teams concerned across the U.T., the official said.  States should prepare district-wise micro plans, deploy teams and rigorously track the daily progress of vaccination in low-offtake areas Mansukh Mandaviya Union Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reworks-strategy-to-boost-vaccination-coverage/article37637624.ece
23 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CGWB gives clearance to sink borewells near river beds||The Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) has given clearance to sink new borewells near the river beds of Uruvaiyar, Thennpennai and Malattar in Puducherry to address the growing demand for potable water. “A team from the board visited the region and held discussion with officials of the Public Health wing of Public Works Department. The team also met the Chief Minister and visited the river beds. Prior to their visit, the board conducted a feasibility study and gave its nod to sink the new borewells,” Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan told The Hindu . The board has given certain suggestions and guidelines to be followed. He said the officials were examining the report given by the expert committee from the board. Tenders would be called after holding a meeting with local residents to get their views and assess the social impact. Though, the initial plan was to sink 83 borewells, the government has decided to restrict the numbers to 50. The wells would be sunk using funds sanctioned by the French Development Agency for augmentation of urban drinking water supply in the Union Territory. The feasibility study was conducted using Rs. 5 crore released by the bank from its total sanctioned amount of Rs. 454 crore, the Minister said. No alternative Asked about the objections raised by environmentalists to the sinking of new borewells, he said the government was open to suggestions but was left with no other option. The Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) level of water drawn from 90% of the existing borewells was in the range of 1000-2000. The government has a responsibility to provide potable water to households, he added. “We are equally concerned about environment as any damage will have a bearing on every person born and brought up here. The environmentalists say the alternative is to recharge ground water. But we all know how much water the available tanks could store and make an impact on the ground water table. It cannot cater to the daily needs of people. We need 90 million litres per day and the requirement is growing annually,” the Minister said. He added that the board must have taken all facts into consideration before giving its clearance. “It is an expert body on ground water. They visited the sites where we plan to sink the wells. So, now we can go ahead with the social impact assessment by hearing the local residents’ concerns,” he added. High Court bench Mr. Lakshminarayanan said he met Union Minister of Law and Justice Kiren Rijiju, on Saturday, in New Delhi and demanded the setting up of a bench of the Madras High Court in Puducherry. “The Minister has promised to take up the issue with Prime Minister and Home Minister. He was very positive in his response,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cgwb-gives-clearance-to-sink-borewells-near-river-beds/article37637617.ece
23 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life sentence||The Mahila Court here on Monday convicted and sentenced a 34-year-old man for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl in the district to undergo life term till the end of his natural death. The court slapped a fine of Rs. 50,000 on Rajkumar, who is already married. Rajkumar mixed sedatives in the cool drink and gave it to the girl, who stayed near his house, and sexually assaulted her repeatedly while she was alone. Rajkumar also threatened the minor girl. The crime was committed in 2019. Acting on a complaint from the victim's mother in March 2020, Keeranur All Women Police booked a case against Rajkumar under section 6 (1) of the POCSO Amendment Act, 2019 The court ordered the government to pay Rs. 1.5 lakh as compensation to the victim. Rajkumar was later lodged in the Central Prison at Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-sentence/article37637286.ece
23 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 water bodies in Salem fill up in recent rain||As many as 103 water bodies maintained by various government departments and civic bodies in the district are full to the brim in the recent rain. The Salem district has been receiving good rainfall since the onset of northeast monsoon. According to official sources, the district has received better rains than previous years leading to fast filling of water bodies, especially after Deepavali. There are 430 water bodies in the district of which 103 have filled up. According to officials, majority of lakes have filled up post Diwali. There are three lakes under the Salem Corporation, 276 water bodies under various panchayats, 44 under town panchayats, 18 in Mettur basin and 89 in Sarbanga basin. Salem Corporation In Salem Corporation limits, none of the lakes are filled to the full capacity, according to officials. In panchayats, 43 of the 276 water bodies are up to the brim including Selathampatti lake, Thottil lake, Vedapatti lake, Chinna Lake and Chitheri. In town panchayats, Vanavasi eri, Aachampalli eri and Chettikuttai have reached its full capacity. In Mettur basin, 10 out of 18 lakes are full to its capacity including Kothaneri tank, Thumbalakattupallam tank, Vadamaneri, Pannapatty and Kullampatty. Sarbanga division In Sarbanga division, 47 out of 89 water bodies are full to the brim and water level is below 50% in 32 water bodies under the division. Considering the increase in water level, the district administration advised the public not to venture near the water bodies to avoid untoward incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-water-bodies-in-salem-fill-up-in-recent-rain/article37637334.ece
23 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Special medical camp organised||The Salem Corporation organised a special Siddha medical camp at Corporation main office here on Monday. Corporation Commissioner T.Christuraj inaugurated the camp and also inaugurated a exhibition of medicinal plants on the Corporation premises. According to officials, the camp was organised as a disease preventive measure during the monsoon. Saplings of medicinal plants, kabasura kudineer and nilavembu kudineer were distributed in the camp. About 1,670 persons benefited from the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-medical-camp-organised/article37637336.ece
23 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports 42 COVID-19 cases||Salem district on Monday reported 42 COVID-19 positive cases and one death. According to health officials, 28 cases were indigenous and 13 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 41 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Erode district reported 75 new cases taking the total cases to 1,05,769. While 68 persons were discharged, 815 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri district recorded eight cases and one death. The total number of cases in the district stood at 79 as of Monday. A total of 43,782 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 11 cases, while 17 persons were discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 140. As of date, a total 28,732 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-district-reports-42-covid-19-cases/article37637330.ece
23 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Police foil self-immolation bid by family||Police personnel, who were deployed at the Salem collectorate, foiled an immolation bid by a family of four on Monday. The family members were identified as Mariyayi, her mother Mariyammal and two children aged below 10 years. In their petition, Mariyayi said that she lives with her family at Ulipuram near Gangavalli and owns 2.72 cents nearby. She said that the owner of their adjacent land blocked the path. She also alleged that the owner passed casteist remark. She said they were finding it difficult to access basic needs as the path had been blocked. The woman claimed inaction by the police to her complaint.  Action sought Mariyayi requested the district administration to take necessary action on the plaint.  Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-foil-self-immolation-bid-by-family/article37637319.ece
23 November 2021||Salem/Erode,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||The outflow from Mettur dam was reduced from Monday after the inflow of water to the dam reduced. According to officials from Public Works Department, the outflow was reduced from 55,000 cusecs to 45,000 cusecs from 6.45 a.m on Monday. At 8 a.m, the water level at the dam remained at 120.10ft and the stored capacity of water was 93,630 mcft. The dam received an inflow of 45,000 cusecs and and equal amount of water was released into River Cauvery. 500 cusecs of water was released through East-West canal. Water level at Bhavanisagar dam The water level at the Bhavanisagar dam stood at 104 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet on Monday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 5,725 cusecs while the discharge was 3,700 cusecs into River Bhavani and 2,000 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article37637332.ece
23 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Supermarket directors held||The directors of the Thanjavur Consumer Cooperative Wholesale Store (Cauvery Supermarket) were detained after they staged a road roko here on Monday. The directors decided to block the vehicular traffic near the RMGH as the Cooperative Department officials, who had agreed to convene a meeting on Monday following a `no-confidence motion’ notice against the store chairman, failed to turn up.  Meanwhile, the Chandrasekarapuram Consumer Cooperative Wholesale Store at Kumbakonam has been adjudged as the ‘best cooperative institution’ for the fifth time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supermarket-directors-held/article37637285.ece
23 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to fill vacancies in TNSTC||Employees of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation affiliated to the CITU here began a State-wide two-day fast in Thoothukudi on Monday to draw the attention of the State government to immediately fill up vacancies in the Corporation and other demands. Presiding over the fast, CITU functionary Prince said that the Corporation had not given the super-annuation benefits to the employees for the past many years. So the retired employees were facing hardships. The government should drop the new pension plan and implement the medical enhancement plan for the employees. For a long time, revision of Dearness Allowance had not been effected.Since the TNSTC’s revenues had dipped, the government should take steps to reimburse the expenditure of the corporation, including the subsidy component. Madurai In Madurai, members of State Express Transport Corporation Employees Union affiliated to the CITU launched the fast at on Bypass Road. State president G Senthil, who led the protest, said that the DMK government had promised to restore all the demands within 100 days of coming to power but did not do so. The employees, who joined the Corporation after 2003, should be brought under the Old Pension scheme in line with the poll promise of the DMK. The STC must release the DA arrears to retired employees, the forum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-employees-urge-govt-to-fill-up-vacancies/article37637518.ece
23 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||30,000 litres of adulterated diesel seized, five held||Thoothukudi police seized 30,000 litres of adulterated diesel and arrested five persons, including one from Erode district, on Monday. The police said following a tip-off, they checked two lorries parked inside an industrial shed in Thoothukudi and found the diesel in the vehicles. Interrogations revealed that one Lakshmanan, 32 of Periyapalayam in Erode district had brought the fuel here and planned to sell it through his local contacts. His accomplices were identified as Ramar, 30, Balamurugan, 20, Balaji, 21, and Arulraj, 25. The police arrested all the five. Three others are absconding. The police team was headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Illangovan and Inspector Nagarajan. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30000-litres-of-adulterated-diesel-seized-five-held/article37637681.ece
23 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in flow in Kudamuritti leads to fresh inundation||Several houses in Woraiyur Fathima Nagar and a few other residential colonies close to the Kudamuritti were inundated afresh in the city following a rise in flow in the river since Sunday. Affected residents are worried and complain that the water was heading up into the residential colonies on the right bank of the Kudamuritti through a drainage sluice. Fathima Nagar and M.M. Nagar are among the places that were inundated in the city about 10 days ago after heavy rain in Viralimalai and Keeranur (in neighourbing Pudukottai district) and Manapparai areas brought heavy discharges into the Koraiyar and ultimately into the Kudamuritti which drains into the Cauvery river in the city. Residents in Fathima Nagar and other places heaved a sigh of relief after the water receded two or three days ago. But the sudden inundation again on Sunday caught them by surprise. “The water started flowing from the sluice from Sunday afternoon and there is knee-deep water in some parts of the colony,” said Safiullah, a resident. According to sources in the Public Works Department, the water flow in the Kudamuritti increased on Sunday due to heavy discharge from Ariyar in Pudukottai district. “However, steps have been taken to reduce the flow in Kudamuritti. We have opened the sand vent at Kodingal upstream to prevent the problem at Fathima Nagar. The water has started draining from the colonies,” said an officer. According to representatives of Fathima Nagar Welfare Association, about 100 houses in three or four streets were the worst affected due to the latest inundation. “Just about 10 days ago, we saw heavy and widespread inundation. Now, with water level rising in the Kudamuritti, the water is heading up through a drainage sluice near Karalamman Temple,” said a resident. The only solution is to clear encroachments on existing drainages such as Kathirikai Vaical and build a new drainage with a treatment plant. Residents also demand removal of silt from Kudamuritti and strengthening of its banks. Another representative points out that waterlogging has been a recurrent problem for more than two decades in places such as Fathima Nagar, Nova Colony, RS Puram, Beschi Nagar, AUT Colony, Thyagaraja Nagar with over 1,400 houses. Further downstream, Lingam Nagar and nearby residential areas on Kuzhumani are routinely affected. Following the monsoon rain, the already poor roads inside Fathima Nagar have taken a heavy beating and some of the cross streets are unmotorable. Water is still stagnant on many of the cut roads and vacant plots. Residents of both Fathima Nagar and Lingam Nagar say that Local Administration Minister K.N. Nehru, while visiting the places after the recent inundation, promised to take steps to check waterlogging and execute measures worth about Rs. 100 crore. “The Minister visited our locality and announced a plan to check inundation. We look forward to the implementation of the plan at the earliest,” said V. Thirugnanasambandam, secretary, Lingam Nagar Residents Welfare Association. ‘Remove encroachments’ However, many residents say that the main issue is clearing encroachments from canals. “The city has a network of drainages. The civic authorities should come out with a map of the drainages and clear the encroachments and silt accumulation to find a permanent solution to the recurrent problem,” said K. Suresh, former city secretary of the Communist Party of India.  Minister K.N. Nehru visited our locality and announced a plan to check inundation and we look forward to the implementation of the plan at the earliest V. ThirugnanasambandamSecretary, Lingam Nagar Residents Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-flow-in-kudamuritti-leads-to-fresh-inundation/article37637291.ece
23 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three, including 2 juveniles, arrested for killing police officer||Three persons, including two juveniles, have been arrested in connection with the murder of Special Sub-Inspector (SSI) S. Boominathan, attached to the Navalpat police station in Tiruchi. The trio, one of them identified as Manikandan, 19, was arrested by special police teams formed to probe the case. Four special teams were constituted to apprehend the absconding accused, who hacked Boominathan to death with sharp weapons, after he chased and intercepted three persons, fleeing on a motorcycle after stealing a goat, near a railway subway in Pallathupatti, under Keeranur police station limits, in Pudukottai district on Sunday morning. Boominathan was on night rounds in Poolangudi Colony, on the outskirts of Tiruchi, when the crime took place. Even as Boominathan was questioning the accused after intercepting them, Manikandan and the two juveniles attacked him with sharp weapons on his head, killing him on the spot. They then fled from the scene of crime, a police press release said. Police attached to the Keeranur station registered a case of murder following a complaint from SSI Sekar. Attacked from behind Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, A. Saravana Sundar on Monday said Boominathan was attacked from behind by the accused. The special teams had seized the weapon used for committing the murder, besides some documents and other materials connected with the case, Mr. Sundar told reporters. The accused were arrested based on clues obtained from the scene of crime, video footage from the surveillance cameras and secret information gathered, he said. The doctor who conducted the post-mortem said that Boominathan was attacked from behind, as the injury was on the rear of the head.  Manikandan and the two juveniles attacked him [the SSI] with sharp weapons on his head, killing him on the spot. They then fled from the scene of crime Police press release||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-including-2-juveniles-arrested-for-killing-police-officer/article37637164.ece
23 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Speeding vehicle kills Motor Vehicle Inspector||A 57-year-old Motor Vehicle Inspector (MVI), serving in Karur district, died after being reportedly knocked down by a speeding vehicle in Vengakalpatti, Karur district, on Monday. N. Kanagaraj, who was attached to the flying squad, had come to Vengakalpatti in the morning to carry out vehicle checks, below a bridge of the Tiruchi-Karur National Highway, when the incident occurred. The police said Kanagaraj had come to the centre of the road to stop a speeding vehicle, which reportedly knocked him down and sped away. He was immediately rushed to a hospital, where he was declared dead. Special teams have been formed to trace the vehicle involved in the incident. Police attached to the Thanthonrimalai station have registered a case under sections, including 304-A (causing death by negligence), of the IPC. Sources said police teams were examining video footage from surveillance cameras.  CM condoles death Chief Minister M.K. Stalin condoled the death of the MVI. Mr. Stalin granted Rs. 50 lakh as aid from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) to the bereaved family.  N. Kanagaraj, who was attached to the flying squad, had come to Vengakalpatti in the morning to carry out vehicle checks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speeding-vehicle-kills-motor-vehicle-inspector/article37637169.ece
23 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||89 new cases, 3 deaths||Eighty-nine more persons from the central region have tested positive as per a bulletin issued by the Department of Health on Monday. Three more deaths from the region have been recorded. With 24 persons testing positive, Tiruchi accounted for the maximum number of daily fresh cases. Thanjavur was close behind with 23 cases. Karur reported 15 cases, Tiruvarur 10, Nagapattinam 9, Pudukottai 4 and Ariyalur and Mayiladuthurai two each. Perambalur had no fresh case on Monday. Tiruchi also had the maximum active cases with 377 patients undergoing treatment, including home treatment. Thanjavur had 277 cases, Karur 169, Tiruvarur 148, Nagapattinam 94, Pudukottai 57, Ariyalur 28, Mayiladuthurai 21 and Perambalur 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/89-new-cases-3-deaths/article37637293.ece
23 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements under way at Srirangam temple for Vaikunta Ekadasi festival||Arrangements are under way at the Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple ahead of the Vaikunta Ekadasi festival that begins early next month. The thousand-pillar mandapam is being spruced up and decoration works are being carried out. Similarly, work on installation of sheets for providing a canopy in the 'Manalveli' between the Thousand Pillar Mandapam and the Sesharayar Mandapam is also being executed. Temple officials said the works were being carried out ahead of the annual festival which is to be held from December 3 to 24. The festival begins with the ‘Thirunedunthaandagam’ on December 3. The main event of the festival is the opening of the ‘paramapadha vaasal’ at 4.45 a.m. on December 14 through which the processional deity Lord Namperumal will pass through. The festival concludes with the ‘Nammazhwar Moksham’ on December 24. Police sources said a separate security scheme would be drafted soon for the upcoming festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrangements-under-way-at-srirangam-temple-for-vaikunta-ekadasi-festival/article37637320.ece
23 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||2 die as MUV overturns||Two occupants of a multi utility vehicle died and four others were injured after the driver of the vehicle lost control and hit a milestone before overturning on Tiruchi-Chennai national highway in Mangalamedu police station limits in neighbouring Perambalur district in the early hours on Monday. A group of six persons, including the driver of the vehicle, were returning after worshipping at the Sabarimala temple in Kerala when the accident occurred. Police sources said the driver, Ganesan, apparently swooned for a moment, losing control of the vehicle which collided with a milestone near Ayanperaiyur diversion and overturned. The deceased were identified as N. Anand,,27, and Surya alias Settu, 30, both of Chengalpattu district, said the police. Mangalamedu Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-die-as-muv-overturns/article37637294.ece
23 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Monday stood at 138.80 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 1,223.17 cusecs and a discharge of 1,549.80 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 92.70 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 213 cusecs and a discharge of 10 cusecs. There was no rainfall in the region during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37637684.ece
23 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Will make T.N. No. 1 in industrialisation’||The Tamil Nadu Government’s objective is to make the State number one in industrialisation, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin reiterated at a function in Coimbatore on Monday. He inaugurated completed schemes, launched new ones and distributed financial assistance to beneficiaries. On Tuesday, he will meet industrialists at an investors’ meet in Coimbatore to sign MoUs and draw investments. The move will create employment opportunities and pave way for further industrialisation in Coimbatore, he said. The district is known for industrial houses and medium and small enterprises, and the government’s objective is to industrialise all districts, Mr. Stalin said. The Chief Minister said his government believed in action more than words. The State Government will follow up on the announcements it made, he said. Mr. Stalin said in the run up to the 2021 Assembly election, his opponents had criticised his move to collect petitions from the people. But on assuming office, he said a new department to act on the petitions had been established. The government will continue to work for the district’s development, he said. At a separate event, Mr. Stalin said the State Government would completely renew its scheme on women self-help groups (SHGs). ‘Scheme in ruins’ He was addressing a State Government event, organised on the premises of the Chikkanna Government Arts College in Tiruppur. Noting that former Chief Minister Karunanidhi launched the scheme in 1989, he said women SHGs had been “in ruins” for 10 years under the previous government. In Tiruppur district alone, over 5,400 women SHGs had received loans worth Rs. 230 crore in the past six months, Mr. Stalin said. Schemes of the DMK Government, such as free travel for women passengers in city buses and waiving loans taken by women SHGs from cooperative banks, are “an expression of concern that the government has for women”, he said. The Chief Minister inaugurated 20 construction projects belonging to nine departments, worth Rs. 28.17 crore; laid the foundation stones for two buildings under the District Rural Development Agency, worth Rs. 41.24 lakh, and initiated the distribution of welfare assistance to 4,335 beneficiaries, worth Rs. 55.6 crore. Ministers M.P. Saminathan, N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, E.V. Velu, T.M. Anbarasan and Thangam Thennarasu; Members of Parliament A. Raja, K. Subbarayan, A. Ganeshamurthi and K. Shanmugasundaram, Collector S. Vineeth and other officials took part. After the event, Mr. Stalin met garment exporters from Tiruppur and received their petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-make-tn-no-1-in-industrialisation/article37637171.ece
23 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||4 held for murder||The Avinashi police on Monday arrested four persons on charges of murdering a worker near here. Police sources said Anil Kumar (22) from Bihar, who was working in a company in Thekkalur, was attacked by the gang due to personal enmity. He died in the hospital. The police arrested Ravi, Babu, Ranjith and Manikandan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-held-for-murder/article37637213.ece
23 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiri tahr population expands beyond Mukurthi National Park||The population of the iconic Nilgiri tahr could be expanding into habitats from which they were previously decimated due to poaching and habitat loss. A recent image of a lone Nilgiri tahr, the State animal, atop a rocky outcrop in Kinnakorai, could point to the species trying to re-establish itself in habitats from which it was previously displaced. The image was captured by M.A. Thenmurugakani, a member of OSAI conservation group, and shows the animal in the rocky outcrop just above a nearby tea estate. Mr. Thenmurugakani told The Hindu he had seen the animal from quite far away. “I have been visiting the Mukurthi National Park for the last two decades, and I have not seen the Nilgiri tahr outside the protected area. I was very surprised to see the animal,” he said. M.A. Predit, coordinator for the Nilgiri tahr conservation programme for the World Wide Fund for Nature India, said a small herd of tahr had colonised the Kinnakorai area between 2010 and 2013. Eventually, in one of the more recent population estimation exercises, it was noted that the number of tahr seen in the area had increased to between 10 and 15 comprising a single herd. “However, seeing lone Saddle back males (mature adult male Nilgiri tahr identifiable by a patch on their hides on their backs) or all male groups are common because, mature males are mostly observed with the herd during the rutting season between June and August.” “Small herds of Nilgiri tahr have slowly expanded from the Nilgiri peak to the Northern areas in the Nilgiris division in at least three grassland-shola habitats with rocky escarpments. Subsequently, a saddleback male was spotted in Frog Hill of Gudalur in a recent survey. These records allow us to speculate that the species is trying to re-colonise habitats from which it was previously displaced,” said Mr. Predit. Forest department officials said increased protection from poaching, and fewer anthropogenic pressures in the area could be leading to the increase in the population of the Nilgiri tahr, which is believed to be between 420-430 individuals in 2017 to over 600 in 2019. The tahr once roamed in a wide extent of area in the Nilgiris, including Ebbanad, Sholur Kokkal, Glenmorgan and Kodanad. These areas, marked by steep cliff faces and rocky outcrops, provided the ideal habitat for the tahr to thrive in as it increased their chance of survival and helped them escape predation, said Mr. Predit. Conservationists said habitat restoration, combined with an effort to reintroduce the species into viable habitats could ensure the long-term protection of the species, while also ensuring that the population kept re-establishing itself in newer habitats where the pressures were being reduced by active protection measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiri-tahr-population-expands-beyond-mukurthi-national-park/article37637216.ece
23 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Ten fresh COVID-19 cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,096 with 10 new cases reported on Monday. With a total of 48,850 persons having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 108. The district's toll is 1,138. In Ranipet and Tirupattur no fresh cases were reported on Monday. In Tiruvannamalai district, four new cases were reported , which took the total to 55,147. Ofthis, 54,415 have been discharged. The of active cases stood at 63.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-vellore/article37637618.ece
23 November 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Two killed, 23 injured after mini-lorry overturns||Two persons were killed and 23 others were injured when a mini-lorry they were travelling in, overturned at Mettukuppam near Thiruvennainallur on Monday. The deceased were identified as A. Thenmozhi, 55 of Mettukuppam and Sekar, 54 of Ilanthirai. According to police, the accident occurred when the mini lorry, carrying 23 persons, was proceeding from Thiruvennainallur to Cuddalore district. When the vehicle neared Mettukuppam, Ezhumalai, the driver, lost control of the lorry and hit a two-wheeler from behind. The lorry then overturned, killing Thenmozhi and Sekar. The injured, including the motorcycle rider Senthil and his wife Uma, who was riding pillion, were admitted to the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital. The Thiruvennainallur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-23-injured-after-mini-lorry-overturns/article37637625.ece
23 November 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Make fuel products affordable for common man in State, says BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party cadre, as part of the State-wide agitations, staged a protest here on Monday against the DMK government, pressing for reduction in value-added tax on fuel prices to make petrol and diesel more affordable for the common man. The protest was organised by the party’s youth and women wings. Youth Wing presidents Seetharaman and Poomalai Raja led the protest. Speaking on the occasion, the party’s east district president, M. Gajendran, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reduced the price of petrol by Rs. 5 a litre and diesel by Rs. 10 a litre as Deepavali gift to the people. Responding to his appeal for State governments to reciprocate his gesture, even the Congress-ruled States such as Punjab and Rajasthan reduced the fuel prices substantially. However, the DMK that came to power with the promise of cutting down VAT on fuel, was not coming forward to do it now after it partially fulfilled its promise in the past. He also criticised the DMK government for “usurping the credit due to the Centre which was giving substantial subsidy for ration rice.” “The State government that was bearing only Rs. 3 subsidy for a kg was claiming that it was supplying free rice to the people,” Mr. Gajendran said. He also alleged that the State government was taking tough action against people belonging to Opposition parties under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure to put them under undue pressure. The party’s women wing leaders, Kaleeswari and Santhanamari, took part in the protest. Thoothukudi In a potest staged in Thoothukudi, the party’s national council member, Sasikala Pushpa, said that the reduction of the value added tax would make the fuel products affordable. Moreover, the DMK had not fulfilled its poll promise. The high prices of petrol and diesel had resulted in escalation of prices of essential commodities too. Other speakers at the protest meeting said that while the un ion government was rendering so much service for people welfare, the DMK leaders were levelling baseless allegations against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-fuel-products-affordable-for-common-man-in-state-says-bjp/article37637686.ece
23 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||CITU transport workers want wage settlement talks to begin||Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation employees affiliated to CITU staged a fast in front of Virudhunagar and Rajapalayam depots pressing the STate Government to call the unions for the wage settlement talks, on Monday. The protest was led by the general secretary, CITU-Transport workers, Virudhunagar Region, M. Vellaidurai. The last wage settlement got over on August 31, 2019 and the talks for the new settlement has not begun for the last 26 months, he said. When the workers went on a strike, the previous AIADMK Government claimed that it could not hold the talks due to announcement of State Assembly election. “We have approached Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan thrice ever since the new government came into power. But, there is no sign of the Government announcing the date for the talks,” Mr. Vellaidurai said. The CITU also sought budgetary allocation for the transport corporations that would take care of all the travel concessions offered by the State Government. “If the State government takes care of the gap between the income and expenditure of the transport corporations, all the problems plagueing the corporation will be solved,” he added. After the State Government allowed free journey for women passengers in select buses, the Corporations were denying the proportionate collection bata to the crew members, he said.  The last wage settlement got over on August 31, 2019 CITU functionary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citu-transport-workers-want-wage-settlement-talks-to-begin/article37637298.ece
23 November 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Centre biased against flood-hit Tamil Nadu: Congress MP||Congress MP B. Manickam Tagore on Monday flayed the Centre for “showing partiality against Tamil Nadu which was badly affected by floods”. “No Union Ministers, not even those who hail from Tamil Nadu, have visited the flood-affected areas like Chennai and Cuddalore. This only showed that the Union government was partial,” the Virudhunagar MP said. He was talking to reporters here after taking part in a padayatra from Kamaraj statue near Virudhunagar municipal office to Teppakulam through old bus stand as a mark of protest against the Centre for its anti-people policies. “When the BJP had increased taxes from Rs. 9 on diesel in 2014 to Rs. 32 now, members of Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP should know whom they should protest against,” he said. Stating that nowhere in the country the BJP was protesting against the high fuel prices, he said the protest organised by State party unit was ridiculous. He said huge photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi were put up outside every petrol bunk. If State BJP president K. Annamalai was really concerned about the sufferings of the people due to high fuel price, he should ask the Prime Minister and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to reduce the Central taxes on petrol and diesel, he said. “People were aware of who has increased fuel prices and the BJP cannot fool the people of Tamil Nadu,” he said. Party MLA G. Ashokan and other leaders like Sreeraja Chokkar, Balakrishnasamy and Veilumuthu took part in the padayatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-biased-against-flood-hit-tamil-nadu-congress-mp/article37637310.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Beautification drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beautification-drive/article37637228.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/up-in-arms/article37637615.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM to ink MoUs worth Rs. 35,200 cr.||The firm has given an investment commitment of Rs. 2,600 crore. In the food space, Hindustan Unilever Limited will invest Rs. 1,900 crore to manufacture nutritional and beverage products. TVS Motor will be exchanging an MoU worth Rs. 1,200 crore for manufacturing of electric vehicles at Krishnagiri. Another big ticket deal worth Rs. 2,455 crore will be from Welspun One Logistics Parks for an industrial park venture at Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. “Some aerospace and defence deals will also be signed for manufacturing components for these two sectors. One of the projects that will be signed will entail establishing a flight training organisation for aircraft and drone pilots,” an official source said. He further said considering the rapid increase of electric vehicles, deals would be inked with companies that were involved in e-vehicle charging stations. There are six MoUs pertaining to data centres, and some of them are phase-2 expansion deals. In the recent months, the State has been betting big in the data centre space and wooing firms to invest here. Data shows that with a current capacity of 54MW, Chennai is slowly emerging as a data centre hub, and is likely to increase supply by 1.3 times in two years, with a planned pipeline of 79 MW. Currently, the city has the third highest data centre capacity in India after Mumbai (199MW) and Bengaluru (57MW).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-ink-mous-worth-rs-35200-cr/article37637174.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect -DGL||The Current Events Club of the Department of English of Sri Kaliswari College in Sivakasi conducted a debate on the topic ‘Privatisation of public sector in India: A right move or selling family silver’ on November 18. Club coordinator N. Naga Jothi convened the session for PG students. G.Shakthi Kiruba, vice-president of the club, welcomed the gathering. S. Femina, Head, Department of English, said such clubs provided a platform for students to cultivate public speaking and critical thinking skills. K. P. Swapna, Assistant Professor, and M. Muthumari, club president, also spoke.   The Departments of Commerce and Business Administration organised a seminar on ‘Contemporary development in entrepreneurial finance’ on November 19. K. Prabhakaran, Trainer of National Centre for Financial Education, the resource person, explained various avenues available in the Indian market, how to take financial decisions to start a new business and get financial assistance from banks.   World Heritage Week celebration organised by the Department of History, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, was inaugurated on November 19. It was organised in collaboration with Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the Department of State Archaeology and the tourism wing of Dhan Foundation, Madurai. AR. Saravanakumar, Head i/c, Department of History, said the World Heritage Week was organised to create an awareness of the importance of protecting monuments. S. Rajavelu, Adjunct Faculty, said the UNESCO had listed 1,154 World Heritage Sites in 167 countries. Of these, only 40 were from India as owing to natural calamities and vandalism, many edifices had been lost in the last 5,000 years. S. Karuppuchamy, Member VC Officiating Committee, said the strength of a nation lies not on economic development but on its rich cultural heritage. One must emulate the example of China, Japan and other developed countries. M. Prasanna, Assistant Archaeologist, ASI, in his keynote address, said that the Keeladi excavation has created an awakening among people on conserving monuments. He made a reference to the Tamili Inscriptions found at Thirumalai in Sivaganga district. A photo exhibition of heritage monuments, arranged by the ASI, will be open for public from November 22 to 25 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.   The inaugural meeting of He’s Club of Ayya Nadar Janaki Ammal College, Sivakasi, was organised recently. K. Vijaya Bhaskar, Principal in charge, presided over the meeting. Sp. Sevarkodiyone. Co-ordinator welcomed the gathering. Dr. M. Rifayu Meera, Convenor of Women Cell, delivered the felicitation address. Dr. P. Arjunan of Annai Hospital, Seithur, was the chief guest. M. Satheeshkumar, Advisory Committee member, proposed the vote of thanks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect-dgl/article37637302.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect -City||The National Service Scheme of K.L. Nagaswamy Memorial Polytechnic College, Madurai, conducted a programme on ‘Leadership qualities and personality development’ on November 11. Principal P.V.N. Anandan presided. Vice-Principal K.B. Sagadevan; Head of Department of English S.C. Muralikrishnan; Programme Officer R.R. Sivakumar; and senior lecturer R. Senthilkumar spoke. An inspirational video of Kaliyamoorthy, IPS, was shown to the students.   The Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of Vivekananda College, Tiruvedagam, organised a hands-on training programme on ICT-enabled teaching on November 19. G. Rajkumar, Regional Manager, School Solutions, Madurai, delivered a special lecture on the topic ‘Features of the smart board,’ followed by hands-on training for the teaching faculty. T. Venkatesan, Principal, presided. Vice-Principal V. Parthasarathy, Department of Computer Science Head G. Balaji and Maths Assistant Professor R. Kalaivanan were present.   The Department of Communicative English of S. Vellaichamy Nadar College, Nagamalai, made a field visit to the printing unit of The Hindu at Puliyankulam on November 17 in commemoration of National Journalism Day. A group of 30 UG students, led by C. Tharini, HOD, visited the unit.   Velammal College of Engineering and Technology, Madurai, conducted Freshers’ Day on November 19. N. Suresh Kumar, Principal, welcomed. Ganesh Natarajan, Vice- Chairman, Velammal Educational Trust, urged the students to follow the 10 skills of World Economic Forum and use time and opportunities to qualify themselves for jobs. M. V. Muthuramalingam, Chairman, said students must acquire knowledge and dream big. Geetha Sivasubramanian, HoD, Chemistry, proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect-city/article37637523.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CAMPUS CONNECT||The Department of Management Studies, Srinivasan Arts and Science College, Perambalur, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with IIM-Kozhikode and MakeIntern for providing 'Campus to Corporate' training to students by creating the ambience of IIMs. A Zonal Centre for 'Campus to Corporate’ Training Camp was inaugurated on the occasion. Similar training programmes were conducted for the students over four years to enable them gain a global outlook and perform well in national competitions. The college and department was recognised by IIM as 'Centre of Excellence'.   The Department of Chemical Engineering, National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi organised an online International Felicitation Conference on the theme ‘Environmentally Benign Processes, Products and Materials for Sustainable Ecosystems (EBPPM – 2021)’ in honour of its retired professor N. Anantharaman. Invited lectures were delivered by eminent faculty members including Piran Kidambi, Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tennessee, USA; Sreenivasan Ramaswami, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru; S. Sundramoorthy, Pondicherry Engineering College, Pondicherry; Manish Kumar, University of Peradeniya; Satyavrata Samavedi, Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad, Ramasubramanian, Technip India Limited, Chennai; Ganesh Bhadti, President (Operations), M/s. Sheshasayee paper mills, Erode; and Lukathuyavan, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia. A total of 37 papers were selected for oral presentations in six sessions. Presiding over, Institute Director Mini Shaji Thomas, recalled Mr. Anantharaman’s role as mentor to students and the teaching community.   A webinar on the excellence Series ‘Enhance Your Employability’ was organised by the Department of Fashion Technology, Shrimati Indira Gandhi College. C. Ashok Kumar, Founder, Oasis Hometex Pvt. Ltd., Karur, handled a session on the importance of basic traits such as attitude, confidence, adaptability, presentation, stress management, team work and time management. He emphasised on exploring knowledge, looking for challenges, and on being open to new experiences. K. Meena, Secretary, presided over. K. Chandrasekharan, M.S., Chief Executive Officer, and Principal S. Vidhyalakshmi also addressed the students.   J.J. College of Arts and Science (Autonomous) Pudukkottai, hosted a special lecture programme on ‘Emerging food microbiome research and opportunities in food biotechnology' under the aegis of Jenner Club of PG and Research Department of Microbiology. K. Srinivasan, Adjunct Faculty, from National Institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management (NIFTEM), Thanjavur. explained the increased interest in the microbiome application technologies and innovations for maintenance of digestive health. Mr. Srinivasan spoke on research related to food biotechnology.   A team representing MAM Business School won the first prize at YUTRY 2.0, a business plan presentation contest conducted by Yi Trichy at National College. Of the four teams from the institution that made it to semi-finals, the one that presented the business plan for ‘Grammathu Keerai’ detailing the importance of greens and production and marketing of spinach wrappers, chocolate, snacks, and spinach powder using all types of greens won the first prize. The products presented by the other three teams constituted MUSA (Banana Fibre), Milkshake (making nutritious drinks using small grains such as cashews, rye, and corn), Granny’s Gift (Natural Beauty Care Products such as lotus powder, conifer powder, aroma oil, clay pearls and gold powder), and ‘Pie’ (Making cloth wallet and bags using waste cotton fabrics in the factory). The panel that evaluated the business plans consisted of Senthil Nathan, CEO- Aazhi Publisher; G. Suresh Kumar, CEO and Founder-MacAppStudio; C.K. Kumaravel, CEO- Naturals Salons and Spa; and Kumar Vembu, CEO and Founder- GoFrugal Technologies.   National College conducted a webinar for students of PG and Research Department of Computer Science to highlight the importance of Tamil language. Manikavasaga, Head, Department of Tamil, spoke about Tolkaapiyam , and on the greatest literary works during the Sangam period brought out by people in various occupations including pottery, agricutlure, and business. Tamil literary personalities made significant contributions to the National Independence Movement, Mr. Manickavasagan said. K. Raghunathan, college secretary, also addressed the participants. Principal R. Sundararaman presided over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article37637287.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Interactive session on ‘Protecting from abuses’, 9.45 a.m.  KPR College of Arts and   Science for Women:  Commerce association inauguration, D. Kuppuramu, Chairman Coir Board, chief guest, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37637220.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||23-11-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, East Mada Street, Mylapore, Chennai-600 004. Bagawan Sri Sathya Sai Baba's 96th Birthday Celebration today at 9.00 am: Sai Bajan, at 10.30 am: Devotional Music concert by Prof. Sai Saraswathy & Team. All are welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-11-2021-city-cinema/article37637193.ece
23 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Dynastic politics is discouraging to young, pro-people leaders’||The trend of MLAs trying to push their relatives into the Legislative Council elections continues unabated. It seems to be prevalent across North Karnataka. On Monday, the Congress released its list of candidates for the Council polls from the local bodies constituencies. Among others, it included the names of Bheemanagouda Patil from Bidar, Sharanegouda Bayyapur from Raichur and Channaraj Hattiholi from Belagavi. Bheemanagouda Patil is the third brother of the influential Humnabad Patil clan to enter politics. The patriarch, Basavaraj Patil Humnabad, had served as a Minister in S.M. Krishna’s Cabinet. The eldest brother Rajashekar Patil is an MLA and another brother Chandrashekar Patil is an MLC. Sharanegouda Bayyapur’s uncle is an MLA from Kushtagi in Raichur district. Mr Hattiholi is the younger brother of Lakshmi Hebbalkar, Congress MLA. He and his sister have succeeded in getting the party leadership approve of his candidature, as against claims by senior Congressmen Veerkumar Patil, former MLA and former MLC, and Vivekrao Patil, outgoing MLC. A similar trend is being witnessed across North Karnataka districts where members of political families seem to occupy seats in both Houses of the legislature. This is also seen across the political spectrum, though a larger number of them are from the Congress, than the BJP. Lakhan Jarkiholi, youngest of the Jarkiholi brothers, is likely to file his nomination papers on Tuesday, after the BJP did not honour his request to nominate him. If he does so, he will be the fourth one from among the Gokak brothers to enter politics. His brother and BJP MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi had asked the party to nominate Lakhan Jarkiholi as the second candidate. Though Ramesh Jarkiholi, eldest brother, has denied seeking ticket for his brother, he is said to be discreetly in favour of Lakhan Jarkiholi’s candidature. Chandrakanth Patil, who unsuccessfully contested as the BJP candidate from Gulbarga North constituency in the last byelection, is the son of BJP MLC B.G. Patil. Pradeep Shettar, MLC from Dharwad district, is the younger brother of Jagadish Shettar, former Chief Minister and BJP leader. Hanumant Nirani, MLC from Bagalkot, is the younger brother of Murugesh Nirani, Minister and BJP leader. Sunilgouda Patil, Congress MLC from Vijayapura, who is seeking re-election, is the brother of M.B. Patil, former minister and Congress MLA. “MLAs using their clout to push their relatives into the Council is a very dangerous trend and it needs to be opposed. It could damage the sanctity of the Upper House,’’ said Asfaq Ahmed Madaki, political activist and Janata Dal(S) leader. “Leaders may look at their children and relatives as their natural political heirs. But it very rare that dynasts turn out to be good leaders. In the larger interest of the State, parties should not promote dynastic politics. People too should realise its dangers,’’ he told The Hindu . Bheemappa Gadad, RTI activist, said that dynastic politics discouraged young, pro-people leaders from aspiring for positions in public life. “Dynasts don’t need to start afresh. They grow because they share the goodwill generated by their elders. In this process, they neglect their public duties and do not focus on building networks of followers and party workers,’’ he said. Ms. Hebbalkar, however, defended her party’s choice. “It is not surprising that my brother got ticket. He has been working hard to strengthen the Congress at the grassroots level. We had requested senior leaders to support him and they have all unanimously agreed,’’ she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dynastic-politics-is-discouraging-to-young-pro-people-leaders/article37637342.ece
23 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Joint survey in Belagavi district to assess crop loss due to heavy rain||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has ordered a joint crop loss survey in Belagavi district to assess the damage caused to crops by heavy rain this month. This will be taken up by Revenue, Agriculture and Horticulture officers. “We have instructed officials to complete it in three days,’’ he told journalists here on Monday. “Scientists have predicted heavy rain in the region on November 25 and 26. If we complete the survey before those showers, we will be able to release compensation for the affected farmers. If there is crop loss during the next spell of rain, we will take up another survey,’’ he clarified. He said that compensation was paid to two families in Hukkeri and Mudalagi that lost their breadwinners to heavy rain. Each family has been given Rs. 5 lakh as per National Disaster Relief Fund norms. According to him, Belagavi district received 230% more rainfall than normal in November. “We should have received 21 mm of rainfall between November 1 and 20. But over 61 mm rain has been received,” he added. As per initial estimates, this has led to crop loss in 5,367 hectares, most of it being paddy, in Belagavi and Khanapur taluks. In Athani taluk, grapes in over 500 hectares have been damaged. As many as 32 houses have been completely damaged and 239 partially. Three animals have died. The rule is that farmers should intimate the crop insurance company within 48 hours. But if they cannot do it due to lack of awareness of procedure, officers will help them, the Deputy Commissioner said. Beneficiaries will get compensation as per Calamity Relief Fund norms. Those whose houses have been completely damaged will get Rs. 5 lakh and those whose houses have suffered partial damage will be given Rs. 3 lakh. As many as 11 schoolrooms have been damaged and 24 electricity poles have been uprooted. Damage to infrastructure and other pubic facilities will also be assessed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joint-survey-in-belagavi-district-to-assess-crop-loss-due-to-heavy-rain/article37637341.ece
23 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Marriages in graveyard||A family from Shingalapur near Gokak in Belagavi district celebrated the marriages of their children in a Muslim graveyard in the village on Monday. Arif Peerzade, a member of Manava Bandhutva Vedike and a follower of Satish Jarkiholi, organised the marriages of his children and nephews in the graveyard. The family put up a tent in the empty land in the graveyard and organised the wedding rituals. “We wanted to send a message against blind belief. Hence, the choice of this venue,” Mr. Peerzade said. Several hundreds of well-wishers attended the marriages. Satish Jarkiholi’s daughter, Priyanka Jarkiholi, and convener of Manava Bandhutva Vedike Ravindra Naik blessed the couples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marriages-in-graveyard/article37637357.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lakes overflow, Yelahanka faces the brunt of rain fury||Several areas in the north and north-west of Bengaluru were battered by heavy rains on Sunday evening, leaving basements of several apartments flooded by Monday morning. Yelahanka zone as well as parts of Mahadevapura zone were the worst-affected with rainwater entering people’s homes. According to the Karnataka State Disaster Management Centre (KSNDMC), extremely heavy rainfall was received in a few wards coming under the Yelahanka zone. Maximum rainfall of 153 mm was recorded in Jakkuru ward. Singapura lake, Amanikere lake, and Allalasandra lake overflowed and transformed roads in the vicinity into rivulets. Several houses were inundated, with residents unable to get out of their homes. Much of the damage caused by the rains has been attributed to development in the Hebbal valley, encroachment of wetlands and drain network. Many of the affected areas come in the Hebbal valley that connects Yelahanka lake, Jakkur lake and Rachenahalli lake. In Yelahanka zone, several railway underbridges and roads were flooded, causing traffic jams. Tatanagar, Vidyaranyapura, Balaji Layout, Hebbal Sarovara Layout, Kodigehalli, Thindlu were badly affected. There was nearly four feet of water at Kogilu Cross, Amruthahalli. Some motorists who tried to cross the flooded spot were stranded in the middle of the road, blocking the movement of other vehicles. Water from the Allalasandra lake overflowed on the Yelahanka - Doddaballapur Road. Overflow of Singapura lake resulted in inundation of several roads nearby. Local residents alleged that none of the authorities concerned visited the rain-affected areas. They claimed that the lake had overflowed last year as well, which they attributed to the road constructed over the rajakaluve (storm water drain). According to information made available by the KSNDMC, Agrahara Layout in Yelahanka received the maximum rain of 153 mm, while Yelahanka received 150 mm rain. Chowdeshwari ward received 138 mm while Atturu ward, both under Yelahanka zone, received 130.5 mm.  In an emergency meeting held on November 21, orders were issued to release Rs. 25 lakh for each zone in BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lakes-overflow-yelahanka-faces-the-brunt-of-rain-fury/article37637134.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||S.R. Patil fails to make it to Cong. list for Council polls||Throwing up many surprises, the Congress on Monday evening released its list of 20 candidates for the Legislative Council elections, with several new faces figuring on it. One of the biggest surprises was Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council S.R. Patil being denied the ticket to contest from Vijayapura-Bagalkot Local Authorities’ constituency. Of the 20 candidates, only four are the party’s incumbent members in the Council. Sources said though the Congress held both the seats in the dual-member constituency of Vijayapura-Bagalkot, it was believed that the ticket would be given to four-time MLC Mr. S.R. Patil and the other Congress member, Sunilgouda Patil, brother of former Minister M.B. Patil, would not get the ticket. However, Mr. Sunilgouda Patil was eventually picked. The Congress has a chance of winning one of the two seats, sources said. KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed, who had played an active role in the elections to the Hanagal Assembly constituencywhere the Congress candidate Srinivas Mane registered a victory, has been given the ticket to contest from Hubballi–Dharwad. Incidentally, Mr. Mane represented one of the two seats in Hubballi–Dharwad. While the former Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty, elected from Dakshin Kannada, had refused to contest, the party has given the ticket to Manjunath Bhandari. In Mysuru–Chamarajanagar constituency, the party droppedincumbent member R. Dharmasena and instead chose D. Thimmaiah. The Congress is expected to win one of the two seats in both Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada constituencies. Vijay Singh, incumbent member andson of the former Chief Minister late N. Dharam Singh, has lost out to Bhimrao B. Patil in Bidar. In Bengaluru Urban, Congress chief whip M. Narayanswamy has been replaced by Yousuf Shariff. The party has given the ticket to M. Shankar in Hassan where incumbent member M.A. Gopalaswamy had apparently not shown interest in the contest. Similarly, in Raichur, Sarana Gouda Annadana Gouda Patil has been given the ticket in place of incumbent member Basavaraj Patil Itagi. It has replaced Srikanth Ghotnekar in Uttara Kannada by Bhimanna Naik. B. Somashekhar has been given the ticket in place of incumbent member Raghu Achar in Chitradurga. Kodagu candidate is Mantar Gowda, son A. Manju, who contested on the BJP ticket in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In Belagavi Local Authorities’ constituency, where the Congress is expected to win one of the two seats, it has fielded Channaraja Basavaraja Hattiholi, thebrother of MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar. The party has retained incumbent members K.C. Kondaiah (Ballari), S. Ravi (Bengaluru Rural), and R. Prasanna Kumar (Shivamogga).  Defends decision Meanwhile, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar told reporters that the names had been cleared after considering the opinion of the local leaders and new faces had been accommodated. Regarding dropping of Mr. S.R. Patil, he said the party had a different agenda behind the decision. “He has not been ignored. It was a decision taken after consultations by senior leaders. It was not an individual decision.” On Mr. Kondaiah getting the ticket despite opposition from local leaders, Mr. Shivakumar said the former was a senior leader and one who had sacrificed his seat in the Lok Sabha in favour of AICC president Sonia Gandhi. For the elections scheduled for 25 seats of the Legislative Council from local authorities across the State on December 10, Tuesday is the last date for filing nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sr-patil-fails-to-make-it-to-cong-list-for-council-polls/article37637144.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Other flooded areas ignored, allege aggrieved citizens||With efforts focussed on Kendriya Vihar, near Kogilu Cross, residents of other flooded areas were left fuming at having to fend for themselves. Sunday’s rains left many homes in Tatanagar, Vidyaranyapura, Balaji Layout, Hebbal Sarovara Layout, Kodigehalli, Thindlu, and others inundated. Hospitals, apartment complexes, even research institutions, such as the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, and Manyata Tech Park were flooded. Civic chief Gaurav Gupta said that October and November have been wettest in recent history. “We have managed with minimum disturbance and immediately responded to the crisis,” he said and added that Dasarahalli, Yelahanka, parts of Mahadevapura and northern parts of East Zone had been most affected following Sunday’s rains. Septuagenarian Gowramma, resident of Venkataswamappa Layout near Vidyaranyapura, said she spent the whole night dealing with water that flooded her one-room home. Another resident claimed that even past noon, none of the authorities had visited the area. A resident of Vidyaranyapura alleged that despite several calls to the various control rooms, no help was forthcoming from the authorities concerned. Refuting these allegations, Dayananda, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Admin) and zonal commissioner, said that civic officials had given attention to all affected areas, identified problem areas and worked with the local communities in providing immediate relief. BBMP officials said they supplied essential items to lower income groups in Surabhi Layout in Yelahanka. According to Zonal Joint Commissioner Poornima, water logging had been reported from 42 different locations across Yelahanka zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/other-flooded-areas-ignored-allege-aggrieved-citizens/article37637124.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four minors hack 46-year-old man||Four minors reportedly hacked a 46-year-old man to death at his house in Yelahanka New Town after his 17-year-old daughter, who was their friend, revealed that he had molested her. The police have detained the four minors as well as the victim’s daughter for questioning. The incident took place around 1.30 a.m. on Monday. According to the police, the 17-year-old girl and her sister knocked on a neighbour’s door and alerted them about the attack. When they went to investigate, they discovered the body and informed the police. The girls told the police that four armed youths barged into the house and attacked their father with lethal weapons while one of them threatened them with a sword if they shouted for help. “Repeated questioning led the police to suspect the involvement of the eldest daughter,” said a police officer. According to the police, the victim hailed from Bihar and lived with his wife and two daughters aged 17 and nine years old. In her statement, the older sister said that their mother had recently left to visit her native town, following which her father started molesting her. “The minors and the victim of sexual assault and conspirator of murder will be produced before Juvenile Justice Board,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-minors-hack-46-year-old-man/article37637125.ece
23 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CMR Group celebrates Founders’ Day||CMR University and CMR Group of Institutions recently celebrated its Founders’ Day on its main campus in Bagalur in the city. Chief Guest Aravind Limbavalli along with the management of the CMR Group of Institutions declared the Cafeteria Block open, and performed the bhoomi pooja for the Staff Housing Block. During the event, employees having contributed 25 years, 20 years, 15 years, 10 years, and 5 years of exemplary service to the CMR Group of Institutions were given plaques and certificates. In all, a total of 265 employees received the honour from the distinguished guests, CMR Group of Institutions said in a release. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Limbavali stressed the need for the creation of an atmosphere conducive to the growth of Higher education in the State of Karnataka and emphasised that committed educational institutions such as the CMR Group need to be provided as much support from the outside as possible and expressed his intent to assist the CMR Group of Institutions in their future endeavours, the release stated. Mr. Ramamurthy acknowledged the contribution of both the teaching and non-teaching staff at the CMR Group of Institutions and detailed how the Group was committed to protecting employees’ interests. He also stressed on the importance of enriching educational experiences for students through NEP 2020 and about CMR University having a dedicated Curriculum Development Team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cmr-group-celebrates-founders-day/article37637120.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kendriya Vihar flooded again, residents rescued by NDRF||Just two days after Kendriya Vihar apartment complex housing 603 flats was flooded, heavy rains caused overflow from the adjacent Yelahanka lake to gush into the premises once again early Sunday. By morning, the rains had stopped, but there was nearly 5 ft water stagnating within the apartment complex. Soon after the apartment complex was flooded once again, power supply was cut off to prevent any untoward incidents. As many as 120 rescue personnel from the State and National Disaster Response Force along with BBMP officials and 40 police personnel were roped in to rescue and evacuate residents. Rafts and trackers were roped in during the rescue effort. Hundreds of cars and two-wheelers parked in the basement of the apartment complex have submerged. The BBMP distributed emergency provisions, such as milk, drinking water, bread and biscuits to marooned families, besides food for the rescue personnel. BBMP’s medical team, with eight doctors, is also stationed at the complex, as is an ambulance with basic life support system. One of the many residents who was rescued was a senior citizen, who is also a cancer patient. He told reporters that he was due to chemotherapy on Monday and was rescued by the NDRF team.  It was a nerve racking experience for class XII student who had to reach her school in Hebbal to sit for an examination. Her mother, Kanchen Joseph, said the reporting time was 1 p.m. “We had informed the class teacher about the situation. My daughter went to the main gate in the raft and took an autorickshaw to school. She reached in time to change into uniform and appeared for the examination,” she said and added that her husband booked a cab for their daughter from school. “She again had to come till the gate and reached our block in a tractor. She is just exhausted from the ordeal. She, however, has to prepare for her next examination on Tuesday,” she said. Tackle encroachments Earlier in the day, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, accompanied by Yelahanka MLA S.R. Vishwanath and senior civic officials visited the apartment complex. Speaking to reporters, he said the Yelahanka zone had received unprecedented rains in just two – three hours. “A lot of water has flowed into Yelahanka lake, which led to a large volume of water being discharged. This caused water to flood into Kendriya Vihar which is low lying,” he said. Zonal joint commissioner Poornima, who has been overseeing rescue operations since Sunday night, said as an immediate measure, BBMP had opened the vents in the complex to ensure water drained out. Mr. Gupta said that as per the revenue map, the rajakaluve width was eight feet. “However, this is grossly insufficient. As a permanent solution, we need to widen it, for which we may need to acquire lands through TDR, apart from permission from NHAI, as the flyover also comes in between,” he said and added that once widened, there would be unhindered flow of water, which would prevent flooding and inundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kendriya-vihar-flooded-again-residents-rescued-by-ndrf/article37637132.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mahesh Joshi set to head Kannada Sahitya Parishat||Mahesh Joshi, former director of Doordarshan, is set to be elected Kannada Sahitya Parishat’s next president with a record margin. The counting of the votes polled in the State — 1.59 lakh — has been completed and Dr. Joshi is leading with a margin of 46,168 votes against his nearest contender, Shekhargowda Malipatil. However, the final results will be announced on Wednesday as nearly 4,000 out-of-State votes are yet to be counted. Membership drive Dr. Joshi told The Hindu he aims to make the parishat “people friendly”. “Presently, there are 3.45 lakh members in the parishat, which is too little. I have decided to halve the membership fee to Rs. 250 and carry out a membership drive across the State and aim to increase the membership to one crore in the next five years,” Dr. Joshi said. He added that he would design a mobile application for the parishat through which one can become a member, access newsletters and participate in several programmes. ‘Party politics’ Responding to allegations that he had introduced “party politics” into parishat elections, being backed by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Dr. Joshi said he was “politically neutral” and would ensure “autonomy of the parishat”. Several prominent writers, including K. Marulasiddappa and S.G. Siddaramaiah, had written two open letters expressing concerns over “party politics” in the parishat elections. However, Dr. Joshi said, “I sought support from across the political spectrum, not just the BJP. Unless people from across ideological divides, regions, and even party affiliations voted for me, I would not have won with such a big margin. I will ensure I do not let anyone down and will maintain my political and ideological neutrality,” Dr. Joshi said. He added that he would not get into “an unnecessary confrontation with the government” but instead work in harmony with the State. “My ideology is Kannada,” he said.  I will not get into an unnecessary confrontation with the government, but instead work in harmony with the State...My ideology is Kannada. Mahesh Joshi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahesh-joshi-set-to-head-kannada-sahitya-parishat/article37637141.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||EC permits Ministers to review rain damage||As Karnataka is grappling with untimely rain that has caused extensive damage to public infrastructure, crops, and lives, the Election Commission of India has allowed the Ministers in charge of relevant departments to travel and review the rain damage in districts. Amid criticism from the Opposition about Ministers taking part in election-related work but not rain-related relief work, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday had said that the Government had sought the Election Commission’s permission to allow Ministers to hold review meetings with officials. Not in-charge Ministers “The EC has given permission to the extent that respective department Ministers can hold meetings with district-level officials to review rain-related damage. The EC has also allowed me to chair review meetings,” Mr. Bommai told reporters in Bengaluru on Monday. He said the ECI had clarified that district in-charge Ministers cannot hold review meetings. On being queried by reporters in Kolar on the absence of Ministers, after his rain damage survey, Mr. Bommai said there had only not been “enough publicity” on Ministers’ visit to districts. “We have also sought further clarification from the Election Commission though it has clarified that there is no problem in the Chief Minister and Ministers travelling,” he said. When asked why Ministers were taking part in Jan Swaraj Yatra conventions and not rain-related relief work, the Chief Minister said that the yatra was scheduled earlier, and the two “should not be compared”. The worst-hit The South-Interior Karnataka districts of Kolar, Hassan, Ramanagaram, Chickballapur, Bengaluru Rural, and Bengaluru Urban have borne the brunt of the rain fury, according to preliminary estimates of the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ec-permits-ministers-to-review-rain-damage/article37637146.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Huge variations in rainfall across wards||In the 24 hours period from 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, Jakkur ward in Yelahanka zone received as much 153 mm rainfall, while at the other end of the city, Anjanapura in Bommanahalli zone received less than 5mm of rain. Such variations in rainfall were seen in wards within Yelahanka itself. For instance, while Chowdeshwari ward received 138 mm, Kodegahalli ward in the same zone received barely 50.5 mm of rain. Similarly, Attur in Yelahanka zone received 130.5 mm rain while Battayaranapura got barely 23.5 mm of rainfall. Similar variations were recorded in other zones as well. As per data from the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, Mahadevapura zone, Horamavu received 103 mm. Kannuru gram panchayat limits received 143.5 mm while Bagaluru and Sathanuru panchayat limits received 96 mm of rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/huge-variations-in-rainfall-across-wards/article37637128.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Manyata Tech Park flooded||Manyata Tech Park, one of the largest tech parks in north Bengaluru, virtually turned into a water body. Some employees had to return home as they were unable to reach their office buildings. The basement of four buildings were flooded. A spokesperson at Manyata Tech Park told The Hindu that 23 of the 27 buildings were operational. “We are monitoring the situation and working with the BBMP who are addressing the upstream challenges in Yelahanka, Jakkur and Rachenahalli lakes so as to implement a long-term solution,” said the spokesperson, adding that enhancements and strengthening of the rainwater nallahs, through the park, helped allow rain water to flow downstream Kalkere lake. “However, after 150 mm of rainfall in three hours on Sunday, inundating the Yelahanka and Jakkur lakes, the downstream Rachenahalli lake, which is some 800 m to the north and upstream of Manyata overflowed resulting in the basements of four buildings flooding.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manyata-tech-park-flooded/article37637135.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: BBMP must issue PID number to every property, even ‘unauthorised’ ones||A Property Identification (PID) number is required to be assigned to any property, whether it is ‘authorised’ or ‘unauthorised’, as per the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Property Tax (Amendment) Rules, 2020, said the High Court of Karnataka. Though the rules, amended with effect from September 1, 2020, empower the BBMP to enter the particulars of property tax in Form-A register in respect of ‘authorised’ properties and in Form-B register in respect of ‘unauthorised’ properties, assignment of PID number for both the categories of properties is needed, the court said. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while disposing of petitions filed by Madhusudhan Bhadri and others. The petitioners had questioned inclusion of their property in Form-B claiming that it was contrary to an earlier judgment of the High Court. However, the BBMP pointed out that though the court in 2014 had declared that property tax particulars cannot be categorised into Form-A and Form-B as per then existing law, but it gave liberty to BBMP to amend the law. Following the liberty given by the court, the rules were amended in 2020 making provision for maintaining property tax particulars in Form-A and Form-B, the civic body pointed out. After going through the amended rules defining ‘authorised’ and ‘unauthorised’ properties, the court directed the BBMP to assess the properties of the petitioners to take a decision whether they will have to be entered in Form-A or Form-B. The court also directed the BBMP to issue PID numbers to the properties of the petitioners as per the rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-bbmp-must-issue-pid-number-to-every-property-even-unauthorised-ones/article37637117.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six nabbed for kidnapping student||The Annapoorneshwari Nagar police have nabbed six people, three of whom were the victim’s classmates, for allegedly kidnapping a 19-year-old student and holding him for ransom on Saturday. The victim, Akash (name changed) is Bachelor in Computer Application student at a private college who worked part time at a real-estate agency. According to the police, he used the company’s car to commute to college which gave some of his classmates the impression that he was wealthy. Three classmates allegedly teamed up with their associates, a taxi driver and two BPO employees, and decided to kidnap him for ransom. As per the plan, the accused wore masks and kidnapped Akash near the Bangalore Development Authority complex Annapoorneshwari Nagar in his own car and drove to Devanahalli. They took all the cash he had on him. They reportedly forced him to sign an e-stamp paper claiming that he had borrowed Rs. 10 lakh from them which he would return in three months. “The accused then called his father stating that they had Akash with them and would release him only after the Rs. 10 lakh loan was paid off. They finally agreed to release him if the family paid them Rs. 1 lakh for his release,” said the police. After receiving money, they dropped Akash back to his house and returned the car. However, the family immediately alerted the police, who tracked down the six friends. “There are others involved in the crime and efforts are on to track them,” said Sanjeev Patil, DCP (West).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-nabbed-for-kidnapping-student/article37637119.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai promises relief within 24 hours||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who reviewed rain damage in Chickballapur district on Sunday, visited Kolar district after taking part in Kanakadasa Jayanti programme here on Monday. “Eyesight survey in Kolar has estimated that standing crops on 55,000 hectares, including 7,000 hectares of horticultural crops, have been damaged in the district. Farmers will receive compensation within 24 hours after the joint survey report is uploaded in the Parihara app,” he said. He further said that the Deputy Commissioner had been directed to remove encroachment of lakes, and prepare DPR for construction/repair of tank bunds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-promises-relief-within-24-hours/article37637145.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Party veteran upset||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council and Congress veteran S.R. Patil is learnt to be upset after being denied the ticket to contest the Council election in favour of the former Minister M.B. Patil’s brother Sunilgouda Patil. Sources said while Mr. M.B. Patil was seen as the one who led the movement for separate religion tag for Lingayats, Mr. S.R. Patil had not favoured it. “He recently went to Lingayat mutts in north Karnataka seeking support to the Congress in the 2023 elections, and brought Lingayat seers to lead a movement for the Upper Krishna project. He may have lost out in the jostle for Lingayat leadership space in north Karnataka,” said a source. Mr. Patil is learnt to be not keen on contesting the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/party-veteran-upset/article37637142.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Keen to transfer school to Defence Ministry’||The State Government is keen to transfer the Sainik School, which is coming up in the memory of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna, to the Defence Ministry, said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday. “The State Government is building the Sainik School in the name of Sangolli Rayanna at a cost of Rs. 230 crore,” he told reporters here after participating in Kanakadasa Jayanti programme. “The issue of transferring the school to the Defence Ministry has been discussed with Defence Minister Rajanath Singh and the State Government is keen on transferring the infrastructure to the Ministry,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/keen-to-transfer-school-to-defence-ministry/article37637139.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 update: Karnataka reports 178 new cases, two deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 178 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,93,777. Bengaluru Urban reported 112 cases and one death. With two deaths, the toll rose to 38,177.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-update-karnataka-reports-178-new-cases-two-deaths/article37637121.ece
23 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 7.5 crore for flood relief in Dharwad||Minister for Handloom, Textiles and Sugar and Dharwad district in-charge Shankar Patil Munenakoppa has said that the State Government has released Rs. 7.5 crore for Dharwad district for taking up immediate flood relief works. This apart, steps will be taken to find a permanent solution to the problem of frequent flood damage caused by the Benne Halla during the rainy season, he said. Speaking to presspersons after visiting flood-affected Yarinarayanapura village in Kundgol taluk of Dharwad district on Monday, he said that authorities have already been directed to come out with an effective comprehensive plan to tackle the problem of flash floods in the Benne Halla. The Minister said that the district received 112 mm rainfall against an average rainfall of 28 mm during November. The sudden downpour damaged crops in over one lakh hectares of land in the district, he said. The government will give compensation of Rs. 5 lakh for completely damaged houses and Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh for partially damaged houses. The process of disbursing Rs. 8 crore directly to bank accounts of farmers is in process and the government will ensure that is a transparent procedure, he said. Tuppari Halla Mr. Munenakoppa said that a detailed project report (DPR) for flood management in the Tuppari Halla based on the Paramashivaiah Committee Report has been prepared and the government has also given technical approval to it. “The Benne Halla, which takes birth at Dhundsi, runs 138 kilometres via Haveri, Dharwad, Gadag and Bagalkot to join the Malaprabha river. A detailed project report for efficiently utilising the 22 tmcft of water in the Benne Halla has been prepared,” he said. During his visits to the fields, he was accompanied by Kundgol MLA Kusuma Shivallai, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, the former MLA S.I. Chikkanagoudar and various officials. The farmers aired their grievances before the Minister and sought early disbursement of compensation and initiation of relief works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-75-crore-for-flood-relief-in-dharwad/article37637345.ece
23 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Lingaraj Angadi retains post in Dharwad Kannada Sahitya Parishat for third time||In the election to the post of president of Dharwad Zilla Kannada Sahitya Parishat, which saw a keen contest, Lingaraj Angadi managed to win for the third time in a row, by securing 24 more votes than his nearest rival Ramu Mulagi, his one-time aide. While Prof. Angadi managed to secure 1,244 votes, Mr. Mulagi, who had sought a chance for a new face, came close with 1,220 votes. The contest was a close one with both Prof. Angadi and Mr. Mulagi either leading or trailing at the completion of every round of counting. In fact, at one point of time, Mr. Mulagi had secured a lead of 70 votes, following which Prof. Angadi came out of the counting centre and left for his home. At that point of time, Prof. Angadi had secured lead in Alnavar and Navalgund taluks, while Mr. Mulagi had secured lead in Dharwad, Kalghatgi, Kundgol and Annigeri taluks. However, the fortunes of Prof. Angadi changed a bit when the counting of votes of Hubballi Rural and Urban taluks began. While Hubballi Rural taluk gave a lead to Mr. Mulagi, the two booths of Hubballi Urban taluk gave a big lead to Prof. Angadi, helping him finally win with a margin of 24 votes. Another candidate, Vijayakumar, secured 14 votes, while Nagaraj Kiranagi, who had extended support to Mr. Mulagi, received 15 votes. As many as 18 votes were declared invalid. After receiving news about his lead, Prof. Angadi came back to the counting centre smiling. “I had thought I have been defeated but the voters have elected me with a warning. I will cautiously lead the parishat for the next five years. Mr. Mulagi is also a good friend. I will take everyone into confidence and work for the cause of Kannada. The existing 85 endowments will be increased to 100,” he said. Prof. Angadi said that of the eight taluk units in the district, three posts of presidents will be given to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, minority and women. There will be no full five-year term for office-bearers and it will be decided based on their work, he said. Mr. Mulagi said that he will accept his defeat and continue to render his literary service as before.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lingaraj-angadi-retains-post-in-dharwad-kannada-sahitya-parishat-for-third-time/article37637354.ece
23 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Task force to chalk out R&D policy set up||As announced by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the State Government on Saturday issued an order on setting up a task force to chalk out a research and development policy for Karnataka. According to the Government Order No. ITBT 242 STS 2021 (dated 20/11/2021), signed by Under Secretary to Government, Department of Electronics, Information Technology, Biotechnology and Science and Technology Suma B.S., the order has been issued following a proposal by the managing director of KSTePS on setting up the taskforce. As per the order, Vice-Chancellor of KLE Technological University (KLETU) Ashok Shettar will be the chairman of the task force. As per the order there are nine other members: Rajesh Sundaresan, Dean, Division of Electrical, Electronics and Computer Science, IISc., Bengaluru; Srivardhini K.. Jha, Associate Professor and Chairperson- Entrepreneurship, IISc; S.M. Shivaprasad, Professor, JNCASR, Director Karnataka State Higher Education Academy; Nandini Prasad Shetty, Principal and Scientist, Plant Cell Biotechnology, CSIR-CFTRI, Mysuru; Madhusudan V. Atre, Visiting Scientist, Centre for Nano Science and Engineering, IISc.; Balaji Srinivas Holur, vice-president, head of multimedia, Samsung R&D Institute, Bengaluru; Anant R. Koppar, chairman and CEO, KTwo Technology Solutions, Bengaluru; Meenakshi Rajeev, Centre for Economic Studeies and Policy, ISEC, Bengaluru, and the managing director of Karnataka Science and Technology Promotion Society, who will be the member-secretary. As per the order, the task force will formulate R&D policy for Karnataka, covering public and private sectors. The policy will also focus on encouraging R&D right from schools to colleges to universities. Further it shall be designed to boost development of future technology/ innovations in every sector, including agriculture and food in coordination with scientific institutions, R&D institutions, and industry. The policy shall also focus on seting up centres in places such as Hubballi-Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Mangaluru, Mysuru, and other areas of the State, the order said. Prof. Shettar has said that research and development was part of life and not restricted to big institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/task-force-to-chalk-out-rd-policy-set-up/article37637359.ece
23 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bank wins award||Karnataka Gramin Bank has won the Infosys Finacle Innovation Award 2021 under the Process Innovation category. There were more than 270 nominations for the award in different categories. Chairman of the bank Shreenath Joshi said in a media release that his bank, being the largest regional rural bank in South India, is striving to bring technology to the doorsteps of its clients. He thanked head of the Information Technology team of the bank M.N. Girish, who, he said, played an instrumental role in getting the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-wins-award/article37637343.ece
23 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||KSP polls: Vijayakumar Tegalatippi gets elected as president||Vijayakumar Tegalatippi was elected president of Kalaburagi district unit Kannada Sahitya Parishat by defeating his nearest rival Veerabhadrappa Simpi with a margin of 557 votes. Mr. Tegalatippi polled 2,898 votes against Mr. Simpi’s 2,234 votes. B.H. Niragudi came third with 2,117 votes followed by Vishwanath Bhakare with 368 and A.B. Hosamani with 115. As many as 7,787 voters of the total 16,621 exercised their franchise on Sunday in 23 polling stations set up across the district. Counting of votes was completed and results announced late on Sunday. “There is a wrong perception among people that Kannada Sahitya Parishat is for Kannada writers only. Its activities may be one of the reasons for it. But, we need to develop the institution in such a way that every Kannadiga feels proud to be associated with it. I will work towards this aim. I will take the institution to the rural areas. I will take up a special membership drive in rural areas,” Mr. Tegalatippi said, after the declaration of results. He thanked the voters for having shown confidence in him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksp-polls-vijayakumar-tegalatippi-gets-elected-as-president/article37637350.ece
23 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||2 drivers killed in accident||In a gruesome road accident, two lorries crashed into each other resulting in the vehicles being engulfed in a fire and their drivers burnt alive near Thonasanahalli village in Shahabad taluk late on Sunday night. As per police sources, both the lorry drivers were charred to death. And, the police were able to recover only the mortal remains of the drivers from the accident site. The accident is said to have occurred between a sugar-laden lorry and another lorry transporting liquor. The gruesome collision is said to have taken place on the Shahabad-Jewargi Road near Thonasanahalli village. Fire and Emergency Services from Chittapur and Jewargi reached the spot and doused the flames. A case has been registered at the Shahabad Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-drivers-charred-to-death-as-lorries-collide/article37637344.ece
23 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sanganabasava Swami dead||Sanganabasava Swami of Kottur Mutt in Vijayanagara district passed away at a private hospital in Bengaluru in the early hours on Monday. The 83-year old seer was suffering from age-related ailments for the last few months. He was away from public activities for the last two years owing to his deteriorating health condition. The seer was the head of Hemakut Mutt in Hampi, Shivayoga Mandir in Badami and Annadaneshwar Mutt in Halakere. Hailing from Bidari in Jamkhandi taluk of Bagalkot district, he was one of the prominent figures who took a stand against the demand for independent religious status for Lingayats. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and his Cabinet colleagues Govind Karjol and C.C. Patil were among the dignitaries who visited the hospital and paid their last respect to the seer. “The seer lived as per the principles of Basaveshwara, both in words and deeds. He worked hard to popularise the thoughts of Basaveshwara. He had great concern towards the oppressed communities and worked for their welfare,” Mr. Karjol said in his message. Condoling the demise of the seer, Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah recalled the seer’s contribution to religion and education. “The seer selflessly served society in the fields of religion and education. He had concern towards the poor and deprived sections and worked for their welfare for a long time. His demise is a great loss to society,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said in his message. “The seer had undertaken padayatra in the streets of Dalit colonies. He organised mass marriages to benefit the economically weaker sections of society. His contributions to the field of education and religion are commendable,” Tourism Minister Anand Singh said in his condolence message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sanganabasava-swami-passes-away/article37637352.ece
23 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress to field Manjunath Bhandary||The Congress on Monday selected Manjunath Bhandary as its candidate for the December 10 elections to the Legislative Council from the local authorities’ constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. He will file his nomination papers in the office of Deputy Commissioner here on Tuesday. It is a dual-member constituency. Earlier, Mr. Bhandary had contested unsuccessfully against B.S. Yediyurappa of the BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Shivamogga constituency. Mr. Bhandary is the founder of the Bhandary Foundation which manages the Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management at Adyar. He hails from Tenka Belluru village in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada. Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee president and MLC K. Harish Kumar told The Hindu that the Congress has its 1,880 votes of the total 3,600 votes in the twin districts. It will fall short of 125 votes to win a seat. “We are confident that the shortage will be met through the second preferential votes,” he said. With the choice of Mr. Bhandary, the Congress has chosen to field a new face from the constituency which is now being represented by K. Pratapchandra Shetty, a former banker from Halady village in Kundapur taluk in Udupi district, from the party. Mr. Shetty, a former Chairman of the Legislative Council, is a three-time MLC and was a four-time MLA. He represented Kundapur constituency in the 1983, the 1985, the 1989, and the 1994 Assemblies on the Congress ticket. Meanwhile, the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) said in a statement on Monday that it has chosen Shafi Bellare as its candidate to contest from the constituency. November 23 is the last date for filing nominations which will be scrutinised on November 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-to-field-manjunath-bhandary/article37637537.ece
23 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Upgrade district road as State highway immediately’||The Udupi Zilla Samajika Mattu Mahiti Hakku Karyakartara Vedike on Monday urged the Government to immediately upgrade the Brahmavar-Siddapura major district road (MDR) via Barkur and Bidkalkatte as a State highway as announced in the 2020 State Budget. Speaking to reporters in Udupi, vedike president Sadashiva Shetty said that the Government should not have rescinded its earlier decision of declaring the road as State highway in the Budget. He said that a legislator was behind this decision of downgrading the road which was taken to protect some vested interests. The stretch passing through prominent locations in the district witnesses movement of over 10,000 vehicles every day and deserves to be developed as State highway, he said. Mr. Shetty said that the decision to downgrade the road this year came to light through an RTI application. In fact, a place like Barkur that houses religious centres of all faiths would have seen much development if the road was developed and widened. The road should have been made State Highway long ago. Yet, the decision was made as late as 2020. He noted that good roads usher in development and it was the Government’s responsibility to provide proper and adequate connectivity. If road widening requires land acquisition and payment of compensation, the Government should provide them. However, withdrawing the State highway status citing problems in land acquisition was retrograde, Mr. Shetty said. Widened roads will ensure smooth vehicular movement and reduce the number of accidents, he said. RTI activist Shankar Shanthi said that the upgradation was stalled to protect some commercial complexes in Barkur town. Farmers association representative Manjunath Shetty, RTI activist Shankar Shastri, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike district president Ansar Ahmed, and others were present.  The stretch passing through prominent locations in the district witnesses movement of over 10,000 vehicles every day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/upgrade-district-road-as-state-highway-immediately/article37637534.ece
23 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi CMC manager dead||A manager with the Udupi City Municipal Council Venkataramanaiah (49), who was being treated in a hospital for injuries he suffered in a road accident in Udupi on Sunday, passed away on Monday. He was a resident of Kunjibettu in Udupi. He was critically injured when a car, according to the police, hit him while he was waiting to cross the divider near Kunjibettu in the afternoon on Sunday. Prathima, wife of the deceased, in a complaint filed with Udupi Traffic Police Station, stated that the car coming from Manipal towards Udupi hit her husband injuring him grievously, due to the negligence of the car driver. Udupi Traffic Police have registered a case under Sections 279 and 337 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-cmc-manager-dead/article37637533.ece
23 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Need to step up fight against communalism’||The State general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxists) U. Basavaraj said here on Monday that there is a need to step up the fight against communalism and communal forces in the country. Speaking after inaugurating the 23rd Dakshina Kannada conference of the party at Gurupura-Kaikamba, he said that the communalism is being promoted by both the majority and minority forces. The CPI(M) should continue to fight against such forces to ensure that the real democracy thrived in the country. The growth of communalism should be curbed in the country, he said. Mr. Basavaraj said that bowing to the continued fight by farmer groups against the three laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that they will be repealed. It was the result of a united fight in a democratic way. He said the CPI(M) should widen its base in the country to save democracy from the clutches of communal forces. Mr. Basavaraj alleged that the ruling Government is pro-capitalist. The country is facing the issues of malnutrition and hunger. The numbers of below poverty line families are increasing. The earning power of the people is on the decline. He said that the party had been demanding the Government to provide each family Rs. 10,000 per month and distribute each person 10 kg of rice to overcome from the impact of COVID-19. Many families have lost their income due to the pandemic. But the Government is not bothered to address the economic issues of people. National Sachin was among those who were honoured on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/need-to-step-up-fight-against-communalism/article37637539.ece
23 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Joseph Periera completes Deccan Cliffhanger Ultra Cycling Race||Joseph Periera became the first solo cyclist from Mangaluru to conquer the Deccan Cliffhanger Ultra Cycling Race, covering 643 km in 33 hours and 45 minutes on Sunday. Starting from Pune, the Cliffhanger is claimed to be a gruelling race of Ultra Cycling, with the 643-km race passing through some humongous climbs of Khandala Ghat on NH 48, 21 km of vertical ascent to the top of Panchagani, followed by Pasarni Ghat, and the rolling terrain from Satara to Belagavi. Then it passes through the Chorla Ghat, Ponda to culminate at Bogmalo Beach in south Goa. Having seen teams from We R Cycling (WERC), Mangaluru, participating in the earlier editions, Mr. Periera, fresh from the recent Super Randonneure success, expressed his desire with WERC to ride Cliffhanger. WERC connected him to mentor and coach Gratian Govias. WERC’s Ashok Lobo became the lead crew to support Mr. Periera. While Mr. Govias reached Mangaluru from Chennai, the team left for Pune on November 17. Mr. Periera said he was flagged off at 5.30 a.m. on Saturday and there were 12 racers in the 50-plus age category. While many were racing, he was following his coach’s advice that the racing would start only at the 350-plus km mark. The team completed the adventure in 33 hours 45 minutes touching the finish line in Goa at 2.30 p.m. on Sunday. The support crew included Shivanand Rao, Nithin Mohan, and Brijesh Balakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joseph-periera-completes-deccan-cliffhanger-ultra-cycling-race/article37637535.ece
23 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The COVID-19 vaccine will be administered in Udupi on Tuesday at the District AYUSH Hospital, Urban Primary Health Centre in Manipal, BRS Hospital, FPAI Centre, Kukkikatte, Rajangana of Krishna Mutt, Yuvaka Mandala of Ambalpady, Fisheries Association at Malpe, Malpe masjid, Government Taluk Hospital in Kundapur, and the Government Taluk Hospital in Karkala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37637538.ece
23 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers to get relief for crop damage in 15 days: Minister||Minister for Revenue R. Ashok on Monday said compensation to farmers who have suffered crop losses due to untimely rains will be credited into their bank accounts in the next 15 days as crops on about five lakh hectares have been destroyed. Mr. Ashok, who toured Kodagu to assess damage to crops, including coffee, told reporters that Kodagu has suffered rain damages with about 146 houses destroyed following incessant rains. As many as 16 houses were completely damaged. According to preliminary information, crops on 2,500 hectares were damaged in rains and this included coffee, Arabica and Robusta varieties, in the district, he said. The Minister said he had instructed the officials to make spot inspections of rain-affected places and submit a report to him. The officials from the Departments of Agriculture and Horticulture have been asked to assess the damage and submit reports. “Already, Rs. 130 crore had been released for disbursing relief over crop loss and another Rs. 58 crore will be released on Monday as I have instructed officials to provide relief to persons affected,” the Minister said. Mr. Ashok said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has instructed his Cabinet colleagues to assess rain damage and he has come to Kodagu to evaluate the damage. The Minister went to a coffee estate at Belur village in Somawarapet taluk. He held discussions with the officials holding a meeting at the coffee plantation. He also inspected the damage to crops like maize and ginger at Marur village in Hebbal Gram Panchayat limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-to-get-relief-for-crop-damage-in-15-days-minister/article37637554.ece
23 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Crocodile captured near Ranganathittu||An eight-feet-long crocodile was captured at Palahalli near Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary on Monday. The male reptile, aged about 40, is learnt to have strayed near Onimaramma Temple in the village from KRS dam, following release of water to the irrigation canals. The wildlife range in Mysuru had placed a cage to trap the crocodile after it killed a goat. The forest team had laid the trap two months ago acting on the complaints from the villagers. Range Forest Officer Surendra said: “We are releasing it into the forest in Nagarahole as the reptile is healthy.” The crocodile weighs about 60 kg. Health examined “Our personnel were trying to trap the reptile since the last two months after it killed two goats. The reptile’s health was examined and is now being released into the wild,” he said. Mr. Surendra said crocodiles straying into human habitations are rare. If at all they stray, they go back to their habitats. “This is slightly a rare case of a crocodile surviving in human habituated area for so long.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crocodile-captured-near-ranganathittu/article37637558.ece
23 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||BJP seeking support of JD(S) underlines political relevance of the latter: HDK||JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday said support sought by the BJP from his party for the elections to the Legislative Council from the Local Authorities’ constituencies underlines the political relevance of the party. Fielding queries from reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the BJP on the one hand claims it would win 16 seats without support from anybody, but on the other, seeks the help of the JD(S). “They themselves have shown that the JD(S) is relevant,” he said, while dismissing critical remarks against the party by certain BJP leaders such as K.S. Eshwarappa, who had questioned the political strength of the JD(S) in the upcoming elections. Though the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had sought the support of the JD(S) in constituencies where the party was not fielding candidates, Mr. Kumaraswamy said no such proposal had come before him so far. He said he would give a response after such a proposal comes before him. The JD(S) leader said he had already made it clear that the party was fielding candidates only in constituencies where it had political strength. When asked about the party’s present MLA representing Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency G.T. Deve Gowda’s plans to quit the JD(S) and join the Congress, Mr. Kumaraswamy said Mr. Gowda had made it clear that he would remain a JD(S) MLA till the next Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-seeking-support-of-jds-underlines-political-relevance-of-the-latter-hdk/article37637147.ece
23 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Despite rain havoc, Ministers busy with ‘Jan Swaraj’ conventions: Kumaraswamy||Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy lamented the preoccupation of Ministers in the BJP Government with the Jan Swaraj conventions at a time when the State was reeling under the impact of havoc caused by heavy rains. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Kumaraswamy said crops on more than 5 to 6 lakh hectares in the State had been destroyed in the recent rain havoc. Several kilometres of roads and bridges had been washed away in the rains while more than 20 people had lost their lives in the unseasonal rains. But, the Ministers are busy addressing conventions in different parts of the State. The debate at the conventions organised to drum up support for the party in the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council centred on issues other than the loss of crop and the suffering by the farmers in the heavy and unseasonal rains, he regretted, and added that the behaviour of the BJP leaders showed how much seriousness and commitment they had to build the lives of the farmers. He urged the State Government to set aside the guidelines on sanctioning compensation under National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) and State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) and immediately provide compensation to the suffering farmers, who had lost standing crops. The rains had also led to collapse of many houses, Mr. Kumaraswamy claimed. Many people, who had been hit by COVID-19, had not received the promised compensation. Though Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had also recently announced that compensation for collapse of houses will be provided, Mr. Kumaraswamy said the government has only been making such announcements and not following it up with action. The announcements made by the government during the last three years to construct the damaged houses in different parts of the State like Belagavi, Bagalkot, and Kodagu that had been struck by natural disasters had still not been fully implemented, the JD(S) leader said. He said the government cannot cite the excuse of poll code of conduct to deny payment of compensation to the suffering farmers. Mr. Kumaraswamy also said there is no shortage of funds. He referred to the complaint lodged by State Contractors’ Association to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the alleged demand for 40% of commission to clear the bills of government projects and asked the government to set aside funds for paying compensation to the farmers instead of “over-estimating” government projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-rain-havoc-ministers-busy-with-jan-swaraj-conventions-kumaraswamy/article37637552.ece
23 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||500 NIE students get 635 job offers from 132 companies||The placement drive for final-year students of National Institute of Engineering (NIE), Mysuru, started with a bang as a record 500 students have been placed with 635 offers from 132 companies within a span of five months. The highest package of Rs. 43.14 lakh per annum was offered to two students, one each in Computer Science and Engineering and Information Science and Engineering. “More than 50% are dream offers,” said Harshith Divakar, training and placement officer, NIE, Mysuru. The students of Department of Mechanical Engineering have also created a record of sorts by bagging the highest package of Rs. 22 lakh per annum CTC. Mr. Divakar said: “Many IT companies are offering a good number of placements and there is a huge demand for human resource in the market. Students with digital skills are being offered the highest CTC. The institution has its focus on imparting requisite skills to the students as per the industry needs.” The majority of placement drives were conducted online due to COVID-19 pandemic. NIE principal N.V. Raghavendra expressed his appreciation to the tireless efforts of the placement department, which, he said, has done commendably well despite the pandemic and slowdown in the economy. Mr. Divakar clarified that the NIE placements were not impacted much by the pandemic. This year too witnessed participation of top companies comprising CISCO, Twilio, Flipkart, HPE R and D, Western Digital, Deloitte, Walmart, Lowes, JPMC, Cohesity, McKinsey, Accenture, Infosys, VMware, Goldman Sachs, TCS, WIPRO etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/500-nie-students-get-635-job-offers-from-132-companies/article37637555.ece
23 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tech startup launches services for the elderly||A tech startup focused on non-realestate-based assisted living services for the elderly has announced the launch of its services in Mysuru and Bengaluru. Alserv has expanded its services at Kochi, Trivandrum, and Coimbatore after Chennai with India witnessing a critical need for home-based elder care services now, the startup said. Quoting the study done by the Longitudinal Ageing Study of India (2020), India’s elderly population is expected to reach 319 million by 2050. This statistic shows that the proportion of the population that is over the age of 65 is increasing exponentially over time. As traditional family-based care is becoming less the norm, an increase in the older population will lead to an urgent need for elder care and support, it claimed. Elderly couples living alone face healthcare challenges (compared to those living with family) since they are unable to coordinate and get things done easily in larger cities. Currently, over 900-plus families in Tamil Nadu and Kerala are getting homecare services from Alserv. Some of the key services Alserv offers are safety and security, housekeeping and maintenance, food and catering, healthcare and medical, and concierge. The startup has collaborated with over 75 verified, trusted vendors in Mysuru and in Bengaluru, a release said. During the pandemic, Alserv had launched various COVID relief initiatives for its customers, including ‘COVID Care’ for COVID-19 positive elderly individuals. ‘Alserv Safe-At-Home’ was launched during the second wave. This covered professional deep-cleaning, disinfection and sanitisation services for houses post-COVID isolation period. Jagadish Ramamoorthy, co-founder and director, Alserv, said: “Mysuru and Bengaluru are upcoming locations for senior living, with more than 350 homes being built in retirement communities around these two cities. Our understanding is that elders prefer to live at home, in the heart of the city where they can enjoy the weather, parks, and lifestyle, and have access to healthcare and entertainment options.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tech-startup-launches-services-for-the-elderly/article37637556.ece
23 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||15 women, 25 children rounded up for begging||In a co-ordinated exercise, officials from Women and Child Development Department and the Police Department carried out a simultaneous exercise to round up women and children found begging at traffic signals, business, and commercial areas besides tourist destinations across the city on Monday. A total of 15 women and 25 children were rounded up in the exercise involving officials from the Mysuru district child protection unit, special juvenile police unit, anti-human trafficking unit, childline and Don Bosco Makkalalaya, an NGO working for the promotion of child rights in Mysuru. Mysuru district child protection officer Abhi Kumar told The Hindu that personnel from different wings formed four different teams in a planned operation on Monday. “The teams set out in different directions. The women and children were picked up from different parts of the city, including K.R. Circle, Mysuru zoo, near Olympia Talkies, near Prabha talkies, Fountain Circle, Columbia Asia hospital junction etc,” he said. The children were aged between 2 and 14 and belonged to the women. A few children were also trying to sell pens to the public. The women and children were produced before a special sitting of the Child Welfare Committee of Mysuru district convened on the Special Juvenile Police Unit (SJPU) premises in the women’s police station. As per the directions of CWC, 15 women and 15 children aged below six were sent to the State Home for Women while six girls and four boys, aged above six, were sent to the Government Girls’ Home and Government Boys’ Home respectively. Mr. Kumar said a majority of the women and children picked up on Monday were from Yellamma colony while a few were from Ekalavya Nagar and the slum near Sathgalli. As per the CWC’s directions, the women and children will be counselled and a social investigation report will be prepared. The women and children were living in poor conditions. During counselling, the officials will also assess their economic and social problems. “If children require care and protection, they will be given the same at Bala Mandiras,” he said. The men of the family will also be made to understand the law against beggary. The women will be kept for a few days at the State Home for Women and provided counselling and rehabilitation, he said. Officials had carried out a similar exercise about two months ago when five women and 10 children were picked up from different locations in the city. They were kept at the State Home for Women for a few days and sent home after counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-women-25-children-rounded-up-for-begging/article37637560.ece
23 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Council polls: Thimmaiah is Congress candidate||The Congress on Monday announced D. Thimmaiah as the candidate for the Legislative Council elections from the Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local authorities’ constituency, replacing R. Dharmasena, sitting MLC. Mr. Thimmaiah is a former secretary of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) and had served as District Health Officer in Mysuru. Mr. Thimmaiah, who called on former Chief Minister and Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah in Bengaluru on Monday, is expected to file his nomination papers on Tuesday, which is the last date for nominations for the elections scheduled on December 10. Mr. Thimmaiah belongs to the SC “left” category. The announcement of only Mr. Thimmaiah’s name has rested all speculation over the possibility of two candidates from the Congress. With 10 aspirants, a few had tried to bring pressure on the party leadership to field two candidates. While the BJP has already announced Raghu Kautilya, who lost the last elections narrowly, the JD(S) leaders remained closeted in a meeting on Monday night. However, former zilla panchayat member C.N. Manje Gowda, who quit the Congress, joined the JD(S) on Monday evening in the presence of former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy. Though Mr. Gowda is an aspirant for the party ticket, he said he was joining the JD(S) unconditionally. Meanwhile, sitting JD(S) MLC Sandesh Nagaraj, who had publicly declared his plans to quit the party and seek the BJP ticket, met Mr. Kumaraswamy. However, earlier in the day when Mr. Kumaraswamy was asked about Mr. Nagaraj’s efforts to secure the JD(S) ticket after he was refused one by the BJP, he told reporters that Mr. Nagaraj had left the party three years ago. JD(S) leaders said the party candidate will file the nomination papers on Tuesday. About 6,500 members of gram panchayats, town panchayats, town municipal councils, city municipal councils, and the Mysuru City Corporation are expected to exercise their franchise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-polls-thimmaiah-is-congress-candidate/article37637564.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State sees rise in extreme weather events in the last few decades||Climate change is impacting the water cycle and the rainfall patterns, resulting in intense rainfall and associated flooding in some areas and drought in other regions of Karnataka. Extreme weather events have increased both in terms of frequency and intensity across Karnataka in the last decades. The State’s normal annual rainfall is 1,153 mm, 74% of which is received during the south-west monsoon, 16% during the north-east monsoon, and 10% during the pre-monsoon. Variability of the south-west monsoon rainfall has increased significantly since 1960. Several districts are seeing an increase in long dry periods with low or no rainfall, or intermittent with short, intense spells of rainfall. The large-scale secular changes in monsoon rainfall are attributed to the increase in global emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants. At the same time, urbanisation, land-use changes, and deforestation at local levels have brought in a non-uniform response in these rainfall trends. A long-term climate change scenario study for Karnataka, which deciphers variations in climate factors in the past, found that a significant shift in climatic factors has been observed around the year 1990. The long-term climate data series for the 58 years (1960 to 2017) was considered for the study. Thus by taking 1990 as the major change point, the data series has been divided into two sub-series: Period 1 (1960-1990) and Period 2 (1991 to 2017), for further parametric analysis. The quantum, intensity, and distribution of rainfall has varied across the regions in the State from Period 1 to Period 2. While the number of rainy days and amount of annual rainfall has increased in south-interior Karnataka and the Malnad region, there is a reduction in the amount of annual rainfall and marginal increase in the number of rainy days observed in north-interior Karnataka and the coastal region from Period 1 to Period 2. In the last two decades, extreme rainfall events have occurred in different regions of the State. Also, the number of years with below normal rainfall has increased in north-interior Karnataka, whereas it has decreased in other regions from Period 1 and Period 2. Severe drought Hydro-meteorological disasters in the State such as flood, drought, cyclone, hailstorm, lightening, heatwave, and thunderstorm events have become more frequent in recent years Between 2001 and 2020, the State has experienced a drought of varying severity for 15 years. Some talukas have been drought-affected consecutively for more than five years. A majority of districts in the north-interior Karnataka region were subjected to severe drought conditions. Karnataka also experienced severe floods in 2005, 2009, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. For the fourth consecutive year since 2018, it has been affected by flooding and landslips. The recurrence of droughts and floods because of changing rainfall patterns caused by climate change would be detrimental to the surface and groundwater recharge and also pose a great challenge to water security. Response to climate change in cities falls into two broad categories: mitigating emissions that drive climate change and adapting to effects that can’t be stopped. Cities produce more than 70% of global greenhouse gas emissions, mainly from heating and cooling buildings and powering cars, trucks and other vehicles. Urbanisation also makes people more vulnerable to climate change impacts. Bengaluru Urban district rainfall has increased from 836 mm in Period 1 to 943 mm in Period 2. The average temperature for Bengaluru Urban district has significantly increased at 0.1°C/year in the last 16 years, while the minimum temperature has risen at 0.19°C/year. Extreme weather events have caused the loss of human life, livestock, and critical infrastructure, private and public property. The Government has already taken several steps to mitigate the impact of climate change. Yet, the community still has far to go in showing increased ambition on mitigation, adaptation, and other ways to challenge climate change.  (Dr. Manoj Ranjan is Commissioner, Karnataka, State Disaster Management Authority)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-rise-in-extreme-weather-in-last-few-decades/article37637114.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Curbs for jatra inside Bandipur Tiger Reserve||However, the jatra mahotsava over the last few years is growing in scale and becoming unwieldy as a result of which wildlife activists have sought the relocation of temple or scaling down the event to allow only the priests and temple trustees to carry out the religious rites. The concern stems from the habitat disturbance due to the congregation of thousands of people inside the tiger reserve. Besides, wasted cooked food tends to be left behind which attract wild animals who could get habituated to them and enter human landscape in search of it in future accentuating human-animal conflict which is already high in the region. Efforts to relocate the temple has not been backed by political leadership and a stakeholders’ meeting attended by seers a few years ago had fizzled out with no follow-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/curbs-for-jatra-inside-bandipur-tiger-reserve/article37637559.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebrating a dasa||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebrating-a-dasa/article37637532.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tank overflows||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tank-overflows/article37637347.ece
23 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Revival of tourism top priority: Pinarayi||Revival of the tourism sector, struck hard by the COVID-19 pandemic, is one of the major priorities of the State government, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was virtually inaugurating a tourist facilitation centre constructed by the Tourism Department at Kanichukulangara Devi temple near Cherthala on Monday. Mr. Vijayan said the tourism sector was eyeing a strong comeback post COVID-19 and the projects like caravan tourism and pilgrim tourism circuit would be a catalyst for revival and growth. Key role “Tourism plays a key role in the State’s economy and its development is one of the top priorities of the government. The sector, which witnessed growth despite the 2018 great deluge and other natural disasters, was, however, hit hard by the pandemic. Turning the tourism industry around is key to economic revival as it employs five lakh people directly and 20 lakh people indirectly. With the aim of reviving the sector, the government has made interventions and announced a slew of special projects,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Vijayan said the revolving fund to provide interest-free loans to people employed in the tourism sector and one-time financial assistance to houseboat owners for maintenance of vessels were aimed at supporting the beleaguered industry. He said that Alappuzha was attracting tourists in large numbers and the government was committed to the growth of tourism in the Venice of East. Heritage project “The Alappuzha Heritage project is making good progress. Various projects to the tune of Rs. 100 crore are nearing completion. The Alappuzha canal rejuvenation project is also progressing well. The tourism sector will recover and Alappuzha will regain its past glory,” Mr. Vijayan said. The three-storey facilitation centre at Kanichukulangara, part of the pilgrim tourism circuit, was constructed at a cost of Rs. 5.75 crore. The 13,600 sq ft facility has 33 rooms, two shops, lifts, toilets among other amenities. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas presided. A.M. Ariff, MP, P.P. Chitharanjan, MLA, Alappuzha District Panchayat president K.G. Rajeshwari, SN Trust secretary Vellappally Natesan and others were present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revival-of-tourism-top-priority/article37637452.ece
23 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Traders to stage dharna||Traders in the district will stage a 10-day dharna in front of the District Collectorate here in protest against the government’s move to evict shops and establishments for the widening of National Highway 66 without announcing a rehabilitation package or providing proper compensation. The dharna being organised under the aegis of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES) Alappuzha district committee will begin on November 24. It will be inaugurated by KVVES State general secretary Raju Apsara. In a pressnote, KVVES office-bearers said the traders were not against development, but those going to be affected by the road development should be rehabilitated or compensated. They said that traders from Aroor to Krishnapuram would take part in the protest, which will conclude on December 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-to-stage-dharna/article37637505.ece
23 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tree trunk at dam causes scare||Timely intervention by dam safety officials has helped avert a massive outflow of water from the Idukki reservoir, and a subsequent crisis in power generation, on Saturday night. Police personnel on duty noticed a huge teakwood floating towards the open shutter of the Cheruthoni dam around 10 p.m. They immediately informed Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) officials, who alerted the District Collector. The shutter was closed in 15 minutes. Movement blocked A dam safety official said if the stump was trapped in the open shutter, it would have been difficult to reach the site on boat due to the sheer force of the outflow through the open gate. The shutter could have been damaged too. “A damaged shutter cannot be closed. If the wood was trapped at the gate, a similar problem would arise,” he said. The five shutters of the Cheruthoni dam release water from a height of 2,373 ft. The tree trunk was noticed when the water level was at 2,400 ft. If the shutter was blocked, water would have had to be released from the reservoir till the level reached 2,373 ft. The trunk’s movement to the shutter was soon blockaded and it was later removed. Since the water inflow declined, the closed shutter did not open again. The official said tree trunks had been similarly removed a few times earlier too. Trees on the reservoir banks get uprooted and fall in. However, this time, it occurred at night. It could be spotted and removed as the dam area was lit. He pointed out that if such a huge quantity of water was released, the State would have faced a power crisis during summer. Idukki reservoir, one of the largest in Asia, is reserved mainly for power generation during the summer season when the demand escalates. In smaller reservoirs, if such blockades occur when a shutter remains open, water is drawn out to clear them. In the floods of August 2018, when huge trees and debris got deposited in the Peringalkuthu dam, they were removed after drying out the reservoir. It was a costly affair and required days to complete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tree-trunk-at-dam-causes-scare/article37637507.ece
23 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Shutter closed||On Monday morning, Tamil Nadu closed a shutter of the Mullaperiyar dam that was raised to 10 cm. The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam was 141 ft at 4 p.m. There was an average inflow of 1,094 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shutter-closed/article37637473.ece
23 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Youth stabs girlfriend||A 24-year-old youth stabbed his 19-year-old girlfriend at Lakkidi in Wayanad district on Monday evenning after she refused to marry him. The Vythiri police have registered a case against A. Deepu, 24, of Mannarkadu in Palakkad district in connection with the incident. According to the police, the incident occurred around 4.30 p.m. near a private hotel at Vythiri. Deepu had fallen in love with the girl hailing from Pulpally, who is studying BSc Fashion Designing at the Oriental Institute of Hotel Management at Lakkidi. The duo was Facebook friends and had agreed to meet at the private hotel on Monday evening to discuss their marriage. However, at their meeting, the girl refused to marry Deepu and he stabbed the girl with a knife and tried to cut a vein on his right hand in an attempt to end his life, the police said. They were admitted to the Taluk Hospital at Vyithiri, the police said. The police registered a case against Deepu under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal - 0495-2760000 and DISHA – 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-stabs-girlfriend/article37637437.ece
23 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Custody of suspected Maoist leader extended||The Thalassery Sessions Court on Monday extended the custody of suspected Maoist leader B.G. Krishnamurthy till November 29. Mr. Krishnamurthy, who hails from Chikmagalur in Karnataka, is reportedly a central committee member and secretary of the Western Ghat Zonal Committee. He has been in the custody of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) for the past one week. Evidence gathering When the Maoist leader was produced in court, the ATS demanded his custody for a few more days to question him further and gather evidence. The court allowed the plea. Mr. Krishnamurthy was earlier taken into custody by the ATS in connection with an incident which took place within the limits of the Karikottakari police station in Kannur district in March 2017. First accused He is accused of barging into a house in Karikottakari with a gun, taking food items and distributing Maoist propaganda material. He was charged with acting against the national interest. Mr. Krishnamurthy is the first accused in the case. He was apprehended on November 10 by an anti-terrorist squad near the Madhur Forest check post on the Sultan Bathery-Gundalpet road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/custody-of-suspected-maoist-leader-extended/article37637435.ece
23 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Boy injured in crude bomb blast in Kannur||A 12-year-old boy was injured when a crude bomb exploded here around 2 p.m. on Monday. According to the police, Sreevardh Pradeep, son of Pradeep, a resident of Narivayal at Dharmadom was injured in the incident. The boy has been admitted to the Cooperative Hospital, Thalassery. Sreevardh and two other children were playing with a ball which landed in the nearby compound, the police said. When they went to take the ball, they found three ‘ice-cream balls’ in the compound. They began playing with one, which suddenly exploded. The police have launched an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boy-injured-in-crude-bomb-blast-in-kannur/article37637478.ece
23 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Order on construction works near Defence land||Kannur District Collector S. Chandrasekhar will issue a special order based on the decision of the Ministry of Defence and the judgment of the Kerala High Court to resolve the issue of denial of Defence Security Corps (DSC) no-objection letter for constructing houses in Payyambalam and near the Kannur District Hospital. The decision was taken at a meeting of stakeholders chaired by the Collector. The Collector said that the order of the Ministry of Defence dated October 21, 2016, stated that a letter of no objection was not required for constructions outside the 10-metre buffer zone of Defence land. There was also the judgment of the Kerala High Court accepting this provision. The Collector said that the Kannur Corporation could give permission to the applicants for construction of houses in areas outside the 10-metre limit of the Defence land. The meeting also decided to submit a proposal to the DSC to tar the road from the new bus stand to the district hospital stand. The representatives also requested the DSC to allow vehicles carrying St. Michael’s School students to use the road. The school authorities said that the fencing of the ground, which had been used for a long time, was making it difficult for the school to function. DSC representative Colonel Gautam Ravipal said that possible action would be taken after examining the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-on-construction-works-near-defence-land/article37637436.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tropical meteorology symposium gets under way today||The four-day International Symposium on Tropical Meteorology (Intromet 2021) on ‘Changing climate: consequences and challenges’, will begin here on Tuesday, under the aegis of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) and the Indian Meteorological Society. Director of Cusat Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research S. Abhilash said here on Monday that eminent scientists from across the globe would participate in the symposium, to be held mostly in the online mode, considering the continuing pandemic restrictions. Dr. Abhilash said the global challenge of climate change and its consequences had to be addressed locally. Kerala has been witness to the impact of climate change, with the 2013 monsoon giving a foretaste of the floods that came in 2018 and 2019. The years 2015 and 2016 witnessed drought-like situations in the State. That was followed by the Ockhi cyclone that hit the Kerala shores in 2017. The impact of climate change was seen most significantly in the intensity of rain received in various parts of Kerala, said Dr. Abhilash. He said the rain during the monsoon season saw 16% deficiency, but the months of October, November and December, which usually recorded about 60 cm of rain, received almost double the quantum. 600 papers Scientists and researchers from 16 countries will present 600 papers during the four-day event. Of those, a hundred papers will be from scientists and researchers from outside India. Ministry of Earth Sciences Secretary M. Ravichandran and former secretary M. Rajeevan will address the symposium on the opening day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tropical-meteorology-symposium-gets-under-way-today/article37637423.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to slash fares to make Kochi metro affordable||While welcoming schemes that Kochi Metro Rail Limited is rolling out to woo students and other commuters to the metro, key stakeholders say the agency, which is incurring loss to the tune of Rs. 1 crore per day, has no option but to slash fares to make the transport system affordable. The recent moves to increase passenger patronage in the metro were welcome, said ‘Metroman’ and noted engineer E. Sreedharan, who oversaw the project’s execution. “Right from the beginning, I was telling KMRL that the metro’s fare structure was very high and unaffordable for most people. From experience across the country, the thumb rule is that any metro agency levying fare that is over 1.5 to two times the ordinary bus fare, is making a mistake,” he said. The Government, which was subsidising the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to the tune of Rs. 120 crore per month, must also ensure that maximum number of people travel in the metro so that ordinary people too benefit from the system built using public funds, he said. KMRL must further bring down the fare structure so that more commuters travel and the revenue-expenditure gap reduces in the long run, said Mr. Sreedharan. ‘Four years wasted’ Slamming KMRL for what he termed “wasting” four years since its commissioning to realise the importance of making the metro affordable for commoners, Sudheer Babu, an author of business management books, and whose consultancy had conducted a survey among commuters and the public, said the agency had preferred to look away even as the survey results reflected the call for a much lower fare structure. “Even now, the metro fare is unaffordable for the middle and low income groups – taxpayers, who too funded the metro’s capital investment and are now contributing to mitigate its massive losses. More than a medium of transport, metro rail is a culture that is celebrated in other cities, considering its magnitude and the speed of commuting, bypassing congested roads. “Sadly, KMRL began targeting affluent sections of society, most of whom continued to travel in cars despite the metro. Over four years since its launch, the metro has failed to live up to the hype that was created during its construction. Near empty stations and trains are proof that its business strategy failed, a lost chance at bettering the commuting experience in Kochi,” said Mr. Babu. Offer for students KMRL Managing Director Loknath Behera said the Rs. 1,800-offer for students to travel 100 trips was reduced to Rs. 1,200 based on requests from students and parents. “We are yet again collecting feedback on this. Students could also avail of the Rs. 80-pass and travel unlimited trips. We are working with stakeholders concerned to woo students and others yet again, through further discounts,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-slash-metro-fares-to-make-commute-affordable/article37637446.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maldives Minister in Kochi today||Mariya Ahmed Didi, Defence Minister of the Maldives, will be arrive on a six-day official visit to Kochi and Kannur from Tuesday. The delegation led by Ms. Didi will be received in Kochi by Rear Admiral T.V.N. Prasanna, Chief Staff Officer (Training), Southern Naval Command, at the Cochin International Airport, a pressnote said. Ms. Didi is the chief guest of the passing-out parade of officer cadets at the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala, Kannur, on November 27. A total of 233 officers (including international trainees) will be passing out from INA on that day. Vice Admiral Anil K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, will call on the Maldives Defence Minister on November 24. The delegation will return to the Maldives on November 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maldives-minister-to-arrive-in-city/article37637450.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CNG, solar energy to power ferries, boats||Ferries, tourist boats, and barges operated by public sector agencies in Kerala are set to take the plunge into solar power or CNG as the fuel source to address climate change concerns and to rein in the operational cost. The city-based Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation Ltd (KSINC) is readying to launch its first solar powered tourist vessel “Suryanshu”, a double-decked vessel that can carry 100 passengers, while State Water Transport Department (SWTD) is expected to roll out five solar powered ferries in early 2022 and a double-decked tourist vessel in a month. The Alappuzha-based SWTD had created headlines in 2017 with the launch of Aditya, said to be the first fully solar-powered ferry in Asia, after its daily operational expenses of the Vaikom-Thavanakadavu ferry fell from Rs. 8,000 per day (when a diesel ferry was in operation) to Rs. 200. Buoyed by this, and the ferry going on to net the best ferry award in 2020, the department placed orders for five sister ferries and a tourist vessel. A decision is awaited on how many of the ferries will be operated in Alappuzha and Ernakulam, SWTD sources said. The agency’s director, Shaji V. Nair, said all ferries that operate in Ernakulam would be converted to CNG to rein in their operational expenses. “The funds for this are expected to be set apart in the forthcoming State budget, while a CNG vending station has been envisaged in the Ernakulam boat jetty.” On its part, the KSINC is set to take a giant leap toward CNG and harnessing solar power for its vessels. “Suryanshu, our first solar vessel, will shortly be rolled out after testing and obtaining statutory clearances, for operation in either Alappuzha or the Marine Drive backwaters here. It was built at a yard in Sri Lanka. Efforts are on to convert all our tourist vessels solar powered ones and barges to CNG, a much cheaper fuel than diesel,” said Prasanth Nair, the agency’s MD. Advantages An estimation process and cost-benefit analysis of the shift to other energy modes is under way. The advantages are many, nil or negligible sound and air pollution and far less maintenance. This is especially true with solar powered vessels which have just a few moving parts. Efforts are also under way to replace the KSINC’s official cars which incur high fuel and maintenance expense, with electric cars, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cng-solar-energy-to-power-ferries-and-tourist-boats/article37637457.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MLA seeks probe into condition of stadium||K. Babu, MLA, has demanded a Vigilance inquiry into the deteriorating condition of the GCDA international sports stadium in Kaloor. The Thripunithura MLA said about 40% of the roofing of the stadium was rusted and posed a threat to viewers and players in the stadium. A Vigilance inquiry should be conducted into the anomalies in the erection of the roof, which was carried out 11 years ago at an expense of Rs. 11 crore. Mr. Babu also alleged that the Life Mission project, for which the foundation was laid four years ago, had slowed down extremely. He said Rajendra Maidan under GCDA had been turned into an ugly site despite it being part of the Freedom Struggle. Mr. Babu also alleged that the GCDA had not taken up any project over the past five years and the general council of the GCDA had not been constituted after the new government took charge. The GCDA has been totally inactive, he said and appealed to the authorities to make the agency more active through new projects and initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-seeks-probe-into-condition-of-stadium/article37637461.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three Kerala scientists to be honoured at Intromet 2021||The International Symposium on Tropical Meteorology (‘Intromet 2021’), being organised under the aegis of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) in collaboration with the Cochin Chapter of the Indian Meteorological Society, from Tuesday will honour three eminent scientists from Kerala — R. Ananthakrishnan, Anna Modayil Mani, and P.R. Pisharoty, who contributed significantly to meteorological research in the country. The Indian Postal Department would release special postal covers on Tuesday to honour the scientists during the symposium, said K. Mohankumar, Founder Director of the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research here. There will also be memorial lectures in their honour. R. Ananthakrishnan, former director and honorary fellow of the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, was born in Palakkad and started his career as a research scholar in the field of light scattering under the guidance of Nobel laureate Sir C.V. Raman. He was awarded D.Sc. in 1937 from the University of Madras. His contributions earned him the Padma Shri in 1969 and the C.V. Raman Centenary Medal in 1988. Cusat course The research contributions of Ananthakrishnan include understanding of light scattering and the Raman Effect, solar physics and meteor astronomy and meteorology. In meteorology, his work covered areas such as aerology, atmospheric dynamics, thermodynamics, monsoon circulation, storms and depressions, Indian rainfall and features associated with the onset of the monsoon. He was instrumental in launching the M.Sc. course in meteorology at Cusat. He passed away in 1999. Scientist Anna Modayil Mani was born in Peermade and obtained her B.Sc. (Hon.) in 1939 from the Madras Presidency College. She began her scientific career with C.V. Raman at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, where she studied the fluorescence and absorption patterns and spectra of diamonds. In 1945, she went to the Imperial College, London, and later to the British Meteorological Office, studying the evolution of weather instruments. She visited several field observatories and manufacturers of meteorological instruments in England and Scotland. and later joined the India Meteorological Department (IMD). She made significant contributions to meteorological instrumentation, conducted research, and published papers on solar radiation, atmospheric ozone and wind energy measurements. She retired as the Deputy Director-General of the IMD in 1976. She passed away in 2001. Remote sensing P.R. Pisharoty is among the most distinguished Indian meteorologists of international repute and is considered the ‘Father of Indian remote sensing’. Remote sensing He was instrumental in heralding remote sensing in the country through pioneering experiments to detect coconut wilt disease in Kerala in the late 1960s. Pisharoty was a member of the World Meteorological Organisation (1963-1968) and later its chairman; a member of Joint Organising Committee for Global Atmospheric Research Programme (1969-77); and vice president of the International Association for Meteorology and Atmospheric Physics (1972-79). Padma Shri He served as director of Remote Sensing and Satellite Meteorology, at ISRO Space Application Centre, Ahmedabad, during 1972-75. He was conferred the Padma Shri in 1970, and received the prestigious International Meteorological Prize 1989 of the World Meteorological Organisation. He passed away in 2002.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-kerala-scientists-to-be-honoured-at-intromet-2021/article37637422.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cartoon award: HC notice to State, Akademi||The Kerala High Court on Monday issued notice to the State Government, Kerala Lalithakala Akademi and other respondents on a writ petition challenging the selection of a cartoon by Anoop Radhakrishnan for the Akademi’s Honourable Mention Award. The petition was filed by Haindaveeyam Foundation, Telangana. The cartoon depicted a cow draped in a shawl as representing India at a meet on COVID-19. According to the foundation, the Akademi selected a cartoon that demeaned and disparaged India. The petitioner alleged that an ‘anti-national’ artistic expression was given the Honourable Mention Award with a hidden agenda. The petition sought a directive to the Akademi to withdraw the award given to Mr. Radhakrishnan, who is secretary of the Kerala Cartoon Academy.  Cartoon depicts cow draped in shawl as representing India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cartoon-award-hc-notice-to-state-akademi/article37637474.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Okkal Seed Farm gears up to welcome more visitors||The Okkal Seed Farm near Perumbavoor is now geared up to welcome more visitors and customers with facilities including a glass house that will display both vegetable seedlings and ornamental plants. The 32-acre farm was opened in 1979 with the aim of providing paddy seedlings for three crop seasons. The place was chosen as it was close to the Periyar and water availability was not much of a problem. Over the years, however, the seed farm diversified into producing vegetable seedlings, including seedlings for cool season vegetables, pepper cuttings, coconut seedlings and ornamental plants. Agricultural department sources said that the seed farm now produced around one million vegetable seedlings per year while also producing about 40 tonnes of paddy seeds per season. The major paddy seeds being produced at the farm include Manuratna, which has a short crop duration of about 105 days. The short crop season allows the farmers to take up three paddy crops a year as well as to use a brief period for vegetable cultivation, departmental sources said. The popular Uma variety of rice requires 120 to 130 days for harvest. P. Prasad, Minister for Agriculture, inaugurated the new facilities, including a dedicated irrigation facility for the farm on Monday. Departmental sources said one of the drawbacks of the seed farm, close to MC Road, was that it did not have high visibility. In order to rectify it, a gateway with high visibility has been built and a parking area too has been commissioned to allow more visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/okkal-farm-gears-up-for-more-visitors/article37637441.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Marine Drive may be extended up to Vaduthala||The Marine Drive in Kochi will be extended and developed up to Vaduthala if the State Government has its way. “The identified project area starts from Marine Drive and Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary in the southern part to Cheranalloor grama panchayat in the north, including Vaduthala, Pachalam area and the Mulavukad island on the eastern side across the backwaters,” according to a proposal under the consideration of the government. “The proposed development of the Marine Drive would be in the form of a looped waterfront development along Queen’s Way-Pachalam-Vaduthala-Mulavukkad stretch with a total length of 9.1 km. This would include a bridge as well for circular connectivity,” reads the project proposal. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has convened a meeting of the stakeholders of the project in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday to discuss the crucial development project, which has been christened as the “urban sustainable land reconstitution project in Kochi”. The project, according to the documents accessed by The Hindu , aims to rejuvenate the existing commercial and residential hub of Kochi, specifically the Marine Drive and its precincts. The area, which is the existing Central Business District, has been already saturated with high rise apartment complexes and office complexes. This creates a need to look beyond Marine Drive for further planned growth, the project proponents reasoned. Land reconstitution The document speaks about developing the area starting from Pachalam, Vaduthala, and Mulavukad through the model of land reconstitution. Development would be along a buffer of 250 metre from the waterline. The proposed redevelopment will rely on a mix of land acquisition and reconstitution. The area of 250 metre would be developed in well-planned ecologically sensitive mode with a low ecological footprint, says the proposal. The ecological restoration and conservation of Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary and its influence area has also been proposed to be taken up as a major component, considering its ecological importance. The Marine Drive development project was originally taken up by the Cochin Town Planning Trust, the forerunner of the present Greater Cochin Development Authority a few decades ago. The project, which focused on the water-front development, included the land reclaimed from the Vembanad Lake during the 1980s. Noted urban planner Kuldip Singh, who was appointed as the consultant architect for the scheme, prepared a master plan for utilising the area. The first phase of the scheme was approved in 1979. The development of Rajendra Maidan, Children’s Park, extension of Subhash Park, Marine Drive ground, ferry stations and the popular walkway was made possible through the scheme, according to the website of the GCDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marine-drive-may-be-extended-up-to-vaduthala/article37637449.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Divers search waterbody for hard disk||Scuba divers of the Fire and Rescue Services Department conducted a search in the backwaters near Kannanghat bridge on Monday to retrieve a hard disk that reportedly contains CCTV visuals from a hotel in Fort Kochi. The hard disk was allegedly thrown into the waterbody by employees of the hotel, following a car accident at Chakkaraparambu on November 1, in which two models and a fellow passenger died. The hard disk could not be traced despite search by six personnel in the area where it was reportedly thrown into. Poor visibility The visibility in the water was poor and the bottom of the waterbody was slushy. More searches will be done as sought by the police team probing the case. The two persons who allegedly threw the hard disk into the waterbody too were brought to the location to help identify the spot. The accident victims had attended a midnight party at the hotel located opposite Fort Kochi police station before the ill-fated trip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scuba-divers-search-for-missing-hard-disk/article37637447.ece
23 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC directive on ‘halal’ jaggery||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Food Safety Commissioner to file a statement regarding the alleged use of jaggery containing ‘halal’ marking at Sabarimala in 2019. The Bench passed the directive on a writ petition alleging the use of jaggery with halal marking at Sabarimala and seeking a directive that materials of high quality are used to prepare Nivedyam and Prasadam at the temple. The Travancore Devaswom Board had said that a few packets of jaggery supplied by a Maharashtra firm in 2019 at Sabarimala had the marking of ‘halal’ as the company was exporting jaggery to Arab countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-on-halal-jaggery/article37637475.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Judge assumes charge||Honey M. Varghese assumed charge as the Principal District and Sessions Judge of Ernakulam. Ms. Varghese had been serving as the CBI Special Judge in Kochi. She has also been trying the sensational actor rape case. Though promoted as the Principal Sessions Judge, she will hold the additional charge of Special Judge till the completion of the trial of the actor rape case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/judge-assumes-charge/article37637459.ece
23 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Medical camp for differently abled||The District Social Justice Office has begun medical camps for distribution of gears for differently abled persons within the Kottayam Parliament constituency. The camp, being organised on a block panchayat basis, was inaugurated by Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, at function held at Llalam here on Monday. As many as 300 people from the Pala municipality, Kozhuvanal, Meenachil, Mutholi , Kadanad and Bharananganam panchayats attended the event. A team led by the District Medical Officer examined the participants, who were allotted manual tri-cycle, wheel chairs, hearing aids and other gears based on their degree of disability, officials said. Ruby Jose, president of the Block Panchayat presided over while the District Collector P.K.Jayasree explained the project. The camp will be held in the remaining block panchayats in the coming days, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-camp-for-differently-abled/article37637508.ece
23 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rampant speed violations on bypass trigger safety concerns||The blatant speed limit violations by vehicles on the Kozhikode-Kannur bypass, taking advantage of faulty surveillance cameras and irregular highway patrol, is posing a threat to the safety of pedestrians and other motorists who wait for their turn to cross the road at various intersections. Incidentally, many smaller junctions on the route have no effective traffic control mechanisms. As of now, there are 10 such risky intersections where safe crossing is a challenge. “Vehicles taking the highway neither stop nor even reduce speed to permit motorists or pedestrians to cross the road. On the Kozhikode-Kannur bypass, all small junctions without traffic signals or police control contribute to the mess,” said Babu Erambath, a resident of Vengeri. He added that there were even instances where pedestrians overlook speeding vehicles and risk their lives to cross the road. Though home guards are deployed at a few high-risk intersections, it has largely proved ineffective. Moreover, the services of home guards are temporary in nature, and they turn up for duty only during peak hours. Public Works Department (PWD) officials said local residents’ demand for increasing the number of existing rumble strips, humps, and dividers on the highway as a quick solution to the issue was hardly a practical option, as it would only impede traffic on the Ramanattukara-Pooladikunnu stretch of NH-66. Meanwhile, police and Motor Vehicles Department officials said their interceptors and patrol vehicles were always present on the highway to track violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rampant-speed-violations-on-bypass-trigger-safety-concerns/article37637429.ece
23 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Eight centres of excellence set up to treat rare diseases||The Union Government has set up eight centres of excellence to treat those diagnosed with rare diseases such as thalassemia, haemophilia, and sickle cell anaemia. There is also a Central portal for crowd funding and voluntary donations. For patients from Kerala, Bengaluru-based Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH) will be the nearest such centre. The Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics with the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad, too has a similar facility. Manish Raj, Under Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, conveyed this to Kareem Karassery, general convener, Blood Patients Protection Council, recently. It was in response to a memorandum submitted by Mr. Karassery to then Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan on December 12 last year, to mark Universal Health Coverage Day. In the memorandum, the council had pointed out that though there were many health insurance schemes at various levels, rare disease patients were excluded from their purview. As the treatment costs are not affordable, those diagnosed with thalassaemia, haemophilia, and sickle cell anaemia had been facing difficulties. Many youngsters are succumbing to these diseases, as they are denied life-saving drugs and proper expert care. The council also sought free treatment for rare disease patients. Mr. Raj said in the response that the Ministry had framed a National Policy for Rare Diseases, 2021, for such patients. The eight centres are premier tertiary-level Government hospitals. The digital portal for crowd funding and voluntary donations for rare disease patients can be accessed throughhttps:// rarediseases.nhp.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-centres-of-excellence-set-up-to-treat-rare-diseases/article37637426.ece
23 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Farmers’ body sees move to deny aid to injured driver||We Farm, a prominent settler farmers’ organisation in Kozhikode district, has flayed a recent investigation report of the Forest Department, which reportedly recorded a grievous autorickshaw accident caused by a wild boar as just a usual accident, thus ruling out the possibility of any department-level treatment aid for the injured driver. Office-bearers of the organisation said the “incorrect report” prepared without considering the seriousness of the incident and the condition of the driver reflected the department’s anti-farmer attitude. They pointed out that such a “hostile report” was prepared by the Thamarassery Range Office with a clear intention to deny financial assistance to the victim. A functionary of the organisation said the accident took place on October 6 when the driver, along with a few others, was returning home after attending a late-night event. “The wild boar attacked the autorickshaw near Kattippara, and the vehicle overturned causing serious injuries to the driver. He is still undergoing treatment after a major surgery,” he added. The organisation members said the victim was struggling to mobilise funds for follow-up treatment in the absence of any aid from the department. A fair inquiry could have helped range officers come up with a proper report and help him secure assistance, they pointed out. ‘Allegations baseless’ Meanwhile, Forest Department sources saidthat the allegations against its officials were baseless, as there was no attempt to deny benefits to the driver. The reasons that led to the accident could be investigated again to verify the finding, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-body-sees-move-to-deny-aid-to-injured-driver/article37637430.ece
23 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. council approves project for roadside parking||The Kozhikode Corporation has joined hands with the city traffic police to find a sustainable solution to the innumerable parking woes of the city. The Corporation council recently approved a project that, when implemented, would convert the city into a parking-friendly one. The project was designed based on the parking study report of the traffic police, which was used to prepare a digital parking system to ease the flow of traffic in the city. The City Police Commissioner had approached the Mayor with the report, combined with another project report by a startup company Qcopy. The Mayor, in turn, discussed the matter with various departments such as PWD, RTO, RTP, and Harbour Engineering. A detailed report on spaces on the roadsides where vehicles could be parked without disrupting the traffic was prepared with the help of the traffic police. Thus, the first phase of the project to convert Kozhikode into a parking-friendly city was formed and approved by the Corporation Council on Friday. The project includes setting up parking bays separately for cars, motor bikes, vehicles of disabled people, drop-off points and bus bays besides emergency/police bays in select locations on most of the roads in the city. Thus, 9,318 metres of parking area has been identified along the city roads. The highest concentration of bays is on the beach road towards the North of Corporation Office (1,098 m), while the Meenchanda Areekkad Road (950 m), Beach Road towards south of corporation office (950 m), Pottammal-Arayidathupalam stretch (845 m), and Pavamani Road (574 m) are close behind. However, there are a limited number of bays at Pottammal Junction and Rajaji Road, where there is scarcity of space. Besides, there are bus bays at Mananchira, near Model School, Nadakkavu market, Mavoor Road Junction, Malabar Christian College junction on Wayanad Road as well as Kannur Road and MCC near Palayam.  With proper parking spaces earmarked on the roadsides and the parking plaza on Link Road nearing completion, the parking woes of the city may come down soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-council-approves-project-for-roadside-parking/article37637433.ece
23 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Cholera-causing bacteria found in three panchayats||The presence of vibrio cholerae bacteria that causes cholera has been found in Kozhikode again. Allaying fears of an outbreak, the Health Department said on Monday that it was planning to hold a Super Chlorination Week in the coming days to disinfect wells and other sources of drinking water in the district. Cholera is an acute diarrhoeal infection caused by ingestion of food or water contaminated with the bacteria. The presence of vibrio cholerae was found in wells in Narikkuni, Kakkur and Thamarassery grama panchayats. They were found to have coliform bacteria as well. Report submitted Food Safety Assistant Commissioner M.T. Babychan is learnt to have submitted a report to the District Collector as well as the Health Department. Water samples from these wells were collected after a two-and-a-half-year-old boy from Narikkuni died following suspected food poisoning on November 13. He had food from a wedding event. At least five incidents of food poisoning had been reported in the district in less than a month. Food Safety officials believe that vibrio cholerae could have caused the food poisoning incident that happened at a hostel near Kozhikode city a couple of weeks ago as well. The bacteria was found in drinking water sources in the district earlier in 2019. Ummer Farooq, District Medical Officer, on Monday held a meeting of health supervisors to assess the situation. Inspection of catering units and hotels and restaurants will be intensified with the help of the Food Safety Department and the police. Water samples from more wells will be collected for testing. Super chlorination was conducted in 89 wells in Thamarassery grama panchayat, and around 100 were covered in Narikkuni. They include the well used by the dead boy’s family. Thirty wells in Kuttambur in Kakkur grama panchayat too were disinfected. Panchayat-level committees will be formed to take forward the super chlorination of wells. The Food Safety Department is also planning to hold awareness events for the staff of catering units and hotels and restaurants.  The presence of vibrio cholerae bacteria was found in wells in Narikkuni, Kakkur and Thamarassery panchayats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cholera-causing-bacteria-found-in-three-panchayats/article37637427.ece
23 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A light-footed leap from Kalari to cinema||Kalaripayattu exponent and Padma Shri awardee Meenakshi Amma will play the lead role in a multilingual movie on Kalaripayattu. The movie titled Look Back is being directed by Rajan Mullaratt under the banner of Kalari Gurukulam, Bengaluru. The movie has Kalari as its theme throughout. The 78-year-old Meenakashi Amma plays the central character Siddha. “I am delighted to have such an opportunity at this age. Kalari being my whole life, I am happy to be part of this venture,” Meenakshi Amma told reporters here on Monday. Its purpose Mr. Mullaratt, who also plays a prominent character in the movie, said very few people knew about Kalaripayattu as against other martial art forms, many of which had evolved from Kalaripayattu centuries ago. “The whole purpose of Look Back is to contribute to this ecosystem of Kalaripayattu, which is getting some attention of late, and to create awareness among the youth,” he said. Cast is crucial He said that having Meenakshi Amma in the movie would communicate the effectiveness of this art form. “If an elderly woman can move so flawlessly and perform such astonishing moves, it clearly sends a message about the benefits of the art form,” he said. The plot of Look Back revolves around the state of mind of a young girl, her vulnerabilities, and her journey from an ambiguous, self-destructing personality to a mature, positive, and strong woman. The shift in the attitude of the protagonist, played by Upasana, with the help of Kalari principles is the theme of the movie. Most of the movie was shot in Karnataka while the climax will be shot at Thacholi Manikoth and Sand Banks beach at Vadakara. Several Kalari students are part of the movie which will be released in June 2022 in Kannada, English, and Malayalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-light-footed-leap-from-kalari-to-cinema/article37637472.ece
23 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Repeal move on PSC posting in Waqf Board’||A meeting of Muslim organisations here on Monday called on the State Government to withdraw its decision to leave the Waqf Board appointments to the Public Service Commission (PSC). The meeting of the organisations chaired by Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader and chairman of the Muslim leadership committee Panakkad Sadikhali Shihab Thangal warned the Government of intensive agitation if the Government refused to revoke the decision. Mr. Thangal told a press conference after the meeting that the controversial decision was against the Waqf Act of the Central Government. The Waqf Board was vested with the authority to make the recruitments, he said adding that the board was constituted for the protection of Waqf properties. Officials appointed to handle Waqf properties endowed in the name of God should be religious believers, he stressed. Stating the decision of the State Government would not stand legal scrutiny, he said there was also plan to legally challenge it. IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty told reporters that strong protests would be mounted against the decision by Muslim organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drop-move-on-psc-posting-in-waqf-board/article37637462.ece
23 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Students hurt in clash over suspected ragging||Five second year degree students were injured in a clash at the College of Applied Sciences under the Institute of Human Resources Development at Mukkom on Monday. The incident followed a suspected ragging attempt by senior students of the college. Outsiders involved According to the Mukkom police, the alleged attack was spearheaded by a group of final year B.Com students who were reportedly irked by a complaint by their juniors to the college authorities against a suspected ragging attempt. A few outsiders too joined the seniors, they said. The police have registered a case. Sources in the college said they had reported the incident to the higher authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-hurt-in-clash-over-suspected-ragging/article37637431.ece
23 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut varsity campus to have ‘Fab Lab’||The Calicut University campus at Tenhipalam will soon have a ‘Fab Lab’ (fabrication laboratory) to help students realise their innovative ideas. This was announced by Vice-Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj on Monday. The project is a joint venture with the Kerala Startup Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-campus-to-have-fab-lab/article37637434.ece
23 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Plea against KSRTC hiring luxury buses||Rights activist Raymant Antony has sought the intervention of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the decision of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to take private luxury buses on rent when the KSRTC’s own buses were rusting in sheds. In a memorandum sent to the Chief Minister on Monday, Mr. Antony pointed out that high-tech and low-floor buses of the KSRTC had run without any problems until the COVID-19 pandemic struck. “Allowing those buses to rust in KSRTC sheds will be suicidal,” he said. Mr. Antony said the decision of the KSRTC authorities to hire private luxury buses was meant to help certain private bus owners. He said the decision smacked of corruption. Mr. Antony also said the KSRTC had approached private companies for ticketing machines even when the Government-owned KELTRON could provide the same. “If you allow the KSRTC to function like this, the corporation will have to wind up, pushing thousands of families into poverty,” he said.  Raymant Antony says the decision of the KSRTC is meant to help certain private bus owners||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-against-ksrtc-hiring-luxury-buses/article37637417.ece
23 November 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||RSS worker’s murder: three in custody||The Kerala Police probing the recent murder of a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker in Kerala said on Monday that three persons had been taken into custody in connection with the case. A senior police officer told the Press Trust of India that three persons were in the custody of the police. He, however, did not elaborate. A. Sanjith, an RSS worker was hacked to death in front of his wife at Mambaram in Palakkad on November 15. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Sangh Parivar organisations have alleged that activists of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) were behind the murder. The SDPI has rejected the allegations. ‘Latest in a series’ Special Correspondent writes from Thiruvananthapuram: State president of the BJP K. Surendran called on Union Minister for Home Amit Shah on Monday in New Delhi to demand an inquiry by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the killing. He said Sanjith’s murder was the latest in a series of attacks against BJP and RSS workers by the SDPI and its several affiliates. Mr. Surendran also demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into the Karuvannur Cooperative Bank corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rss-workers-murder-three-in-custody/article37637466.ece
23 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Recognition for ICAI Palakkad branch||The Palakkad branch of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) has won the second best branch award in South India. It won the award in the 300-500 members category. The ICAI Palakkad branch received the laurels for a nine-day CA seminar titled Navaratna it led in association with other branches in the State. The award was distributed at the 53rd conference of the Southern India Regional Council held at Coimbatore on Saturday. SIRC chairman C.A. Jalapathi and Milky Mist group’s managing director Satheesh Kumar gave away the award. ICAI Palakkad branch chairman Vimal Venu, secretary Anuja Jayakrishnan, treasurer K.V. Vasudevan, and secretary-elect Sarin Chandran received the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recognition-for-icai-palakkad-branch/article37637606.ece
23 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||TCRC launches lecture series on social welfare||The Tamil Cultural Research Centre (TCRC) at Palakkad, in association with VGM Hospital Foundation, Coimbatore, on Monday began a virtual lecture series on ‘thoughts on social welfare.’ Sudha Seshayyan, Vice Chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Dr. M.G.R. Medical University, Chennai, inaugurated the event. Speakers Krishnaraj Vanavarayar, chairman of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Coimbatore, presided over the inaugural. G. Lakshmipathi, physician from Coimbatore; A. Anbarasu, radiologist from Coimbatore; K. Ravi, poet and lawyer from Chennai; and M. Krishnan, proprietor of Sri Krishna Sweets, Coimbatore, spoke. C.P. Suman, orthopaedist from VGM Hospital, was the moderator. Madhura Prasad Suman, gastroenterologist from VGM Hospital, welcomed the gathering. Vamsi Murthy, gastroenterologist, proposed the vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tcrc-launches-lecture-series-on-social-welfare/article37637500.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB to modernise its Kanjikode wind farm||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is looking to modernise its wind farm at Kanjikode in Palakkad district and scale up power generation. The State power utility has decided to appoint the National Institute of Wind Energy (NIWE), Chennai, as consultant for ‘re-powering/replacing’ the wind project. If things pan out, the existing wind farm having an installed capacity of 2.025 MW (nine turbines of 225 kW each) will be replaced with a 6 MW facility, KSEB officials said. Lifespan The wind turbine generators (WTG) at Kanjikode were erected in 1995 and had completed their expected lifespan of 25 years, they said. The Kanjikode facility is the lone wind farm in the entire of the KSEB stable. Output down “Recent generation reports of the station reveal that the output has reduced considerably, owing to ageing and change in wind parameters in the locality due to new buildings and so on. The latest technological development in this field assure higher efficiency WTG working on taller pole heights (more than 100 m) with higher capacity machines,” the KSEB noted in a November 3 order deciding to entrust NIWE with the consultancy. The NIWE is an autonomous research and development institution under the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) and serves as its technical arm for wind energy initiatives. Underutilised A 2015 study by the NIWE had suggested that the existing wind farm was underutilised given the wind potential in the area and that the capacity can be increased to 6 MW. The proposed modernisation of the KSEB wind farm is part of the electricity utility’s plans to maximise internal power generation in the State using all available energy sources. Installed capacity When it comes to wind energy, Kerala’s installed capacity easily stands at 70.275 MW, including the wind farms totalling 68.25 MW in capacity that are established in Idukki and Palakkad with private participation.  The Kanjikode facility is the lone wind farm in the entire of the KSEB stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-to-modernise-its-kanjikode-wind-farm/article37637610.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ABC programme set to be restructured||The Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme at the city Corporation is set to undergo a considerable change in its functioning including in the way the stray dogs are caught for sterilisation, in their upkeep, and in the monitoring of the entire process. Mayor Arya Rajendran and Health Standing Committee Chairperson P. Jameela Sreedharan announced a set of decisions regarding this towards the fag end of a special council meeting on Monday, which was convened following demands from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to discuss issues related to the ABC programme. The Corporation has decided to provide a fresh round of training to all staff, including the dog catchers, involved in the ABC programme. The existing monitoring committee for the programme will be reconstituted. A new survey will be conducted with the help of the NGOs working in the field to assess the number of stray dogs in the city. Anticipatory sanction has been accorded to an amount of Rs. 18 lakh for improving the infrastructure facilities at the sterilisation facility at Vandithadam. This will be in addition to the Rs. 4.19 crore project that was cleared by the council recently. Proper cooked food will be ensured for the dogs, which will have to be kept at the centre for five days after sterilisation. Awareness classes will be conducted for all the councillors as well as representatives of the residents’ associations regarding the ABC programme and to sensitise them on the need for better treatment of stray dogs. Meetings The decisions were taken following meetings with animal rights organisations and the NGOs last week. Earlier, during the discussions, BJP councillor M.R. Gopan alleged that there was no strict monitoring of the ABC programme. The number of dogs that underwent sterilisation are not correctly noted in the register, leading to doubts of corruption in the whole process. BJP councillor Anilkumar said unscientific waste management, the spread of fast food joints and waste generated from there, and the non-functioning of the slaughterhouse were reasons for the increase in the number of stray dogs. CPI(M) councillor Amshu Vamadevan said that the civic body could work only within the limitations set by the ABC rules 2001, framed by the Union Government. Some of the suggestions from the BJP councillors, including the opening of kennel clubs to keep all stray dogs at one place, went against the act. Some of the officials involved in the programme have cases charged against them, which affects their functioning and morale too. He accused the BJP councillors of having ulterior motives in accusing meat shops of causing an increase in the number of stray dogs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/abc-programme-set-to-be-restructured/article37637652.ece
23 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Centre mulls over plea on wild boar menace||The Centre has reportedly put on temporary hold Kerala’s demand to declare wild boars as vermin. On Monday, Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran met Union Minister for Environment and Forests Bhupendra Yadav in New Delhi to push Kerala’s case to proclaim wild boars as destructive and invasive species. Mr. Saseendran said the Centre had sought more time to examine the legality of the demand and whether it contravened existing forest laws. The Centre had promised to consider the State’s request sympathetically. The State Government had come under intense pressure from farmers to kill wild boars to save crops and mitigate increasing human-wildlife conflict. It had apprised the Centre about the threat the fast propagating species posed to the ecosystem. The State Government also told the Centre that wild boars could carry zoonotic diseases. The species was elusive and nocturnal, making trapping or corralling them highly challenging. Farmers’ ire Wild pigs had made farming almost impossible in large swathes of arable land abutting forests. Farmers were against the Forest Department for not doing enough to curb the menace. The State Government had permitted farmers with licensed firearms to destroy wild boars trespassing into farmlands and population centres under the supervision of forest officials. However, the hunters should render the carcass inedible by pouring kerosene and burying it in the presence of wildlife enforcers. Rs. 620-crore scheme Mr. Saseendran presented a Rs. 620-crore scheme for mitigating human-wildlife conflict. The proposal included solar fencing and moats to deter wildlife. He sought 60% Central assistance for the scheme. The Centre had agreed in principle to the proposal but said allocation of funds would depend on the fiscal situation. The State also told the Centre that a massive drive was under way to rid forests of invasive flora. It had felled large swathes of acacia and eucalyptus plantations and supplanted them with endemic wildlife-friendly fruit trees. Moreover, the Forest Department had also created artificial water sources for wild animals during the dry season. A survey was on to fix forest boundaries.  The vermin question Kerala has demanded permission to declare wild boars as vermin Centre has sought time to examine its legality, says Forest Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-mulls-over-plea-on-wild-boar-menace/article37637481.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Crew module components handed over to ISRO||Kortas Industries Pvt Ltd (KIPL), an aerospace manufacturing firm at Veli here, has handed over the first set of crew module components for the Gaganyaan mission to the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). Kortas Industries director M. Shahabudeen handed over the parts to S. Somanath, director, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), at a function held at the factory. The Gaganyaan mission of ISRO aims to send a three-member crew to space and safely return them to earth. Senior officials of the VSSC and the KIPL were present at Monday’s function. KIPL had been manufacturing and supplying mechanical hardware and sub-assemblies for the ISRO for the past 20 years, the company said in a statement issued. KIPL became a subsidiary of Alpha Design Technologies, Bangalore, last year as part of an expansion programme and to contribute major rocket hardware systems for PSLV, SSLV, and the GSLV MK-III programmes of the ISRO. KIPL director Babu Tom Joseph was also present at the function on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crew-module-components-handed-over-to-isro/article37637418.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district logs 465 COVID-19 cases||The district logged 465 COVID-19 cases and 1,305 recoveries on Monday. The test positivity rate stood at 9.3%. In all, 7,287 people were under treatment for COVID-19 in the capital district on Monday. The following areas have been excluded from the list of containment zones as the infection rates is now under control; Chathanpara and Mudakkal in Manamboor panchayat and Panthuvila and Eetimoodu in Vamanapuram panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-logs-465-covid-19-cases/article37637643.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Seven held on charge of chain snatching||The police officers have nabbed a seven-member gang which allegedly was behind a series of chain-snatching incidents reported in the Ayiroor, Kallambalam and Paripally police station limits. The arrests were made by the Kallambalam police and the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF). The accused include Sarath alias Chandu, 28, of Chemmaruthy; Sreekanth, 27, Vadasserikonam; Nandu, 18, Njekkad; Amal, 22, Njekkad; Akhil, 22, of Venpalavattom who resides at Ottoor, and Akash, 19. A minor also has been arrested in connection with the incident. Sarath headed the gang. The police recovered several gold ornaments stolen by the accused and also seized two two-wheelers used by them. According to the police, their primary targets were women vendors and pedestrians. Following the series of chain-snatching incidents, Thiruvananthapuram Rural SP P.K. Madhu had constituted a team led by Varkala DySP P. Niyas and Crime Branch DySP M.K. Sulfiker. The arrests were made a special team led by Kallambalam Inspector I. Faroz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chain-snatching-seven-arrested/article37637513.ece
23 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,698 new cases in State||Kerala logged 3,698 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 45,190 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden now stands at 51,04,702 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 37,675 with the State adding 180 deaths to the official list on Monday. The State’s active case pool is declining and now has 54,091 patients, with 7,515 people recovering from the disease on Monday. Kozhikode reported the highest number of 724 new cases, Ernakulam 622, Thiruvananthapuram 465, Kollam 348, Thrissur 247, Kottayam 228, Kannur 200, Malappuram 179, Idukki 162, Alappuzha 151, Wayanad 119, Palakkad 115, Pathanamthitta 110, and Kasaragod 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3698-new-cases-in-state/article37637480.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More rain from Thursday||Rainfall is likely to pick up in the State on Thursday and Friday, according to India Meteorological Department ( IMD) forecasts. As per a Monday evening forecast of the IMD, southern and central Kerala districts have been put on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on both days. A cyclonic circulation lies over south-east Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood in the lower tropospheric levels. It is very likely to move towards the Tamil Nadu coast during the next four to five days. A trough runs from the cyclonic circulation to the Tamil Nadu coast in the lower tropospheric levels, the forecast said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-rain-from-thursday/article37637482.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||U.S. national found bedridden in Kovalam||The police on Monday rescued a 77-year-old US national who was found in a bedridden condition in a hotel at Kovalam. The man, identified as Irvix Fox of Pennsylvania, was found in a poor state of health with bed sores. Reportedly, ants were found crawling on the bed. Mr. Fox had arrived in Kovalam over a year ago. He had sustained an injury to his leg from a fall. No follow-up Although he initially sought treatment for it, he had not followed it up. Staying at a hotel near the Kovalam Light House beach, he was in a poor state of health for months before the Kovalam police became aware of his condition through a tip-off. Palliative care Following the police intervention, he was provided palliative care on Monday. The Kovalam police said the patient has been hospitalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/us-national-found-bedridden-in-kovalam/article37637644.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested for possessing illegal spirit||Excise officials in the district arrested two men with five litres of arrack, 100 litres of wash and distilling equipment on Monday. The men, hailing from Peyad, were identified as Rajesh, 43, and Shijin, 41. Team A team of officers led by Neyyatinkara Excise Inspector Ajeesh and Preventive Officer Shaju led the arrests. The accused were produced in Court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-for-possessing-illegal-spirit/article37637654.ece
23 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Office-bearers elected||S. Haneefa Ravuthar has been elected president and Jayachandran Kallingal, general secretary of the Bharanaparishkara Vedi. Other office bearers were also elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/office-bearers-elected/article37637655.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PG Reference Library inaugurated||Researchers will be given access to the well-stocked, personal library of P. Govinda Pillai, the Marxist scholar and CPI(M) veteran who passed away in 2012. The personal collection of PG—as he was popularly known—maintained at his Perunthanni residence here boasts over 17,000 books. CPI(M) Politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan formally inaugurated the PG Reference Library at the Mulackal House, Perunthanni. Monday, November 22, marked the ninth death anniversary of P. Govinda Pillai. The PG Samskrithi Kendram that functions under the CPI(M) Thiruvananthapuram district committee suggested the idea of the reference library and his family had handed over the collection to it. The Samskrithi Kendram officials said that although the formal inauguration was held on Monday, the date of opening the reference library to the public would be announced in due course. Mr. Balakrishnan said on Monday that developing Kerala as a ‘knowledge society’ was an important priority for the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF government. Path shown by PG The path shown by P. Govinda Pillai would help the State to achieve this target, he said. CPI(M) district secretary and PG Samskrithi Kendram executive director Anavoor Nagappan presided. PG’s son and senior journalist M. G. Radhakrishnan, daughter R. Parvathi Devi (PSC member), son-in-law and Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty, Kadakampally Surendran MLA, former Speaker M. Vijayakumar, Navakeralam Mission-2 coordinator T.N. Seema, and PG Samskrithi Kendram secretary K. C. Vikaraman were present.  The inauguration of the reference library coincides with the ninth death anniversary of the Marxist veteran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pg-reference-library-inaugurated-in-capital/article37637416.ece
23 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||e-Health made sea change in healthcare delivery: CM||The e-Health project has helped the State change the way healthcare services are delivered, right from primary health centres till medical college hospitals, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The queue management system, online appointment booking system, and telemedicine consultation services can effectively reduce crowding at hospitals, making the functioning of hospitals more efficient and patient-friendly, he added. He was inaugurating the extension of the e-Health project to more hospitals across the State here on Monday. e-Health, envisaged with the aim of developing an electronic demographic database, electronic health records (EHRs) of a population, and end-to-end automation of all government hospitals to ease hospital processes and healthcare service delivery, is already operational in 300 public sector hospitals. The project is ready to be extended to 150 more hospitals, of which 50 hospitals went on board on Monday. These include 11 hospitals in Thiruvananthapuram, four each in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Kannur, five in Thrissur, and 11 hospitals each in Palakkad and Malappuram. 707 hospitals Mr. Vijayan said of the 1,284 government hospitals in the State, e-Health would be operational in 707 hospitals soon and the remaining would go on the digital platform in phases. He also inaugurated the setting up of a virtual IT cadre in all districts, by including all resource personnel with IT skills and those interested in involving in the project, to help hospitals get on the digital platform. This virtual IT cadre would also help the Government in the implementation of various e-governance projects in other departments. The Chief Minister also inaugurated three innovative “emerging technology projects” for the Health Department, developed by K-DISC, which include an automated retinal image quality assessment and feedback generation project; blood bag traceability and linked blood storage centres; and block chain-based vaccine coverage analysis system. Backbone Health Minister Veena George said e-Health would be the backbone of an ambitious project the Health Department was kicking off to create a population registry of non-communicable diseases in the State. She recalled the speed with which the COVID death reporting portal was developed by e-Health. The next aim was to make available a health indicators dashboard at the panchayat-level for all medical officers. Principal Secretary (Health) Rajan Khobraghade, State Project Director of e-Health Mohammed Y. Safirulla, member-secretary, K-DISC, P.V. Unnikrishnan, among others, were present at the function.  The hospitals that went on board include 11 in the capital, four each in Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Kannur, five in Thrissur, and 11 each in Palakkad and Malappuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-health-changed-healthcare-delivery-says-chief-minister/article37637415.ece
23 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KMML’s new magnesium recycling plant opened||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve on Monday laid the foundation stone for a new magnesium recycling plant at the Kerala Minerals and Metals’s (KMML) titanium sponge plant. The plant would be used to separate magnesium from magnesium chloride, a byproduct during the production of titanium sponge. The magnesium thus separated could be further used for the production of titanium sponge. The project is estimated to cost Rs. 20.38 crore. The Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) is completely funding the project. The Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory (DMRL) is providing technical support for the project. The KMML plant is the first titanium sponge manufacturing plant in the country. The titanium sponge manufactured from here is used in the defence and aviation sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmmls-new-magnesium-recycling-plant-opened/article37637509.ece
23 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||I.M. Vijayan stadium to be completed in six months||A comprehensive sports policy for the State will be formed in January, Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman has said. Discussions with sports personalities and sports universities has been progressing in this regard, he said. Speaking after visiting I.M. Vijayan Indoor stadium built at Lalur on Monday, Mr. Abdurahiman said around Rs. 1,000 cr was spent for the development of sports in the State during the previous LDF Government. “The sports complex at Lalur, including I.M. Vijayan Indoor stadium, will be ready in six months,” the Minister said. Facilities The work will be resumed after solving all the hurdles. Steps to remove garbage from the ground will be taken. An action plan, with the support of MLAs and other elected representatives, will be formed. Tender procedures are progressing to remove trees from the project area, he said. The sports complex, built at Rs. 58 crores, will have a synthetic turf, football ground, hockey stadium, tennis court, swimming pool and a gallery. It will be constructed with facilities to conduct international matches, the Minister said, adding that the sports medicine centre constructed at Kunnamkulam will start functioning in January. “With an objective of catching them young, sports knowledge will be made part of the curriculum for school students from the next academic year. The Government is planning to set up at least one playground in each panchayat. In the first phase, the project will be implemented in 100 panchayats,” the Minister said. More tournaments will be organised to groom more football players. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed with the All-India Football Federation for this, he said. The decision on renovation of the aquatic complex in Thrissur will be taken after detailed examination, the Minister said. He has asked the District Collector to take steps for opening the shooting range of the Kerala Police Academy for the public and sportspersons. There is also a plan to increase the number of tracks at the Thrissur Corporation stadium, he said.  The sports complex, built at Rs. 58 crores, will have facilities to conduct international matches||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/im-vijayan-stadium-to-be-completed-in-six-months/article37637438.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hardly anything goes right for this movie||Right from his first film, Jibu Jacob seemed to be on the lookout for that perfect balance between a family drama and a political commentary. Vellimoonga , his debut work, managed to hit the right spot many a time, in what was an enjoyable political satire, although the making style was still somewhat old school. Take the light-heartedness, humour, and engaging script out of that film, and you would be left with Ellam Sheriyakum , Jibu’s latest offering. Raising hopes of a political potboiler, the opening sequence is set on the night before the counting of votes of an important Assembly election. The party workers are all milling about at the house of K.C. Chacko (Siddique), who is projected to be the Chief Minister. That night, his daughter Ancy (Rajeesha Vijayan) elopes with Vineeth (Asif Ali), youth leader of the opposing Left party. Much of the film is set around three years after this event, when an intense wish swells up in Ancy as well as her mother to set things right within the family, although Chacko remains obstinate. Weaved around this is the political drama, which draws a lot from political events in recent years in Kerala. But, much of the political part of the story shows the lack of creativity on the part of the writers, who have chosen to retain many of the real world happenings as it is with slight changes, rather than using these sparingly. Not much effort has been taken in fleshing out the characters or the story. For that matter, there is not even a major conflict worth resolving in the film, or something which would keep the audience hooked. A reference to a much-discussed case of honour killing in the State is also thrown in, but it fails to create any impact, for the characters involved here appear on the screen a few minutes before the scene, leaving not even enough time for the viewers to register their presence. This time around, despite the huge doses of hope in the title, Jibu Jacob gets hardly anything right. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hardly-anything-goes-right-for-this-movie/article37637440.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Blatant violation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blatant-violation/article37637445.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Life on stage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/life-on-stage/article37637414.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Down the drain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/down-the-drain/article37637425.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traffic blocked||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-blocked/article37637511.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||World of words||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/world-of-words/article37637660.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering bravehearts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-bravehearts/article37637503.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Having a ball||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/having-a-ball/article37637609.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-business/article37637650.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a smoother ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-smoother-ride/article37637657.ece
23 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ryots bogged down by vagaries of weather||The Andhra Pradesh Rythu Coolie Sangham, Communist Party of India (M) and CITU as part of their three-day ‘rythu coolie rakshana padayatra’, visited the farms in Cherlapalli in Putlur mandal, Maddipalli and Madugupalli in Narpala mandal in Anantapur district to assess the extent of loss incurred by farmers due to lack of rains in August/September and excess rain in November. AP Rythu Sangham vice-president V. Rambhupal said that farmers at Cherlapalli had started drying sprouted onions on a cement road, in a bid to retrieve at least part of their produce. Tippeswamy and Prabhakara Reddy, farmers from the village, had a good crop of onion and were about to harvest it in the second week of November. But the recent unabated rain has dashed all their hopes. Now they were trying to save whatever little they can as their last-ditch effort. At Maddipalli, Laksminarsamma had grown coriander and onion with much difficulty and after taking Rs. 4.5 lakh loan, but now with everything washed out, she is hoping for a helping hand from the government, said CITU leader Chandrasekhar. Quality declines At Madugupalli, another farmer, Kondamma, has 4 acres of curry leaves growing, but there is none to buy her produce as the quality had come down due to the rain. Bengal gram has got washed out in 1,400 acres though the farmers had sown it twice after they lost the first time due to lack of rain, said former MLC Geyananad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ryots-bogged-down-by-vagaries-of-weather/article37637075.ece
23 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rulers must take well-thought-out decisions, says Justice Ramana||People are the kings in a democracy and the present-day rulers must honour and protect women, children, and the weak, imbibing the Indian cultural values inherited from ages, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said. He was addressing the 40th convocation of Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning (SSSIHL), a deemed-to-be-University, at Puttaparthi on Monday. When a person becomes a king, he is likely to inherit 14 bad qualities that he must avoid and question himself every day if he is on the path of righteousness before he embarks on taking administrative decisions, Justice Ramana said. Quoting from the Mahabharata, he said that at a time when Narada asked Dharmaraja about how a king should conduct himself, the latter said the king should rule in such a way that it is beneficial to the majority of people and he must not take decisions that are unthoughtful. “In the Ayodhya Kanda of the Ramayana, when a group of ‘Vartakas’ [businessmen] came to meet Lord Rama, he asked them if they were respecting and protecting the elders, women, children, and the weak,” Justice Ramana added. Protecting women, the mother tongue, and ‘Matrudesam’ (the native land) were messages given by Sri Sathya Sai Baba, he said. Those who run the government must take a leaf out of it, he opined. “Are you taking steps according to the needs of the people, Lord Rama asked, which is relevant even today,” the Chief Justice said. Earlier in the day, SSSIHL Vice-Chancellor C.B. Sanjeevi read out the achievements of the students and researchers from the institution and talked about how they had taken some patents of COVID-related innovations and some of the kits developed by them were recognised nationally. Chancellor K. Chakravarthi presented certificates of merit while Justice Ramana gave away the gold medals. He advised students to empower people in the society and establish global peace by protecting animals and the environment too. Justice Ramana was appreciative of the new inter-disciplinary research and development initiatives of the deemed-to-be-university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rulers-must-protect-women-the-weak-cji/article37637016.ece
23 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miraculous escape for 30 passengers in Hindupur||It was a miraculous escape for thirty passengers of a private bus which, while crossing a flooded causeway on Monday, was steered off the cement road under the force of the water from Kotturu tank in Hindupur. Onlookers helped passengers, all women and all employees at a garments manufacturing unit at Tumukunta, get back to safety. It was observed that many road users were driving through the floodwater on the causeway despite repeated warnings from district Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli and District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan. A college bus with students of the Srinivasa Ramanujan Institute of Technology too got stuck in the middle of the causeway at Bukkarayasamudram village two days back. A JCB Earthmover had to be brought to steer the bus back to safety. Following the incident, the district administration stationed police personnel on flooded roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/miraculous-escape-for-30-passengers-in-hindupur/article37637073.ece
23 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain lashes many areas of Bengaluru; houses flooded||As many as 27 districts in Karnataka have recorded “large excess” rains so far between November 1 and 21. Data by the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre (KSNDMC) shows that it was “excess” in three districts and “normal” in one. If there was a 27% deficit in 62 taluks in October, it dropped to 3% in November, with a shortfall noticed in only seven taluks. In October, 13 districts and 77 taluks recorded “large excess” rains with a departure of 73% from normal. However, the departure was 97% from normal from November 1 to 21. “Large excess” denotes departure from normal rainfall by 60% and above, while “excess” mean rainfall between 20% and 59% above normal. Massive crop losses The untimely rains in this period has caused extensive destruction across the State with crops in about 3,79,501 hectares destroyed and 658 houses completely damaged. However, the exact quantum of loss is still being estimated. Tumakuru bore the brunt of rain fury, recording maximum damage to crops on 1,05,119 hectares, followed by Chickballapur (56,128 hectares), Hassan (47,029 hectares), Kolar (48,333 hectares), and Ramanagaram (47,430 hectares). Horticulture crops on 30,114 hectares were destroyed with the maximum damage reported in Kolar (6,966 hectares), followed by Chikkamagaluru (6,492 hectares), Ballari (4,802 hectares), and Chickballapur (4,351 hectares). School buildings too have suffered damages in rain-affected districts with about 1,225 buildings destroyed. As many as 950 school buildings in Tumakuru district alone were destroyed, according to information from the KSNDMC. Houses destroyed In total, 658 houses were fully damaged and 8,495 partially damaged between November 1 and 21. About 227 were completely damaged in Bengaluru Urban followed by Haveri where 126 were fully damaged. The highest number of houses partially damaged was 1,942 in Haveri. Heavy rains caused damage to 2,203 km of road network in this period. The destruction of roads was widespread in Gadag where 889 km were destroyed while 295 km were wrecked in Davangere.  “Large excess” denotes departure from normal rainfall by 60% and above, while “excess” mean rainfall between 20% and 59% above normal.    RAIN FROM OCT 1 TO NOV 21  · South-interior Karnataka – 181 mm is normal rain but actual rain recorded was 443 mm - an increase of 145% · North-interior Karnataka – 130 mm is normal but actual rain was 138 mm, a rise by 7% · Malnad – 205 mm is normal rain but recorded was 433 mm rain, registering 111% increase · Coastal – 240 mm is normal rain but received was 523 mm, about 118% increase · Karnataka – 166 mm is normal rain but received was 307 mm, a jump by 85% · Chickballapur district recorded 500% more rains since the normal rain was 42 mm between November 1 to 21; same in the case of Tumakuru which saw 487% more rain though the normal rain was 36 mm in the same period · Chickballapur, Tumakuru, Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, and Uttara Kannada were the top five districts hit by untimely rains  Source – Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-lashes-many-areas-of-bengaluru-houses-flooded/article37637018.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMD predicts widespread rain in T.N. from Thursday||Parts of southern Tamil Nadu may receive heavy rain on Tuesday due to the presence of a cyclonic circulation, extending up to the State’s coast. As the system, now over the Bay of Bengal, moves closer, the intensity of rainfall is expected to increase over the State from Thursday. Chennai experienced a sharp spell of showers in several parts from the early hours of Monday. It led to waterlogging in areas like T. Nagar that were returning to normalcy after an intense rainspell early November. However, many automatic weather stations and rain gauges, including MRC Nagar, Taramani, MGR Nagar, West Tambaram, Avadi, Nungambakkam and Anna University in the city recorded only 2-3 cm of rainfall till 8.30 a.m. on Monday. Light rain continued over the city during the day too. According to the Meteorological Department’s bulletin at 8.30 p.m., a cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal persists. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over southwest Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. It is likely to move west northwestwards and cross Sri Lanka and south Tamil Nadu. A trough runs from the cyclonic circulation to the Tamil Nadu coast. This will sustain the wet weather and bring fairly widespread and moderate rainfall over the State till Friday. Officials said it was this system that pushed thunderclouds towards the city and triggered a sharp rainspell that lasted for a few hours on Monday. IMD has issued an orange alert for parts of the State from Thursday, as heavy to very heavy rain may occur over coastal districts, Puducherry and Karaikal. Officials said the prevailing weather system may bring thunderstorm, with heavy rain, at isolated places over Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Madurai and Ramanathapuram districts, on Tuesday and Wednesday. “Chennai too will get rainfall after Thursday. But its intensity will be clear only when the weather system moves closer. Thunderstorms are common during the northeast monsoon,” said N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai. Abundant rain this month has brought in ample inflow into the State’s tanks. Of the 14,138 tanks, nearly 6,822 have touched 100% capacity, as on Monday. The 90 reservoirs across Tamil Nadu together have a storage of 206.12 thousand million cubic feet of water, which is nearly 92% of their capacity, according to the Water Resources Department. Consistent rain has affected vegetables prices, which continue to escalate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/imd-predicts-widespread-rain-from-thursday/article37637161.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kamal Haasan tests positive for COVID-19||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said that he has tested positive for COVID-19 and that he has isolated himself at a hospital. Mr. Haasan said that he had a mild cough after he returned from his recent trip to Chicago. “Please remind yourself that the COVID-19 pandemic is not over yet and be careful,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wished Mr. Haasan a speedy recovery. In a social media post, Mr. Stalin said: “I wish him a speedy recovery from the COVID-19 infection to continue his work.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kamal-haasan-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article37637138.ece
23 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Relief work began on war-footing’||Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy on Monday said that the State government had launched the relief and rehabilitation measures in the rain-hit areas on a war-footing. He sought the local leaders and NGOs to join the relief works. The Minister made a whirlwind tour of the water-logged areas along the Neeva river in Chittoor Municipal Corporation limits, including the Lilly bridge at Santhapeta and Kailasapuram in the 40th division. Earlier in the day, the Minister inspected the rural roads and some tanks in Puthalapattu and Penumuru mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relief-work-began-on-war-footing/article37637579.ece
23 November 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jewellery worth Rs. 77.6 lakh seized, three arrested in West Godavari||The Gopalapuram police on Monday arrested three persons, wanted in several cases, and recovered 1,4 kg gold and 8.9 kg silver ornaments worth about Rs. 77.76 lakh from them. Addressing the media, West Godavari district Superintendent of Police (SP) Rahul Dev Sharma said the main accused, Shaik Azeez alias Nani, of Kajuluru village in East Godavari district, committed thefts in East and West Godavari, Visakhapatnam and Krishna districts, along with his accomplices, B. Gana Shiva Sai Yugandhar and K. Ravi. The SP said that Azeez, who reportedly poses as a financier and a cricketer, committed about 50 thefts in Attili, Nallajerla, Tadepalligudem, Pentapadu, Kovvur Rural, Koyyalagudem, Jangareddygudem, Undrajavaram, Eluru Three Town and other police stations. He was convicted for two years in a case in Bhimadole police station in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jewellery-worth-rs-776-lakh-seized-three-arrested/article37637578.ece
23 November 2021||GUDIVADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple attempts to end life||A couple allegedly attempted to end their lives by consuming pesticide in Gudivada on Monday. They were rushed to hospital from where they were referred to the Government General Hospital in Vijayawada. The condition of the duo is said to be stable. Family disputes were stated to be the reason behind the extreme step. An investigation is on, police said. Those battling depression or struggling with suicidal thoughts are urged to dial 100 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-attempts-to-end-life/article37637690.ece
23 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan orders immediate relief to flood victims||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed officials to ensure that an immediate aid consisting of 25 kg rice, 1 kg each of dal, cooking oil, onion and potato and Rs. 2,000 should be provided to each family affected by floods. During a video conference at the Secretariat on Monday, he asked the Collectors of the flood-hit districts to ensure that village and ward secretariat is considered as a unit and the services of volunteers should be utilised to extend support to each family. “Ensure that every family whose house was partially/completely damaged receives the compensation and better facilities are provided in relief camps,’’ he said. He said wide publicity should be given to ‘104’ helpline so that people could get help. Officials should respond immediately and a special officer should monitor the calls. Focus should be on sanitation, medical camps and restoration of roads, he said and asked the officials of Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration Departments to finalise tenders for permanent restoration works in the next four weeks. Provide a compensation of Rs. 95,100 and sanction a new house to those who lost their homes and Rs. 5,200 for partially damaged houses, he said. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to provide Rs. 25 lakh and one government job to the families of the constables in Nellore, a village secretariat employee and an RTC conductor, who died during rescue operations. Measures should be taken to prevent spread of diseases due to cattle carcasses. He wanted crop enumeration to start and seeds supplied at 80% subsidy. “A low pressure has re-emerged in the Bay of Bengal and is said to be heading south of Tamil Nadu. Officials should be on high alert and be prepared to face any situation,” he said. The government sanctioned an additional Rs. 10 crore each to Kurnool, Chittoor, Anantapur and YSR Kadapa districts for relief measures. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said there should be no delay in power restoration and asked the officials to relocate sub-stations and power supply systems to non-flood-prone areas. Orders had been issued to provide fodder to cattle and compensation for the death of livestock, he added. Measures should be taken on a permanent basis to plug the leaks in lakes, he said, adding an action plan should be made for construction of Annamayya and Pincha projects. Toll reaches 34 Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu told the Assembly that the death toll due to floods was 34 and another 10 people were missing. He said Rs. 5 lakh compensation was being given to the kin of the deceased. An aid of Rs. 30, 000 would be extended for dead cattle and Rs. 3,000 in case of sheep and goat. He said eight NDRF and eight SDRF teams along with two helicopters were used for rescue operations in 19 places. As many as 57,969 people were evacuated and kept in 294 relief camps. Crops were damaged in 8 lakh hectares as per preliminary investigations and loss enumeration would be done once floods receded, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-rain-toll-rises-to-34-jagan-announces-relief/article37637019.ece
23 November 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajampeta tragedy: ‘govt. negligence to be blamed’||Opposition leaders touring the flood-hit Kadapa district have blamed the official machinery’s indifference and negligence for the Rajampeta tragedy in which 15 passengers of two APSRTC buses drowned and many others went missing after the gates of Annamayya project breached on Friday. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Somu Veerraju, who toured the Annamayya project in Rajampeta constituency on Monday, expressed concern over the huge loss to lives and public property. Demanding immediate sanction of Rs. 5 lakh to every affected family, the BJP leader said: “We expect the Chief Minister to tour every affected village, not merely conduct an aerial survey.” The party’s national Secretary Y. Satya Kumar accused the district machinery of remaining apathetic, in spite of the IMD’s(India Meteorological Department) warning. “The district administration has not conducted any review of its reservoirs. The Pincha and Annamayya projects suffered even in the past. It is clear failure of the administration to take preventive measures,” he said. Former TDP Minister Kalava Srinivasulu blamed the CM’s maternal uncle and Kamalapuram MLA P. Ravindranath Reddy and his theatre on encroached land, for the flooding in Kadapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rajampeta-tragedy-govt-negligence-to-be-blamed/article37637077.ece
23 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||9.84 lakh tonne rice supplied to other States from district||The Food Corporation of India (FCI-Kakinada) has supplied 9.84 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of rice to South India, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, North-eastern States and West Bengal during the COVID-19 pandemic beginning from early 2020. The whopping 9.84 lakh MT of rice was supplied to the FCI by the rice millers of the East Godavari district under the FCI’s Custom Milled Rice (CMR) guideline, a mandate for the rice millers as per food security targets. Speaking to The Hindu , FCI Kakinada Divisional Manager V. Suveen Kumar has said that the 9.84 lakh MT of rice was produced in East Godavari district alone and has been distributed across the country including the Andaman and Nicobar Islands during the pandemic. “The rice has been supplied in the four spells for the distribution to families below poverty line under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PM-GKP). The PM-GKP guarantees free distribution of five kg of rice for the Below Poverty Line families to tackle the food security during the pandemic,” Mr. Suveen Kumar said. FCI Kakinada division has a storage space of 2.12 lakh MT in East Godavari district. The storage space is being spared for rice. In East Godavari, the total extent of land under paddy in the Kharif is above 2.25 lakh hectares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/984-lakh-tonne-rice-supplied-to-other-states-from-district/article37637630.ece
23 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provide mosquito nets to welfare hostels in Rampa Agency, officials told||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Rampachodavaram) Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya on Monday directed the officials concerned to provide mosquito nets to the hostels to prevent the spread of waterborne diseases. In a review meeting with health, tribal welfare, and other officials, Mr. Praveen Adithya has directed them to submit a report on the utilisation of the 3.79 lakh mosquito nets which were supplied by the ITDA in the Agency. Medical tests “All the hostels should equip with mosquito nets to prevent the spread of waterborne diseases. The health staff should conduct the medical tests in the habitations that report the seasonal diseases,” said Mr. Praveen Adithya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-mosquito-nets-to-welfare-hostels-in-rampa-agency-officials-told/article37637631.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adoption row: samples sent for DNA test||The Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (KSCCW) has valid registration to function as a specialised adoption agency till 2022, according to its general secretary J.S. Shiju Khan. The registration, issued under Section 41 of the Juvenile Justice Act 2015, comes with a five-year validity. The State Government had issued the council a registration on December 20, 2017, said Mr. Khan in a statement. Since 1960 The council deplored, what it termed, the attempts to show it in poor light. The agency, which has been functioning in the field of child welfare since 1960, took care of orphaned and abandoned children on directions from the Child Welfare Committee, said Mr. Khan in a statement. Meanwhile, the blood samples of the baby boy, who is entangled in the adoption controversy, and Anupama S. Chandran and S. Ajith Kumar, who claim to be his parents, were collected on Monday for DNA tests. Experts from the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram, collected the blood sample of the baby, who is in a child-care facility in the capital, on Monday morning. The couple gave their samples at the centre in the afternoon. The DNA tests are being conducted to determine the biological parents of the baby as demanded by the couple. Incidentally, an earlier DNA test conducted on another baby, who was also born on the day of Ms. Chandran delivering the baby, had turned negative. The test to establish the biological parentage is crucial for the mother to assert her claim to get the baby back. She had alleged that the child was given in adoption against her will. It was on Sunday night that the baby was brought to Kerala from the custody of a couple in Andhra Pradesh under whose foster care the child was. The Family Court, Thiruvananthapuram, will consider the petitions of Ms. Chandran and the Department of Women and Child Development in the adoption case on November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adoption-row-samples-sent-for-dna-test/article37637022.ece
23 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC should come up at Kurnool, says activist||The decision of the State government to repeal the three capitals law should have no bearing on the proposed establishment of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Kurnool as the two issues are mutually exclusive, said Bojja Dasaratharami Reddy, president of the Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samithi, on Monday. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who spoke extensively in the Assembly on the need to honour the Sribagh Agreement, must go to Delhi and secure a presidential order in order to have the Andhra Pradesh High Court established in Kurnool as it has no link to the Andhra Pradesh Decentralization and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act and the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Act,” Mr. Dasaratharami Reddy said. While the CRDA Act was passed in July 2016, the presidential notification for the setting up of the High Court was given on January 1, 2019 and the High Court Chief Justice had pointed out during a recent hearing of a three capitals case that setting up of the High Court was not linked to that case, Mr. Dasaratharami Reddy said, and asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to honour its Kurnool Declaration and work with the YSRCP to secure the presidential order. While welcoming the Chief Minister’s vision to develop all regions in the State on an equal footing, the RSSS president said that the Chief Minister must immediately write to the Centre on the setting up of the Krishna River Management Board Office in Kurnool instead of Visakhapatnam, which can be done without any link to the laws repealed now. Projects The third and the most important thing is to get all the ongoing projects on the Krishna — such as the Galeru Nagari, Telugu Ganga, Velugodu, Mutchimarri Lift, Siddhapuram, and the Gundurevula Project — notified as approved projects by submitting the DPRs within six months, as the notification issued by the Jal Shakti Ministry makes them unauthorised if water was not allocated and projects not approved, he said. For this too, the YSRCP government must work in tandem with the BJP leaders in the State to get legitimacy for the projects, failing which Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who is already objecting to water allocation for these projects, would get an upper hand in the courts to have these projects stopped, Mr. Dasaratharami Reddy observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-should-come-up-at-kurnool-says-activist/article37637076.ece
23 November 2021||Machilipatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Degree student arrested for 7-year-old’s kidnap||In a swift operation, the Krishna district police rescued a seven-year-old boy named R. Mahijanath, who was allegedly kidnapped by a degree student at Nagayalanka town, for a ransom of Rs. 1 lakh. Police heaved a sigh of relief after the boy was safely rescued within four hours. The boy was handed over to his distraught parents at the District Police Headquarters on Monday. A youth identified as Hemanth, hailing from Marripalem village of Nagayalanka mandal, was arrested for the kidnap. Hemanth is a second year graduation student and had suffered heavy financial losses after betting money on cricket matches, Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal said. Disclosing this to reporters here, the SP said that Hemanth kidnapped the boy from the latter’s residence on Sunday evening. The boy’s father R. Ratnagiri, a schoolteacher, immediately lodged a complaint with the police. “The kidnapper demanded a ransom of Rs. 1 lakh to release the boy and threatened to kill him if his demand was not met. The boy was in shock when he was rescued. There were no signs of abuse,” the SP said. “Police formed 20 teams, cordoned off all the roads leading to Nagayalanka and Avanigadda, and conducted vehicle checking. Based on technical evidence, police traced Hemanth to an isolated place,” said Mr. Siddharth. A team led by Avanigadda Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Md. Mehaboob Basha rescued the boy and took the kidnapper into custody. During questioning, the accused confessed to kidnapping the boy for ransom. The accused had taken a house on rent where he planned to detain the boy after kidnapping him, Mr. Basha said. Emotions ran high as the boy’s parents wept on reuniting with him. They thanked the police for rescuing their son within hours. The SP, DSP and Avanigadda CI B. Ravi Kumar and Nagayalanka SI K. Srinivas gave chocolates to the boy. Mr. Siddharth appreciated his team for cracking the case within a short span of time. An investigation is on to find out how the accused managed to kidnap the boy and cover his tracks, albeit for a short period, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/degree-student-arrested-for-7-year-olds-kidnap/article37637689.ece
23 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati farmers to continue stir||Notwithstanding the decision of the Andhra Pradesh government to drop the move of setting up three capitals, the farmers from Amaravati who are on the ‘maha padayatra’ said that they would continue their stir with the demand of retaining Amaravati as the sole capital of the State. “Our fight for justice will continue,” said the group of 157 farmers as their walkathon reached Konda Bitragunta on Monday. Referring to the decision of the YSRCP government, the farmers who began their 22nd day padayatra from Kavali on Monday, said the government intended to come up with a fresh piece of legislation on the issue. ‘Jai Amaravati’ slogans reverberated in the air as the padayatra meandered through the dusty lanes of villages in Kavali revenue division. “According to our information, the government is in no mood to give a patient ear to our pleas for developing a world-class capital at Amaravati, making best use of the land pooled for the purpose,” said Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti co-convenor G. Tirupati Rao. Taking inspiration from the farmers camping on the outskirts of New Delhi as part of their relentless struggle against the controversial farm laws, the farmers here also would continue the struggle on capital issue in different forms, he said. “We have reposed faith in the judiciary which alone can ensure justice to us,” said Mr. Tirupati Rao, while referring to the hearing of the case relating to capital issue in Andhra Pradesh High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-farmers-to-continue-stir/article37637589.ece
23 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||P. Shravanthi is Mayor of Nellore||P. Shravanthi, a corporator from the YSRCP, was unanimously elected as the Mayor of Nellore Municipal Corporation on Monday. Nellore Collector and Election Officer K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu declared her elected unopposed during the special council meeting held by Municipal Commissioner K. Dinesh Kumar. Following this, Roop Kumar Yadav and Md. Khalil Ahmed were elected Deputy Mayors. The YSRCP had bagged all the 54 divisions in the civic body, with the TDP drawing a blank. State Irrigation Minister Anil Kumar Yadav who attended the meeting along with Nellore Rural MLA Kottamreddy Sridhar Reddy, thanked the people for reposing faith in the leadership of the YSRCP and ensuring the victory of the party candidates from all the divisions. After the newly-elected corporators took oath, he suggested to them to hold council meetings every month and strive to resolve all civic issues to the satisfaction of the denizens. In Buchireddypalem, M. Supraja was unanimously elected as chairperson of the Nagara Panchayat and Kotamreddy Lalitha as Deputy Chairperson of the civic body, where the YSRCP won 18 wards, leaving two wards to the TDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/p-shravanthi-is-mayor-of-nellore/article37637581.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foreign hand behind ISRO frame-up?||The CBI on Monday stated before the Supreme Court that there may be a “larger conspiracy involving foreign powers” in the ISRO frame-up case, which stalled the technology to develop the cryogenic engine by decades. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravikumar issued notice to former police and Intelligence Bureau officials arraigned in the case, who were granted anticipatory bail by the Kerala High Court. The CBI has challenged the bail granted at the “threshold” of the investigation. Hearing on Nov. 29 Listing the case for hearing on November 29, the court, however, did not entertain a request for a stay of the High Court order. “Where is the question of stay when we have issued notice and is going to hear the case on November 29,” Justice Khanwilkar addressed Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, appearing for the CBI. “The frame-up led to the arrest of scientists. The technology for the cryogenic engine was deliberately stalled for at least two decades... May be a larger conspiracy involving foreign powers... Grant of anticipatory bail may harm the investigation,” Mr. Raju submitted. The High Court had granted anticipatory bail to P.S. Jayaprakash, Thampi S. Durga Dutt, Vijayan and R.B. Sreekumar. It had held that the accused “should not be made to face a similar situation of being forced to undergo the ignominy of being incarcerated in the prison for interrogation at this old age after their retirement for an incident that took place a quarter of the century ago.” The High Court had noted that there was no “indication or material, apart from the rhetoric that a foreign power has a hand in persuading the petitioners,” to implicate the ISRO scientists. It had said that there was “not even a scintilla of evidence regarding the petitioners being influenced by any foreign power so as to induce them to hatch a conspiracy to falsely implicate the scientists” with the intention to stall the activities of the ISRO regarding the development of cryogenic engine. Unless there were specific materials regarding their involvement, prima facie , it could not be said that the officials were acting against the interest of the country, the court had noted. The CBI had arraigned 18 people, including the petitioners, as accused in case after the Supreme Court-appointed Justice D.K. Jain Committee found fault with them for booking cases against the scientists. The committee also found that some of the accused were involved in deliberate leaking of information to the media to create a narrative implicating the scientists. These incidents and the consequent torture of the Nambi Narayanan and K. Chandrasekharan in police custody required a detailed investigation, the committee had indicated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foreign-powers-likely-part-of-isro-case/article37637032.ece
23 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 58,000 visit Sabarimala in six days||It may take a while for long queues and packed crowds to be back at Sabarimala, but the ongoing annual pilgrimage season at the Ayyappa temple has kicked off on a positive note for the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), which now counts on offsetting a portion of the economic loss suffered the previous season. As per board estimates, the number of pilgrims who visited the temple this season already crossed 58,000 in the first six days while the total income during the period stood around Rs. 4 crore. Of the total income received, revenue from the sale of offerings ( appam, aravana ) and the donation boxes stood around Rs. 1 crore while about Rs. 1.5 crore was generated through the auctioning of shops at Sannidhanam. Major improvement These numbers, though pale in comparison with the conventional estimates in the pre-pandemic days, still mark a major improvement over the scaled-down season last year. The overall income during that season, when the overall footfall had stood less than one lakh, had dropped sharply to Rs. 21 crore as against the Rs. 270 crore in 2019-20. Meanwhile, the board officials are expecting a further rise in revenue with the launching of an e-donation system. “The footfalls too are expected to rise with the improving pandemic situation and weather conditions, and arrangements are being made in this direction,” said V. Krishnakumara Varrier, TDB Executive Officer, Sabarimala. At the same time, the TDB has suffered a prospective loss of several crores on account of the near-zero demand for stalls in the pilgrimage zone. Of the 216 stalls available, only 77 have been auctioned off and that too at much lesser prices. The delay in auctioning off the stalls has affected the devotees who are left with fewer options for food and other necessary facilities. The board proposes to raise the number of daily slots for darshan to 50,000 from 30,000 in the later phase of the pilgrimage. “While the present situation warrants no hike in slots, those for special days like Mandala puja or Makaravilakku festival are in great demand,” said K. Ananthagopan, president, TDB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-58000-visit-sabarimala-in-six-days/article37637024.ece
23 November 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Procure paddy damaged in floods: CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State Secretary P. Madhu on Monday appealed to the State government to procure the entire paddy that was reportedly damaged due to floods in the Rayalaseema region. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Madhu demanded that the State government convene an all-party meet for the relief operations in Rayalaseema and other coastal areas. Mr. Madhu stated that groundnut and paddy crops have been damaged largely during the flood and scores of families have lost their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/procure-paddy-damaged-in-floods-cpim/article37637628.ece
23 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||UDF blames Kerala on no entry to Mullaperiyar||The purported decision of Tamil Nadu not to allow two United Democratic Front (UDF) MPs to visit the Mullaperiyar dam has triggered a controversy in Kerala. Opposition MPs N.K. Premachandran of the Revolutionary Socialist Party and Dean Kuriakose of the Congress had sought the permission of the dam authority to inspect the 126-year-old structure given its bearing on the safety of 40 lakh Keralites living downstream. However, the dam authorities denied them permission. At a people’s convention at Upputhara in Idukki for a new dam at Mullaperiyar, Mr. Premachandran said the authorities had turned the MPs back at the instance of the Kerala Government. “There seemed to be a tacit understanding between the authorities in Kerala and Tamil Nadu to deny us the visit,” he said. Interests sacrificed He accused the Government of sacrificing Kerala’s interests in the dam dispute. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s silence on the issue was jarring. By covertly allowing Tamil Nadu to fell trees and clear undergrowth to fortify the baby dam, Kerala jeopardised its case for a new barrier at the “seismically unstable” Mullaperiyar. The Government had scapegoated some officials for the decision. Moreover, Mr. Vijayan had lent legitimacy to Tamil Nadu’s argument against a new dam at Mullaperiyar. It also indirectly justified Tamil Nadu’s claim in the Supreme Court to keep the reservoir level at a “perilous” 152 ft. Mr. Premachandran said K.T. Thomas, a member of the Mullaperiyar high-level panel, owed the people an explanation. “Can he assure the public that the Mullaperiyar dam would endure safely for the next 999 years?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/udf-blames-kerala-on-no-entry-to-mullaperiyar/article37637025.ece
23 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to develop spl. application for devotees||The TTD is all set to develop a software application for the devotees who could not undertake a pilgrimage to the hill shrine between November 18 and 30 due to the rains, despite booking darshan tickets. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said the devotees can book darshan slots online using the number provided on the previous tickets and visit the temple on any date of their choice within the next six months. Even as the rains were unprecedented, the hill shrine remained unimpaired but for a few incidents. Of the 7,000 and odd cottages, only a few suites in a guest house had been damaged. “Both the ghat roads leading to the hill town have been opened,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-develop-spl-application-for-devotees/article37637590.ece
23 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Outflow increased as Rayalacheruvu fills to brim||With Rayalacheruvu having filled to its brim and breaches erupting to its bund at four points, irrigation officials on Monday increased the outflow over and above the inflow into the water body to avert a possible calamity. Special Officer P.S. Pradyumna on Sunday night visited the project along with the Collector M. Harinarayanan, local legislator Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy and Superintendent of Police Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, even as the team monitored the task of dumping sand bags to plug the breaches. As the inflow continued to be at 6,000 cusecs against the outflow of 3,000 cusecs, the officials decided to increase the outflow to 6,000 cusecs to bring down the pressure on the bund, considered a security chink. An official team from IIT Tirupati made a study and advised the irrigation team to increase the outflow on the Kuppam-Badur side. The district officials immediately evacuated the villages on this side to facilitate the heavy flow of water. Minister for Panchayat Raj Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, who inspected the spot on Monday, said as many as 30,000 sand bags would be dumped against the bund to bring the situation under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/outflow-increased-as-rayalacheruvu-fills-to-brim/article37637080.ece
23 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati limping back to normalcy||Tirupati is witnessing a semblance of normality after the havoc wreaked on it by a series of flash floods. Though the low-lying areas continue to remain inundated in knee deep water, work is under way in most parts of the city to clear the sludge and debris left behind by the gushing water. While volunteers are rising to the occasion to provide free meals, essentials and clothes to the people rendered homeless by the inundation, leaders of Opposition parties too have begun relief work. TDP workers, under the aegis of NTR Trust, distributed food packets among the residents of Auto Nagar and Gollavanigunta. Former MLA M. Sugunamma, former TUDA Chairman G. Narasimha Yadav and youth wing leaders, who led the programme, demanded that the State estimate the flood-related losses. CPI continued its feeding the poor programme for the fourth day, reaching out to 500 families, while its district unit demanded sanction of Rs. 10,000 and 25 kg of rice to every affected household. Socialist Unity Centre of India (communist), in a media release, demanded relief and rehabilitation measures in flood hit areas. State Secretary B.S. Amarnath said the loss to lives of humans and animals, standing crops and property should be estimated in a humane manner. Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) campus has been declared safe, in spite of the continuous flow of water from the adjoining Thummalagunta area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-limping-back-to-normalcy/article37637078.ece
23 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati a mythical capital that cannot be built: Buggana||Amaravati is a mythical capital which former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu dreamt of constructing at an enormous cost, by ignoring lessons of the past to not pour all resources into a single megacity, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said on Monday. “It was with a view to ensure balanced development of all regions in the State that the YSRCP government had introduced the concept of three capitals, and to prevent the capital city of Amaravati from sucking all the resources to the benefit of a few,” the Minister asserted. “The Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of all Regions Repeal Bill, 2021 was intended to address all concerns raised by the stakeholders,” Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said. The Minister alleged that the TDP government had not even tabled the Sivaramakrishnan Committee report in the Assembly, with Mr. Naidu instead constituting a panel comprising Ministers who only had business interests in Amaravati. Both the Sivaramakrishnan and Srikrishna Committees had advised against concentrating wealth in a particular region. Erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh was the only State where all Central government institutions such as BHEL, ECIL and HAL were set up in the capital city of Hyderabad, whereas States like Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha had established such institutions of national importance in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities such as Tiruchirapalli (T.N.), Haridwar/Rishikesh (erstwhile Uttar Pradesh) and Koraput (Odisha), thereby giving a fillip to development of the backward regions in the respective States. The Minister termed it ridiculous that Mr. Naidu had ambitious plans of building a capital city from scratch in a vast area extending over 7,500 sq km, whereas India’s financial capital of Mumbai was itself spread over 4,300 sq km. “Keeping these things in view, the YSRCP government had constituted several expert committees, and based on their recommendations, had arrived at the conclusion that the State should have three capitals to cater to sub-regional aspirations,” Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-a-mythical-capital-that-cannot-be-built-buggana/article37637586.ece
23 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘City eyeing top Swachh ranking next year’||Vijayawada Mayor Rayana Bhagyalakshmi and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh have said that the city aims for a higher Swachh Survekshan ranking in the coming year in line with the city’s successful journey in the Swachh rankings since 2017. They thanked the State government for the support and lauded the efforts of sanitation staff who risked their lives during the peak of COVID-19 pandemic and maintained sanitation in the city during the past year. Vijayawada, which was ranked 19th in Swachh Survekshan 2017, climbed to the fifth place in 2018. It fell to ninth place in 2019 and rose to fourth place last year. Mr. Venkatesh said that apart from being awarded as the third cleanest city in the country, Vijayawada was also given the tag of garbage-free city with a five-star rating. “We aim at a seven-star rating next year,” he said. “We are behind Indore which has been maintaining its first rank for the past five years, with only a minor difference in overall score. We will make all efforts to bag the top position next time. An initiative of selling treated sewage water to the thermal power station is being considered and a detailed project report is being prepared,” he added. Officials said that sanitation workers would be felicitated soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-eyeing-top-swachh-ranking-next-year/article37637694.ece
23 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two deaths, 127 more cases reported in State||The State reported two deaths due to COVID-19 and 127 infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. Only 18,777 samples were tested during the past day and their test positivity rate was 0.68%. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,428 and 20,71,371 respectively with a death rate of 0.70% and recovery rate of 99.20%. The number of recoveries increased to 20,54,737, including 184 recoveries in the past day. The total active cases stand at 2,206 and more than half of them were in East Godavari (424), Krishna (398) and Chittoor (346). Visakhapatnam (65), Anantapur (55), Kadapa (39), Vizianagaram (38) and Kurnool (10) together have only 10% of the State’s active cases. Guntur and Krishna reported one death each in the past day while Chittoor and Nellore reported 22 infections. They were followed by Guntur (18), East Godavari (15), Krishna (15), Visakhapatnam (15), West Godavari (8), Anantapur (5), Srikakulam (3), Kurnool (2), Prakasam (1) and Vizianagaram (1). Kadapa reported no infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-deaths-127-more-cases-reported-in-state/article37637585.ece
23 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Withdraw cases against protesters’||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna, in a statement on Monday, demanded the State government must withdraw all the cases registered against the people who were protesting against the shifting of capital from Amaravati. “The development of the State has come to a standstill due to one mistake. The future is a big question. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should ensure all-round development of the State. He should convene an all-party meeting on decentralisation of development,” he said. CPI (M) State secretary P. Madhu requested the Chief Minister to put an end to the row over the capital. “The YSRCP government should take steps for development of backward regions. It should mount pressure on the Centre for a package on lines of the Bundelkhand package for development of backward regions. It should ensure that Special Category Status (SCS) was accorded to Andhra Pradesh,” he said. ‘Shift HC to Kurnool’ Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samiti president Bojja Dasaratha Rami Reddy said that the government should see that a notification was issued for shifting the High Court to Kurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-cases-against-protesters/article37637593.ece
23 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood: more buses, trains to Chennai cancelled||The South Central Railway (SCR) and the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) have cancelled many bus and train services to Tamil Nadu in view of the damage done to the railway tracks and several breaches developed on the National Highway during the recent rains. More trains bound to Nellore, Tirupati and Chennai were cancelled on Monday. Railway tracks the Nellore-Padugupadu section have been damaged. The officials were camping at Padugupadu and taking measures to repair the tracks. The platforms at the Vijayawada railway station wore a deserted look on Monday, while passengers were seen enquiring at the helpdesk about the resumption of services. Some passengers cancelled their journeys in the wake of cancellation of trains towards Chennai. The APSRTC has partially cancelled services to Chennai due to damage of bridges on the national highway. Many bus services from Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Ongole and other depots have been suspended, the RTC officials said. APSRTC Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said that instructions had been issued to the officials to take all safety precautions while operating services in the rain-hit districts. “Road link has been cut off near Gudur and other places due to floods. We are running buses to Chennai depending on the need. Senior officers are monitoring the situation,” said APSRTC Executive Director (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy. Many software professionals, traders and students, who returned to Andhra Pradesh in the week-end got struck in their native towns as the train and bus services were cancelled. “I came to my native place Gudivada to for a week. But, the heavy rains and flash floods damaged the bridges, roads and tracks, forcing me to stay back. I am planning to return to my workplace by flight,” said Francis, an advocate. “On seeing the floods, damage of roads and the tragic scenes in television, my family members advised me to cancel my journey. As there are no bus and trains to Chennai, I got struck here,” said V. Pavan, a student from Tadepalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-buses-trains-to-chennai-cancelled-due-to-flood/article37637691.ece
23 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu to tour flood-hit areas from today||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu will undertake a two-day tour in the flood-hit areas in the State, beginning November 23 (Tuesday). Mr. Naidu presided over a strategy meeting with the TDP leaders on Monday in which political and other developments in the State were discussed and a plan was chalked out to reach out to the people. The TDP leaders accused the YSRCP government of failing to take up rescue and relief operations in the flood-hit areas. Quoting the official figures, they said at least 34 persons had died in rain-related incidents and ten more were missing. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy washed his hands of relief measures by conducting an aerial survey. Huge loss of life, crops and property was caused in the absence of prior warnings and committed efforts by the government. The RTGS system was also not properly used to rescue people and farmers,” the TDP leaders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-to-tour-flood-hit-areas-from-today/article37637591.ece
23 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Amaravati court cases will go on’||TDP MLC P. Ashok Babu on Monday said curtains would not come down on the Amaravati agitation because the government has withdrawn the three capitals’ decision and CRDA Repeal Acts in the Assembly. Mr. Ashok Babu said the hundreds of cases filed against the shifting of the capital would continue in court as long as the problems of the Amaravati farmers were not resolved, 2014, he said. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said in the Assembly that they were going to bring a comprehensive bill on decentralisation. He clearly indicated that his government was not going back on trifurcation of capitals. The CRDA Repeal Act was withdrawn because the government’s arguments in the High Court were losing ground,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-court-cases-will-go-on/article37637592.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Efforts on to promote tribal products in global markets: official||Ganga Pujari and Pangi Chilakamma of Pedabayalu mandal from Visakha Agency region, were all smiles, after they were handed over the merit certificate and a trophy by the Secretary of the Union Ministry of Tribal Welfare Anil Kumar Jha at a star hotel here on Monday. They were among the 80 adivasis selected from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Odisha, by the ministry for the entrepreneurship awards that were given on Monday. Speaking to The Hindu , the two adivasi women said that they had started the ‘adda’ leaf plate making unit, with funding under the Jana Dhan Vikas Kendra from the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), about four years ago. After a humble beginning, today they employ 18 adivasi women, who make a living from the unit. “We have 10 sewing machines and a hydraulic press for making the plates. All the women were trained and they are in a position to take care of their families,” said Ms. Ganga. “Though our husbands continue to cultivate the fields, we have started the unit and it was funded and assisted both by the State and the Union governments,” said Ms. Chilakamma. There are four such plate making units in Visakha Agency in Pedabayalu, G Madugula, Paderu and Munchingput. These apart there are units involved in the business such as organic turmeric, coffee and shikakai soap bars, pepper and rajma, said Mr. Jha. According to him, apart from funding the units promoted by the tribals, efforts are on the establish linkages so that their produces can be sold both in the national and international markets. Agencies such as Trifed and GCC are being roped in, said Mr. Jha. He also said that the funding can range from Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh, depending on the product and project report. The funding will be primarily made by the National Scheduled Tribes Finance and Development Corporation or banks and routed through the ITDAs. The loans will be sanctioned at much lower interest rate, which could be around 4% he said. The programme was organised as part of the ongoing Azadi ka Amrit Mahsotav celebrations. Earlier, a similar programme was held for the eastern sector in October at Kohima, where 53 tribal entrepreneurs were honoured. Yatinder Prasad, Joint Secretary, Union Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Asit Gopal, CMD, NSTFDC, Kantilal Dande, Secretary, Tribal Welfare Department, Andhra Pradesh, V. Chinna Veerabadrudu, Director, Tribal Welfare Department, E. Ravindra Babu, managing director, AP TRICOR, District Collector A. Mallikarjuna Rao and others were present. The adivasi entrepreneurs from the participating States showcased their products at an exhibition and tribal dancers enthralled the participants and officials with the traditional Dhimsa dance at the venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/efforts-on-to-promote-tribal-products-in-global-markets-says-official/article37637635.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||No constructive debate taking place in Assembly: Gorantla||For the past two-and-a-half years, the Assembly has become the platform for abusing the opposition and no constructive debate has taken place on any important issue, said Rajamahendravaram (Rural) MLA Gorantla Butchaiah Chowdary. He was addressing a press conference with MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and former party MLAs Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu and Palla Srinivasa Rao and other senior leaders, here on Monday. The voice of the Opposition is being muzzled and Speaker T. Sitaram is blatantly playing a partisan role, he alleged. He told the media that the ruling party had stooped so low that a few days ago they had even dragged the name of Ms. Bhuvaneswari, the wife of Mr. N. Chandrababu Naidu, into the political muck. The ruling party members indulged in the foulest character assassination of Ms. Bhuvaneswari, in a bid to divert the public attention from the damning facts coming to light regarding the brutal murder of Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, the paternal uncle of the Chief Minister, he said. “Mr. Y.S. Avinash Reddy is involved in the murder and the facts are now coming out with the CBI probe,” alleged Mr. Chowdary. “In fact, the Chief Minister himself was involved in the past in murder politics and faction politics,” he added. He recalled that Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy had initially remarked that Vivekananda Reddy had died of a heart attack. “It clearly shows the involvement of ruling party leaders,” he alleged. Mr. Chowdary also alleged that the ruling party was involved in a number of corrupt activities such as sand scam, ganja smuggling and several other scams. Selling liquor at high prices through government-run outlets is indeed a strange way of implementing prohibition in phases, he said. The present government had earned to the tune of Rs. 45,000 crore through liquor sales during the past two-and-a-half years. The liquor consumption has gone up and not down, contrary to the claim of the government, he alleged. He said that the strategy of the State government to put leaders of the Opposition under house detention during any protest is a questionable move. “If required we will approach the Supreme Court, as it infringes on the human rights,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-constructive-debate-taking-place-in-assembly-gorantla/article37637705.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Kirandul train with Vistadome coaches flagged off||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu flagged off the Visakhapatnam – Kirandul train, which was equipped with two new Vistadome (see-through glass coaches) and new Linke Hofmann Bosch (LHB) coaches, at the city railway station here on Monday. Earlier, addressing the gathering, the Vice-President went nostalgic recalling his arrival by train to the then ‘Waltair railway station’ in 1970, and joining the Andhra University Law College and his association with the City of Destiny, which laid the foundation for his entry into politics. The railway station and the city have developed a lot since then. While saying that he would not talk politics, the Vice-President expressed concern at the decline in the standards in the Legislatures and Parliament. “We are the largest democracy in the world. I am also the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha and am pained by the unruly scenes in the legislative bodies. Elected representatives should set an example for others through healthy debates,” he said. Mr. Venkaiah Naidu complimented Railway Minister Ashwini Vishnaw and the Railway Board for heeding his suggestion to give priority to Visakhapatnam for the upgradation of the train. Visakhapatnam was growing well in the areas of industrial development, education and tourism. The Central and the State governments should promote these areas. It was selected as a ‘Smart City’, has top-class institutions like IIM, IIPE and DSNLU and these have to be strengthened. The city was also emerging as a healthcare destination, he said. He called for further improvement of tourism at Araku and Borra Caves. The train passing through the tunnels and green valleys was an experience in itself to tourists, who would cherish it throughout their life. While describing Araku as “poor man’s Ooty”, in view of the comparatively low cost, he regretted that the peace in the tribal region was being disturbed by the ‘bullet’, hinting at the Maoist movement. He appealed to such elements to eschew the path of violence and join the mainstream of society. The Vice-President told the gathering the Kottavalasa-Kirandul line was a major source of revenue to Waltair Division and E Co R. Turning to the General Manager of East Coast Railway Archana Joshi, he told her that more revenue should be spent in the development of the region. He also promised to take the issue to the notice of the Railway Minister. He also commended the railways for rushing to the aid of passengers during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Divisional Railway Manager Anup Kumar Satpathy presented a vote of thanks. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari, and MPs M.V.V. Satyanarayana (Visakhapatnam) and B.V. Satyavathi (Anakapalle) were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-president-flags-off-vizag-kirandul-train-with-two-vistadome-coaches/article37637028.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP welcomes repeal of three-capital Act||The move to repeal the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, 2020, is laudable, even though wisdom has dawned on the government late, said Rajamahendravaram (Rural) MLA Gorantla Butchaiah Chowdary on Monday. “However, nothing can be taken for granted and we have to wait and watch the scene, as it unfolds,” he said. Former TDP MLA Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu said it should be viewed as “the victory of people and farmers”. “We are not against decentralisation and wish for development of all regions. But the capital should not be trifurcated ,” he said. Reacting to the Chief Minister’s statement in the Assembly that according to the plans of the former Chief Minister Rs. 1 lakh crore would be required for development of the capital at Amaravati , Mr. Chowdary questioned the Chief Minister as to what had happened to the debt of Rs. 3 lakh crore incurred by the government during the past two-and-half years. The Left party leaders said that the Chief Minister has left some ambiguity and it will be more clear in the coming days. “The Chief Minister has left a window for doubts, when he said that a fresh bill will be introduced. What will the contents of that bill, is to be seen,” said CPI leader J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy. CPI(M) leader Ch. Narasinga Rao said, “It appears that they had taken the decision, as they anticipate an adverse verdict in the court. It is better to repeal the Act than lose face in the court,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-welcomes-repeal-of-three-capital-act/article37637595.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Subhojanam’ completes 10 years at KGH||The ‘Subhojanam’ programme, which was launched by Hare Krishna Movement, Visakhapatnam, in association with Touch Stone Charities, at the King George Hospital (KGH) here, completed 10 years on Monday. Syama Prasad Pigilam, Vice-Chancellor of NTR University of Health Services, Vijayawada, P. Mythili, Superintendent of KGH, Syama Madhava Dasa of Hare Krishna Movement, Visakhapatnam, and Vijaya Sekhar, RMO, KGH, participated in the 10th anniversary meal distribution programme. Dr. Syama Prasad recalled that at the launch of Subhojanam 10 years ago, he was the Superintendent of KGH, and said it was his good fortune to serve the first-day meal on that day (November 21, 2011) and the 10th anniversary meal today. He appreciated the services of the Hare Krishna Movement towards poor patient attendants in the KGH, through its service of serving breakfast, lunch and dinner 365 days, a year. Dr. Mythili recalled the yeomen services of the organisation to poor patient attendants, particularly during the pandemic. The organisers said they had served meals to 30 lakhs patients at KGH and also at other hospitals in the State during the last 10 years. Hare Krishna Movement president Niskinchana Dasa appreciated donors for supporting the programme. Yadhuraja Dasao of Hare Krishna Movement said that interested donors can contact on the mobile no. 8184887108.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subhojanam-completes-10-years-at-kgh/article37637700.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Self-motivation helps achieve goals’||Chairman of AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) K. Hemachandra Reddy has underlined the importance of self-motivation for any individual to achieve his/her goals. He was speaking, through the virtual mode, at a Short Term Training Programme (STPP) on “Mastering Self-Motivation and Attitude – Art of Living”, organised by the Electrical Engineering Department of AU College of Engineering (AUCE), here on Monday. AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/self-motivation-helps-achieve-goals/article37637702.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||City skaters win a gold, two silver medals||M. Pranavi and N. Mokshagnya Narayana of Visakhapatnam won a gold and two silver medals in the under-7 to 9 years category of the 33rd Andhra Pradesh Inter-district roller skating artistic championship at Shivaji Park, on Monday. By virtue of this performance, the duo made it to the nationals to be held soon. Pranavi and Mokshagnya, coached by Chitti Babu and P. Satyanarayana of Club Shivaji Park Skating Association, won a gold in show group events and a silver each in the pair skating and pair dance event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-skaters-win-a-gold-two-silver-medals/article37637707.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Classical singer felicitated||Classical singer Veeraganta Lalitha Chandrasekhar has been presented the title of ‘Gayatri Sangeeta Vidwanmani’ and was felicitated at a programme, after a music concert, organised by the Gayatri Mahila Sangeeta Sanmandali here recently. The award was presented to Ms. Lalitha by the former Commissioner of Endowments Y.V. Anuradha. Sanmandali founder president T. Suryakantham presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/classical-singer-felicitated/article37637699.ece
23 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tanikella Bharani selected for Lok Nayak Foundation award||Noted writer and actor Tanikella Bharani has been selected for the 18th Lok Nayak Foundation award, according to foundation chairman and AP Official Language Commission chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad. The award will be presented on January 18 on the occasion of the death anniversary of N.T. Rama Rao, said Dr. Lakshmi Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tanikella-bharani-selected-for-lok-nayak-foundation-award/article37637695.ece
23 November 2021||WARANGAL,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 held in fake job racket case in Warangal||Sleuths of the Warangal Police Commissioner’s Task Force busted a fake job racket and arrested three members of the gang of fraudsters that duped around 40 unemployed youths to the tune of Rs. 2.5 crore on the pretext of providing them jobs in the “Scouts/Guides Organisation (SGO),” police said.  Acting on credible information, the Task Force personnel along with Matwada police apprehended three members of the gang, including husband-wife duo, at Pocham Maidan in the city on Monday morning. The arrested were identified as Challa Vinay Pal Reddy, 37, his wife Anasuya, 36, of Hanamkonda, and L Naveen Saketh, 23, of Pashigadda Tanda in Jayashankar Bhupalapalli district. An amount of Rs. 21.70 lakh, two cars, fake ID cards, fake appointment letters, caps and belts, and two mobile phones were seized from their possession. The trio allegedly swindled huge amount of money from gullible unemployed youths in various parts of the State by posing themselves as the officials of a self-styled organisation floated by Raj K P Sinha of New Delhi, who is absconding, police added. They have as many as 34 cases registered against them at various police stations, including 19 in Warangal Police Commissionerate limits, nine in Mulugu district, two each in Karimnagar and Khammam police commissionerate limits, one each in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, and Kukatpally in Hyderabad. Police said Vinay and Anasuya were suspended from service while working as Village Revenue Officer (VRO) and outsourced employee respectively at Mallampalli in the erstwhile composite Warangal district for their alleged involvement in a forgery case in 2012. Later, the duo met Raj KP Sinha, a self-styled National Commissioner of the SGO, New Delhi, and in alleged connivance with him, collected huge amount of money from dozens of unemployed youths by promising them to provide jobs. The gang allegedly organised mock training programmes between August 2019 and August 2020 and also issued fake appointment letters to several unemployed youth as "District Organising Commissioners" in their self-proclaimed organisation.  When the unemployed youths reported at their “assigned places of posting”, the mandal-level authorities declared the appointment letters as fake ones. Shell-shocked by the deception, the victims approached the accused, who allegedly threatened them with dire consequences if they insist on return of their money. Warangal Police Commissioner Tarun Joshi appreciated the sleuths of the task force and Matwada police for busting the fake job racket.  Vinay and Anasuya were suspended from service while working as VRO and outsourced employee respectively. Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-held-in-fake-job-racket-case-in-warangal/article37637031.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bill on 3 capitals revoked||He observed that there were many misgivings on the concept of decentralisation due to the provocation of farmers by opposition parties, mainly the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), which created legal hurdles with ulterior motives. The TDP was to be blamed for the mess as it employed all methods to prevent the government from going ahead with three capitals , he stated. The Chief Minister pointed out that the cost of creating basic infrastructure (roads, electricity and drains) alone in Amaravati as per the TDP government’s estimates would cost Rs. 2 crore per acre amounting to Rs. 1 lakh crore for 50,000 acres. He wondered how a State that was saddled with a massive fiscal deficit and few resources could afford projects of such magnitude. Further, he alleged that the TDP government paid no heed to the recommendations of the Srikrishna and Sivaramakrishnan Committees both of which vouched for distributed development. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said he was not against the wishes of farmers in Amaravati but he would like them to appreciate the fact that development could not be concentrated here going by previous experiences. “This place is neither in Vijayawada nor Guntur and transforming it into a world class capital city would cost a fortune. The government has to think about the larger interests of the State,” he said, while insisting that Visakhapatnam could be shaped up into a vibrant executive capital that could compete with metro cities in about 10 years .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bill-on-3-capitals-revoked/article37637598.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dispelling darkness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dispelling-darkness/article37637709.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to D.N. Sinha||D.N. Sinha, a sportsman and chief patron of the Visakhapatnam Cricket Club, died on Saturday. He was an active member of the IBP Century Club and the Waltair Club. Several sportspersons recalled his services and contribution to the game of cricket and tennis, according to a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-dn-sinha/article37637701.ece
23 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Tiger pugmarks found in Yerraigudem forest||The pug marks of the elusive tiger were found around 3 km from Danda Gundala village located on the forest fringes of Yellandu mandal on Monday, prompting the forest officials to mount a collaborative effort with the Revenue and Panchayat Raj field staff to spread awareness among the local forest dwellers to take the prescribed safety precautions. Five teams of Forest department were deployed in Yerraigudem forest beat to keep a constant watch on the movement of the tiger through the camera traps and also conduct patrolling in the habitations situated in close proximity to the reserve forest, sources said. Meanwhile, villagers were told not to venture into the forests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tiger-pug-marks-found-in-yerraigudem-forest/article37637404.ece
23 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Maoist militia members nabbed||Seven Maoist militia members were nabbed by the police during a combing operation in Kunrapalli forest area in Charla mandal on Monday. Police sources said the militia members were apprehended while they were trying to put up wall posters related to the protests called by the CPI (Maoist) Bhadradri-Kothagudem-East Godavari Division Committee on November 24 against the Centre’s Operation Prahar-III. They belong to Ramachandrapuram and Yerrampadu villages in Charla mandal. Meanwhile, the police intensified joint combing operations with the CRPF personnel in the far-flung areas in Charla and Dummugudem mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maoist-militia-members-nabbed/article37637407.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Officials told to get cracking on TS Health Profile pilot||A deadline has been set for the launch of Telangana Health Profile on pilot basis in Mulugu and Rajanna-Sircilla district. Health Minister T. Harish Rao, who held a meeting with senior officials of the department on Monday, has instructed them to launch the project in the first week of December.   Health details, including blood pressure readings, sugar levels, weight, diseases, etc., of every person in the two districts would be collected for profiling. Aadhaar number and demographic details will also be gathered. Health teams will go door to door for the purpose. The officials informed Mr Harish Rao that the details collected will be used to assess risk to health, which will lead to detection of people at high risk. Thereafter, required medical services will be provided to them. Digital storage Health information of people who undergo tests would be stored in digital form in a cloud. The Minister said that steps have to be taken so that the health information can be assessed through the cloud storage when a person visits hospitals, or if someone who meets with an accident is in need of urgent medical attention. Mr Harish Rao said foolproof information will help understand if a health ailment or complication is being reported extensively in any part of the State, the kind of medical services needed in a region, and the requirement of medicines, specialist doctors and medical devices. Sharing Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s thoughts, he said that health programmes can be implemented efficiently based on information drawn through the Health Profile.  A committee comprising Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Vakati Karuna, Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to the Chief Minister T. Gangadhar and Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao would visit Mulugu and Rajanna-Sircilla. They will hold meetings with the respective collectors and District Medical and Health Officers as part of preparations for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-told-to-get-cracking-on-ts-health-profile-pilot/article37637367.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre will purchase every single grain of raw rice: Kishan||The Centre will purchase every single grain of raw rice being grown by Telangana farmers as per the agreement with the State government and is ready to buy in the forthcoming season itself, affirmed Union Minister for Tourism, Culture and Northeast States, G. Kishan Reddy, on Monday. "The Centre has not put any conditions to paddy procurement and will reimburse the cost to Telangana, but the real issue is vicious propaganda unleashed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his government to divert people's attention from the resounding defeat in the Huzurabad bypoll," he asserted. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Reddy accused the TRS government of “misusing official machinery, launching welfare schemes and releasing funds only for the constituency, besides distributing large sums of money to purchase voters and leaders to win the bypoll hook or crook.” "However, nothing worked with every section supporting us, including farmers and Dalits, despite Mr. Rao personally executing the campaign with mapping of village-wise voters sitting in Pragati Bhavan. He is unable to digest this historic defeat against his arrogant and dictatorial rule, hence he has resorted to a non-issue of blaming Centre for paddy procurement, thereby disrespecting people's mandate," he explained. It is the prime responsibility of the government to purchase paddy from farmers but it has inexplicably put farmers under stress by delaying the process resulting in crop getting wet in the recent rains. "Telangana farmers and other sections are aware of the reality because Centre has not issued any instructions against procurement or not to release funds. The TRS protest led by the Chief Minister was based on lies and falsehoods. It is only to save face for his party and belittle the bypoll result," he said. The Minister stated that farmers had nothing to do with boiled rice as it depends on the rice mill and technology used. "It is the issue of making use of alternate technology because there are no takers for boiled rice anywhere in the country, with Kerala have gained self-sufficiency. The government has agreed to put an end to this and discussions have been going on for the last three years," he maintained. While any compensation to Punjab farmers is welcome, he questioned the government for “ignoring” Telangana farmers and wondered why a budget surplus rich State does not recruit teachers, lecturers or does not release funds for many projects like MMTS Phase - 2, Centre supported upcoming hospitals in Warangal and Nizamabad, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-will-purchase-every-single-grain-of-raw-rice-kishan/article37637401.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Netaji museums on cards||Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy on Monday said the Centre has decided to convert into full-fledged museums the places where Netaji Subash Chandra Bose stayed in Kolkata, Manipur and Nagaland. Similarly, B.R. Ambedkar’s place of birth, places where he had studied and lived, including the house in London, will also get a facelift with Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled to announce new schemes for Dalits soon. Historical sites “It was decided that all the Union Ministers will visit Dr. Ambedkar’s birthplace and other sites of historical importance to hold various programmes and this will be telecast live and on social media for the entire country to watch,” he said at a press conference. Expressing happiness over the recognition accorded to Pochampally as one of the ‘Best Tourism Villages’ by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation, he explained that over 132 villages from across the country vied for the tag. The Ramappa Temple recognition by UNESCO also came in recently after he took over the Ministry, he pointed out. Special train Mr. Reddy said he pushed for the ‘Sri Rama circuit special train’ to touch Bhadrachalam Temple with the support of Mr. Modi although pilgrims had to take a bus from Kothagudem railway station for 14 km to reach it. The Railways was initially hesitant because of the bus journey. “The special train moves from Ayodhya to Hampi and non-stop to Delhi after a detour at Kothagudem,” the Union Minister added.  It was decided that all Union Ministers will visit Dr. Ambedkar’s birthplace and other sites of historical importance to hold various programmes and this will be telecast live. G. Kishan Reddy, Union Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/netaji-museums-on-cards/article37637372.ece
23 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR comes to rescue of two orphaned girls||A tweet to IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Monday brought about an instantaneous reply following which the administration swung into action to extend support to two young girls whose parents were electrocuted in Mahabubabad district on Friday. Tirupathamma (32) suffered an electric shock while she was spreading a wet towel on the clothesline made of GI wire, which accidentally came in contact with the live wire in their house at Gandampally village in Bayyaram mandal. Her husband Anaparthy Upender (32) tried to rescue her, which resulted in both being electrocuted. While Tirupathamma died on the spot, Upender passed away on the way to a nearby hospital leaving their two girls — aged eight and 10 years — orphaned. The couple were daily wagers. Responding to the tweet, Mr. Rao asked Mahabubabad Collector K. Shashanka and the Department of Women and Child Welfare to take care of the kids. He tweeted: “Request @WCDTelangana and @Collector_MBD to take care of these two children.” Mr. Shashanka replied: “The children have been visited by the Additional Collector and DWO. Have extended immediate help. We will continue to attend to the family, sir. While the officials of the Women and Child Welfare department said they we will reach out and do the needful.” Contacted for further details, the Collector said that DCPU team visited Gandampally to meet the family of the two girls, who would be given a Bala Sahaya kit immediately. He added that the team will seek admission for the girls in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya with hostel facility. “If they do not want a seat in the hostel, we will provide sponsorship of Rs. 4,000 per month for the two girls,” he said. Immediate financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 and 50 kg rice was also given to the two minor girls. They have also been assured financial assistance under Apathbandhu scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-comes-to-rescue-of-two-orphaned-girls/article37637375.ece
23 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||More complaints from RBL credit card customers||With more complaints of credit card transaction fraud coming in from RBL Bank customers, the Cybercrime police of Cyberabad Commissionerate are widening the probe suspecting the involvement of multiple gangs, apart from the already arrested gang. The investigators also suspect that two sisters of prime accused Deepak Chaudhary — Rajini Chaudhary and Komal Chaudhary — might have been running the ‘show’ from remote locations in the northern States, despite the arrest of 16 members of their gang. Sources associated with the investigation of the case said that more teams were sent to the National Capital to trace and arrest the two sisters and six others, including the suspected employee of RBL Bank who was feeding classified data to the accused gang.  He said that they have to verify whether the absconding members of Deepak’s gang are still running the call centres, or it was a separate gang or gangs. Further, the officer said that they are still clueless about the bank employee or employees who supplied the data of fresh credit cardholders to the fraudsters. “We could not track the insider. Even the bank is trying to help us to find who the culprit is as their data got breached and leaked in the grey market,” the officer said. Meanwhile, the police said that the fraudsters managed to secure thousands of SIM cards after affixing their photos with the Aadhaar, voter ID and PAN cards of the bank customers which they obtained from the ‘insider’. “They just affixed their photos on the identification cards and got SIM cards, and the ID number would be the same,” he said. To know more about the fraud, how they got the data and details of the people involved in it, they would have to take the key accused — Deepak and Vishak Kumar — into police custody for questioning, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-complaints-from-rbl-credit-card-customers/article37637384.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Travel in metro rail, win prizes||Travelling regularly in metro rail is not only cheaper, quicker, environment friendly and safe but could also win you white goods. Frequent rider Y. Rajashekar took home a 43-inch colour TV as first prize, Mounica and P.V. Srikanth got washing machines for second and third prizes while Rajashekhar Reddy and Sree Bindu won a microwave oven each in a draw of lots conducted by the L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) for those who had travelled more than 20 times last month. These are the winners of the monthly lucky draw offer under the ‘Metro Suvarna Offer 2021’ launched recently. L&TMRH CEO & MD K.V.B. Reddy and Hyderabad Metro Rail MD N.V.S. Reddy were present to hand over the prizes to the lucky winners at a function held inside the Ameerpet interchange station on Monday evening. Thanking the passengers for their patronage of the metro rail facility, the MDs stated that the daily passenger count has risen to 2.30 lakh a day indicating that ‘normalcy’ was returning, albeit gradually. L&TMRH chief operating officer Sudhir Chiplunkar congratulated the winners of the monthly lucky draw and reiterated that the Hyderabad Metro Rail was committed to providing every passenger a safe, reliable, and convenient travel option. Senior metro rail officials of both organisations were present. One of the winners, Ms. Mounica said she has been travelling from day one of the metro rail launch from Nizampet to Rasoolpura. In fact, a gold bracelet which she lost in transit was returned to her in 24 hours after it was found by a metro staff personnel. The offer Under the ‘Metro Suvarna Offer -2021’, passengers should travel 20 times or more using a metro smart card in a given month to be eligible for the offer, passengers must have a registered smart card mapped to mobile number in TSavaari App or at the station ticketing counter to avail the offer. Five lucky winners will be selected randomly from the eligibility list and will be contacted via their registered mobile number mapped to the Metro Smart Card||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/travel-in-metro-rail-win-prizes/article37637381.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS protests visits of GRMB teams to project sites||Telangana government has made it clear to the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) reiterating that it does not see any reason or necessity for the board to take over the management of any other project serving Telangana exclusively other than Peddavagu project. In a letter addressed to Chairman of the GRMB J. Chandrashekhar Iyer on Monday, Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation-General) of Telangana C. Muralidhar made Telangana’s stand clear on handing over the components of other than Peddavagu medium irrigation project stating that would not be prudent for participation in the preparatory handing over notes pending approval from the State government. Drawing Mr. Iyer’s attention to the proceedings of the eleventh special meeting of the board held on September 1 this year and the minutes communicated to the ENC’s office on September 9, Mr. Muralidhar mentioned that Telangana had requested in that meeting implementation of the notification in a phased manner by taking over few projects initially to establish the implementation procedures and protocols. Further, it was also brought to the Chairman’s notice during that meeting that handing/taking over of the projects during the period of water regulation would adversely affect the function of water regulation. In the second meeting of the GRMB sub-committee held on September 17 and 20 it was concluded that information pertaining to projects furnished by Member States would be examined by the river board secretariat for preparing the field notes. It was categorically stated in a letter on September 20 that cross-regulator on Kakatiya Canal of Sriramsgar Project near Geesukonda, cross-regulator on canal from Kondapochamma Sagar and cross-regulator towards Gandhamalla reservoir, both under Kaleshwaram project are serving exclusively Telangana and their drawals are monitored at canal head works and they need not be included in any of the Schedules of the gazette notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-protests-visits-of-grmb-teams-to-project-sites/article37637388.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Junior doctors threaten boycott||Representatives of the Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) have threatened to boycott duties from Friday demanding the revocation of GO 155 relating to in-service quota. Protests against the quota were held at major government medical colleges in the State on Monday. As per the quota, 20% of seats in post-graduate (PG) clinical broad specialities, 30% of seats in PG pre and para clinical specialities for degree and diploma courses are reserved for in-service candidates in government medical colleges. Students pursuing MBBS and PG courses are known as junior doctors while medical officers who work at Primary Health Centres (PHCs) are in-service candidates. Medical officers who work at PHCs for two years in tribal localities, or three years in rural localities are eligible for the in-service quota. The medical officers had earlier said that they got to know about the GO 155 through the prospectus issued by Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) on Friday. Counselling for the PG seats could begin soon. TJUDA representatives said that they oppose the in-service quota. Stating that NEET-PG is a competitive examination, they said that service points (weightage) are already given to in-service candidates, taking their ranks higher. “Providing special reservation quota to these candidates will lead to bias towards the regular candidates who strive for years to get PG seats in this competitive world,” said the junior doctors. Currently, 50% of the PG seats in the State are part of the national pool. Students from across the country are eligible to compete for the seats. With the new GO, some seats in the remaining 50% could go to the in-service candidates. “This further makes it tough for regular students to get a PG seat. Some of the aspirants invest two to three years to bag a seat. What would happen to them if they cannot get a seat in a speciality they want despite getting a good rank,” asked N. Karthik, general secretary of TJUDA-Gandhi Medical College unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/junior-doctors-threaten-boycott/article37637369.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress decides to contest MLC polls from LAC quota||Congress party has decided to enter the fray in the MLC elections from the Local Authorities Constituencies (LAC) for 12 vacancies. A decision to this effect was taken today by the senior party leaders. According to sources, the party has decided to contest at least four to five MLC seats although it is short of strength to wrest any of the dozen seats. It is understood that the party has cleared the names of Rayala Nageswara Rao, a senior Congress leader and former DCMS chairman of Khammam district and Ms. Nirmala Jagga Reddy, wife of Sangareddy MLA and TPCC working president Turpu Jayaprakash Reddy. Ms. Nirmala Reddy is the Sangareddy DCC chief at present. The two names have been sent to AICC for clearance. With regards to others, it is believed that the party wanted the TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud to take on Kalvakuntla Kavitha, former MLC and daughter of Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao in Nizamabad. Mr. Goud is said to be consulting his supporters before taking a final decision. Sources said the party does not want to concede the ground that will pave way for unanimous election of Ms. Kavitha. The party is said to be considering either Vem Vasudev Reddy or Batti Srinivas for Warangal LAC MLC seat while the name of a senior Congress leader Srinivas Reddy is doing the rounds for Nalgonda LAC seat. He is a close follower of Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy. In Mahabubnagar, an NRI Suhasan Reddy and another Congress leader from Devarakadra mandal, Satish Goud, are evincing interest to contest the polls. Similarly, in Ranga Reddy, the party sources said decided to back one Satyanarayana Reddy, who recently crossed over from the TRS to the Congress party. A senior TPCC functionary told The Hindu that senior leaders would be meeting at the residence of State unit chief A. Revanth Reddy tomorrow to take a call on the remaining aspirants. “As of now, we wish to field candidates in not more that five seats,” a senior leader said. Mr Revanth Reddy will issue B forms to the candidates tomorrow morning, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-decides-to-contest-mlc-polls-from-lac-quota/article37637393.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five-day Agronomy Congress at PJTSAU to begin today||The fifth International Agronomy Congress, jointly organised by the Indian Society of Agronomy (ISA), New Delhi, and Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU), will be inaugurated on Tuesday. The five-day event with ‘Agri-Innovations to Combat Food and Nutrition Challenges’ as the theme to be held at the State university campus, will chalk out new strategies to meet emerging challenges through agronomic research. Addressing presspersons on Monday, ISA president and PJTSAU vice-chancellor V. Praveen Rao said the symposium will deliberate on 13 concerns, with a local to international perspective, to come out with specific policy directions to the Central and State governments. Internationally acclaimed practitioners like Rattan Lal, the 2020 World Food Prize recipient, J.J. Volenec of American Society of Agronomy, P.V. Vara Prasad of Crop Science Society of America and Jacqueline d’Arros Hughes of ICRISAT, besides experts from Indian Council of Agricultural Research and various national and State institutes, will convene for a dialogue on state of affairs in innovation and challenges in the sector. Mr. Rao said sub-themes such as integrated farming, organic agriculture, secondary agriculture and farmers prosperity, and farmer-scientist interface, were included based on State-specific needs. It would witness physical participation of about 500 research scholars, scientists, industry experts and policy makers, besides 600 registered virtual participants from across the globe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/agronomy-congress-at-pjtsau-from-today/article37637365.ece
23 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Foreign currencies, gold, iPhones seized at airport||Two Sudanese women were apprehended by the sleuths of Central Industrial Security Force in the wee hours of Monday while trying to smuggle foreign currencies of various nations. Sources at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport said that at 1.30 a.m. on a profiling basis, the intelligence team suspected two women bound to fly to Khartoum via Sharjah by Air Arabia flight No. G9-459. Their flight was scheduled to take off at 4.25 a.m. “Upon physical check of their baggage, we found foreign currencies of various countries equivalent to Rs. 13 lakh, which were concealed in clothes of hand baggage,” sources said. Further, the apprehended currency and passengers along with their luggage were handed over to Customs officials for further investigation. Meanwhile, the Air Intelligence Unit of the Customs Department at RGIA detained a passenger who attempted to smuggle in 350 gms of foreign-origin gold. The accused passenger, who arrived from Dubai in IndiGo flight No. 6E-025 concealed three pieces of yellow metal in weighing machines. The seized gold is worth Rs. 17,46,500, officials said. In another case, the Customs officials on Sunday booked a passenger for trying to smuggle in nine Apple iPhones. The passenger, who arrived from Sharjah by Air Arabia flight No G9-458, was found smuggling nine iPhone 13 Pro valued at Rs. 8.37 lakh. The smartphones were concealed in hand baggages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gold-foreign-currencies-iphones-seized-at-airport/article37637382.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘BJP and Congress unleashing vicious campaign against TRS’||Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy has strongly objected the criticism being made by opposition BJP and Congress parties who said that the State government had neglected farmers who died in the last seven years. The Minister said that these allegations are baseless. “In the last three years as much as Rs. 3,384.95 crore was paid to families of farmers under Rytu Beema whereas a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each was paid to the families of 67,699 farmers. Telangana is the only state in the world which has been implementing Rytu Beema and Rytu Bandhu. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is pro-farmer and that was why scheme like Rytu Beema was introduced to come to the rescue of farmers,” said Mr Niranjan Reddy in a release here on Monday. “It’s shame on the part of opposition parties to criticise the Chief Minister who came forward to extend assistance to the families of farmers who lost their lives during the 13-month long agitation against the three farm laws. Is there any State ruled by either the BJP or the Congress where round the clock power is being supplied to farmers?” asked Mr Nirajan Reddy pointing out that Rythu Beema premium was paid to 35.64 lakh farmers in the State and about Rs. 60,000 crore is being spent on agriculture and allied activities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-and-congress-unleashing-vicious-campaign-against-trs/article37637395.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stone laid for Rs. 500-crore engineering plant||Critical components maker for global original equipment manufacturers in energy and aerospace industries Azad Engineering laid foundation on Monday for a greenfield, Rs. 500 crore plant and with it announced work on another facility may begin as early as next fiscal on the back of a growing order book from OEMs. Managing Director Rakesh Chopdar said the plant, for which the foundation was laid virtually by Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, will be third for the Hyderabad-based company and come up on 23.45 acres at Tunki Bollaram in Medchal Malkajgiri district. The first phase, involving construction of 30,000 sq meters, was likely to be ready by August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stone-laid-for-rs-500-crore-precision-engineering-plant/article37637371.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State adds 137 cases to COVID tally||Telangana has recorded 137 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the total to 6,74,692. Of the 31,514 samples put to test, results of 746 were awaited. Of the new infections, the highest of 54 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region followed by 15 from Karimnagar and 11 from Rangareddy. Nine districts recorded zero cases. Two more COVID patients died on the day. The death toll stands at 3,983.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-adds-137-cases-to-covid-tally/article37637370.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UoH facility gets Rs. 6.18-cr. DBT funding||The Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Ministry of Science and Technology, has sanctioned Rs. 6.18 crore for a period of four years (2021-25) for the project titled “Research and Service facilities for Plant Metabolomics and Proteomics”, Repository of Tomato Genomics Resources (RTGR), at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) on Monday. The unit was established in 2010 with DBT funding to conduct advanced scientific research in the frontier areas of genomics, proteomics, and metabolomics of tomato. R.P. Sharma and Y. Sreelakshmi associated with the Department of Plant Sciences in the School of Life Sciences at UoH are instrumental in leading multi-crore research projects funded by DBT to improve nutrition and shelf life of tomatoes. DBT has also recognised RTGR as the Centre of Excellence for ‘Genome Engineering in Tomato’. The centre has advanced instrumentations for conducting state-of-the-art research in proteomics and metabolomics. The research infrastructure is now accessible to universities and research institutes across the country through major funding from DBT-SAHAJ Infrastructure scheme. It will be providing service and training to UoH, academic institutions, industry, seed companies, etc., on a charge basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-facility-gets-rs-618-cr-dbt-funding/article37637374.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nalgonda youth killed in US road accident||Shekhar Mandali, a 28-year-old hospitality professional hailing from Theratigudem village of Gurrampode mandal in Nalgonda, was killed in a road accident in Ellicott City, Maryland, USA on Thursday. According to information reaching here on Monday, Shekhar was struck by a SUV when he was crossing the road on his way home from work around 6.30 p.m (GMT-5). He was pronounced dead at the Howard County General Hospital. Following the incident, friends of Shekhar have started raising funds for his funeral and as help for his agricultural family here. Venkateshwarlu, cousin of the deceased, said Telugu Association of North America was coordinating for transfer of the mortal remains to Nalgonda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-youth-killed-in-us-road-accident/article37637376.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ED attaches ex-EPFO official’s assets in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Monday attached assets of a retired Employment Provident Fund Organisation employee and his family members, worth Rs. 1.13 crore, in connection with fraudulent diversion of Rs. 1.64 cr. pensioners’ fund. Kondapalli Satyanarayana Rao, according to the ED’s release, diverted the said amounts into personal and bank accounts of relatives between 2011 and 2014, when he was a senior section supervisor at the Kadapa EPFO sub-regional office. And following first information report by CBI and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Hyderabad, the ED launched a money laundering investigation. As of Monday, a residential flat at Rs. 98.68 lakh and Rs. 12.64 lakh bank balance were attached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ed-attaches-ex-epfo-officials-assets-in-money-laundering-case/article37637377.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paddy procurement at a snail’s pace: VHR||Congress senior leader and former MP V. Hanumantha Rao alleged that paddy procurement is moving at a snail’s pace. Many farmers are waiting at drying platforms for days and weeks, he said. “There are hundreds of paddy mounds at each procurement centre and the procurement is very slow. At several places it has not yet started at all. Paddy is sprouting after getting soaked in rain water. The government is working for the benefit of millers, instead of farmers, and Ministers are least worried about farmers who were dying,” said Mr. Rao while speaking to reporters here on Monday, adding that the government is trying to paint all farmer deaths as natural. The Congress leader said that there is a need for all party leaders to work together. Party workers will not tolerate any disunity in the party, he said. While admitting that he has opposed the appointment of A. Revanth Reddy as TPCC president, he said that he is following party discipline after party president Sonia Gandhi issued the said orders. All India Congress Committee (AICC) Kisan Congress vice- president M. Kodanda Reddy alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has left for New Delhi for political necessities, instead to protecting the interests of farmers. “There was no response from the Centre even after Mr Chandrasekhar Rao held dharna on paddy procurement issue. He went there on his own to settle some political issues and we have our own doubts,” said Mr Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paddy-procurement-at-a-snails-pace-vhr/article37637397.ece
23 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New additional DG of IRIFM||An Indian Railway Accounts Service officer of 1988 batch, B. Singaiah took charge as the additional director general of Indian Railway Institute of Financial Management (IRIFM) at Secunderabad on Monday. He had earlier worked in various capacities with SCR and Southern Railway, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-additional-dg-of-irifm/article37637373.ece
23 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rs. 1crore unaccounted cash seized||Narsingi police on Monday evening seized unaccounted amount of Rs. 1 crore from the possession of three persons travelling in an SUV. “They were carrying the money to pay a hacker, ,” in-charge DCP (Madhapur zone) M Venkateswarlu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1crore-unaccounted-cash-seized/article37637389.ece
23 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||AP Guv RT-PCR’s results -ve||Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan’s RT-PCR test results were negative. AIG Hospital’s administration said on Monday that they negate active infection of SARS-COV-2. He was admitted in the hospital located on November 17. The Governor tested positive for COVID on November 15. “His clinical parameters, oxygen saturation, and vitals continue to be stable with markedly improved inflammatory markers. As the Governor is showing considerable signs of clinical recovery, we can expect an update on his discharge from the hospital soon,” stated the hospital’s administration on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-guv-rt-pcrs-results-ve/article37637391.ece
23 November 2021||Siddipet,TELANGANA||Police remove KCR statue in Siddipet||Tension prevailed for sometime at the district headquarters town on Sunday night when some TRS party activists installed the statue of Chief Minister and party president K. Chandrasekhar Rao at Lalkaman. The incident took place midnight. On coming to know of it, the police immediately rushed to the spot, removed it, and shifted it an undisclosed location. Leaders of both BJP and Congress held protest in the night itself, forcing the police to act. On Monday morning, they organised cleaning of area with milk. They also demanded that those responsible must be arrested immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-remove-kcr-statue-in-siddipet/article37637399.ece
23 November 2021||WARANGAL,TELANGANA||TRS MLC candidates file papers for LAC seats||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) fielded its incumbent MLC Pochampally Srinivas Reddy from the Warangal Local Authorities Constituency for the biennial election to the State Legislative Council slated to be held on December 10. Mr. Reddy, accompanied by Panchayat Raj Minister E. Dayakar Rao and Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod and others, filed his nomination papers at the Collectorate in Warangal on Monday. In Khammam, TRS State secretary Tata Madhu filed his nomination papers as the TRS candidate from the Khammam Local Authorities Constituency for the ensuing MLC election. Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar and other senior TRS leaders including several MLAs accompanied him. An independent candidate Kondapalli Srinivasa Rao also submitted his nomination papers from Khammam LAC on Monday. In Karimnagar, as many as 13 candidates filed their nomination papers from the Karimnagar LAC on Monday. Meanwhile, three more candidates, including Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha, former Minister L. Ramana and Mr. Kasireddy Narayan Reddy will file their nominations from Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Mahbunagar respectively on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-mlc-candidates-file-papers-for-lac-seats/article37637406.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Chasing the sunset||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chasing-the-sunset/article37637639.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Desolate times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/desolate-times/article37637409.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Correction||In the item - Bonhomie back as KCR, Jagan meet at function - published in these columns on Monday, it was erroneously mentioned that the bridegroom's father is a police officer. He is a former Revenue Divisional Officer and now OSD to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/correction/article37637402.ece
23 November 2021||Berhampur (Odisha),||6 juveniles escape from observation home in Odisha||Six juvenile inmates of an observation home here escaped early Monday morning after removing a window grille and scaling the wall, police said. Children having conflict with the law are usually produced in Juvenile Justice Boards (JJB) and subsequently sent to the State-run facility, an official said. “We have registered a case based on the report of the superintendent of the observation home and started an inquiry,” said Ram Kumar Murmu, Inspector in-Charge, Baidyanathpur police station. As per initial reports, the six minors ran away from the observation home in Ganjam district, functioning under the Berhampur Juvenile Justice Board, between 2 and 3 a.m., Mr. Murmu said. The boys might have used the railway track after escaping from the observation home, he said. The police have launched a search operation to nab the six boys. The escapees, aged between 17 to 18 years, belong to Ganjam (2), Koraput (2), and one each from Gajapati and Puri districts, said P.R. Rao, in-charge superintendent of the observation home. While one of the inmates was allegedly involved in a murder case, others were allegedly involved in theft cases, he said. All of them were lodged here for less than a year, Mr. Rao said. The home had 116 minor inmates at the time of the incident. All the inmates who escaped on Monday were lodged in the same room along with other juveniles. “We came to know about their escape after other inmates in the room informed the guards. They launched a search operation immediately, but in vain,” Mr. Rao said. At least 14 CCTV cameras which had been installed in different locations of the observation home to keep a tab on the activities of the inmates remained defunct for the last some months. “The cameras were not repaired as the mechanic was not available,” he said. Earlier, in May 2020, seven inmates had fled from the facility after assaulting the staff. While six of them had been re-arrested, one of them was yet to be traced.  We came to know about their escape after other inmates informed the guards P.R. RaoIn-charge of the home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/6-juveniles-escape-from-observation-home-in-odisha/article37637575.ece
23 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Mining plant: villagers in Odisha not allowed to air views at public hearing||A public hearing on Monday on grant of environmental clearance for a bauxite mining project in Odisha’s Koraput district evoked sharp reactions from activists who alleged that many people who would be affected were barred from airing their views. The State Pollution Control Board organised the hearing on the clearance to the Hindalco Industries Limited for the Maliparbat bauxite mine at Kankaramba under Pottangi block of Koraput. The mining lease area is spread over 268.110 ha of Aligaon, Kankaramba and Sorishpadar village under Pottangi tehsil. Police deployed Ahead of the hearing, the Koraput district administration had deployed 30 platoons of police and several officials with magisterial powers keeping in view the law and order issue. Villagers alleged that the venue was cordoned off and only those people who supported the project were allowed. The hearing was hurriedly wound up within one hour without providing people opposed to the project an opportunity, they charged. “The mining lease was granted to the Hindalco Industries in 2003. Environmental clearance was accorded to it despite the fact that the majority of the affected people had spoken against the project. Subsequently, the clearance and the lease period ended in 2013 while the industry could not undertake any real mining activities due to local resistance,” said Prafulla Samantra, winner of the Goldman Environmental Prize. “Now, the industry has got a fresh lease for 50 years for which the hearing is being held. People in 18 villages surrounding the Maliparbat are dependent on agriculture and are opposed to the project since 2003,” Mr. Samantra said. He pointed out that though 36 perennial streams flow down from the Maliparbat, which is the source of water for villagers for their agricultural and drinking purposes, the mining was thrust on them. Niranjan Kilo, a resident of Maliguda, said, “Villagers wanted to participate in the hearing and communicate their views. However, the police took women in their vans to unknown places and obstructed them from attending the meet.”  People in 18 villages surrounding the Maliparbat are dependent on agriculture and are opposed to the project since 2003 Prafulla Samantra Winner of the Goldman Environmental Prize||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mining-plant-villagers-in-odisha-not-allowed-to-air-views-at-public-hearing/article37637281.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Kamal tests positive||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday said that he has tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kamal-tests-positive/article37637279.ece
23 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Samajwadis slow off the blocks in poll race||A fawning biography of party president Akhilesh Yadav followed by the launch of a new Samajwadi perfume, described as “scent of socialism”, projected him as a progressive leader with a focus on development and youth. But ground reports suggest that, so far, the party has not been able to amplify the issues that the BJP had given it on a platter. The perfume, prepared in Kannauj, may have a mix of 22 fragrances, but the party is yet to arrive at an amalgamation of its alliance partners to take on the BJP that is feeling resurgent after the repeal of farm laws. Big announcements were expected on patriarch Mulayam Singh’s birthday on Monday but Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Singh didn’t even tweet birthday wishes to the three-time Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh who counts Chaudhary Charan Singh as his mentor. Uncle Shivpal Yadav, president of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (PSP) chose to celebrate Netaji’s (as the SP patron is popularly called) birthday in Saifai, the Yadavs’ traditional fiefdom. Mr. Yadav chose to cut the cake with Ram Gopal Yadav, his elder uncle, who shared a tumultuous relationship with Mr. Shivpal. It was only in the evening that Mr. Shivpal paid a visit to Netaji at his residence and wished him. Alliance delay More than the rallies, observers say, Samajwadis should be seen protesting on streets and Collectorates and making inroads into the non-Yadav OBCs, the strong point of the BJP. Instead, Mr. Yadav has come across as a leader who fuels vaccine hesitancy and brings back Muhammad Ali Jinnah to the political narrative to counter AIMIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi, who is making his presence felt in the region. SP’s proactive prospective alliance partners describe Mr. Yadav as a slow starter in a crucial election. A senior RLD leader, requesting anonymity, said by the time the SM chief started his Vijay Rath (Yatra), “RLD had covered two chapters of the election syllabus. We feel the farm laws are being repealed because of RLD’s groundwork and SP should respect this fact”. Sources said while RLD was asking for 60 seats in West U.P., SP was not ready to give more than 25. Things are not too different with Mr. Shivpal’s PSP either. Dr. Rakshpal Singh, vice president of PSP, said the party was keen on an alliance and even open to merger with the SP. “Though Shivpalji has developed the PSP network across the State, both parties have realised that they are not complete without each other. In the last 2-3 years, Akhilesh has missed the acumen of his uncle in running the organisation.” Sources said talks started with Mr. Shivpal asking for 75 seats, one in each district, but now things have come down on selecting winnable candidates in the PSP. “The PSP might not win many seats on its own but it can make SP lose in at least 40 seats,” he said, citing examples of Zila Panchayat polls. Observers say the delay in declaring the alliance will only increase the bargaining power of the prospective partners. Recalling the previous rule of Mr. Yadav, Rajendra Yadav, president of the Kisan Sangharsh Sangathan, said the SP regime was best remembered for the Dial 100 and ambulance service. “However, in a bid to change the image, the street fighter approach of the party seems to have taken a hit. Instead of promising free ration, he should talk about creating jobs, present his agenda for farmers and labour,” he said. Mirza Asmer Beg, professor of political science in AMU, said there is anger but there is a strong TINA (there is no alternative) factor as well. “There was clear mismanagement of COVID but SP can’t say much because its leadership was also missing from the ground. There is farm distress and inflation but the party has yet to come out with its manifesto. Local Muslim leaders are being pushed out of photo ops but remarks on Jinnah are being defended,” he said. ‘His intent is honest’ Dr. Sheeba Khalid, sociologist and author of I am Akhilesh , said Mr. Yadav had addressed the youth, professed an agenda for development, and sought to rise above the divisions of caste and religion. “His intent is honest and his keenness to work for the people should find resonance,” she said. With the PM revoking the farm laws, he has to find yet another aroma to keep what BJP calls ‘nationalist’ farmers in the fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/samajwadis-slow-off-the-blocks-in-poll-race/article37637278.ece
23 November 2021||Korba,||Four jumbos found unconscious, food poisoning suspected||Four elephants, including a calf, were found unconscious near a village in Chhattisgarh’s Surajpur district on Monday, with forest officials suspecting that they might have fallen sick due to food poisoning. However, two of the four jumbos got up after treatment by veterinarians and started moving, they added. “Residents informed about some elephants lying unconscious on the ground near Kachhiya village under Biharpur forest range, located around 100 kilometres from Surajpur district headquarters,” said BS Bhagat, Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) of Surajpur. “Of the four found at the spot, two started moving after treatment. A third pachyderm was trying to get up after being given an injection. The medical team is keeping an eye on the calf, which is also trying to get up, but personnel have not been able to go near it as it is surrounded by the herd,” he said. The prime facie cause seems to be food poisoning, he added. There are around 15-16 elephants in the area and, as per preliminary information, the herd had damaged some homes in the village on Sunday night, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-jumbos-found-unconscious-food-poisoning-suspected/article37637576.ece
23 November 2021||Mumbai,||NCP leader releases photos of Wankhede’s nikahnama||Continuing his series of allegations against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Monday released a photograph of Mr. Wankhede’s nikahnama and a photograph from the officer’s first marriage. In the nikahnama , a written document that two Muslim partners sign while entering into a marriage, Mr. Wankhede’s name has been mentioned as Sameer Dawood Wankhede. The NCP leader had been claiming for over a month that Mr. Wankhede had submitted a fake caste certificate to clear the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination and become an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer. “I will quit politics if my claims turn out to be false,” Mr. Malik had said. The Wankhede family denied the claim that the officer was a Muslim and his father, Dyandev, had converted to Islam as Dawood. Mr. Wankhede had said that his mother was a Muslim and she wanted him to perform Islamic rituals as well, even though his first marriage was done under the Special Marriage Act. “This is not about his religion. But submitting a fake caste certificate was an injustice against someone from the SC category,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ncp-leader-releases-photos-of-wankhedes-nikahnama/article37637498.ece
23 November 2021||Mumbai,||Nawab releases photograph of Wankhede’s nikahnama||Continuing his series of allegations against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede, Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Monday released a photograph of Mr. Wankhede’s nikahnama and a photograph from the officer’s first marriage. In the nikahnama , a written document that two Muslim partners sign while entering into a marriage, Mr. Wankhede’s name has been mentioned as Sameer Dawood Wankhede. The NCP leader had been claiming for over a month that Mr. Wankhede had submitted a fake caste certificate to clear the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination and become an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer. “I will quit politics if my claims turn out to be false,” Mr. Malik had said. The Wankhede family denied the claim that the officer was a Muslim and his father, Dyandev, had converted to Islam as Dawood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nawab-releases-photograph-of-wankhedes-nikahnama/article37637274.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||Dengue cases cross 7,000 mark in city||The Capital recorded 1,851 cases of dengue over the past week (till November 20), taking the current month’s total to 5,591 cases, a civic report said on Monday. The current season’s caseload stands at 7,128 and the toll at nine deaths — the highest since 2015 when the city recorded close to 16,000 cases of dengue and 60 deaths. North Delhi recorded the highest number of cases over the past week at 543, followed by south Delhi with 444 cases, while east Delhi recorded 221 cases. ‘Visible decline’ “There are more fresh cases and fewer backlog cases but there is a visible decline in the total number. Mosquito breeding has been reduced but people should be aware because the surviving mosquitoes can continue to breed within their residence due to temperatures being suitable indoors,” said a civic body official. Previously, officials from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s public health department said that hospitals in the city were reporting “backdated and repeated cases” after the Delhi Government’s decision to notify vector-borne diseases under the Epidemic Diseases Act. In the previous week (till November 13), Delhi recorded 2,569 cases of dengue. A majority of the cases for the current season were reported in November. The Capital recorded a total of 1,196 cases of dengue in October. In the current season, north Delhi reported a total of 2,116 cases, followed by south Delhi with 2,056 cases. East Delhi reported 739 cases, the lowest among the three municipal corporations. Apart from Delhi’s three municipal corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council reported 65 cases in the current season while Delhi Cantonment and other agencies reported 111 cases and 15 cases respectively. Untraced cases A total of 2,026 cases remain untraced after investigation this season, according to the civic report. “Cases have reduced by more than 50% at hospitals as compared to the previous two weeks when our beds were full. The number of patients has come down,” said a senior doctor at the city’s Ganga Ram Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dengue-cases-cross-7000-mark-in-city/article37637268.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||Spur-of-the-moment crimes cannot be prevented: police||Just like any other day, Vibha, 30, was at her grocery store on Som Bazar Road in Dwarka’s Dabri on October 3. Around 10 p.m., Dilip, 45, a plumber, bought cigarettes as he used to, and started smoking. When Vibha objected, and asked him to smoke elsewhere, Dilip, in a fit of rage, took out a saw from his toolbox and slit her throat in full public view. Vibha’s husband took her to a hospital where she was declared brought dead. The police said that Mr. Dilip, who was inebriated at the time, said that he had also borrowed money from Vibha, a mother of two children, and got irritated when she asked him to return it. “No incident over such a petty issue has ever occurred here. The woman and the accused had no enmity with each other or with anyone else,” a local shopkeeper said. Sudden provocation Vibha’s murder is among at least six such incidents that occurred as a result of sudden provocation over trivial matters in the Capital in October, the highest this year. According to police officials, such incidents cannot be prevented as they are spur-of-the-moment crimes where an accused, under sudden provocation over a matter, loses temper, grabs whatever weapon kept nearby, and stabs the victim to death without thinking twice. “In such crimes, our job is to catch the accused and invoke appropriate legal sections. But such incidents can only be averted at an individual level and various factors such as parental control and upbringing play a role,” DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary said. He said he does not think easy access to weapons leads to a rise in such crimes as not everyone possessing weapons takes such steps. “In Vibha’s case, the accused used a small saw to slit her throat, so we could not invoke the Arms Act as the weapon in that case needs to be more than nine inches long,” Mr. Chaudhary said. A senior police officer said proper education and a modern upbringing can only help stop such crimes from happening. “People need to introspect as there is a lot of rage in today’s masses. The police cannot be present everywhere and monitor petty quarrels; our part comes only after the spat has turned heinous,” the officer said. Road rage DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh  said in his district, a majority of such crimes occur due to road rage. “The condition of roads is bad and this often leads to traffic jams...people lose patience and take such sudden steps. Apart from screwdrivers, one can even grab a knife from a vegetable vendor nearby to use it in the attack,” he said. Most of such incidents in her  district, DCP (West) Urvija Goel said, have been quarrels between couples where a husband comes home drunk and picks up a fight with his wife over a trivial issue and ends up killing her with a vegetable knife. “It’s not possible to prevent such cases.” Mental status Special CP (Crime) Devesh Shrivastava said in rage crimes, the perpetrator can use anything as a weapon: from a hockey stick to a rod. “Such cases only reflect on the individuals and their mental status at that point of time. Though there has been a slight decrease in such incidents over the years, the figure should be smaller than it presently is,” Mr. Shrivastava said. He said that mental counselling should be provided to the accused while “a better atmosphere should be made available at home”. “Courts must also come down heavily on the accused so that a message goes across that one simply can’t get away with it,” the officer added. Psychiatrists said such behaviour is the result of a person being “disinhibited” and “desensitised”. “A person might have a holier-than-thou feeling about oneself but a dissatisfied and a frustrated self is a very vulnerable state. A person is bound to be provoked easily when his or her contentment levels are low,” Dr. Samir Parikh, psychiatrist at Fortis Healthcare, said. He said that such instances are also encouraged by the apathy of bystanders “which leads to the perpetrator having a free hand to commit the crime in cold blood”. Substance abuse Dr. Parikh said a lot of such incidents also happen around substance abuse. “A combination of factors such as lifestyle, constant rush, dissatisfaction, economic inequality and lack of happiness contribute to the rising anger. This is only going to increase in the coming years unless we work on mental wellness and reducing stress. You can’t have a policeman at every nook and corner and snooping on people who are fighting,” he said. Dr. Bhavuk Garg, associate professor of psychiatry, Lady Hardinge Medical College, said in such incidents, a person’s impulse makes him or her act suddenly without thinking about the consequences. “They can be addressed by regulating the external environment such as better traffic management in cases of road rage or providing therapy to individuals who tend to lose their cool easily,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/spur-of-the-moment-crimes-cannot-be-prevented-police/article37637265.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||Man arrested for stabbing woman to death with scissors||The Delhi police on Monday arrested a 26-year-old man for allegedly stabbing a woman to death in south-east Delhi’s Okhla after she refused to have sexual relations with him. The accused has been identified as Chand Alam and the deceased woman as Jharna. Chand allegedly stabbed Jharna in her neck with a pair of scissors that was kept in her bag as both of them used to sew clothes at the same factory in Pul Prahladpur. According to the police, in 2015, the accused started working at an export company at Pul Prahladpur where he befriended the victim in the same factory. Subsequently, they became friends and started spending time with each other. Soon, the woman started demanding money from him and he used to give her Rs. 6,000 every month. Quarrel over man However, in February, the accused came to know that Jharna had another friend Suraj. “A quarrel broke out between them over the issue and he stopped giving her money,” DCP (South-East) Esha Pandey said. Thereafter, in order to take revenge, he hatched a plan to kill her. On November 21, the accused met the woman at Badarpur bus stop and took her to an abandoned quarter near a railway track in Okhla. The accused forced her to have physical relations with her following which an argument started over the issue of friendship with Suraj. “The accused knew that Jharna carried a pair of scissors in her bag for tailoring purpose. The accused took it out from her bag and stabbed her,” the DCP said. He then covered her body with a plastic sheet, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-for-stabbing-woman-to-death-with-scissors/article37637270.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||Civic hospital doctors go on indefinite strike||Resident doctors of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital went on an indefinite strike from Monday over non-payment of salaries and dearness allowance (DA). Their salaries have been pending for the last two months and DA for five months. Tanuraj Tyagi, president of the hospital’s Resident Doctors’ Association, said they have withdrawn their services until their “salaries and pending DAs are paid”. “We will not help with emergency services and other duties. For the next three days, the Diplomate of National Board residents will handle the emergency services. We are not stopping the hospital from functioning. We have been deferring our strike since November 8 on account of the dengue situation, but we have received no assurance regarding our basic pay. We do not want patients to suffer,” said Dr. Tyagi. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the municipal staffers, doctors knew that the North body was unable to pay salaries as the AAP Government was withholding the funds.  (With inputs from   Jatin Anand)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civic-hospital-doctors-go-on-indefinite-strike/article37637273.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||Court frames charges against father-son for setting mosque on fire during riots||A Delhi court has framed charges against a father-son duo for allegedly damaging and setting on fire a mosque and several houses and shops in Khajuri Khas during the north-east Delhi riots last year. The court said that the accused can’t simply claim discharge in the case by stating that there was a delay in recording witnesses’ statements. It framed charges against two persons — Mithhan Singh and Jony Kumar. Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhat in a November 20 order said that eyewitness accounts given cannot be ignored at this stage merely for the reason that their statements had been recorded after a delay of one week from the date of the incident. The accused were allegedly part of a mob that raised “Jai Shree Ram” slogans and went on to damage the Fatima Masjid and other shops and houses in Khajuri Khas on February 25. An FIR was registered on the basis of a complaint from a person called Aamir Hussain whose house was among those damaged by the mob. The counsel for the accused argued that all the witnesses in the case are planted and their statements are also delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-frames-charges-against-father-son-for-setting-mosque-on-fire-during-riots/article37637269.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||V-C appointment: HC rejects application for early hearing||The Delhi High Court on Monday rejected an application seeking to hear and decide by December 3 a plea challenging the appointment of Jamia Millia Islamia University’s current Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Shakdher and Justice Talwant Singh said the plea challenging the appointment will be heard as and when it is listed. “There is nothing special in this matter,” the Bench said. The petition by M. Ehtesham-ul-Haque, an alumnus of Faculty of Law, JMI, has alleged that Ms. Akhtar’s appointment was invalid for the reasons that there was a violation of regulations issued by the University Grants Commission and the JMI Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/v-c-appointment-hc-rejects-application-for-early-hearing/article37637266.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP trying to sell properties at ‘throwaway’ prices: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday said the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to “run away” after selling 125 community centres and other Government properties at “throwaway” prices. AAP leader Saurabh Bharadwaj said, “The BJP is trying to sell every piece of property and every single thing that the corporation owns.” The civic body is auctioning 125 community centres, 37 physical centres and gyms, four sports complexes, 23 senior citizens’ recreation centres, one Mahila Haat and a working women’s hostel, he added. North body Leader of the House Yogesh Verma called AAP’s allegations “baseless”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-trying-to-sell-properties-at-throwaway-prices-aap/article37637271.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||No COVID death for 7th day||The city reported no new COVID-19-related deaths in 24 hours for the seventh consecutive day and the death toll stood at 25,095, as per the Delhi Government’s health bulletin on Monday. Twenty-six new cases were reported, taking the caseload to 14,40,692. So far, 14,15,300 people have recovered and there are 297 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-covid-death-for-7th-day/article37637272.ece
23 November 2021||Pune,||What Vinod Tawde’s elevation means for BJP in Maharashtra||Former Maharashtra Minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vinod Tawde’s elevation as general secretary has sent out numerous signals for the party’s Maharashtra unit. Mr. Tawde’s promotion comes after two years of wandering in the political wilderness after he was denied a ticket in the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly election. As State Education Minister in the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP Government, the former Borivali MLA had been conspicuously sidelined by Mr. Fadnavis, who perceived Mr. Tawde as one of the contenders for the Maharashtra Chief Minister’s post and his natural rival. Factionalism in party Mr. Fadnavis had also changed Mr. Tawde’s portfolios a number of times during the latter’s Cabinet tenure. But unlike other bitter rivals of Mr. Fadnavis, notably Eknath Khadse — who finally went over to Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) — or Pankaja Munde (daughter of the late BJP leader Gopinath Munde), Mr. Tawde has shown admirable restraint even after he was denied a ticket, desisting from voicing his objections against either his party or Mr. Fadnavis. “The Maharashtra BJP has always been divided into factions — one consisting of the camp of [Union Minister] Nitin Gadkari and the other comprising loyalists of the late Gopinath Munde. Mr. Tawde has been close to Mr. Gadkari,” says senior political analyst Vivek Bhavsar. According to him, ever since Mr. Fadnavis became Chief Minister in 2014, the latter’s objective has been to politically finish off all actual and perceived rivals, which in effect meant doing away with the representatives of both the Gadkari and Munde camps. “Mr. Fadnavis, ever a keen student of Prime Minister Modi’s methods, wanted to build his own coterie of loyalists by doing away with Mr. Khadse, Mr. Tawde and Ms. Munde among others. Mr. Tawde’s promotion means that Mr. Fadnavis will have to adopt a more ‘inclusive’ style of functioning in the future and stop intra-party politicking,” observes Mr. Bhavsar. The so-called ‘Fadnavis clique’ which consisted of Girish Mahajan and a host of ‘imported’ leaders like Ram Kadam (formerly Maharashtra Navnirman Sena) and Prasad Lad (formerly of the Nationalist Congress Party), sparked disgruntlement among party loyalists. “There is a strong undertow of resentment against Mr. Fadnavis owing to the fact that the indigenous BJP leaders have been repeatedly slighted in favour of party loyalists,” says another city-based analyst. This intra-party schism reached a helm when Mr. Khadse, Ms. Munde and other OBC leaders, who were either denied a ticket or suffered defeats in the 2019 Assembly election, blamed Mr. Fadnavis for engineering their defeats and chastised him for his ‘authoritarian style’ of running the Maharashtra BJP and eliminating his potential rivals in a Machiavellian fashion. In December 2019, Ms. Munde had staged a show of strength at Gopinathgadh in Beed district on the occasion of her father’s birth anniversary where Mr. Khadse and another OBC leader Prakash Mehta were present. Since then, there has been a reorganisation within the State BJP with the party high command ‘rehabilitating’ those leaders purged by Mr. Fadnavis. While both Mr. Tawde and Ms. Munde were made national secretaries last year, Chandrashekhar Bawankule — another OBC leader who was surprisingly dropped in 2019 — is the party’s candidate in the upcoming MLC elections. Dropping Mr. Bawankule, an important BJP leader in the Vidarbha region, had proved costly for the party as it lost no less than 12 seats in the 2019 Assembly poll and led to the Congress’ supremacy in the region. Rehabilitating leaders According to observers, Mr. Tawde’s elevation, seen in the context of rehabilitation of Mr. Fadnavis’ political rivals, signals that the latter’s candidacy for the Chief Minister’s post in the 2024 Assembly election is by no means certain nor is it to be taken for granted. It would be a mistake to think that Mr. Tawde’s new responsibilities would make him more active in national politics while leaving the path clear for Mr. Fadnavis in Maharashtra, says an experienced election watcher. Furthermore, as a prominent Maratha face in the BJP, Mr. Tawde’s elevation can only be advantageous for his party in Maharashtra where the Maratha community is dominant and where the Maratha reservation issue continues to vex the ruling tripartite ‘Maha Vikas Aghadi’ Government, opines Mr. Bhavsar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/what-vinod-tawdes-elevation-means-for-bjp-in-maharashtra/article37637284.ece
23 November 2021||Beijing,||China doesn’t seek hegemony, says Xi||Chinese leader Xi Jinping on Monday said his country will not seek dominance over Southeast Asia or bully its smaller neighbours, amid ongoing friction over the South China Sea. Mr. Xi made the remarks during a virtual conference with the members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN, held to mark the 30th anniversary of relations between China and the grouping. Two diplomats said ASEAN member Myanmar was not represented at Monday’s meeting after its military-installed Government refused to allow an ASEAN envoy to meet with ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi and other arrested politicians. Military ruler Gen. Min Aung Hlaing was also barred from representing his country at the last ASEAN summit. China has repeatedly sought to overcome concerns about its rising power and influence in the region, particularly its claim to virtually the entire South China Sea that overlaps the claims of ASEAN members Malaysia, Vietnam, Brunei and the Philippines. “China resolutely opposes hegemonism and power politics, wishes to maintain friendly relations with its neighbours and jointly nurture lasting peace in the region and absolutely will not seek hegemony or even less, bully the small,” Mr. Xi said, according to the official Xinhua News Agency. Mr. Xi’s remarks came days after Chinese coast guard ships blocked and sprayed a powerful stream of water at two Philippine boats carrying supplies to troops at a disputed South China Sea shoal and forced them to turn back. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte highlighted the incident in his remarks at the conference, referring to the shoal by its Philippine name. “We abhor the recent event in the Ayungin Shoal and view with grave concern other similar developments. This does not speak well of the relations between our nations and our partnership,” Mr. Duterte said, according to a statement from his office. Mr. Duterte also called on China to respect the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea which establishes maritime entitlements and sovereign rights over maritime zones, along with a 2016 Hague arbitration ruling that mostly invalidated China’s South China Sea claims. China has refused to recognize the ruling. “We must fully utilise these legal tools to ensure that the South China Sea remains a sea of peace, stability and prosperity,” Mr. Duterte said. On Monday, the Philippines redeployed the two supply boats to provide food to the marines based at Second Thomas Shoal aboard a Second World War-era warship which it deliberately ran aground in 1999 in a move to fortify the country’s claim. Chinese vessels have surrounded the shoal and demanded the Philippines tow away the ship, the BRP Sierra Madre . At a daily briefing on Monday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian reasserted China’s position rejecting the 2016 arbitration ruling and claiming that its “territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests in the South China Sea are backed by sufficient historical and legal basis.” “Any attempt to challenge China’s sovereignty and interests will not succeed,” Mr. Zhao said. “At present, the situation in relevant waters in the South China Sea are generally calm, and China and the Philippines are maintaining close communication.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-doesnt-seek-hegemony-says-xi/article37636840.ece
23 November 2021||Sydney,||Australia signs sub deal with U.S., U.K.||Australia formally embarked on Monday on a hotly contested programme to equip its Navy with nuclear-powered submarines in a new defence alliance with Britain and the United States. Defence Minister Peter Dutton joined U.S. and British diplomats in signing an agreement allowing the exchange of sensitive “naval nuclear propulsion information” between their nations. It is the first agreement on the technology to be publicly signed since the three countries announced in September the formation of a defence alliance, AUKUS, to confront strategic tensions in the Pacific where China-US rivalry is growing. “The deal will help Australia to complete an 18-month study into the submarine procurement,” Mr. Dutton said after signing it in Canberra with U.S. Charge d’Affaires Michael Goldman and British High Commissioner (ambassador) Victoria Treadell. Details of the procurement have yet to be decided, including whether Australia will opt for a vessel based on U.S. or British nuclear-powered attack submarines. “With access to the information this agreement delivers, coupled with the decades of naval nuclear-powered experience our U.K. and U.S. partners have, Australia will also be positioned to be responsible and reliable stewards of this technology,” Mr. Dutton said in a statement. Ahead of the signing, U.S. President Joe Biden said in a memorandum approving the deal on Friday that it would improve the three countries’ “mutual defence posture”. Under the AUKUS deal, Australia would obtain eight state-of-the-art, nuclear-powered but conventionally armed submarines capable of stealthy, long-range missions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/australia-signs-sub-deal-with-us-uk/article37636841.ece
23 November 2021||WAUKESHA,||Five dead after SUV ploughs into Christmas parade in U.S.||Investigators are looking into whether the SUV driver who plowed through a Christmas parade in suburban Milwaukee, killing at least five people and injuring more than 40, was fleeing a crime, a law enforcement official told The Associated Press. The joyous scene of marching bands and children dancing in Santa hats turned deadly in an instant on Sunday, giving way to screams and scenes of crumpled bodies as the SUV sped through barricades and struck dancers, musicians and others. Members of a “Dancing Grannies” club were among those killed. One person was taken into custody after a Waukesha police officer opened fire to try to stop the vehicle, authorities said. Investigators were questioning the person in custody about an earlier crime, which one of the officials described as an argument involving a knife. The official cautioned the investigation was still in the early stages. Waukesha Police Chief Dan Thompson gave no immediate details about the person or any possible motive. Mr. Thompson said that he did not know if the driver was hit by the officer’s bullets but that no bystanders were wounded. On its social media account, the city put the number of dead at at least five. The horror was recorded by the city’s livestream and onlookers’ cellphones. One video shows the moment the SUV broke through the barricades and includes the sound of what apparently were several gunshots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/five-dead-after-suv-ploughs-into-christmas-parade-in-us/article37636836.ece
23 November 2021||COLOMBO,||‘No change, it’s only green agriculture’||There is no change in Sri Lanka’s ‘green agriculture’ policy, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa said on Monday, after senior officials in his government pointed to the contrary. News agency AFP on Sunday reported media remarks made by Udith Jayasinghe, Secretary to the Agriculture Ministry that the government would immediately allow import of chemical fertilizer, effectively reversing its controversial decision in May 2021 banning it. Food security “We will now allow chemical inputs that are urgently needed... considering the need to ensure food security, we have taken this decision,” the secretary was quoted as saying. It was not just the bureaucrat who indicated a policy reversal, but also State Minister of Agriculture Shasheendra Rajapaksa, a nephew of the President, who told media that the restrictions on the use of chemical fertilizer would be lifted, except for paddy cultivation. Sri Lanka’s main Opposition party even hailed it as a victory for the farmers’ protests in the country. However, following a “special discussion” Monday morning with subject ministers and district officials, President Rajapaksa “stressed that the country’s agriculture policy is only for a green agriculture that focuses on the sole use of organic fertilizers”, a statement from the Presidential Media Division said. Subsidies would be provided only for organic farming, he said. Commenting on the farmer protests across the country, President Rajapaksa said: “the reason behind farmers organising protests and delaying cultivation was that they have not been properly educated.” Officials should work to find answers for the agitating farmers, in accordance with the government’s green agriculture policy, the President said, adding that officials who do not agree with government policy were free to leave, according to the statement released by his office. The Rajapaksa government’s decision to ban chemical fertilizers, instead opting for an “organic only” policy, has drawn severe criticism from farmers across the nation, as well as scientists and agriculture experts. Farmer protests Farmers from Sri Lanka’s agriculture-intensive regions have been agitating for months now, demanding that the government revoke the ban on agrochemicals. Tea and paddy farmers are especially concerned, anticipating a 50 % drop in production in the coming harvest season, due to the rash policy shift. Senior bureaucrat Mr. Jayasinghe, formerly an academic, has earlier said that the President’s decision was “based on wrong advice” given to him. The transition from chemical to organic fertilizer ought to be achieved over a decade, he told the local Daily Mirror in an interview last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-change-its-only-green-agriculture/article37636838.ece
23 November 2021||Caracas,||Maduro Govt. wins big in Venezuela regional vote||The government of Venezuela’s President Nicolas Maduro won a landslide victory in Sunday’s regional ballot, according to election officials. Candidates aligned with Mr. Maduro have won 20 of the 23 Governor posts and the Mayorship of Caracas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/maduro-govt-wins-big-in-venezuela-regional-vote/article37636843.ece
23 November 2021||Sydney,||Australia to allow students, workers back||Australia announced on Monday it will re-open to foreign students and skilled workers from next month, easing some of the world’s most stringent pandemic travel restrictions. Twenty months after Australia slammed shut its borders, some visa holders — as well as Japanese and South Korean citizens — will be able to enter from December 1. “Australia is re-opening to the world,” said Home Affairs Minister Karen Andrews.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/australia-to-allow-students-workers-back/article37636842.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Reversing follies in a haunted battleground||Geography dictates geopolitics but is often interpreted varyingly. This has been true of Afghanistan in modern times. Before 1880, its boundaries were demographic rather than territorial, and as a political entity it began to emerge when the empires of the Safavids in the west and Moghuls in the east declined rapidly. Till then it was nominally a monarchy, but in reality a military aristocracy and the death of a ruler was always followed by civil wars. March of history In the 1880s ‘Amir’ Abdur Rahman Khan cautioned his country against Tsarist inroads. In the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1907, the two imperial powers committed themselves not to undertake change in the political status of Afghanistan. In 1953, the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington concluded that ‘Afghanistan is of little or no strategic importance to the United States’ and that ‘it would be desirable to remain neutral because otherwise it might be overrun as an avenue to the Indian subcontinent’. In 1954, Secretary of State J.F. Dulles told a high-ranking Afghan emissary that ‘instead of asking for arms, Afghanistan should settle the Pushtunistan dispute with Pakistan.’ A quarter of a century later, and following the establishment of a Soviet-backed government in Kabul, National Security Adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski advised President Jimmy Carter to choose between punitive, coercive or deterrent courses of retaliatory action ‘to maintain credibility in Moscow’. A decision was then taken in June 1979 to establish ties with Afghan dissident leaders in Pakistan and offer aid to them. This, in turn, led to Moscow’s direct armed intervention on December 27, 1979. In response, a trilateral alliance of the United States, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia emerged to render assistance to the Mujahideen groups through an ‘arms pipeline’ controlled by the Afghan Bureau of the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). The latter also decided on the allocation of funds made available principally by Saudi Arabia to different groups and coordinated with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the Saudi intelligence organisation headed by Prince Turki al-Faisal who has recently given a candid account of it. Carter’s goal Mr. Carter’s aim, according to Prince Turki, ‘was to embarrass the Soviet Union and make the cost of occupation of Afghanistan as high as possible… the war in Afghanistan was more a political and military failure than a conventional military defeat for the Soviet Union… In a military sense it failed to subdue the Mujahideen but it never suffered a defeat in battle’. More details of the process was given many years earlier in Artyom Borovik’s The Hidden War that shed much light on the Soviet conduct of the war and on the morale of its armed forces. In 1982, Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev posed a question to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi: ‘Show me a way to get out of Afghanistan’; her response was laconic: ‘The way out is the same as the way in.’ A face-saving formula however took time to emerge since Washington showed no haste and the Soviet withdrawal was thus completed only in February 1989. In August 1919, the Treaty of Rawalpindi recognised Afghanistan as a fully sovereign state and the Amir in turn recognised the Durand Line and agreed to forego the British subsidy. In July 1931, King Nadir Shah announced a policy of neutrality. In July 1949, the Afghan National Assembly passed a resolution repudiating all previous treaties and agreements with the British before the birth of Pakistan and rejected the Durand Line as the international frontier. Decades later, Pakistan’s perceptions changed after the collapse of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) regime in the wake of the Soviet withdrawal and the seven-party Mujahideen government was installed and recognised by many western states. New Delhi then took the view that India’s diplomatic mission in Kabul should continue and so should its economic assistance and help in the area of public health. It was also decided that it ‘should contact with leaders of all groups and remain in touch with them so that eventually India could deal with whosoever came to power’. An idea to pursue Then and later, the idea of an externally guaranteed institutionalised neutrality was aired but not welcomed by the Mujahideen; and, even later, President Hamid Karzai was not receptive when the word was ‘used carelessly’ by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Afghanistan, Kai Eide, in the context of Afghanistan’s future international status. On the other hand, and in more recent times, the idea has been aired from time to time (including by two from India) as a possible remedy for minimising or unending competition between competing powers and to prevent Afghanistan lapsing into being a geopolitical pivot of competing powers and a source of extremism and terrorism. An American scholar Audrey K. Cronin studied in 2016 recent cases of ‘Neutralization as a Sustainable Approach’ and, in relation to Afghanistan, opined that such an approach can be negotiated by the United States, China, Iran, Russia, Saudi Arabia, the Central Asian republics and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), adding that the question of the Durand Line would need to be addressed during negotiations. In December 2003, two Indian commentators opined that the way out of the morass would be to re-place Afghanistan in its traditional mode of neutrality for which two requirements were essential: the Afghans themselves must declare unequivocally that they would follow strict neutrality in their relations with external powers; and the outside powers must commit themselves to respect Afghanistan’s neutrality. In other words, external powers must subscribe to a multilateral declaration not to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan together with an obligation on Afghanistan not to seek outside intervention in its internal situation. A suggestion of ‘Neutralization’ as a concept and as a realisable goal has to be thought through on grounds of principle and of practicality. In the first place, would there be an ideological constraint from the view point of the present-day Taliban? None has been mentioned and should not be presumed. Available accounts of the Doha talks suggest that both former Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and the Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, mentioned ‘neutral and non-aligned post-peace settlement Afghanistan’ in the discussions and were not contradicted in terms of Islamic ideology as viewed by the Taliban. It is on record that Afghan governments practised neutralism (military non-alignment) since King Nadir Shah’s pronouncement in 1931 — in the Second World War and in the India-Pakistan 1965, 1971 and the Kargil wars. In the foreseeable future and given domestic cohesion, the likelihood of the Taliban leadership departing from it on ideological or practical grounds does not seem to arise. Practicality This leaves the factor of practicality that is to be tested on the regime’s immediate and foreseeable future requirements — recognition, defreezing of assets, immediate food aid, and longer term bilateral and multilateral economic assistance to replace what was given bilaterally for other considerations. The essential ingredients of such neutralisation would be: a formal Afghan declaration in constitutional terms; a legally binding declaration by each and every immediate and proximate neighbour; a United Nations Security Council declaration calling on the P5 and interested powers to refrain from any form of power politics in Afghanistan, and; a United Nations General Assembly resolution recognising Afghanistan as a neutral state. As a border On the Durand Line — and while nothing has been formally proposed — the solution would seem to lie in a creative approach with some form of a formal but soft border that would accommodate the area’s history, geography and demography. In this context, an observation by the former Pakistan Foreign Secretary, Riaz Mohammad Khan, is of relevance: ‘It would be as futile for Pakistan to push Kabul for formal recognition of the Durand Line as it is for Kabul to reopen this issue whose parameters it has never been able to define. Kabul should continue to respect the Durand Line as the functional border, which for Pakistan remains the historical and legal border.’ Given the ground situation today, and Afghanistan’s dire need for accommodation with the external powers, aid-givers and economic assistance, the situation is ripe for political adjustment of its basic perceptions more so because it can benefit (not harm) the country and allow friendly countries to render assistance without constraints of competition and power politics. In futile efforts, the great Powers have tried and failed to dominate the world through Afghanistan and left death and misery in its wake. Sanity would suggest a wiser approach. Hamid Ansari is the former Vice-President of India, 2007-2017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reversing-follies-in-a-haunted-battleground/article37636824.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Reforming the fertilizer sector||Since 1991, when economic reforms began in India, several attempts have been made to reform the fertilizer sector to keep a check on the rising fertilizer subsidy bill, promote the efficient use of fertilizers, achieve balanced use of N, P and K (nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium), and reduce water and air pollution caused by fertilizers like urea. Increase in subsidy The Economic Survey of 1991-92 noted that fertilizer prices remained almost unchanged from July 1981 to July 1991. The Union Budget of July 1991 raised the issue prices of fertilizers by 40% on average. But from August that year, this was reduced to 30%, and small and marginal farmers were exempted from the price increase. The Economic Survey further noted that even with this 30% increase, fertilizer subsidy remained substantial and needed to be reduced further. Due to opposition to increase fertilizer prices, the increase in the price of urea was rolled back to 17% a year later over the pre-reform price. This change disturbed the relative prices of various fertilizers and resulted in a big shift in the composition of fertilizers used in the country in favour of urea and thus N. The ratio of use of N:P:K increased from 5.9:2.4:1 in 1991-92 to 9.7:2.9:1 in 1993-94. Farmers tended to move towards balanced use, but policy and price changes reversed the favourable trend a couple of times in the last three decades. Thus, little success has been achieved on any of the three fronts. Rather, there has been an uncontrolled increase in subsidies on urea, due both to almost freezing the MRP of urea in different time periods and its rising sale leading to an increase in indiscriminate and imbalanced use of fertilizers. Concerned with the adverse environmental impact of certain chemical fertilizers, some sections of society suggest the use of organic fertilizers and biofertilizers instead. There is a growing demand to provide subsidies and other incentives for organic fertilizers and biofertilizers to match those provided for chemical fertilizers. Fertilizer subsidy has doubled in a short period of three years. For 2021-22, the Union Budget has estimated fertilizer subsidy at Rs. 79,530 crore (from Rs. 66,468 crore in 2017-18) but it is likely to reach a much higher level due to the recent upsurge in the prices of energy, the international prices of urea and other fertilizers, and India’s dependence on imports. In 2019-20, fertilizer use per hectare of cultivated area varied from 70 kg of NPK in Rajasthan to 250 kg in Telangana. This gap was much wider at the district level. Further, composition of total plant nutrients in terms of the N,P,K ratio deviated considerably from the recommended or optimal NPK mix. It was 33.7:8.0:1 in Punjab and 1.3:0.7:1 in Kerala. This also has implications for inter-State disparities in fertilizer subsidy due to high variations in subsidy content, which is highly biased towards urea and thus nitrogen. As a result, the magnitude of fertilizer subsidy among the major States ranges in the ratio of 8:1. The government introduced the Nutrient Based Subsidy (NBS) in 2010 to address the growing imbalance in fertilizer use in many States, which is skewed towards urea (N). However, only non-nitrogenous fertilizers (P and K) moved to NBS; urea was left out. The total demand for urea in the country is about 34-35 million tonnes (mln t) whereas the domestic production is about 25 mln t. The requirement of Diammonium Phosphate (DAP) is about 12 mln t and domestic production is just 5 mln t. This leaves the gap of nearly 9-10 mln t for urea and 7 mln t for DAP, which is met through imports. The use of Muriate of Potash is about 3 mln t. This is entirely imported. In addition, consumption of complex fertilizers (NPK) is about 12-13 mln t, which is largely produced within the country and so the import requirement is only 1 mln t. The international prices of fertilizers are volatile and almost directly proportional to energy prices. Besides, cartels of major global producers have a strong influence on prices. Of late, there has been a surge in international prices with urea prices rising to a record level of over $900 per metric tonne (mt) in November 2021 from nearly $270 per mt in September 2020. Likewise, the international prices of DAP have risen from about $360 per mt in September 2020 to about $825 per mt in November 2021. These extraordinary price rises are on account of a sharp upsurge in international energy prices and supply constraints in major producing countries due to robust domestic demand, production cuts and export restrictions. This also coincides with the peak demand for the Rabi season. In order to minimise the impact of rise in prices on farmers, the bulk of the price rise is absorbed by the government through enhanced fertilizer subsidy. This is likely to create serious fiscal challenges. In the last 20 years, the price of urea has increased to Rs. 5.36 per kg in 2021 from Rs. 4.60 in 2001. In the same period, the Minimum Support Price of paddy increased by 280% and that of wheat by 230%. In other words, in 2001, 37.7 kg of wheat was required to buy one bag of urea (50 kg), which has now reduced to 13.3 kg. At current prices, farmers pay about Rs. 268 per bag of urea and the Government of India pays an average subsidy of about Rs. 930 per bag. Thus, taxpayers bear 78% of the cost of urea and farmers pay only 22%. This is expected to increase and is not sustainable. The way forward In order to address the multiple goals of fertilizer policy, we need to simultaneously work on four key policy areas. One, we need to be self-reliant and not depend on import of fertilizers. In this way, we can escape the vagaries of high volatility in international prices. In this direction, five urea plants at Gorakhpur, Sindri, Barauni, Talcher and Ramagundam are being revived in the public sector. Two, we need to extend the NBS model to urea and allow for price rationalisation of urea compared to non-nitrogenous fertilizers and prices of crops. The present system of keeping the price of urea fixed and absorbing all the price increases in subsidy needs to be replaced by distribution of price change over both price as well as subsidy based on some rational formula. Three, we need to develop alternative sources of nutrition for plants. Discussions with farmers and consumers reveal a strong desire to shift towards the use of non-chemical fertilizers as well as a demand for bringing parity in prices and subsidy given to chemical fertilizers with organic and biofertilizers. This also provides the scope to use a large biomass of crop that goes waste and enhance the value of livestock byproducts. We need to scale up and improve innovations to develop alternative fertilizers. Though compost contains low amounts of nitrogen, technologies are now available to enrich this. Finally, India should pay attention to improving fertilizer efficiency through need-based use rather than broadcasting fertilizer in the field. The recently developed Nano urea by IFFCO shows promising results in reducing the usage of urea. Such products need to be promoted expeditiously after testing. These changes will go a long way in enhancing the productivity of agriculture, mitigating climate change, providing an alternative to chemical fertilizers and balancing the fiscal impact of fertilizer subsidy on the Union Budgets in the years to come. Ramesh Chand is Member and Yogesh Suri is Senior Adviser with NITI Aayog. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reforming-the-fertilizer-sector/article37636835.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Bihar’s rebid for glory is within the realm of possibility||News of Shubham Kumar from Bihar topping the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil services examination 2020 has been welcomed with enthusiasm. But contrast this with a recent report by the Reserve Bank of India which published economic statistics including GDP for the States from 1997 onwards, which makes sombre reading. A widening gap Bihar had the lowest per capita income of Rs. 4,014 at current prices in 1997-98 (31.58% of the country’s average); in 2019-20, it remains at the lowest at Rs. 45,071( 33.58% of the country’s average), moving only two percentage points in the last 22 years. Significantly, the gap between Bihar and the better-off States has increased over the years. Goa’s per capita income, in 1997-98, was around eight times more than Bihar’s; 22 years later, it is 10 times more. Sikkim, the second richest State in per capita terms, had three times more per capita income than Bihar’s in 1997-98; currently it is over nine times more. The gap from Kerala has gone up from 3.62 to 5 times during this period. Similar is the case vis-à-vis Maharashtra and other better-off States. In terms of progress towards Sustainable Development Goals, as in a NITI Aayog report released this year, Bihar scored 52 out of 100 against the average of 66 and is ranked last among the States of India. Its ranking was the same even last year. Kerala, the topper, secured 75 out of 100. Once the centre of attention The relative decline is a post-Independence phenomenon. It is clearly a fall from grace for Bihar which used to be the centre of glory, grandeur, knowledge, wealth and power in ancient India of the Maurya and Gupta Ages. Even during periods of occupation by the Moghuls and the British, Bihar was among the better-off provinces. In the period immediately following India’s Independence, Bihar’s per capita income was around 80% of India’s average. Today, it has slid to one third. And the irony is that the relative deterioration happened post-Independence when the government is of and by the people. MLAs and MPs are the guides of the people. The better they are in terms of character, calibre and commitment, the better will be the course of prosperity. So, what is the score in this regard? Bihar is much ahead in matters of criminality among elected ‘rulers’ and the criminality is on the increase of late. An analysis of the reports of the Association for Democratic Reforms would indicate that 68% of the newly elected MLAs in Bihar had pending criminal charges, and 51% had serious charges which including rape and murder. In the country as a whole, out of 3,980 MLAs, 40% had criminal cases and 26% had serious criminal cases. In the previous Bihar Assembly in 2015, 58% MLAs had criminal cases against them and 40% had serious criminal charges; 50% of MPs from Bihar elected to the Lok Sabha in 2014 faced serious criminal charges. Liberalisation era Some of the key issues where commitment to the cause of Bihar by the elected representatives would have made a difference merit attention. While liberalisation of the 1990s spurred domestic and external investment which accelerated India’s growth, States such as Bihar remained left out. In the case of Bihar, its landlocked geography, poor infrastructure and poor governance environment were obvious handicaps. In view of its poor fiscal base and overwhelming dependence on Centre for its budgetary needs, Bihar demanded Special Category Status from the Centre, even through unanimous resolutions in the State Assembly. This would incentivise investment. But the Centre has not found it possible as Bihar does not fulfil the criteria of having hilly terrain, low population density and sizeable tribal population to qualify for such a status. Bihar may not fulfil these criteria, yet it is poorer than the hill States. The stated national objective of ‘balanced regional development’ remains largely on paper. If all the 40 MPs from Bihar are determined on this issue irrespective of party affiliations, the Government of India will have to find a way to incentivise investment by way of Special Category status or otherwise. On infrastructure Bihar has the highest population density of 1,102 people per square kilometres (in 2019) which is around three times the average India’s density. And its rate of population growth is highest in the country, at 18.16% during 2011-21 as against India’s 12.56%. Therefore, human resource development sectors of education, health and skills ought to be the highest priority. While there has been good progress in matters of roads (third position in India after Kerala and West Bengal) and electricity (almost universal like many other States), provisioning for health such as beds and medical professionals per lakh of population is among the worst in India. While infrastructure for education has improved, quality improvement measures cry for attention. Institutions such as Patna College, Patna Science College, Patna Medical College Hospital which were among the best in India during the British Raj, have suffered decadence. Bihar faces substantial migration of students and patients along with labour. Development and investment would also be deterred by adverse governance environments. Bihar witnesses, on average, nine murders a day and the criminal justice administration would take years, at times decades, to bring culprits to book if at all. Therefore, political reforms to elect the right representatives will lead to the right policy priorities and implementation environment. It would make a tremendous difference if political parties, voluntarily or compelled by law, avoid fielding candidates with criminal antecedents. But in a democracy, the behaviour of the MLA or MP will be influenced by expectations of reward or punishment from the voters. If voter behaviour is not determined by ‘development’ but other issues such as caste, religion or emotional subjects, growth will take a back seat. It will again be a chicken and egg story. But as the Bhagavad Gita says: “Whatever a leader does, so do other people. Whatever standard he sets, others follow.” Obviously, the quality score of elected leaders has to improve if development and income grades of Bihar are to improve. R.S. Pandey is a politician (Member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly, 2015-20) and a former IAS officer (1972 batch). After retirement, he was appointed as the Interlocutor and Government of India Representative for the Naga Peace talks (2010-13)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bihars-rebid-for-glory-is-within-the-realm-of-possibility/article37636826.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Dynamism in India-U.S. ties||The trajectory of India-U.S. bilateral ties continues to go up. While there are regular interactions among officials at various levels and across sectors, as well as people-to-people engagement, there are no formal interactions between Members of Parliament in India and members of the U.S. Congress. Visit to India In November, a congressional delegation (CODEL) led by U.S. Senator John Cornyn travelled to the Indo-Pacific Command countries, including the Philippines, Taiwan and India. In New Delhi, the six-member delegation interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, and representatives of the Dalai Lama. Senator Cornyn is a senior member of the Republican Party and co-founder and co-Chair of the Senate Caucus on India and Indian Americans. Mr. Modi and the members of the delegation noted the “increasing convergence of strategic interests” between India and the U.S. and said they would like to “further enhance cooperation... to promote global peace and stability”. After the trip, Senator Cornyn said, “The Indo-Pacific is the largest military theater in the world, and our allies there are invaluable to ensuring we can counter China’s overreach. Our delegation was able to see firsthand the issues facing countries from mainland India to island partners in the Pacific...”. The China overhang was visible in the backdrop. Mr. Modi appreciated the consistent support and constructive role of the U.S. Congress in deepening the India-U.S. comprehensive global strategic partnership. Mr. Modi and CODEL exchanged views on enhancing the bilateral relationship and strengthening cooperation on contemporary global issues such as terrorism, climate change and reliable chains for critical technologies. Last month, Senator Cornyn and Democrat colleague Mark Warner urged President Joe Biden to grant a waiver to India which faces the prospect of sanctions for procuring S-400 missiles from Russia. Two days after returning from his trip to India, CODEL member Senator Tommy Tuberville favoured India getting the presidential waiver under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. More on the issue is in the works on Capitol Hill. The significance of the CODEL visit is not lost in the U.S. as members of the U.S. Congress play an important role in determining foreign policy, which at times is dictated by the demands of constituents. But despite the robustness in India-U.S. relations, there is no institutional communication or interaction between MPs in India and members of the U.S. Congress. Noting that there is popular and political support in both countries for a robust India-U.S. partnership, the joint statement at the end of the 2+2 Dialogue in 2019 stated: “The Ministers looked forward to the establishment of India-US Parliamentary Exchange to facilitate reciprocal visits by Parliamentarians of the two countries”. With the next edition of the 2+2 Dialogue due to be held soon, the Ministers could examine progress on this aspect. India can take it forward through the Indian Parliamentary Group, which acts as a link between the Indian Parliament and the various Parliaments of the world. In 1953, the Group had first invited then U.S. Vice President Richard Nixon to address MPs in the Central Hall of Parliament. Over the years, Presidents Dwight Eisenhower, Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama also addressed MPs at Central Hall. Shaping foreign relations At present, there are eight Parliamentary Friendship Groups of India’s including Japan, Russia, China and the European Union. The U.S. is absent from this list. It is important to note what former Congressman and veteran Democrat Jim McDermott, a former co-Chair and pioneer of the India Caucus on the House side, said: legislative interactions inject dynamism in bilateral relations. Dr. McDermott was part of the CODEL led by John Lewis to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr’s historic journey to India. CODEL travels across the world during the periods when Congress takes a break from legislative work. Interactions during these travels are important in shaping relations with foreign countries. India’s connection with the U.S. Congress goes back to November 17, 1954, when Vice President S. Radhakrishnan presented the Senate with a gavel to replace the hour-glass-shaped piece of ivory that had shattered during a heated debate when Nixon had used it. Radhakrishnan hoped that the gavel would inspire senators to debate “with freedom from passion and prejudice”. In 2022, when Parliament celebrates its 70th year, a formal arrangement with Congress can institutionalise this unique relationship between representatives of the U.S. and India. Prasad Kunduri is a journalist and former Fulbright-APSA Fellow with the U.S. Congress||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dynamism-in-india-us-ties/article37636829.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Clamping down on creativity||In Tamil Nadu, where cinema serves as a medium for social and political propaganda, Kollywood has not been spared from periodic attacks by politicians and sociocultural groups. A controversy has engulfed Jai Bhim , which has grabbed attention worldwide by racing to the top of the IMDb ratings, displacing the 1994 Hollywood classic The Shawshank Redemption . Hailed for its gripping but fictionalised portrayal of a real incident of police brutality, it has riled up certain political, caste and right-wing outfits. They have accused it of “deliberate and wrong” portrayal of the Vanniyars, a dominant Most Backward Class community, and ‘Hinduisation’ of the film’s villain. Except for some principal characters, the names of others involved in the true incident were fictionalised in the film, which the critics have seized upon to fire salvos. Firing salvos The Vanniyar Sangam and its political off-shoot, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), were upset over a 1995 dated calendar hung on the wall of the house of ‘Gurumurthy’, the villainous police officer. The calendar had an image of the ‘Agni Kundam’ (fire pot), a symbol used by their community. As soon as this was flagged, the film-makers replaced it with an image of a Hindu deity. But the issue rages on. PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss and Vanniyar Sangam president Pu Tha Arulmozhi contend that the villain was purposely named Gurumurthy to denote ‘Kaduvetti’ J. Guru, a late Vanniyar leader. Some BJP leaders and their affiliates latched on, claiming that the police officer, whose real name was Anthonysamy, “a Christian”, was intentionally given a Hindu name to depict Hinduism in poor light. So, a narrative that started off as an affront to one Hindu community has since then sought to be elevated as a pan-Hindu one. Actor and co-producer Suriya Sivakumar and director T.J. Gnanavel have insisted that none of the scenes/names were intentional. The actor refused to tender an apology, despite threats. Instead, he urged Dr. Ramadoss to recognise the importance of protecting the freedom of expression and steer clear of “name-politics”. Incidentally, Mr. Suriya, a philanthropist for educational causes, is among the few Kollywood personalities to have openly voiced opinions against certain central government policies. This is not an isolated case. While past Chief Ministers, who came from the cine world, pampered Kollywood, they did little to uphold an artist’s creative liberties. In 1987, following agitations, the state objected to the release of Ore Oru Gramathile , which advocated for reservations solely based on economic criteria. The Supreme Court, which cleared the film, noted: “Freedom of expression which is legitimate and constitutionally protected, cannot be held to ransom, by an intolerant group of people... We must practise tolerance to the views of others. Intolerance is as much dangerous to democracy as to the person himself.” Though the Court made it clear that it is a State’s duty to prevent any attempt to muzzle freedom of expression, many films ran into trouble subsequently. In 2006, during the DMK regime, the Hollywood film Da Vinci Code was banned following objections from Christian groups. (The ban was set aside by the Madras High Court.) In 2013, Chief Minister Jayalalithaa not only banned Viswaroopam following protests from Muslim outfits but justified it citing inadequate police manpower to provide security to theatres. It would not be out of place to recall what Justice Prabha Sridevan said in the Da Vinci Code case: “Such threats to freedom of artistic expression... [are] not healthy; to echo Justice Brandeis, this trend will rock the stability of the State.” sureshkumar.d@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/clamping-down-on-creativity/article37636831.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Pause and poise||The Congress reordered its house in Rajasthan by shuffling and expanding the Council of Ministers and enforcing a ‘one person, one post’ principle across its governmental and organisational wings. That this was done in a rather quiet and clean manner is a feat for the party. The new Council has 30 members — 19 cabinet Ministers and 10 Ministers of State besides the Chief Minister; three are women and four are Dalits. This reorganisation was long overdue — the party that swears by its pro-Dalit politics had a Cabinet which did not have a single member from the community for nearly two years. The Congress had won 35 of the 59 SC/ST seats in Rajasthan in 2018 after having lost all but two of them in 2013. The geographical imbalance in the Council too had become unsustainable, with the eastern districts that elected more MLAs of the party severely under-represented. Sachin Pilot, under whose leadership the Congress fought the 2018 Assembly election, had been sidelined after he rebelled against CM Ashok Gehlot’s unilateralism in 2020. Sunday’s reorganisation and expansion take care of these anomalies to a large extent. Mr. Gehlot and Mr. Pilot have thus achieved a new equilibrium, with some nudging by the central leadership. The State is crucial to the national outcome of the 2024 general election — the Congress had lost all 25 Lok Seats in the State in 2019 to the BJP, just a year after it won the 2018 Assembly election. It is on this count that the Congress should learn lessons from its self-inflicted disaster in Punjab on the eve of the Assembly election and continue to plan ahead in Rajasthan, if it is to have a fighting chance in 2023 and 2024. Mr. Gehlot is an astute manager of interest groups — a fact borne out by his capacity to claim the CM’s post for a third term despite having lost two Assembly elections after two five-year terms in the past. He has also managed ties across party lines. At 70, he has expressed plans to remain active for another 20 years. That may not be a great idea for himself or the party. His reputation and legacy would be enhanced were he to work towards a transition, along with Mr. Pilot, who, despite his rebellion against Mr. Gehlot, has stayed a loyalist in the Congress. At 44, Mr. Pilot has shown promise as a leader who can connect with the rural and the urban; the conservative and the modern. The party’s challenge is in converting the impatience of its young leaders into energy, and combining it with the political shrewdness of its veterans to create a productive compact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pause-and-poise/article37636818.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Falling short||It has been more than three years since a draft Bill on personal data protection was crafted by the Justice Srikrishna Committee of experts and submitted to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology in 2018. Two years since a Joint Parliamentary Committee was set up to scrutinise another version — the Personal Data Protection Bill (PDPB), 2019 — it was finally adopted by it on Monday. But as dissent notes submitted by some panel members from the Opposition point out, the draft falls short of the standards set by the Justice Srikrishna Committee to build a legal framework based on the landmark judgment, Justice K.S. Puttaswamy vs Union of India , on privacy. The key divergences from the Justice Srikrishna Committee’s draft Bill are in the selection of the chairperson and members of the Data Protection Authority (DPA) which shall protect the interests of data principals and the leeway provided to the Union government to exempt its agencies from the application of the Act. While the 2018 draft Bill allowed for judicial oversight, the 2019 Bill relies entirely on members of the executive government in the selection process for the DPA. In contrast to the 2018 Bill that allowed for exemptions to be granted to state institutions from acquiring informed consent from data principals or to process data in the case of matters relating only to the “security of the state” and also called for a law to provide for “parliamentary oversight and judicial approval of non-consensual access to personal data”, the 2019 Bill adds “public order” as a reason to exempt an agency of the Government from the Act, besides only providing for those reasons to be recorded in writing. As JPC member from the Rajya Sabha, the Congress’s Jairam Ramesh, rightly mentions in his dissent note, the “government must always comply with the Bill’s requirement of fair and reasonable processing and implementing the necessary safeguards”, which requires that the exemptions granted in writing should at least be tabled in both Houses of Parliament; but that was not accepted by the JPC. His note also points out to the dangers of exemption on the grounds of “public order” as it is susceptible to misuse and not limited to “security of the state” which is recognised by other data regulations such as Europe’s General Data Protection Regulation as a viable reason for exemption. In October 2021, the Global Privacy Assembly, featuring Privacy Commissioners from over 19 countries including those from the European Union, Japan and the U.K., came up with a clear resolution on principles for government access to personal data. In its resolution, the Assembly asked for a set of principles on legal basis, the need for clear and precise rules, proportionality and transparency, data subject rights, independent oversight, and effective remedies and redress to the individuals affected. As the JPC’s adoption of the draft Bill and the dissent notes appended to it suggest, it has fallen short of standards protecting privacy rights of individuals against blanket misuse by the state. It is now the task of Parliament to tighten the provisions further and bring them in conformance with the 2018 Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/falling-short/article37636819.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Myopic directive (From an Editorial)||Various correspondents to The Hindu have criticised the order of the Tamil Nadu Director of Collegiate Education to the government colleges that they should not hereafter appoint teachers who do not have a degree from a university in the State. The reason given is that it is necessary to maintain high standards, thus carrying the implication that all universities outside this State have lower standards. This order is issued at a time when university education in Tamil Nadu has been criticised for deterioration in standards. The universities have taken note of this criticism (which is partly based on the poor performance of students from the State in the all-India competitive examinations) and are trying to upgrade the syllabus for the degree courses. Much of the resistance to modernising the syllabus both for schools and colleges comes from the teachers themselves who seem to be unwilling to make the effort to brush up their knowledge of the subjects they teach. Seen in this context, the Government’s directive is extremely short-sighted. As one correspondent has pointed out, college authorities will be justified in appointing second or third-rate staff merely because they have local degrees, in preference to much better qualified men from outside. And these “outsiders” may actually be Tamilians who have been educated elsewhere!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/myopic-directive-from-an-editorial/article37636827.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre allows exporters time till Jan. 31 on origin e-certificate||The Centre has suspended till January 31 a mandatory obligation imposed on exporters from November 1 to obtain online Certificates of Origin (CoO) for every outbound consignment, days after The Hindu reported businesses were facing severe operational challenges in complying with the diktat. The online CoO system, put in place in late 2019 for exports to countries with whom India had a preferential trade pact, was expanded to cover all merchandise exports from November through a trade notice issued on October 18. In a fresh notice last Monday, the Department of Commerce said that ‘the transition period for mandatory filing of applications for Non-Preferential Certificate of Origin through the e-CoO platform had been extended’ till January 31. “The existing systems for submitting and processing non-preferential CoO applications in manual/paper mode is being allowed for the stated time period and the online system is not being made mandatory,” the department clarified. Several exporters across States had reported difficulties in registering on the e-CoO platform on the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) portal with the stipulated high-quality digital signature certificates and obtaining the certificates for their shipments. The department, which oversees DGFT, has now requested exporters to register onto the platform at the earliest. Earlier this month, when the online certificates were mandatory, the department had downplayed exporters’ concerns and said the move was aimed at improving the ease of doing business. Industry bodies had noted that intermediaries had not been able to upload exporters’ data, as the DGFT had not shared the API.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-allows-exporters-time-till-jan-31-on-origin-e-certificate/article37636804.ece
23 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex slumps most since April, falls 1.96% as RIL drags||The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex slumped the most in about seven months on Monday, sliding 1.96% amid concerns about the government’s ability to sustain reforms after the announcement that the three contentious farm laws would be repealed, and dragged down by Reliance Industries’ 4.42% decline. The index fell 1,170.12 points to 58,465.89, the lowest close since mid-September. The top losers included Bajaj Finance (5.74%), Bajaj Finserv (4.69%), NTPC (3.73%) and Titan (3.49%). Reliance (RIL) slid after a proposed $15-billion stake sale in its oil-to-chemicals business to Saudi Arabia’s Aramco was shelved. Analysts said Paytm’s disappointing debut and further slide had exacerbated concerns about valuations. “Subdued listing and continued weak trading of Paytm is a big sentimental setback to the domestic market, which was thriving on the strong primary market,” Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said in a note. “It will impact the inflow of money from the retail segment, which has been a key player during the year,” he added. “High growth expectations have been built into stock market valuations for quite some time now,” said Rahul Shah, Co-Head of Research, Equitymaster. “And if these expectations don't materialise soon enough, we may see further downward pressure on prices.” “From a valuations perspective, the broader market is already quite expensive. The only thing holding it up was hopes of a quick recovery in corporate earnings. Any delay there... and there could be more downside,” Mr. Shah added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-slumps-most-since-april-falls-196-as-ril-drags/article37636800.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SBI lifts GDP growth view to 9.3%-9.6%||Economists at the State Bank of India (SBI) have upgraded their GDP growth projection for this fiscal to a 9.3% to 9.6% range, from 8.5%-9% forecast earlier, citing an improved pace of vaccination and lower incidence of COVID-19 cases in the country. Referring to 41 high-frequency indicators factored into their ‘Nowcasting’ model, the economists have pegged second-quarter growth at 8.1%, with an upward bias. Official estimates for the July_September period are expected at the end of the month. India’s GDP had grown 20.1% in the April to June quarter, compared with a 24.4% contraction in the year-earlier period. The second quarter of 2020-21 saw GDP contract by 7.9%. SBI’s second-quarter estimate is faster than the 7.9% pace projected by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The central bank has estimated that the economy would grow 9.5% in 2021-22. “The full year GDP growth is now revised upwards to 9.3%-9.6% from our earlier estimate of 8.5-9.0%. With this the real GDP will be around Rs. 2.4 lakh crore more than the 2019-20 real GDP of Rs. 145.69 lakh crore,” SBI group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh said, stressing that this would take the economy 1.5% to 1.7% above pre-pandemic levels by March 2022. “The reason for the revision is that India remained unscathed in the July to September period from the global situation, which was marred by supply disruptions, stubborn inflation and surges of infections. India recorded only 11% increase in cases during this quarter which is the second lowest among top 15 most affected countries,” he wrote in the bank’s research report. “India’s projected 8.1% growth rate in Q2 is the highest growth across all economies. The average GDP growth of 28 selected economies has decelerated to 4.5% in the same quarter as against 12.1% (in the previous quarter),” he pointed out. Vaccination had helped activity reach pre-COVID levels, SBI said, adding “We believe that momentum of economic growth is likely to remain on the upside.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-lifts-gdp-growth-view-to-93-96/article37636806.ece
23 November 2021||Mumbai,||RBI announces draft scheme for PMC-USFB amalgamation||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday placed in public domain a draft scheme for amalgamation of the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank with Unity Small Finance Bank Ltd. (USFB), a banking company incorporated in India under Companies Act, 2013, and having its registered office in New Delhi. USFB commenced operations with effect from November 1, 2021. The draft scheme of amalgamation envisages takeover of the assets and liabilities of PMC Bank, including deposits, by USFB in terms of the provisions of the scheme, giving a greater degree of protection for the depositors. “It may be seen that USFB is being set up with capital of about Rs. 1,100 crore as against the regulatory requirement of Rs. 200 crore for setting up of a small finance bank under the guidelines for on-tap licensing of small finance bank in private sector, with provision for further infusion of capital at a future date after amalgamation,” the banking regulator said. Mumbai-based PMC Bank Limited, a multi-State urban cooperative bank, was placed under all-inclusive directions with effect from the close of business hours on September 23, 2019, on account of fraud, which led to a ‘steep deterioration’ in the networth of the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-announces-draft-scheme-for-pmc-usfb-amalgamation/article37636797.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Brigade Group to invest Rs. 2,000 crore in Chennai||Bengaluru-based property developer Brigade Group has announced that it would invest about Rs. 2,000 crore to develop an additional one million square feet each in residential and commercial spaces over the next three to five years in Chennai. “Brigade will continue to focus on the South Indian market, and is aiming to increase the contribution of Chennai and Hyderabad markets in its overall portfolio,” said Hrishikesh Nair, COO, Chennai Operations, Brigade Enterprises Ltd. “This investment will be in residential, commercial, hospitality and retail verticals of the group,” he said in a statement. According to Mr. Nair, Brigade Group has developed 2 million sq.ft. of commercial space in Chennai and plans to complete one million square feet in residential and commercial spaces additionally at an investment of approximately Rs. 2,000 crore in the next 3-5 years in the city for which it had already identified land parcels. The developer also announced the launch of Zenith Tower of Brigade Residences at the World Trade Centre, Chennai. This is Brigade’s second residential tower project after Astra, which was unveiled in 2019. Brigade said it had already received 30% pre-launch bookings for Zenith, which comprises 149 units of three bedroom homes and four bedroom penthouses spread across 26 floors. “The demand in the premium residential market in Chennai has witnessed a sharp increase, with a change in the demographics where younger couples are looking to invest in residences,” he said. In the second quarter, Brigade Enterprises posted a 73% increase in sales value at Rs. 831 crore sequentially, with net area sales of 1.3 million sq. feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/brigade-group-to-invest-rs-2000-crore-in-chennai/article37636802.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bharti raises prepaid tariffs by up to 25%, others may follow suit||Bharti Airtel on Monday announced it was raising prepaid tariffs by up to 25% with effect from November 26. The move had been necessitated by the need to increase mobile revenues to safeguard the business’s financial health, Bharti said. Terming it one among the sharpest tariff increases in the past, analysts said other telecom companies —Vodafone Idea and Reliance Jio — were likely to follow suit as was the case in the previous industry-wise tariff hike cycle in December 2019. “Bharti Airtel has always maintained that the mobile Average Revenue Per User (ARPU) needs to be at Rs. 200 and ultimately at Rs. 300, so as to provide a reasonable return on capital that allows for a financially healthy business model,” the company said. “We also believe that this level of ARPU will enable the substantial investments required in networks and spectrum. More importantly, this will give Airtel elbow room to roll out 5G in India,” Bharti said, adding that it was hence taking the lead in rebalancing tariffs. The current basic plan of Rs. 79 will cost Rs. 99 from November 26. Likewise, the Rs. 149 plan will cost Rs. 30 more at Rs. 179, the Rs. 1,498 plan will become Rs. 1,799 and the Rs. 2,498 plan will cost Rs. 2,999. Data top ups will now cost Rs. 58 (up from Rs. 48), Rs. 118 (Rs. 98) and Rs. 301 (Rs. 251), respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-raises-prepaid-tariffs-by-up-to-25-others-may-follow-suit/article37636808.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘14 firms approach govt. to settle retro tax cases’||As many as 14 companies, against whom retrospective tax demands were raised, have approached the government to settle cases, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said. The government in August enacted a law to end all retrospective taxation imposed on indirect transfer of Indian assets. The rules under the law seek to withdraw tax demands made using a 2012 retrospective legislation to tax the indirect transfer of Indian assets and also refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest. Talking to PTI, Mr. Bajaj said of the 17 companies against whom retrospective tax demand was raised, barring three or four entities, all had given an undertaking to the government to resolve the cases. “The remaining 14, barring 1 odd, who still has time to file, the remaining has filed... Cairn, Earlyguard have come [for settlement],” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/14-firms-approach-govt-to-settle-retro-tax-cases/article37636813.ece
23 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Co-op societies are not banks, RBI cautions||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has cautioned members of the public not to deal with co-operative societies undertaking banking business by adding ‘bank’ to their names. “The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 was amended by the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2020, which came into force on September 29, 2020. Accordingly, co-operative societies cannot use the words “bank”, “banker” or “banking” as part of their names, except as permitted under the provisions of BR Act, 1949 or by the RBI,” the RBI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/co-op-societies-are-not-banks-rbi-cautions/article37636798.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SpiceJet puts its Boeing 737 Maxs in the air||After being grounded for more than 30 months following two fatal air crashes globally, SpiceJet’s Boeing 737 MAX planes have recommenced commercial flights in the country. Two out of a total 13 MAX aircraft in SpiceJet’s fleet are back in service, according to the airline’s spokesperson. Commercial flights started on Sunday, when the airline used the aircraft for a return flight from Delhi to Mumbai. On Monday, it conducted one return flight between Delhi and Mumbai and one between Delhi and Siliguri, according to Ajay Awtaney founder and editor of aviation website LifeFromALounge.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spicejet-puts-its-boeing-737-maxs-in-the-air/article37636816.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||India working on release of oil reserves after US request||India is working on ways to release crude oil from its strategic storages in tandem with other major economies to dampen prices, a top official said on Monday. The U.S. had last week made the unusual request to some of the world's largest oil-consuming nations, including China, India and Japan, to consider releasing crude stockpiles in coordinated effort to lower global energy prices.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-working-on-release-of-oil-reserves-after-us-request/article37636809.ece
23 November 2021||New Delhi,||NCLAT stays Competition Comm's Rs 200 cr penalty on Maruti Suzuki; asks co to deposit 10 pc amount in 3 weeks||Appellate tribunal NCLAT on Monday stayed the Rs. 200-crore penalty imposed by the Competition Commission on Maruti Suzuki, but directed the car maker to deposit 10% of the total amount within three weeks with the Registrar of the NCLAT.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclat-stays-competition-comms-rs-200-cr-penalty-on-maruti-suzuki-asks-co-to-deposit-10-pc-amount-in-3-weeks/article37636811.ece
23 November 2021||GALLE,||Lanka keeps upper hand||West Indies was on Monday in deep trouble in the first Test against Sri Lanka as it collapsed to 113 for six at stumps on day two in reply to the host’s first innings total of 386. After the Lankan quicks failed to take a wicket, the spinners made hay as off-spinner Ramesh Mendis claimed three wickets and left-arm orthodox duo Praveen Jayawickrama and Lasith Embuldeniya shared three wickets between them. Chase scalps five Earlier, West Indies bowled out Sri Lanka for 386 with Roston Chase claiming a five-wicket haul. Among his victims were Dimuth Karunaratne whose scored a classy 147. Karunaratne was involved in two hundred plus stands with Pathum Nissanka (56) and Dhananjaya de Silva (61). Chandimal chipped in with 45 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lanka-keeps-upper-hand/article37637091.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shahrukh hero of edge-of-the-seat thriller||Towards the end, even as Tamil Nadu was fast losing the plot, Shahrukh Khan stood between Karnataka and the glittering Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. When TN needed 16 runs off Prateek Jain’s final over and just five off the last ball, Shahrukh (33 not out, 15b, 1x4, 3x6) was the man Karnataka was wary of. Indeed, Shahrukh rose to the occasion. Prateek erred in line and Shahrukh cleared his left foot and sent the final ball soaring into the stands behind square-leg. Even as the ball began its flight, Shahrukh made a triumphant sprint towards the dugout and met his charging teammates inside the ropes. Another glorious chapter added to the legacy of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka’s on-field rivalry. Sharp contrast The sight of a joyous Shahrukh was in sharp contrast to Prateek. The medium pacer, who bowled two crucial wides in the last over, had followed the flight of the title-deciding stroke before burying his head in both hands in despair. TN, in spoiling Karnataka’s unbeaten record in title-clashes of white-ball tournaments, became the first team to win the championship three times. Valiant fight To Karnataka’s credit, it fought valiantly to reach 152. Top-order batters Rohan Kadam, Manish Pandey and Karun Nair lost their off-stumps to the left-arm spin of Sai Kishore (3/12) and Sanjay Yadav in the PowerPlay. But Abhinav Manohar (46, 37b, 4x4, 2x6) began the repair work with B.R. Sharath before Praveen Dubey (33, 25b, 3x4, 1x6) and J. Suchith provided a late charge. Surprisingly, Tamil Nadu’s Saravana Kumar, who took five wickets in the semifinals, was kept out of the final. Lack of urgency If TN fell back in its chase, the reason was the lack of urgency from the third-wicket pair of N. Jagadeesan and skipper Vijay Shankar against spinners Suchith, K.C. Cariappa and Dubey. For 49 deliveries, between the fifth and the 13th overs, the boundaries dried up. Amid rising desperation, Vijay Shankar and Jagadeesan fell to Cariappa in succession after failing to clear long off. This brought in Shahrukh and soon, TN needed 55 off 24 balls. Once M.B. Darshan went for 19 runs, Prateek conceded just six and Vidyadhar Patil eight off five deliveries, TN needed 22 off seven. Undeterred, Shahrukh smashed a straight six to leave 16 off the last over. A first-ball boundary from Sai Kishore, two wides and a tight second run later, came Shahrukh’s masterstroke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shahrukh-hero-of-edge-of-the-seat-thriller/article37637046.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||This SRK packs a punch too!||Shahrukh Khan, the cricketer, packs as much punch as his movie namesake. On Monday evening, like never before, this Tamil Nadu ‘finisher’ reinforced his reputation of being a match-winner. Just when Karnataka was threatening to take away the golden trophy from the defending champion, Shahrukh carried this State’s title-aspirations and provided a memorable finish — a last-ball six! Special thing Asked what he thought before the last ball of the final, with TN needing five runs to win, Shahrukh said, “There were a lot of things in my mind, but I tried to keep it simple. I knew that the ball had become soft and rough and the wicket was slow. So I wanted to connect it off the middle. I was waiting to hit it over long-on. But once the ball came in, I got the room to get it over square-leg. It has been a special thing to hit a last-ball six. I’ll remember this for a long time.” In the domestic competition, the final of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy is considered the biggest stage for those looking to jump onto the IPL bandwagon. With the IPL mega auction not far away, the Punjab Kings’ recruit can expect a much bigger price-tag. Clearly, the national selectors are looking for ‘finishers’ who play the big shots from the first ball — and not use up precious deliveries to get their eye in. The exploits of impact players like James Neesham and Matthew Wade in match-winning roles in the T20 World Cup lends context to this. Fits the bill Shahrukh surely fits the bill: he carries a cool head and knows how to finish the job. And he is sure to get a National call sooner than later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/this-shahrukh-packs-some-punch/article37637051.ece
23 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Term it as ‘run out’, says Vinoo Mankad’s son||Rahul Mankad, the only surviving son of legendary all-rounder Vinoo Mankad, has objected to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) referring to a bowler running out non-striker backing up too far as “Mankading” on its official social media handle. Mankad Jr., a multiple Ranji Trophy winner with Mumbai in the 1970s and 80s, has written an email to BCCI president Sourav Ganguly after the BCCI, on its Twitter feed, referred to a run-out during women’s under-19 semifinal between Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh as “Mankading”.  “I am writing this email with a request to please resolve the unwarranted and disrespectful situation that has appeared in a post on the BCCI website,” Mankad wrote in an email on Oct. 18 to BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, marking a copy to secretary Jay Shah and chief executive officer Hemang Amin. “It is an overenthusiastic and ill-informed post and perhaps a misplaced attempt at humour but the fact that it has not been taken off is a cause for concern, in my view. I urge you to take immediate action and remove the offensive post forthwith. Reply not yet received The post is yet to be deleted. While Mankad confirmed to The Hindu on Monday from Dubai that he has not received a reply, neither Ganguly nor Shah responded to queries regarding the issue. “Vinoo Mankad was a great Indian cricketer and his stature as a player and person are unquestionable, you will agree. I strongly believe that the BCCI needs to come out and endorse (sic) the wrong associated with the eponymous dismissal and term it as it is rightly and under the Laws of Cricket labelled as a ‘RUN OUT’,” Mankad wrote in his email. “As you are aware, ICC has dropped the unfortunate term referring to my father and have started calling it a Run Out,” he further wrote, adding that it is only right that the BCCI ought to take a lead and put this issue to bed, once and for all. In 2017, the Laws of Cricket were amended and Mankading — which, according to legends, including Sunil Gavaskar, should have been referred to as Browned — was changed to run out. The term came into effect when Mankad, the leggie, ran out Bill Brown for backing up too far during India’s tour to Australia in 1948. Last year, Vinoobhai, as one of the greatest all-rounders to have played the game was fondly known, was inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/term-it-as-run-out-says-vinoo-mankads-son/article37637545.ece
23 November 2021||Kolkata,||Harshal, Venkatesh the positives||New Zealand’s stand-in skipper Mitchell Santner appeared drained in the virtual media interaction on Sunday night. He was typically courteous in the video call, but the thousand-yard stare when questions were posed to him was hard to miss. Who could blame him? The side had competed in three T20Is in five days, in three cities. All this just days after the Kiwis made an inspired run to the final of the T20 World Cup in the UAE. To pencil in a T20I series, which ended with a 3-0 win for India, was opportunistic at best and cruel at worst. New Zealand Cricket did not help matters, having named the same squad for the T20 World Cup and the India leg. It would have been prudent to rest the senior players (only Kane Williamson opted out to stay fresh for the Tests), if only to give them time to celebrate their World Cup exploits with friends and family at home. Hectic schedule So much has been made recently about safeguarding players’ mental and physical health, given the stresses of functioning in a bubble. On the eve of the first T20I at Jaipur, Tim Southee, the captain for the first two outings, put on a brave face and stated that the hectic schedule does not allow time to “stop and think” about possible mental strains.  Bilateral T20I series, as former India head coach Ravi Shastri explained in a recent interview to The Guardian , lacks significance. Even more so in this case, given that it is much too early to prepare for next year’s World Cup. Shastri, incidentally, cited a 5-0 series sweep achieved by India against New Zealand in early 2020 to make his point. “Who cares?” he told The Guardian , adding that he couldn’t remember a single ball from those games. A year from now, Shastri and many others might fail to recall the highlights from this 3-0 thrashing. Perhaps the Kiwis hoped that a few standout performances might raise their stakes ahead of the IPL mega auction. But what new hidden skills can franchises hope to discover from these established stars? In India’s case, the early exit from the World Cup and personnel changes ensured that the team entered the field in a healthier state of mind. There were some positive takeaways, with Harshal Patel and Venkatesh Iyer making promising starts to their international careers. Pacer Harshal won the man-of-the-match award at Ranchi, and followed it up with a good all-round show. Venkatesh got some runs, and his steady medium-pace suggests that he can fill the shoes of Hardik Pandya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harshal-venkatesh-the-positives/article37637041.ece
23 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Manish to open against Sekulic||Even for the best of players, the luck of the draw is often a decisive factor for their progress. Manish Sureshkumar will agree with the observation, as he locks horns with Australian Philip Sekulic — finalist of the last two tournaments — in the first round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis at the Tennis Project here. Matchpoints missed Manish beat the Aussie in the Indore final, but lost to him in the second round in Delhi. Sekulic, meanwhile, missed three match points in the Delhi final to lose to Valentin Vacherot. Sidharth Rawat is the top seed here and is followed by two-time National champion Niki Poonacha. American Dusty Boyer and Briton Julian Cash are the only two seeded foreign players. In doubles, Saketh Myneni will partner Yuki Bhambri, who is returning to the circuit after dealing with knee trouble. Vishnu Vardhan, who played well in Delhi winning the doubles with Myneni and losing the singles semifinals to Vacherot, has opted out upset about not getting a wild card entry for any of the three Indian events.  The results:   Qualifying: Second round: Faisal Qamar bt Raghav Jaisinghani 6-7(4), 6-3, [10-5]; Fardeen Qamar bt Gunjan Jadhav 6-3, 6-4; Rishi Reddy bt Arjun Mahadevan 6-0, 6-2; Shahbaaz Khan bt Ajay Pruthvi Nemakal 6-0, 6-3; Karan Singh bt Kunal Anand 6-4, 6-3; Prithvi Sekhar bt B.R. Nikshep 6-4, 6-4; Lakshit Sood bt Jagmeet Singh 6-4, 6-3; Bharath Kumaran bt Abhishek Gaur 6-4, 6-1; Madhwin Kamath bt Nishant Dabas 6-4,2-6, [10-7]; Sushant Dabas bt Tarun Anirudh 6-4, 6-4; Tushar Madan bt Ankit Chopra 6-2, 7-6(5), Lakshya Gupta bt Anurag Nenwani 6-1, 6-2.   The seedings: 1. Sidharth Rawat, 2. Niki Poonacha, 3. Dusty Boyer (US), 4. Manish Sureshkumar, 5. Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam, 6. Julian Cash (G.BR), 7. Rishab Agarwal, 8. S.D. Prajwal Dev .   In doubles, Saketh Myneni will partner Yuki Bhambri, who is returning to the circuit after dealing with knee trouble||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-to-open-against-sekulic/article37637566.ece
23 November 2021||Bali,||Sindhu and Srikanth eye consistency||World champion P.V. Sindhu and former World No. 1 K. Srikanth will look for a consistent show in the $850,000 Indonesia Open starting here on Tuesday. Just days after their semifinal finishes at the Indonesia Masters Super 750, the two top Indian shuttlers will begin their campaign at the World Tour Super 1000 event. Overdue Sindhu, double Olympic medallist, last reached a final at the Swiss Open. She came close to the summit clash thrice, including her last two tournaments. Third-seeded Sindhu opens against Japan’s Aya Ohori and is likely to face Canada’s sixth seed Michelle Li in the quarterfinals. Srikanth, who claimed four titles in 2017, has regained some form with two back-to-back semifinal finishes — the Hylo Open and Indonesia Masters — last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-and-srikanth-eye-consistency/article37637085.ece
23 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Where chess reigned as a spectator sport||Chess is a lonely battle. Not in Kolkata, though. The Tata Steel Chess, which concluded at the National Library on Sunday, attracted big crowds on all the five days. Not even the pandemic could deter the enthusiasm of chess fans, as they came out to support their favourite players and watch them in action from close quarters. They would greet the players with loud cheers and would applaud their efforts when the games are over. Some of them could be seen waving Indian flags, too. Strange experience For someone playing at the Tata Steel tournament for the first time, it could be a strange experience. “It was so strange that I didn’t know how to react,” says D. Harika, the World No. 12 in women’s chess. “Then I got used to it and it felt great to play a tournament in front of a crowd. It is nice to connect with the fans.” That rarely happens in chess. The tournaments are often played in halls, with hardly any chess fan turning up to watch. But right from the first edition of the Tata Steel event in 2018, people have been coming to the venue in large numbers. In fact, they paid for the ticket in the first two years of the tournament; admission was free this year. The only other occasion one could recall of chess attracting so much attention from the local people was the World chess championship match between Viswananthan Anand and Magnus Carlsen in 2013. But, then, Chennai is Anand’s hometown and is also the chess capital of India with so many Grandmasters and so many kids learning the game. People’s passion “I think the passion the people of Kolkata have for chess is something you may not find anywhere,” says Woman International Master Saheli Dhar Barua, who is now a coach. “As someone who lives in the city, I felt so happy to see so many fans coming to the venue to watch the tournament.” People far away from Kolkata too have come to the city for this elite tournament, like Ruchika Kaushik, who flew down from Delhi. “My daughter Siya is learning chess and we wanted to watch his event,” she says. “I could see the city’s love of chess. We have been to the Gariahat flyover, under which people play chess regardless of the noise all around.” Kolkata, of course, is known for its love of sports, especially cricket and football. Looks like chess too is fast making some popular moves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/where-chess-reigned-as-a-spectator-sport/article37637087.ece
23 November 2021||Coimbatore,||Team JK Tyre keen to start the season on a positive note||Amidst the sounds of the roaring engines of the Formula LGB4 cars, the JK Tyre boys were seen discussing strategies for the upcoming season of the Indian National Rally Championship (INRC) for cars scheduled to begin in Visakhapatnam next month. The team wants to start from the City of Destiny, a new venue, on a rather positive note. And, it has none other than its international rally star Gaurav Gill to guide them in the journey. Lot of tarmac “There’s going to be lot of tarmac in Visakhapatnam and it’s something that none of us have attempted before. It is something completely new and, I am excited as well to go to a new town for the sport,” said the Arjuna awardee. “It’s going to be on a beach road, something different but similar, in terms of the tarmac surface area in Arunachal Pradesh. We have got some special compounds from JK Tyre and the cars are being set up in a completely different way to ensure maximum speed and grip on that kind of a surface,” he added. According to him, the learning never stops. “I am training my teammates and passing all the knowledge that I have gained over years of driving internationally. But, I can only take the horses to the water but cannot make them drink.” He said that he has imparted some specialised training a couple of days ago. “We were lucky to have the Kari track. We did not use the entire width but only a quarter of it to make it look like a rally track. We focused more on the finesse in driving than outright speed. The science behind driving is most important so that you can actually drive anywhere.” For the team, the cars are completely set up for tarmac. “They are very low, like race cars down to the ground, and we have got special semi-slick tyres that is safe to use on the road. Also, we have got different brakes that can encounter higher temperatures. His agenda is to have the best results and be on top of the podium. “I am trying to incorporate that into my team. It’s not going to be easy but not difficult as well if everyone puts in the effort together,” said Gill.  There’s going to be lot of tarmac in Visakhapatnam and it’s something that none of us have attempted before— Gill||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-jk-tyre-keen-to-start-the-season-well/article37637097.ece
23 November 2021||Manchester,||Michael Carrick will need to get United up and running again||One of English football’s best and possibly most underappreciated midfielders in recent years, Michael Carrick was known for his calmness, quiet authority and vision on the field. He’ll need all of those attributes now he has been thrust into one of the world’s biggest coaching jobs. Carrick, who only started his coaching career in 2018 and has never held a senior position, was named as United’s caretaker manager following the firing of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer on Sunday. In place until United finds another coach for the rest of the season, Carrick starts his new role with a crucial match away to Villarreal on Tuesday as the teams look to seal qualification to the Champions league knockout stage. They are both on seven points in Group F, two points clear of Atalanta with two games left. Carrick will need to pick up a beleaguered United team. On the upswing Atalanta though is on the upswing entering a potentially decisive visit to last-place Young Boys. “We’re experiencing a good moment,” Atalanta coach Gian Piero Gasperini said after a 5-2 win over Spezia on Saturday that included two goals from Mario Pasalic. “The team is improving. It has desire and is determined.” Barcelona enters its crucial home match in Group E against Benfica on Tuesday boosted by the arrival of former great Xavi Hernandez as its new coach. It will be his second match in charge after a league win in the Barcelona derby against Espanyol on Saturday, a result that ended a four-game winless streak in the league. Consecutive loses The Catalan club started its Champions League campaign with consecutive 3-0 losses to Bayern Munich and Benfica, but a win against the Portuguese side will allow it to clinch a spot in the knockout stage and avoid its first elimination in the group stage in nearly two decades. Bayern is already through to the next round with a perfect four wins from four games. So it’s likely coach Julian Nagelsmann would have opted to give some key players a rest at Dynamo Kyiv on Tuesday for its penultimate game in Group E. Kyiv, bottom of the group with one point, needs a win and favour from Benfica against Barcelona to stay in contention. Overshadowed Bayern’s buildup has been overshadowed by the coronavirus with five reportedly unvaccinated players – Joshua Kimmich, Serge Gnabry, Jamal Musiala, Eric-Maxim Choupo-Moting and Michael Cuisance – all in quarantine after coming into contact with someone who has COVID-19. Niklas Sule and Josip Stanisic are also in isolation after testing positive for the disease.   Tuesday’s schedule  Dynamo Kyiv vs Bayern, Villarreal vs Man United 11.15 p.m. Chelsea vs Juventus, Barcelona vs Benfica, Sevilla vs Wolfsburg, Malmo vs Zenit, Young Boys vs Atalanta, Lille vs RB Salzburg (1.30 a.m. Wednesday)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/michael-carrick-will-need-to-get-united-up-and-running-again/article37637105.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Controversies abound ahead of SZ qualifiers||After numerous controversies and problems in recent times, the Tamil Nadu team is finally ready to take the field in the South Zone phase of the Santosh Trophy National football tournament that begins in Bengaluru on Tuesday. Ignoring the 45 probables selected by renowned coaches including Raman Vijayan, C.M. Ranjith, and Robin Charles Raja, the Tamil Nadu Football Association (TFA) organised fresh selection trials, without informing the above three, under coaches Grand Durai Pandian, L.R. Titus, Azmathullah, and a few TFA officials. Speaking to The Hindu , Grand, the coach/manager of the team, insisted that TN has a good squad but didn’t want to talk much about what had happened. “I’ve asked the boys to play with intensity. We have worked hard. Having said that it would have been better if we had had a camp much earlier, say one-and-a half months in advance,” he said. Image tarnished Former India player Raman Vijayan, who was asked to be the head coach with the concurrence of Ranjit and Robin and TFA Convenor Seeni Mohideen, after the first trials at Loyola College, said the recent incidents had damaged the image of TFA and affected the morale of many players. “Votes, quotas, and politics matter to the officials than merit. I still wish Tamil Nadu qualifies,” said Vijayan. No compromise Robin said the trio didn’t make any compromise in their selections. “We slogged for three days to sift the probables from 450-odd players. We will still be happy if TN makes it,” he said. Robin insisted that there are four quality players in the current team —Srinivasan Pandiyan (formerly Chennaiyin FC), N. Vijay (formerly Chennai City FC), Senthamil, and Vikram of Bengaluru United). Ranjith appalled “What a joke! Many of the good players we selected at Loyola were not in the 45-player list they had picked in the re-selection. With no Chennai Football Association senior division league, we did our job with sincerity. In no other State this will happen,” fumed Ranjith.  The Tamil Nadu team: Nandha Kumar, Manikandan, Pandiyan, Bhoopalan, Ahino Jahine Justin Paul, Niwas, Immanuel, Gukan, Abi, Suresh, Ahammed Sahib, Srinivasan Pandian, N. Vijay, Musraff, Diwakar, Dhilipan Raj, Sai Krishna, Keerthi Mohan, Jayaruban, Senthamil, Vikram, Yogeshwaran. Coach/manager: Grand Durai Pandian & L.R. Titus.   Goalkeeping coach: Azmathullah .   I’ve asked the boys to play with intensity...it would have been better if we had had a camp much earlier Grand Durai Pandian   Votes, quotas, and politics matter to the officials than merit. I still wish Tamil Nadu qualifies Raman Vijayan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/controversies-abound-ahead-of-sz-qualifiers/article37637150.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||New-look Chennaiyin faces settled Hyderabad||Two-time champion Chennaiyin FC has had a complete overhaul this time. It has recruited a new coach in Bozidar Bandovic and acquired many Indian players and a fresh set of five foreigners. On the other hand, Hyderabad FC has a relatively settled team, having retained the core of Indian players, and acquiring two of the best foreigners in ISL — midfielder Edu Garcia (Spain) and top striker Bartholomew Ogbeche (Nigeria). Bandovic said he was aware of the challenges when Chennaiyin takes on Hyderabad in its first match of the new 2021-22 season at the Bambolim Stadium, Goa. “To bring the players together in a very short time has been a challenge. There are many new [Indian] players and many foreigners. In football, nobody waits. They want immediate results. We will handle this for sure,” said the 52-year-old Montenegrin at a virtual media interaction on Monday. According to Bandovic, the most important thing is to win. “There are different solutions we can use and I am trying to choose the best one to win the games,” he said. Chennaiyin’s Rafael Crivellaro is still nursing an injury (gluteal), while Germanpreet Singh will not play on Tuesday, also due to an (undisclosed) injury. Hyderabad’s coach Manolo Marquez, in a release, said: “We can no longer compare ourselves to the previous season [it narrowly missed out a spot in the semifinals and finished fifth). We want to continue the development of our youngsters and we want to show our fans that we can improve on last season.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-look-chennaiyin-faces-settled-hyderabad/article37637153.ece
23 November 2021||DHAKA,||Pakistan completes rout||Pakistan beat Bangladesh by five wickets in the final match to complete a sweep of the three-match T20I series here on Monday. Set 125 to win, Mohammad Nawaz sealed the contest with a boundary off the final delivery. Bangladesh skipper Mahmudullah claimed three wickets in the final over. Haider Ali top-scored for Pakistan with 45. Earlier, Mohammad Wasim (2/15) and Usman Qadir (2/35) starred for Pakistan as the host managed 124 for seven after opting to bat. Opener Mohammad Naim top-scored with 47 (50b).  The scores: Bangladesh 124/7 in 20 overs (Naim 47, Wasim 2/15, Qadir 2/35) lost to Pakistan 127/5 in 20 overs (Rizwan 40, Haider 45, Mahmudullah 3/10). Toss: Bangladesh.   Pakistan won by five wickets to clinch the series 3-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-completes-rout/article37637034.ece
23 November 2021||Kolkata,||Ashwin lends an attacking option in middle overs: Rohit||Newcomer Venkatesh Iyer, who rose to fame as a hard-hitting opener for Kolkata Knight Riders, will have to adapt to batting in the middle and lower middle-order, India T20I captain Rohit Sharma said. Venkatesh batted at six in the first and third match, and at three in the second game. The fact that Venkatesh can also chip in a few overs with his medium-pace helps his cause, Rohit added. “He bats up the order for his franchise (KKR), but it’s going to be slightly tough for him to bat up the order in the Indian team. We’ve given him a role to bat at No. 5, 6 or 7. Today, he looked composed, he was clear in his mindset, and he had a very good approach. You saw his bowling skills — he looks a very bright prospect,” Rohit said after India sealed a 3-0 series victory over New Zealand here on Sunday. Quality bowler Rohit is happy to have off-spinner R. Ashwin in the side as an “attacking option”. “Ashwin is a quality bowler. Over the years, he has proved himself with the red ball. Even with the white ball, he doesn’t have a bad record. The way he has come back in Dubai (during the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup) and the two games here shows his quality. He is an attacking option for a captain. He gives you the chance to take wickets in the middle overs, which is very important. The middle overs is where you try to put the breaks on the scoring rate while taking wickets. Ashwin provides that, along with Axar (Patel),” Rohit said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/venkatesh-looks-a-very-bright-prospect-rohit/article37637048.ece
23 November 2021||Manchester,||Spurs fight back to win||Tottenham needed a second-half fightback to launch Antonio Conte’s reign in charge with a 2-1 win over Leeds on Sunday in the Premier League. A severely depleted Leeds remains just two points above the relegation zone after threatening to spoil Conte’s first home league game since he replaced Nuno Espirito Santo.  The results:   Premier League: Tottenham 2 (Hojbjerg 58, Reguilon 69) bt Leeds 1 (James 44).   La Liga: Getafe 4 (Olivera 7, Cuenca 60, Unal 81, Mata 90) bt Cadiz 0.   Granada 1 (Suarez 34) lost to Real Madrid 4 (Asensio 19, Nacho 25, Vincius 56, Mendy 76).   Elche 0 lost to Real Betis 3 (Juanmi 12, Willian Jose 24-pen, Fekir 27); Real Sociedad 0 drew with Valencia 0.   Serie A: Bologna 0 lost to Venezia 1 (Okereke 61); Genoa 0 lost to Roma 2 (Afena-Gyan 82, 90+4); Inter Milan 3 (Calhanoglu 25-pen, Perisic 44, Martinez 61) bt Napoli 2 (Zielinski 17, Mertens 79).   Salernitana 0 lost to Sampdoria 2 (Di Tacchio 40-og, Candreva 43); Sassuolo 2 (Scamacca 37, Berardi 52-pen) drew with Cagliari 2 (Keita 40, Joao Pedro 56-pen).   Bundesliga: Freiburg 0 lost to Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Lindstrom 34, Kostic 43).   Mainz 1 (Burkardt 41) drew with Cologne 1 (Ozcan 47).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/spurs-fight-back-to-win/article37637053.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI,||Quartermilers camp moved to Thiruvananthapuram||The track relaying work at the LNCPE centre in Thiruvananthapuram is not yet complete but the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) has shifted its national camp for quartermilers, hurdlers and relay runners from Patiala to the Kerala capital. “I’ve reached Thiruvananthapuram and coach Galina (Bukharina) and others will be landing tomorrow,” said Muhammed Anas, the men’s 400m national record holder on Monday. Chief National coach Radhakrishnan Nair explained that the quartermilers’ camp had to be shifted to Thiruvananthapuram because of the cold weather in Patiala. “We have shifted mainly because of the weather conditions, it’s getting more and more cold here. They were not able to do two training sessions,” Radhakrishnan told The Hindu from Patiala. “If they start at 8 a.m., the session finishes about 10.30 a.m. and afternoon, they have to start latest by 3.30 p.m. because after 5 p.m. it is getting dark and very cold here. Need for two sessions “This is preparatory season, they need to have two sessions. That is why we failed before the Olympics, there was no place to shift them. “And it is not like throwing, the runners have to remove their heavy wear, they can’t run with the full track suit.” The chief coach said 38 athletes will be in Thiruvananthapuram, including the 4x400m relay and 400m hurdles men and women and 4x100m relay women. “A few more athletes, including Priya Mohan, the country’s fastest female this year, have been invited to join the camp. If they want, they can join,” said Radhakrishnan. Meanwhile G. Kishore, Regional Director, Sports Authority of India (Kerala), said the wet weather was the reason for the delay in completing the track work at the SAI LNCPE centre. “The track work was supposed to be completed in October but because of the unprecedented rain and other problems, we couldn’t complete it. It requires another 15 to 20 days work,” said Kishore. “But we cannot start unless we have at least 10 dry days. Unless it is totally dry, the quality of the surface will be affected. Beach running “The track work will not affect the athletes training because Galina said they will be concentrating on general conditioning training, including beach running. “They need to have synthetic track training only twice a week and they will be taken to the Chandrasekharan Nair Stadium or the University Stadium. So, there will not be any hindrance to their workouts.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/quartermilers-camp-moved-to-thiruvananthapuram/article37637083.ece
23 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Monil Lotlikar advances||Monil Lotlikar beat third seed Denim Yadav 6-4, 6-3 in the first round of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex here on Monday. The Kazakh were unable to pose much of a challenge to the Indian players. The fifth seeded Islam Orynbasar and the seventh seed Artur Khairutdinov were beaten by Muni Ananthmani and Deep Munim respectively. In the girls section, the fierce stroking Sonal Patil knocked out the second seed Zhanel Rustemova of Kazakhstan 6-7(5), 6-2, 6-4.  The results (first round):   Boys: Nikhil Mukherjee bt Devaharshith Neelam (US) 7-5, 1-0 (retired); Deep Munim bt Artur Khairutdinov 6-2, 3-6, 6-3; Daniil Felker (Kaz) bt Varnsh Nandal 6-1, 3-6, 6-1; Parv Nage bt Aditya Kothari 6-1, 6-1; Aditya Nandal bt Dhanush Patel 6-3, 6-2; Yuvan Nandal bt Ronin Lotlikar 7-5, 6-2; Muni Ana0nthmani bt Islam Orynbasar (Kaz) 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-2; Aryan Lakshmanan bt Rishi Jalota 4-6, 6-1, 6-1; Daksh Prasad bt Wyatt O’Brien 7-5, 6-4; Monil Lotlikar bt Denim Yadav 6-4, 6-3; Bushan Haobam bt Krishang Raghuvanshi 6-1, 3-6, 6-2; Max Batyutenko (Kaz) bt Saheb Sodhi 6-4, 6-4.   Girls: Shruti Ahlawat bt Aarni Reddy Yellu 6-0, 6-2; Saina Deshpande (US) bt Amodini Naik 6-2, 6-3; Erkezhan Arystanbekova (Kaz) bt Khushali Modi 6-3, 6-2; Sukhmanni Bhandari bt Sarah Kispotta 6-2, 6-3; Lakshmi Prabha bt Milee Chug 6-0, 6-0; Renne Singla bt Rutuja Chaphalkar 7-6(3), 7-6(0); Nandini Dixit bt Saumrita Verma 6-1, 6-2; Suhitha Maruri bt Riya Sachdeva 6-0, 6-0; Vaishnavi Adkar bt Madhurima Sawant 6-2, 2-6, 6-2; Ruma Gaikaiwari bt Veda Raju Prapurna 3-6, 6-2, 6-0; Sonal Patil bt Zhanel Rustemova (Kaz) 6-7(5), 6-2, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/monil-lotlikar-advances/article37637565.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Angulo on the double as Mumbai trounces Goa||An Igor Angulo-inspired Mumbai City FC began its Indian Super League (ISL) title defence with a dominant 3-0 win at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Margao on Monday. Angulo, who was deemed surplus to Goa towards the end of last season, returned to haunt his former employer with a quickfire brace to assert Mumbai’s dominance against a shaky Goan defence. ISL newcomer Ygor Catatu added a late goal to give new Mumbai head coach Des Buckingham a perfect start. Inexperienced Riddled with injuries, Goa head coach Juan Ferrando named an inexperienced starting XI. To put things in perspective, Goa’s starting back-five had a combined ISL experience of 47 appearances to Mumbai’s 246 before Monday’s game.  While an early penalty shout was turned down, there was no reprieve the second time around when Ivan Gonzalez brought down Cassio Gabriel inside the box. From the spot, Angulo slotted past Dheeraj Singh to put Mumbai ahead in the 33rd minute. Three minutes later, the Spaniard set himself up with a touch off a Raynier Fernandes pass before a toe-poked finish from the edge of the box caught Dheeraj unawares. Mumbai City capped off a memorable night with a third in the 76th minute when Catatu headed home an Ahmed Jahouh free-kick.  The result: Mumbai City FC 3 (Angulo 33-pen & 36, Catatu 76) bt FC Goa 0.   Today’s match: Hyderabad FC vs Chennaiyin FC, 7.30 p.m .    Today’s match  Hyderabad FC vs Chennaiyin FC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/angulo-on-the-double-as-mumbai-trounces-goa/article37637043.ece
23 November 2021||Adelaide,||Harmanpreet named in WBBL team of tournament||India T20 skipper Harmanpreet Kaur has been named in the Women’s Big Bash League’s official Team-of-the-Tournament after her stellar all-round performance for Melbourne Renegades this season. Manpreet scored 399 runs with three half-centuries at a strike rate of 135.25 and average of 66.5 for the Renegades. Her highest was an unbeaten 81 against Sydney Thunder last week. She has also hit a competition-best 18 sixes till now. “Harmanpreet Kaur has been a dominant force with bat and ball for the Renegades, spearheading their rise back up the ladder after joining her new club,” cricket.co.au said. Manpreet has also proved her mettle with the ball following an injury to the team’s star leg-spinner, Georgia Wareham. The 32-year-old has been brilliant in the PowerPlay, having snared 15 wickets. She also boasts of the best figures of three for 22. She is the only Indian in the WBBL XI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harmanpreet-named-in-wbbl-team-of-tournament/article37637089.ece
23 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Selection trials for women drivers||AutoGuru India along with Formula Woman UK will hold a selection trial in Vadodara on November 23 and 24 at Erda’s Speedway to give women drivers a chance to participate in the McLaren GT Cup Championship in England. In the two-day event, drivers will be assessed over five parameters i.e., driving, go-karting, physical fitness, media, and written test. The three winners from India will further progress to the UK leg where they will compete with 47 other women from across the 28 participating countries. Eventually, six women will earn a chance to participate in the championship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/selection-trials-for-women-drivers/article37637098.ece
23 November 2021||THANJAVUR:,||Santhosh claims five||R. Santhosh claimed five for 17 as Arun Nets defeated Allen CA by 75 runs in the pre-quarterfinals of the Rajappa Vandayar Memorial T20 cricket tournament, organised by the Thanjavur DCA and Rajappa Vandayar Memorial CC.  The scores (pre-quarterfinals): Cholan 100 in 20 overs (Ishaq 4/17, Noorul Haq 3/10) lost to Adirai Friends 103/4 in 16 overs (Ismail 43, Ibrahim 28, Dicruse 4/9).   Veera 73 in 17 overs (J. Bharani Dharan 3/13) lost to Sky 74/2 in 9.1 overs (K. Senthilkumar 30, J. Bharani Dharan 25 n.o.).   Arun Nets 117/6 in 20 overs (Shyam Ganesh 3/5) bt Allen CA 42 in 10.2 overs (R. Santhosh 5/17, U. Prakash 3/10).   Edge Fighters 142/8 in 18 overs (P. Suthakar 37, P. Raja Durai 30) bt Young Stars 83 in 15 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santhosh-claims-five/article37637212.ece
23 November 2021||HOUSTON,||Task cut out for Indian paddlers||In a field studded with some of the world’s best, Indian players will have to do more than just put their best foot forward to make a mark in the World table tennis (individual) championships to be held here from November 23 to 29. Fan Zhendong, Tomakazu Harimoto, Hugo Calderano among others in men’s singles and Chen Meng, Sun Yingsha, Mima Ito in the women’s would be the star attractions in the event. Sharath Kamal (24) and G. Sathiyan (30) have been seeded in the men’s singles main draw. Sharath takes on Cedric Nuytink of Belgium (ranked 73) while Sathiyan locks horns with Ukraine’s Yaroslav Zhmudenko (140). Manika Batra will have a tricky opponent in Bruna Takashi of Brazil in the women’s round of 128.   The team:   Men: Sharath Kamal, G. Sathiyan, Harmeet Desai, A. Amalraj; Women: Manika Batra, Sutirtha Mukherjee, Ayhika Mukherjee, Madhurika Patkar.   Doubles: Men: Sathiyan-Sharath (13th seed) and Harmeet & Amalraj; Women: Manika-Archana (10th); Madhurika-Sutirtha; Mixed: Sathiyan-Manika (9th); Sharath-Archana .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/task-cut-out-for-indian-paddlers/article37637052.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Anandraj and Harshavardhini bag titles||R. Anandraj of SRSA and C.R. Harshavardhini of RBRC clinched the men’s and women’s singles titles in the Win News TNTTA State Championship that concluded on Sunday.  The results (finals): Men: R. Anandraj (SRSA) bt V. Abinay (ITTC) 6-11, 11-9, 12-10, 11-8, 10-12, 12-10.   Women: C.R. Harshavardhini (RBRC) bt S. Sharmitha (DTTA) 11-9, 11-9, 11-7, 8-11, 14-12.   Boys: U-19: S. Preyesh (RTTHPC) bt P. Raghuraam (Vinwin) 11-4, 11-8, 6-11, 11-4; U-17: S Preyesh (RTTHPC) bt Navaneeth Kutty (RTTHPC) (11-9, 11-3, 11-8; U-15: M.R. Balamurugan (RTTHPC) bt A. Prajith Kumar (Vinwin) 11-5, 11-9, 11-6; U-13: Nikhil Menon (MST) bt Vishruth Ramakrishnan (MST) 8-11, 11-7, 11-1, 11-6; U-11: R. Akash Rajavelu (MST) bt A.B. Tharoon (DTTA) 11-9, 11-7, 11-8.   Girls: U-19: S. Nalene Amrutha (MVM) bt S. Sharmitha (DTTA) 7-11, 11-8, 12-10, 12-14, 11-9; U-17: M. Hansini (MST) bt Nalene Amrutha 5-11, 11-7, 1-11, 11-3, 11-8; U-15: I. Marzuqah (ITTC) bt B.R. Nandhini (MVM) 11-8, 11-13, 11-6, 11-5; U-13: Hansini bt Nandhini 2-11, 11-5, 12-10, 12-10; U-11: K. Ananya (ITTC) bt G. Varnika (MTTTA) 11-2, 7-11, 11-7, 4-11, 11-4.   Veteran: R. Ramachandran (RBRC) bt V. Senthil Kumar (ITTC) 11-5, 4-11, 9-11, 11-8, 12-10.   Corporate: J. Arun Kumar (DBAA) bt N. Aditya (M2P Fintech) 8-11, 11-9, 7-11, 11-9, 11-7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anandraj-and-harshavardhini-bag-titles/article37637152.ece
23 November 2021||KOCHI:,||Aadhya jolts Megha, to meet Pavithra in final||Kerala Blasters FC winger K.P. Rahul has sustained an injury in the recent Indian Super League opener against ATK Mohun Bagan and will now exit the bio-bubble in Goa. “Initial observations suggest a partial tear of the groin muscle. For further investigation, the player will exit the bio-bubble in Goa and travel to Mumbai soon,” said the Blasters in a statement. Blasters plays NorthEast United in its next match on November 25 at Fatorda. Alappuzha’s top-seeded S. Akshit will clash with Ernakulam’s S. Abhishek, the No. 2, in the under-17 boys final of the Kerala State junior badminton championships at the Fr. Joseph Paikada Stadiium, Devagiri, on Tuesday. Meanwhile in the under-17 girls section, Thrissur’s unseeded Aadhya Shine will meet fifth-seeded Pavithra Jayaraj in the final. Aadhya upset the top-seeded S. Megha in the quarterfinal earlier.  The results (singles): Boys: Under-19 quarterfinals: Athul John Mathew (Pkd) bt Mikhael S. Varghese (Tvm) 21-15, 21-12; Fazim Abdu Anzar (Tsr) bt Robens V. Roney (Alp) 21-12, 28-26; S.D. Aadithyan (Tvm) bt Sridhar Sreekumar (Tsr) 21-16, 22-20; Bharath Latheesh (Tsr) bt S. Abhishek (Ekm) 21-13, 12-21, 21-11.   Under-17: Semifinals: S. Akshit (Alp) bt T.S. Arjun (Alp) 21-19, 21-16; S. Abhishek (Ekm) bt Bharath Latheesh (Tsr) 21-16, 21-11.   Quarterfinals: Akshit bt Joseph Dilraj (Tsr) 17-21, 21-16, 21-9; Arjun (Alp) bt Pranav Vallathoor (Tsr) 17-21, 21-10, 21-6; Bharath bt S.M. Aman Suresh (Tvm) 21-14, 21-14; Abhishek bt Mikhael S. Varghese (Tvm) 21-10, 22-20.   Girls: Under-19 quarterfinals: Pavithra Naveen (Ekm) Pavithra Jayaraj (Alp) 21-5, 21-12; T.R. Gowri Krishna bt Saniya Baby (Ekm) 16-21, 21-17, 21-6; Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) bt C.H. Keerthika 21-17, 14-21, 24-22; Diya Arun (Ekm) bt Farza Nazrin (Tvm) 21-18, 21-16.   Under-17: Semifinals: Aadhya Shine (Tsr) bt Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) 21-11, 21-18; Pavithra Jayaraj (Alp) bt C.H. Keerthika (Knr) 21-6, 22-20.   Quarterfinals: Aadhya bt S. Megha (Alp) 11-21, 21-17, 21-16; Nayana bt P.G. Alakananda (Ekm) 21-15, 21-15; Pavithra bt Farza Nazrin (Tvm) 21-8, 21-17; Keerthika bt Meenakshi Vinu (Tvm) 21-10, 21-13 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aadhya-jolts-megha-to-meet-pavithra-in-final/article37637499.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 10:18 IST,||Sudoku — November 23, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-23-2021/article37638415.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||No distance is too far to bridge||A five-year-old boy misses his parents who have flown back to the United States, leaving him in the care of his grandparents in India. His grandmother shows him the world map and explains that it is not easy for his mother to fly back at short notice. But soon, the boy comes up with his own understanding of distance and asserts that it is not tough to bridge it. The 32-minute Telugu short film titled Shades of [Baby] Pink , directed by first-timer Neelima Gudavalli, narrates the story of a child battling emotional distress. The film is making its presence felt in the international film festival circuit — it was selected for the Chicago International Indie Film Festival and Golden Leaf International Film Festival, and has bagged awards at the Port Blair International Film Festival, Milan Gold Awards, and Golden Leaf International Film Festival, to name a few. Neelima hopes to make the film available for viewing on a digital platform. The team The short film stars child actor Yashvasin along with Jayalalitha, Krishna Manjusha, Srinivas Bhogireddy and Suchith. Filmed at Hyderabad in August 2021, the short is the handiwork of a talented crew that includes cinematographer Nimish Ravi (known for his work in the 2019 Malayalam film Luca ), editor KSR, production designer Anees Nadodi and sound designer Teja Asgk. Neelima is a data scientist at a multinational company and divides her time between Hyderabad and Seattle. The idea for this film came up in early 2020 when she was on a flight from Seattle to India. “It is common to see grandparents bringing children back to India, since child care is expensive and time is a luxury if both parents are working in Seattle. Usually children fall asleep after boarding the flight and wake up during the stopover in Dubai. One boy was inconsolable when he woke up and didn’t find his parents. Neither toys nor the kind words of his grandmother helped. He cried till he fell asleep again. I was moved to tears,” she recalls. For days after that, Neelima kept thinking of the boy and began writing a fictional story of a child growing up with caring grandparents and yet facing emotional stress in his parents’ absence. Neelima says she had wanted to be a filmmaker as a teen. But her family thought a career in cinema, with all its uncertainties, would be risky. She ventured into a corporate career after an MBA. “I was inclined towards writing,” she says, recalling penning a few short stories forVisalaandhrain her school days, encouraged by her grandfather. Self-taught filmmaker The professionalism that is evident in Shades of [Baby] Pink would make one think she trained in filmmaking formally. Neelima says, “While writing this film, I was clear of what and how I wanted to narrate it. So not having learnt the ropes of screenplay writing was not a dampener.” She wrote the script, detailing the camera angles and shot divisions. She then read up on filmmaking online, found the technical terms and incorporated them into her script. “I felt that the story needs to be told,” says Neelima. “Often, families bring back young children to India with an intention of giving them better facilities. However, children can undergo emotional stress in the absence of parents. We undermine the intelligence with which children can counter an adult’s statements.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/no-distance-is-too-far-to-bridge/article37637491.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Your office dabba, packed by a neighbour||Every day by 8.30 a.m., Haritha Raghavan packs 30 tiffin boxes for residents in and around Sholinganallur in Chennai. By 11.30 a.m., she finishes preparing lunch, and then moves on to making evening snacks. This routine continued even during the recent heavy rains and floods as she had anticipated the situation and stocked up groceries and vegetables and supplied the meals to customers who mostly lived in the same apartment complex or gated community. Even when most delivery services suspended movement during the floods, home chefs seamlessly began to offer meals in the neighbourhood. On days there are cricket matches, Haritha adds burgers and pizza to the menu. “I am punctual because parents working from home need to make sure that their kids, taking online classes, are fed on time,” says Haritha. As a volunteer for Chennai Sappadu, Haritha was actively providing home-cooked meals during the lockdowns. In September last year, she launched food4souull to help people in her apartment complex, Doshi Risington, in Karapakkam. She creates a weekly menu plan and posts it on the building’s WhatsApp group for pre-orders on a monthly subscription model. “My elderly customers request salt-free, or less spicy food, food that is mashed well, and sometimes bland soup. All this is possible when you know the caterer,” says Haritha. When the first lockdown was announced towards the end of March 2020, many families that depended on their domestic help, cooks or food delivery services were affected. During those initial days of confusion, a group of enterprising homemakers emerged as saviours for their apartments and neighbourhoods. These women began supplying home-cooked meals to neighbours and building staff. What started as a helping hand extended during the lockdown has given way to the rise of food businesses. And now with offices reopening, home cooks are also offering dabbas to employees who prefer avoiding canteens at workplaces. The family pitches in “The concept is catching up in Chennai after the many lockdowns,” says Abilasha Poddar, a home chef based out of OMR. “Many people have lost jobs or have had pay cuts. Women who have excellent culinary skills are trying to pitch in and help the family financially. The best part is elders in the family of these caterers also feel useful and relevant. Mothers-in-law pitch in, sharing signature recipes, fathers-in-law pack meals, attend calls and keep track of orders...” When the lockdown was announced, Abilasha supplied lunch and dinner for security guards at Hiranandani who stayed back to help the community. “Gradually, bachelors, elderly people and young couples, who were working from home and had toddlers, began to approach me. They found such an arrangement, within the community they live in, most convenient,” she says. While her chaat was in high demand during the initial lockdowns, now her soup and salad monthly package for dinner has become all the rage among younger clients. In Thiruvanmiyur, Harsha Goyal ran was running a beauty parlour before the pandemic hit. Unable to pay the rent, she had to shut it down. “Then my husband lost his well-paying job and we were on the verge of moving back to Delhi, where his family is based. But friends motivated me to get into the food business, so in September 2020, I began to offer Punjabi lunch during the weekends and gradually started daily snacks and dinner as well. Today, I am catering to a wide clientele within five kilometres radius of my house in Thiruvanmiyur,” says Harsha. Her husband helps by shopping for groceries, cutting vegetables and packing and delivering the food. “Lockdown or floods, we continue with our on time and assured delivery,” says Harsha. “Of course, I find it hard to prepare large portions of food in my compact apartment. But I don’t mind, as my husband and I have supported each other and survived the most challenging times.” She adds, “We also find joy in making life easier for the neighbourhood.”  What’s cooking?  At Hiranandani, OMR: Abilasha Poddar’s Xtreme Indulgence. Try the Mexican combo, momos, dal bhaati and churma.  At Olympia, Navalur: Chef Deepa Prakash’s Tipsy Topsy Bakes. Try her cookies and brownies  In Sholinganallur: Haritha Raghavan’s food4souull. Try the South and North Indian office dabbas.  In Thiruvanmiyur: Nidhi’s Kitchen by Harsha Goyal. Try the bread-paneer pakora, dahi puri, Punjabi thali and dal makhni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/your-office-dabba-packed-by-a-neighbour/article37637487.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Taking the wheel||It’s a cold November evening in London when Rosamund Pike steps on to the blue carpet at the BFI IMAX in Waterloo. Dressed in a hooded sheer white toga-style Christian Dior silk gown and bodysuit, the Oscar nominee looks like she’s just magicked herself there from the White Tower of Tar Valon, the seat of the mighty Aes Sedai in The Wheel of Time series. Quite fitting for the British actor who plays Moiraine Damodred, a powerful magic-user from author Robert Jordan’s 14-book high fantasy — who upends the lives of five youngsters in her quest to find the Dragon Reborn, a messiah of sorts to stop the ultimate evil. Pike is the last to arrive at the premiere of the new Amazon Prime Video series, but also one of the most anticipated. Her remark about how you’ll see “more naked men than naked women” in the show “which is quite pleasing, since women have been asked to expose themselves forever and a day” has already been doing the rounds online. At the time, she was responding to the inevitable comparisons with Game of Thrones . Though the Gone Girl actor’s blue carpet appearance is brief, she finds time to tell me that it’s the representation of gender that drew her to the series. “Usually a guide character in any fantasy book is a man, and here it was interesting to see a woman who changes the lives of people. So, in the spiritual sense, it came at the right time for me to explore a power outside of myself,” she says, adding, “The whole idea of channelling was also very appealing to me.” On the carpet Urban legend has it that The Wheel of Time series, which started shooting in Prague over two-and-a-half years ago, came about because Amazon’s Jeff Bezos wanted to create a fantasy that would surpass Game of Thrones’ success. What better then than an epic that has maintained its active fan base over 23 years, 14 volumes (with over 90 million copies sold worldwide), the death of the writer, and the completion of the saga by another writer using the notes and deathbed audio recordings that Jordan had made before he succumbed to a rare blood disease. The on-screen adaptation has been a Herculean task — condensing its thousands of characters, many nations, centuries of history and the sprawling geography. The common emotion on the blue carpet is excitement. I watch New Zealand actor Zoë Robins (who plays Nynaeve al’Meara, one of the five youngsters) in her off-shoulder lime green Valentino gown, as I await my turn for a quick chat with Daniel Henney. The American actor — known for his roles in several Korean and Hollywood films, including Seducing Mr Perfect and X Men Origins: Wolverine — is stylishly dressed in a slim grey suit and black polo neck. He plays al’Lan Mandragoran, Moiraine’s warder, a magically-enhanced bodyguard of sorts, and admits he’s racing through the first book, Eye of the World. “I need to be up to speed as we are doing press,” he laughs, adding that he loves being a man in a woman’s world. “Following a powerful woman into the dark and to see where we end up, is special. And working with Pike is a challenge I am most excited about.” Correcting the gaze The fantasy tale is directed by a woman, a breakthrough of sorts for German cinematographer-director Uta Briesewitz, who is thrilled to be helming a show of this scale — an “opportunity reserved for male directors in the past”. Speaking about comparisons with The Lord of the Rings and Game of Thrones, she says, “This is a show about women being in power and how they wield it. If we gave women opportunity we could get the world in balance.” With its diverse cast, inclusivity is a topic of discussion on the blue carpet. It brings to mind Pike’s recent interview with Radio Times, where she talked about receiving fan letters, where many men wrote to her about how the women in the stories “were role models for them growing up”. Amazon Prime Video has already confirmed season two, and shooting has begun. Meanwhile, season one premiered on November 19 to mixed reviews. Watch the cast in conversation with Puja Talwar on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/taking-the-wheel/article37637488.ece
23 November 2021||Mumbai,||Oppn. slams MVA Govt. move to cut duty on imported liquor||The Opposition in Maharashtra has questioned the MVA Government’s decision to reduce excise duty on imported liquor saying taxes on fuel should have been reduced. The Excise Department took the decision to curb smuggling of the liquor from other States and bootlegging. The State receives around Rs. 100 crore from the taxes on the liquor which is less than 1% of excise revenue. “The central excise duty is imposed on imported liquor. Other States charge almost negligible duty on it while Maharashtra charges a hefty 300% which is why it is the costliest in the State,” said an official from the Department. ‘Tax reduced to 150%’ As per the notification on November 18, the tax has been reduced to 150% which will see the prices of imported liquor dropping by 30 to 50%. According to the officer, the high cost has led to smuggling, bootlegging and bringing liquor from passenger flights etc. The State was to get Rs. 175 crore to Rs. 200 crore from taxes on the liquor up to 2017-18. It drastically fell down to Rs. 100 crore in the last two years due to increase in the service tax by 5% in October 2018 and again in April 2021. The Department points out that despite the lockdown where foreign travel was at standstill, the revenue has not risen implying increased smuggling from other States. “This will reduce the smuggling as prices will be on par with those from the other States and also curb the bootlegging,” he said, adding that revenue might exceed Rs. 100 crore. Opposition BJP has however targeted the State Government for the decision. “The Government instead of reducing taxes on petrol and diesel has chosen to cut taxes on alcohol. This is not Maha Vikas Aghadi but Madya [alcohol in Marathi] Vikas Aghadi Government,” said Tushar Bhosle, president, BJP’s spiritual front. The Opposition has been demanding reduction of taxes on fuel for over a week now after the Central Government had cut taxes on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 respectively. Congress demand The Congress, part of the tripartite MVA Government, too has raised the demand for the same. The NCP, which holds the Finance portfolio, has neither made any announcement nor Finance Minister Ajit Pawar has issued any clarification in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/oppn-slams-mva-govt-move-to-cut-duty-on-imported-liquor/article37637249.ece
23 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Samajwadis slow off the blocks in the run-up to U.P. polls||A fawning biography of party president Akhilesh Yadav followed by the launch of a new ‘Samajwadi’ perfume, described as ‘scent of socialism’, projected Mr. Yadav as a progressive leader with a focus on development and youth, but ground reports suggest that, so far, the party has not been able to amplify the issues that the BJP had given it on a platter. The perfume, prepared in Kannauj, may have a mix of 22 fragrances, but the party is yet to arrive at an amalgamation of its alliance partners to take on the BJP that is feeling resurgent after the repeal of farm laws. Big announcements were expected on patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav's birthday on Monday but Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Singh didn’t even tweet birthday wishes to the three-time Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh who counts Chaudhary Charan Singh as his mentor. Uncle Shivpal Yadav, president of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (PSP), who was expected to share the stage with his elder brother at a public event in Lucknow, chose to celebrate Netaji's birthday in Saifai, the Yadavs’ fiefdom. Mr. Yadav chose to cut the cake with Ram Gopal Yadav, his elder uncle, who shared a tumultuous relationship with Mr. Shivpal. It was only in the evening that Mr. Shivpal paid a visit to Netaji, as the SP patron is popularly called, at his residence and wished him. Missing the moment Observers find it ironic that the BJP had given multiple issues to the Opposition but the party that was best placed to seize the opportunity has not been quick on the uptake. More than the rallies, they say, Samajwadis should be seen protesting on streets and collectorates and making inroads into the non-Yadav OBCs, the strong point of the BJP. Instead, Mr. Yadav has come across as a leader who fuels vaccine hesitancy and brings back Jinnah to the political narrative to counter Asaduddin Owaisi who is making his presence felt in the region. The SP’s proactive prospective alliance partners describe Mr. Yadav as a slow starter in a crucial election. A senior leader of the RLD, requesting anonymity, said by the time Akhilesh started his Vijay Rath (Yatra), “the RLD had covered two chapters of the election syllabus. We feel the farms laws are being repealed because of RLD’s groundwork and SP should respect this fact.” Sources said while RLD was asking for 60 seats in western U.P., the SP was not ready to give more than 25. Things are not too different with Mr. Shivpal’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (PSP) either. Dr. Rakshpal Singh, vice-president of the PSP, after long innings with the Aligarh unit of SP, said PSP was keen for an alliance and even open for merger with the SP but not at the cost of dignity. “Though Shivapalji has developed the PSP network across the State, both parties have realised that they are not complete without each other. In the last two or three years, Akhilesh has missed the acumen of his uncle in running the organisation,” Dr. Singh said. Sources said talks had started with Mr. Shivpal asking for 75 seats, one in each district, but now things have come down on selecting winnable candidates in the PSP. Observers say Mr. Yadav can’t milk his father's legacy any more and the delay in declaring the alliance will only increase the bargaining power of the prospective partners. Mirza Asmer Beg, professor of political science in Aligarh Muslim University said if Mr. Yadav felt that the anger against the BJP government was so strong that people will automatically walk to his side, he was mistaken. “There is anger but there is a strong TINA (there is no alternative) factor as well. There was clear mismanagement of COVID but SP can’t say much because its leadership was also missing from the ground. There is farm distress and inflation but the party has yet to come out with its manifesto. Local Muslim leaders are being pushed out of photo ops but remarks on Jinnah are being defended. There is no harm in admitting mistakes and moving on.” Like Rahul Gandhi, Prof. Beg pointed out that Mr. Yadav seemed to be struggling to find his feet between the old and the new guard. ‘He addressed the youth’ Dr .Sheeba Khalid, sociologist and author of I am Akhilesh, said nobody could deny that Mr. Yadav had addressed the youth, professed an agenda for development, and sought to rise above the divisions of caste and religion. “There was a time when the SP was called a party of goons. Mr. Yadav has worked hard to change this image by distributing laptops and investing in infrastructure projects,” she said. With the PM revoking the farm laws, he has to find yet another aroma to keep what BJP’ calls ‘nationalist' farmers in the fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/samajwadis-slow-off-the-blocks-in-the-run-up-to-up-polls/article37637247.ece
23 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Rs. 1,000 per month for women in Punjab if AAP wins, says Kejriwal||In an attempt to garner the support of women in Punjab ahead of the 2022 Assembly election, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced to give Rs. 1,000 per month to all women above the age of 18 years, if AAP forms the next government in the State. Mr. Kejriwal, who was in Moga to launch the party’s ‘mission Punjab’ programme asserted that the AAP would form the government in Punjab in 2022, and Rs. 1,000 monthly will be given with a guarantee to all women above 18 years of age by the AAP government. “As soon as the AAP government is formed, every daughter above 18 years, sister, mother, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, and grandmother will get Rs. 1,000 per month in their accounts. I guarantee it. I have made this decision very thoughtfully and with full calculation, because what I say I do. The government of Delhi and the people of Delhi are witnesses to this,” he said. “This Rs. 1,000 to be received by each woman will be different from the monthly old-age pension, widow pension, disability pension or dependency pension already received by the women. Similarly, if there are women in a family above 18 years of age including daughter, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law or grandmother; they will all get one thousand rupees each,” he added. Mr. Kejriwal said the future of Punjab can change in the same way, as the AAP government has changed in Delhi. “All the pro-people models of Delhi can be implemented in Punjab in a more spectacular way. Therefore, this election must be fought together by all. This time the women in the house will decide who to vote for, because this time a chance has to be given to Kejriwal,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rs-1000-per-month-for-women-in-punjab-if-aap-wins-says-kejriwal/article37637242.ece
23 November 2021||Itanagar,||Arunachal holding talks with Assam on border issue: Minister||Arunachal Pradesh Home Minister Bamang Felix on Monday said the State government has started holding discussions with its Assam counterpart to resolve the long-pending boundary dispute between the two North-eastern neighbours. Both the governments have agreed to maintain status quo and resolve the matter peacefully, he said. The discussions began after the Assam forest department last week served an eviction notice to residents of three villages on the disputed border. “This is unfortunate. The matter has been taken seriously by the State government and talks have begun at various levels,” Mr. Felix told reporters here. State Chief Minister Pema Khandu has spoken to his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma on the issue, he said. “The State Chief Secretary and the Inspector General of Police have taken up the matter with their Assam counterparts,” Mr. Felix said. The Range Forest Officer (RFO) of Harmutty in Assam’s North Lakhimpur district issued a notice asking people of three villages under Kimin Circle to vacate the place within 15 days, evoking resentment among various organisations in Arunachal Pradesh. “The DCs and SPs of adjoining districts of the two States are already on talks to resolve the matter,” the Home Minister said. Arunachal, which was carved out of Assam, was initially a Union territory. It became a full-fledged State in 1987. Arunachal’s grievance The State’s grievance is that during re-organisation of Northeastern States, several forested tracts in the plains that had traditionally belonged to hill tribal chiefs and communities were unilaterally transferred to Assam. After Arunachal Pradesh achieved Statehood, a tripartite committee was appointed which recommended that certain territories be transferred from Assam to Arunachal. Assam contested this and the matter is now pending in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/arunachal-holding-talks-with-assam-on-border-issue-minister/article37637243.ece
23 November 2021||Mumbai,||BJP tries course correction in Maharashtra polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s decision to nominate OBC leader from Vidarbha and former Energy Minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule as one of the five candidates for the biennial election to the Maharashtra Legislative Council is seen as party’s attempt to reconcile with its core voter in the region. Two out of five BJP candidates are Congress-turned-BJP leaders. Mr. Bawankule, known to be a close aide of Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, was unceremoniously denied ticket in the 2019 Assembly polls. The party though managed to win the seat, it did suffer the OBC backlash in number of Assembly constituencies in Vidarbha. Since then, Mr. Bawankule was kept in close tandem with the State leadership and was in the forefront when the row over OBC reservation in local civic bodies erupted. “Lessons were learnt by the BJP after its defeat in Nagpur graduate constituency election of the Maharashtra legislative council. It cannot afford to neglect OBC leaders in politically most important region for the party,” said senior journalist and political commentator Amey Tirodkar. Election Commission of India (ECI) has announced the schedule for the biennial election to the Maharashtra Legislative Council from five local authorities for six seats due to retirement of sitting members on January 1, 2022. The election will be held on December 10 and result will be declared on December 14. The term of eight sitting MLCs is set to expire on January 2022. However with regard to local authorities’ constituencies election, the ECI has laid down the guidelines that if at least 75% of the local authorities in the constituency are functioning and in addition at least 75% of the electors out of the total electorate are available, then electorate is treated as available for electing MLC. Based on this, only five out of seven local authorities fulfil the criteria leading to election on only six seats, instead of eight. The seven local authorities include, Mumbai (Ramdas Kadam of Shiv Sena and Bhai Jagtap of Congress), Kolhapur (Satej Patil of Congress), Dhule-cum-Nandurbar (Amrishbhai Patel, Congress-turned-BJP), Akola-cum-Buldhana-cum-Washim (Gopikishan Bajoriya of Shiv sena), Nagpur (Girish Vyas of BJP), Solapur (Prashant Paricharak, independent) and Ahmednagar (Arunkaka Jagtap of NCP). As per the ECI, elections will not be held in Solapur and Ahmednagar. While the BJP has chosen its core member, Mr Bawankule, from Nagpur, it has nominated Amrish Patel from Dhule-cum-Nandurbar and Rajhans Singh from Mumbai. Both these are senior leaders from Congress who switched to the BJP before 2019 polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-tries-course-correction-in-maharashtra-polls/article37637245.ece
23 November 2021||Jabalpur,||Tiger deaths: notices to M.P. Govt., Centre||The Madhya Pradesh High Court on Monday served notices to the State, Centre and others on a PIL seeking the setting up of a special tiger protection force, akin to Karnataka, following the death of 36 big cats in the last twelve months in the State. Madhya Pradesh, incidentally, is dubbed as tiger State with the highest number of big cats in the country, the petitioner's counsel said. Protection force sought “Thirty six tigers have died, including three since October 31 this year. Karnataka has set an example by constituting a Special Tiger Protection Force which is saving big cats and is being praised across the world for bringing down poaching. Such a force is needed in M.P.,” the petitioner's counsel Aditya Sanghi told the court. Deputy Advocate General Swapnil Ganguly said a division bench issued notices to the MP government, the Union government and the National Tiger Conservation Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tiger-deaths-notices-to-mp-govt-centre/article37637234.ece
23 November 2021||Seoni,||Leopard mauls boy to death in M.P.||A 10-year-old tribal boy was mauled to death by a leopard in Madhya Pradesh’s Seoni district on Monday morning, officials said. The incident occurred when a group of boys, all residents of Ghorlatola (Pandiwada), was playing on a road near the village. Keolari area forest ranger S.K. Vanwale said the feline attacked the boys around 7 a.m. and grabbed one of them. The leopard mauled the boy to death while other boys fled, he said. Angered by the incident, villagers later reached the spot and tried to capture the big cat. One of them was injured during the melee, he said. A rescue team has been called from the Pench National Park to tranquilise and capture the leopard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/leopard-mauls-boy-to-death-in-mp/article37637235.ece
23 November 2021||Mumbai,||HC seeks MSRTC report by Dec. 20||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed the three-member committee, set up by the Maharashtra government on the issue of merging the employees of the cash-strapped Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) into the State government, to submit its preliminary report on December 20.  Appeal to end stir A division Bench of Justices P.B. Varale and S.M. Modak also requested the striking MSRTC employees to reconsider their stand and report to duty as several persons, especially children, in rural areas were facing difficulties due to lack of convenient and economic transport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-seeks-msrtc-report-by-dec-20/article37637236.ece
23 November 2021||November 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Makhija’s two festival shorts||Devashish Makhija’s short films Cheepatakadumpa (Hindi) and Cycle (multilingual) can’t be more different. The former, which was screened recently at the Dharamshala International Film Fest and won the Gender Sensitivity Award, is about three girls in a small town speaking about physical desire using a tomato as a demonstration tool. C ycle ,  which  premieres at the upcoming International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala, is about systemic violence by the state against people of the forest. If Cheepatakadumpa leaves you chuckling at the irreverent conclusion, Cycle forces you to acknowledge tribal people’s right to determine their lives. In both films, the gaze is intimate and immediate, not voyeuristic. In Cycle the camera zooms in, focussing on the pain of the young tribal girl, and the perpetrators are mostly voices in the background. The effect is chilling. “I came up with the idea to shoot this way, inspired by the group called Video Volunteers. They trained people to use any available device to record what was happening around them. I first used it in my short film, Agli Baar, in 2015, and took it a little further in Cycle . I structured the film as being shot by someone very close to the scene of action,” Makhija says. Makhija wanted to make Cycle six years ago, but waited because, thanks to the subject of the film, no one was really willing to back it. “Funding posed a problem as the subject put people off, and I was not willing to hold back on what I wanted to say. When my father passed, I had the money I’d set aside for his treatment. I felt he empowered me to make the film. It was shot near Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, and most of the cast were people who had never faced a camera before,” he says.  Cheepatakadumka is named after a phrase Makhija’s father often used. It refers to a game like hide-and-seek or tag — ideal for a film that set out to speak about ‘that which must not be spoken, women’s sexuality’. “I tried not to be preachy. The film was born of conversations with Bhumika Dube [Teja in the film] and Ipshita Chakraborty Singh, from National School of Drama, and hailing from small-towns. Gender was one of the things we spoke about, and I asked them to throw all their experiences at me and see if we could structure a story. It was a very organic process,” he says.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/makhijas-two-festival-shorts/article37637568.ece
