24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, U.S. commit to linking economies across sectors||The United States and India committed to integrating their economies across sectors to harness the untapped potential of the bilateral relationship, at the Trade Policy Forum convened after a gap of four years on Tuesday. Co-chaired by Commerce and Industry, Textiles, Consumer Affairs and Food & Public Distribution Minister Piyush Goyal and U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador Katherine Tai, the Forum resolved to take economic ties between the two countries to the ‘next high level’ and exchanged views on ‘potential targeted tariff reductions’. The two sides decided to activate working groups of the Trade Policy Forum (TPF) on agriculture, non-agriculture goods, services, investment, and intellectual property to meet frequently and address issues of mutual concern in a mutually beneficial manner. The idea is to deliver tangible benefits to farmers and businesses of both countries by resolving outstanding market access issues. Mutual market access Specifically, the Forum has decided to forge an agreement to facilitate U.S. market access for mangoes, grapes, and pomegranates, pomegranate arils from India, and reciprocate with similar access in the Indian market to cherries, pork/pork products and alfalfa hay for animal feed from the U.S Discussions will also be held on enhancing market access for products such as distillers’ dried grains with solubles from the U.S. and resolving market access concerns for water buffalo meat and wild caught shrimp from India. ‘Restore GSP benefits’ The Indian side has sought restoration of the GSP (Generalized System of Preferences) benefits by the U.S. and said this would help industries from both sides in integrating their supply chain efficiently. The United States noted it ‘for suitable consideration’, an official statement said. The Forum also agreed on the significance of negotiating a Social Security Totalization Agreement in the interest of workers from both sides, and pursuing further engagements for reaching such an agreement. The agreement, being pursued for over a decade, would allow workers from both countries to move their retirement savings. The absence of such an agreement particularly affects Indian IT workers in the U.S., who lose billions of dollars in U.S. social security contributions that they cannot repatriate home. With the WTO ministerial meeting coming up next week, India and the U.S. also discussed collaboration and constructive engagement in various multilateral trade bodies, including the WTO and the G20 for achieving a shared vision of a transparent, rules-based global trading system among market economies and democracies. The Forum also decided to find mutually agreed solutions on outstanding WTO disputes. Ms. Tai and Mr. Goyal directed the TPF working groups to develop plans of action for making substantive progress by March 2022. The plans would include identifying specific trade outcomes that could be finalised for an inter-sessional TPF meeting to be held by mid-2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-us-commit-to-linking-economies-across-sectors/article37655590.ece
24 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Pradeep Shettar, Saleem Ahmed file nomination papers in Dharwad||Official candidates of the BJP and the Congress, Pradeep Shettar and Saleem Ahmed, respectively, filed their nomination papers for the election to the Legislative Council Local Authorities Constituency in Dharwad on Tuesday, the last date for filing nomination papers. As many as 12 candidates filed 21 sets of nomination papers before the deadline ended. “One nomination paper was filed on November 17 and two sets on November 18 and 21 sets on Tuesday. In all, 12 candidates have filed 24 sets of nomination papers,” Deputy Commissioner and Returning Officer Nitesh Patil said. Prior to filing nomination papers at the Deputy Commissioner’s Office in Dharwad, both Mr. Pradeep Shettar (MLC) and Mr. Saleem Ahmed led huge processions in which a large number of party workers and leaders took part. Apart from them, Fakkirreddy Attigeri and Shivakumar Talawar, both from the Janata Party, and independent candidates Basavaraj S. Kotagi, Mallikarjun Haveri, Virupakshagouda Patil, Irappa Gubber, Nageshappa Padeppanavar, Mahesh Joshi, Mahesh Hogesoppin and Manjunath Admani have filed their nomination papers. In the two-seat constituency, both the BJP and the Congress have fielded single candidates as they didn’t want to take any chance by fielding a second candidate. Consequently, both the parties are confident of an easy victory. While Mr. Pradeep Shettar represents the constituency, Srinivas Mane, who won in the last Council election, has now shifted to the Legislative Assembly with a win in the bypoll in Hangal. Despite a large number of aspirants from the region, the Congress has now fielded Mr. Saleem Ahmed, who contested unsuccessfully twice in the Parliamentary elections from Haveri. Although his candidature has led to voices of dissent in the Congress circle, the high command has managed to placate the local aspirants. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Saleem Ahmed said that as he had contested twice from Haveri in the Parliamentary elections, he was familiar with the constituency and thanked the party high command for considering his candidature. The former Minister and senior leader H.K. Patil justified the party’s decision to field a single candidate in the constituency terming it a strategic move. Mr. Patil also accused the BJP government in the State of not holding the elections to the zilla and taluk panchayats in the fear of losing elections. The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, who accompanied his brother and BJP nominee [Pradeep Shettar] when the latter filed his nomination papers, said that the party is confident of winning 15 out of the 20 seats that it was contesting. Senior leaders of both the BJP and the Congress accompanied the party nominees while submitting different sets of nomination papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pradeep-shettar-saleem-ahmed-file-nomination-papers-in-dharwad/article37655851.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Government’s new Crypto Bill seeks to ban private players||The Union Government will introduce a Bill to regulate cryptocurrency and ostensibly ban all private cryptocurrencies, along with 25 other pieces of legislation, in the winter session of Parliament that begins on November 29. The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021, which is yet to be officially approved by the Cabinet, seeks to create a facilitative framework for creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India. Pilot project The central bank is looking at launching a pilot project for an official digital currency soon. “The Bill also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India. However, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses,” according to the stated purport of the Bill in a Lok Sabha bulletin and the tentative list of the government’s legislative business for Rajya Sabha. So far, the precise contours of the Bill are not in the public domain and no public consultations have been held. The Finance Ministry has been tight-lipped on the Bill, which had been readied for the Cabinet’s approval as early as August. No details Media queries about who would be held responsible if investors betting on crypto assets that are liberally advertised, were to make heavy losses, have been met with silence. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting on November 13, to assess the regulatory prospects for cryptocurrencies with the top brass of the central bank and the Ministries of Home Affairs and Finance, a consensus was reached to stop ‘attempts to mislead the youth through over-promising and non-transparent advertising’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/governments-new-crypto-bill-seeks-to-ban-all-private-players/article37655595.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects Trinamool plea to delay Tripura civic polls||The Supreme Court did not accede on Tuesday to a plea by the Trinamool Congress to postpone the conduct of municipal elections in Tripura, saying such step was a “last and extreme recourse”. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Vikram Nath, however, directed the Director-General Police of Tripura and Inspector-General (Law and Order) to meet the State Election Commission on November 24 to assess the number of CRPF personnel required to “ensure the peaceful conduct of elections”. The officers should then requisition the CRPF or the Union Home Ministry for the forces. Voting is scheduled for November 25. “The DGP and IGP shall take all steps to ensure that election process is conducted in a peaceful manner, particularly on November 25, leading up to the counting of ballots on November 28,” the court directed. The court said it would be the duty of the DGP, IGP and the Home Secretary to assuage any misgivings about fairness in the poll process. Noting that the law enforcement agencies in the State have to act in an “even-handed, non-partisan manner”, the court cautioned the DGP to scrupulously abide by the court’s directions to obviate the need for it to take “coercive action”. During the hearing, the Trinamool Congress accused the State and the police of being mute spectators while goons roamed the street, indulging in wanton violence against its candidates. The party, represented by senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, produced photographs in court allegedly of “severe violence” meted out by helmeted men even as the “police look here and there”. “All this would have a direct effect on the workers... Please give orders to bump up security, then grant a week for campaigning without fear of violence. This would not cause a significant change in the democratic process. Campaigning itself has not been possible. Voters' confidence are low,” Mr. Gupta submitted. The Tripura government, represented by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, said the petition by Trinamool Congress is a “politically contrived” one, filed in the Supreme Court on the eve of the elections. “How many arrests have you made,” Justice Chandrachud asked the government even as Trinamool said the “only arrests made so far is of my party members”. Mr. Jethmalani said “appropriate legal action” has been taken against 88 “trouble mongers”. He said two out of three battalions of CRPF stationed in Tripura were already deployed to protect the elections. “The problem is with their performance, which is abysmal. They have been standing around as violence goes on,” Mr. Gupta said pointing to the photographs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-refuses-trinamool-plea-on-tripura-civic-polls/article37655594.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Former Congress, JD(U) leaders join Trinamool||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday welcomed former Congress leaders Kirti Azad and Ashok Tanwar, along with former JD(U) MP Pavan Varma, into the Trinamool Congress in Delhi. Since its victory in the West Bengal Assembly election, for the third consecutive time, trumping the BJP, the Trinamool is keen on occupying the national stage at the expense of the Congress. Mr. Tanwar, once considered close to senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, was an MP from Sirsa during 2009-2014 and also the president of the party’s Haryana unit. He quit the Congress days before the Haryana Assembly election in October 2019 after he was replaced by Kumari Selja and denied ticket for the Assembly election. In February this year he launched his own party, Apna Bharat Morcha. Ms. Banerjee said the Trinamool would start working soon in Haryana and hinted that the party could even contest the next Assembly elections in the State. Mr. Azad, who briefly worked with the Congress, too joined the Trinamool. “I will work under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee. Will start working on the field. The BJP’s politics is divisive and we will fight it,” Mr. Azad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-congress-jdu-leaders-join-trinamool/article37655596.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Manjunath Bhandary files nomination papers||Putting an end to speculation, Manjunath Bhandary filed his nomination papers as Congress candidate for the December 10 elections to the Legislative Council from the local authorities dual-member constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Tuesday, on the last day for filing nomination papers. He was accompanied by the former Ministers B. Ramanath Rai, U.T. Khader, K. Abhayachandra Jain and MLC and president of Dakshina Kannada Congress Committee K. Harish Kumar as he submitted his nomination papers to Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. Speaking to media persons after filing his nomination papers, Mr. Bhandary exuded the confidence of winning the elections. He said that the party has about 2,000 votes of its own and hence, it will not be difficult to win the seat. He said that he has been associated with the Congress for four decades now.  Mr. Bhandary (59) hails from Tenka Belluru village in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada. He holds a post-graduate degree in Political Science and also an M.Phil degree. He did his Ph.D on the topic, Women’s Participation in Panchayat Raj. Founder of Bhandary Foundation, which manages Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management in Mangaluru, he is the chairman of the educational institution. He had contested unsuccessfully against B.S. Yediyurappa of the BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Shivamogga constituency. He was a former vice-president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). By selecting Mr. Bhandary, the Congress has fielded a new face from the constituency, which is represented in the council by K. Pratapchandra Shetty of the Congress and Kota Srinivas Poojary of the BJP. Mr. Shetty, a former banker from Halady village in Kundapur taluk in Udupi district, represented the constituency in the council for three terms since 2003. He served as Chairman of the council from December 2018 to February 2021. Meanwhile, the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) has entered the fray in the constituency for the first time by fielding Shafi Bellare. Speaking to presspersons after filing his nomination papers, Mr. Bellare said that the State Government has reduced grants to gram panchayats on the pretext of COVID-19. It has created widespread resentment among gram panchayat members. He is contesting the election as the voice of representatives of local bodies which have many issues to be addressed. Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary has already filed his nomination papers as BJP candidate. In addition, four candidates have filed their papers as Independents from the constituency. Nomination papers will be scrutinised on November 24. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is November 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manjunath-bhandary-files-nomination-papers/article37656045.ece
24 November 2021||GUNTUR,||Resolution urging Centre for BC census adopted||The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Tuesday adopted a resolution urging the Centre to conduct the caste-wise census of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes of citizens along with that of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Minorities while holding the General Census for 2021. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy stated that the enumeration of Backward Classes (BC) would help devise better policies for their welfare, education, employment, and for effective implementation to benefit BCs. “The last caste-based census in India was conducted in the year 1931 and even after 90 years, due to the lack of proper enumeration, there is no scientific data regarding the population of BCs to ascertain their social, educational, and economic backwardness, which has been posing a hurdle to meet their interests and aspirations,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the State government had made the Backward Classes as a “Backbone Class” with its policies and programmes giving a lion’s share to them in economic, political and social spaces in a saturation mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/caste-wise-census-ap-house-passes-resolution/article37655546.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,||HC rejects rape victim-accused couple’s plea to drop case||A judge of the High Court of Karnataka has refused to follow the principles adopted in an earlier judgment by another judge, who had last year quashed a rape case against the accused as the victim had entered into wedlock with him. Justice H.P. Sandesh, in his October 28, 2021, verdict, declined to quash a rape case though the accused and the victim had jointly filed the petition for closing the criminal proceedings for having settled the issue. Turned hostile Both the accused, Anil, and the victim had pointed out to the court that they were now married. The victim, who was a minor at the time of the offence and now aged around 21 years, had turned hostile during examination before the trial court. Both were taking care of a child born after the rape.  Justice Sandesh, in his verdict, refused to follow the January 8, 2020, judgment in the case of Vijaya Kumar vs. State by Madanayakanahally Police, in which a then judge (now retired) had quashed the pending criminal proceedings against accused as both the victim and the accused had filed a joint affidavit stating that they got married. The advocate for both the accused Anil, a resident of Basavana Bagewadi taluk in Vijayapura district, and the victim had cited the earlier case for seeking quashing of criminal proceedings. However, Justice Sandesh observed, “This Court in Vijaya Kumar’s case though referred to the judgment of the apex court in Gian Singh’s case, but lost sight of the principles laid down in the said judgment. Hence, this Court based on the order passed in Vijaya Kumar’s case supra, cannot exercise power under Section 482 of Cr.P.C [to quash criminal proceedings].” “The apex court in Gian Singh’s case has held that in serious offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc., or other offences ... the proceedings cannot be quashed, even though the victim or victim’s family and the offender have settled the dispute, since it will have serious impact on society,” Justice Sandesh observed. Pointing out that the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, were invoked against Anil, and the girl had told the trial court during examination that she was 19 years at the time of alleged offence, the High Court said that this aspect requires to be ascertained during the trial. “The High Court has to look into the statute and object in bringing the special enactment of POCSO Act and hence, considering the object and scope of special enactment of POCSO Act, exercising power under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., does not arise,” Justice Sandesh said while dismissing the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-rape-victim-accused-couples-plea-to-drop-case/article37655640.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||96 file papers for 12 MLC seats on last day||A total of 96 candidates have filed nomination papers for 12 MLC seats in the Local Authorities’ Constituencies (LAC) in nine erstwhile districts including 12 from TRS, five from Congress and others as Independents on Tuesday, last day for filing nominations. All the 12 seats that are going to fall vacant on January 4 next are being held by TRS now. The TRS has retained seven of its sitting members – Pochampally Srinivas Reddy, K. Kavitha, T. Bhanuprasad Rao, Kasireddy Narayan Reddy, K. Damoder Reddy, P. Mahender Reddy and Sunkar (Shambipur) Raju – by renominating them. However, it has picked up new candidates for the remaining five seats – L. Ramana, Tatha Madhu, M.C. Koti Reddy, Dande Vithal and Dr. Yadava Reddy in place of Naradasu Laxman Rao, Balasani Laxminarayana, Tera Chinnapa Reddy, Puranam Satish Kumar and V. Bhoopal Reddy. Those who filed papers as Congress candidates are G. Narayana Reddy (Adilabad), M. Srisailam and Kondalreddy Giri (Warangal), Turupu Nirmala (Medak) and Rayala Nageswara Rao (Khammam). The last date for withdrawal of nominations is November 26, polling is on December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/96-file-papers-for-12-mlc-seats-on-last-day/article37655889.ece
24 November 2021||SRINAGAR,||Global call for release of human rights activist||Rights bodies and activists, including the United Nations Special Rapporteur, on Tuesday reacted sharply to the arrest of Kashmir-based human rights activist Khurram Parvez, 44, by the National Investigation Agency on Monday. He has been held in a case registered under the IPC and the UAPA, pertaining to criminal conspiracy and illegal money transfer for terror activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/global-call-for-release-of-human-rights-activist/article37655754.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC: respond to residents’ plea against liquor shop||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Delhi Government to respond to a plea by a group of residents challenging the proposed opening of a liquor shop outside their locality in Jangpura. The residents have contended that no wine shop is permitted within 100 metres of any educational institution, religious place or hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-respond-to-residents-plea-against-liquor-shop/article37655756.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: SC dismisses plea on change in land use||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition challenging a proposed change in land use from bus terminal and neighbourhood park to house the new official residences of dignitaries as part of the Central Vista plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-vista-sc-dismisses-plea-on-change-in-land-use/article37655997.ece
24 November 2021||SRINAGAR,||Global call for release of human rights activist||Rights bodies and activists, including the United Nations Special Rapporteur, on Tuesday reacted sharply to the arrest of Kashmir-based human rights activist Khurram Parvez, 44, by the National Investigation Agency on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/global-call-for-release-of-human-rights-activist/article37655998.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Private hospitals push for booster dose||Despite CDSCO extending the shelf life of Covaxin, private hospitals continue to be worried about the effective utilisation of vaccine stock. AHPI has recommended that the government consider allowing eligible population to get a booster dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-hospitals-push-for-booster-dose/article37656069.ece
24 November 2021||Mysuru,||Mysuru-Chamarajanagar seat: Nominations filed||Candidates from Congress, JD(S) and BJP submitted their nominations to the DC Mysuru Bagadi Gautham, for the Mysuru-Chamarajanagar Legislative Council seat on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-chamarajanagar-seat-nominations-filed/article37656071.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP pegs rain damage at Rs. 1,158 crore||The recent spate of heavy rain, especially on Sunday, not only threw life out of gear for thousands of citizens, but also left its mark on the city’s already crumbling infrastructure. According to BBMP estimates, the city has suffered infrastructure loss of around Rs. 1,158 crore owing to the excess rain in October and November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-pegs-rain-damage-at-rs-1158-crore/article37655642.ece
24 November 2021||KALABURAGI,||B.G. Patil, Shivanand Patil enter the fray||B.G. Patil from the BJP and Shivanand Patil from the Congress filed their nomination papers for Kalaburagi local bodies constituency of the Legislative Council on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bg-patil-shivanand-patil-enter-the-fray/article37655849.ece
24 November 2021||BELAGAVI,||Belagavi sees rallies||Belagavi on Tuesday witnessed show of strength rallies as the BJP’s Mahantesh Kavatagimath, Channaraj Hattiholi of the Congress and Lakhan Jarkiholi submitted their nomination papers to Deputy Commissioner and Returning Officer R. Venkatesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/belagavi-sees-rallies/article37655853.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: SC dismisses plea on change in land use||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition challenging a proposed change in land use from bus terminal and neighbourhood park to house the new official residences of dignitaries as part of the Central Vista plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-vista-sc-dismisses-plea-on-change-in-land-use/article37656087.ece
24 November 2021||SRINAGAR,||Global call for release of human rights activist||Rights bodies and activists, including the United Nations Special Rapporteur, on Tuesday reacted sharply to the arrest of Kashmir-based human rights activist Khurram Parvez, 44, by the National Investigation Agency on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/global-call-for-release-of-human-rights-activist/article37656088.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||DAC approves AK-203 deal with Russia||The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) which met under the Chairmanship of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday approved the long-pending deal for the manufacture of 6.71 lakh AK-203 assault rifles in India, according to a defence source. This comes ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to India early next month for the India-Russia annual summit. Mr. Putin is scheduled to visit India for the summit on December 6, when the two sides will also hold their inaugural 2+2 ministerial dialogue. The two countries had signed an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) in February 2019 following which a joint venture, Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd. (IRRPL), was set up at Korwa in Uttar Pradesh for manufacturing the rifles. The JV is between Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) from the Indian side and Rosoboron Export and Kalashnikov on the Russian side. The Army had also appointed a Major General as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the IRRPL to ensure timely execution and deliveries. The Ministry of Defence has already floated a Request For Proposal (RFP) to the JV for the supply of 6.71 lakh rifles, but the final deal has been held up over the high cost for each rifle. As reported by The Hindu earlier, with repeated delays in the deals for procurement of AK-203 assault rifles, India had signed a deal in August for 70,000 AK-103 assault tickets to be procured off the shelf. The deliveries would begin within three months once the first payment is made and would be completed in six months. Another deal likely to make progress is for Igla-S Very Short Range Air Defence (VSHORAD) systems. The Ka-226T utility helicopter deal is unlikely to be cleared, according to official sources. Air Force satellite The DAC approved a proposal for the procurement of the GSAT-7C communication satellite for the Indian Air Force (IAF) at a cost of Rs. 2,236 crore, a Defence Ministry statement said. Induction of the GSAT-7C satellite and ground hubs for Software Defined Radios (SDRs) will enhance the ability of the armed forces to communicate beyond Line of Sight (LoS) among one another in all circumstances in a secure mode, the Ministry statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dac-approves-ak-203-deal-with-russia/article37655379.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Amid Mamata’s Delhi trip, Sonia meets party leaders for talks||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday met senior party leaders and former Union Ministers A.K. Antony and Anand Sharma in separate meetings. The meetings come just a day after Ms. Gandhi met former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath. There was no official word on what transpired at the meetings, but the Congress chief is said to have discussed the political scenario, overall challenges for the party and strategies to deal with them. Parliament session The forthcoming session of Parliament is said to have been discussed as well. The meetings also come at a time when Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee, camping in Delhi since Monday, has inducted Congress leaders Kirti Azad and former Haryana party chief Ashok Tanwar into her party. These inductions are not only being seen as an attempt to increase the Trinamool’s footprint across different States but also to emerge as the main Opposition party in the run-up to the 2024 election. Election strategist Prashant Kishor, whose possible entry into the Congress was stalled, is said to be working on a plan to project Ms. Banerjee as the Opposition’s face to take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Tensions between the Congress and the Trinamool were reflected at the party’s official briefing by Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera. Asked to comment about the new entrants to the Trinamool, Mr. Khera targeted Ms. Banerjee’s party by pointing out that it chose to go after the Congress instead of the ruling BJP in Goa. “Whoever does not want to struggle and seeks only power, they will go. Those who are sitting here are ready to fight and are already doing so,” he told presspersons. “One can understand if you speak against the BJP in Goa since they are ruling the State. But a party speaks against the Congress even there, then you can judge for yourself what are they and what are their intentions,” he added. Mr. Khera said the Congress was best suited for and focused on speaking against the “anti-people policies of the Narendra Modi Government”. “We struggle paying our EMIs, monthly bills, whether it is milk, petrol, diesel, cooking oil, vegetables. We get to know that the GST [Goods and Services Tax] on readymade garments and footwear has been increased from 5% to 12%... We will keep bringing the Government back and the narrative back to where it belongs — it belongs to my everyday problems,” the Congress spokesperson said. Though the Congress will decide its parliamentary strategy on Thursday, the party will focus on inflation as one of the main issues and will hold a mega rally against inflation in Delhi during the winter session of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-meets-party-leaders-for-talks-amid-mamatas-delhi-visit/article37655398.ece
24 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Myanmar stint beefed up Manipur PLA’||Fighting the Myanmar Army’s war against pro-democracy resistance groups may have emboldened the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), a Manipur-based extremist group, to ambush an Assam Rifles convoy killing seven, including a colonel, his wife and minor son, on November 13. According to an intelligence report accessed by The Hindu , there are about 300 members of the PLA and other VBIGs — short for (Imphal) Valley-based insurgent groups — across the India-Myanmar border. These groups have lost at least 40 members in the internal war between the military junta and the People’s Democratic Front (PDF). “The Myanmar Army had been grudgingly supportive whenever India had asked for any help and they have time and again destroyed a few terrorist bases and camps in their territory, however mostly for optics rather than effect,” the report said. The situation took a new dimension after the military coup on February 1. The PDF, comprising mostly civilians armed with rudimentary weapons, caused a heavy toll on the capabilities of the Myanmar Army, which began demanding the services of the VBIGs. The Army used to extract cash from the Manipur extremist groups for allowing them to stay in the country, the report said. Shared duties The duties the VBIGs have been doing for the Myanmar Army include holding their sentry posts, carrying out duties at vehicle checkpoints and routine patrolling besides combat. It is believed that rubbing shoulders with the Myanmar Army is believed to have given the confidence to the PLA to strike in Manipur. “After a series of joint operations between the Indian and Myanmar Armies, the VBIGs were forced to shift their camps east of Manipur to the north in areas opposite South Arunachal Pradesh, where they live as tenants of NSCN (KYA),” the report said. The NSCN (KYA) is the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Khaplang-Yung Aung). Some shifted south of Manipur to Chin State in Myanmar, where the intensity of the civil war has been such that some 15,000 people have taken refuge in Mizoram. The VBIGs who shifted to Chin are believed to have carried out the November 13 ambush near the Myanmar border in Churachandpur district of Manipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/myanmar-stint-beefed-up-manipur-pla/article37655532.ece
24 November 2021||SRINAGAR,||Global call for release of Khurram||Rights bodies and activists, including the United Nations Special Rapporteur, on Tuesday reacted sharply to the arrest of Kashmir-based human rights activist Khurram Parvez, 44, by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday. “I’m hearing disturbing reports that Khurram Parvez was arrested today [Monday] in Kashmir and is at risk of being charged by authorities in India with terrorism-related crimes. He’s not a terrorist, he’s a human rights defender,” Mary Lawlor, U.N. Special Rapporteur on Human Rights Defenders, said in a tweet. The Rafto Foundation, a body working for the global promotion of human rights, in a statement, appealed to India to “immediately release Mr. Parvez,” who was working as programme coordinator of the Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society (JKCCS) and Chairman of the Board of Asian Federation Against Involuntary Disappearances (AFAD). “We observe with regret that the Indian Government intimidates citizens working to secure the values and norms enshrined both in the Constitution of India and in international treaties ratified by the Government itself. We appeal to Indian authorities to respect Mr. Parvez’s habeas corpus rights and release him from detention without delay,” Jostein Hole Kobbeltvedt, Director of the Rafto Foundation, said in a statement. The JKCCS was awarded the Rafto Prize for Human Rights in 2017. Mr. Parvez was arrested on Monday following searches on his house and office in Srinagar. He has been held in a case registered on November 6 under the IPC and the UAPA, pertaining to criminal conspiracy and illegal money transfer for terror activities. The World Organization Against Torture, based in Geneva, also expressed its deep concern.“We are deeply concerned about the high risk of torture while in custody. We call for his immediate release,” the organisation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/global-call-for-release-of-khurram/article37655387.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Repeal announced to ensure amity’||BJP national general secretary in charge of Punjab , Dushyant Gautam , speaks on the repeal of the farm laws, the coming Punjab election and the state of preparedness of the BJP.  There are many reasons being put forward for the decision to repeal the farm laws. From electoral reasons to security concerns over what was perceived as a brewing resentment between Hindu and Sikh communities. Which reason do you ascribe to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision? Mr. Modi himself said during his address to the nation that his intention behind bringing these Bills was to provide alternatives to the farmer for markets and fair remuneration, and that many of the things that were there in the farm laws were distilled from years of suggestions by other Governments, political parties, agricultural scientists and economists on how to improve the situation of farmers. But as he himself said, we couldn’t convey all this to the farmers, and the way things were going at the protest sites, the atmosphere that was being created — the horrific murder of a Dalit, women being raped and killed, the Indian tricolour being dishonoured — it influenced the decision. Somewhere this also affected the bhaichara (brotherhood, amity) which existed in Punjab, where our people were not allowed to visit the bereaved, or even to boycotting our people at weddings, etc. When we would explain the farm laws to smaller groups, and even the steps taken by the Modi Government for ending the black list of those not allowed to enter the country since Punjab’s militancy days, to bring those guilty of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots to justice, to bring back the saroops of Shri Guru Granth Sahib from Afghanistan safely to India, the people would nod in agreement, but in larger groups they would speak a different language. We didn’t want to repeat the mistakes made by the Congress in 1984, where a whole community was alienated from the rest of the country and for the sake of “ bhaichara ” the repeal was announced. For us, the country and bhaichara are paramount. You have now gone separate ways with your old ally, the Akali Dal. Where do you see the BJP in Punjab? Let me tell you that even through all this, when we went to the people with our “ Sewa hi Sangathan ” programmes, during the pandemic, conducting vaccination and blood donation camps, we got great response from the people. This is also despite all the canards that were spread about vaccines and medication. As I said earlier, in smaller groups, people were responding to us, when 10-15 people got together they would argue over why the protests were being allowed to continue. The BJP will fight in all 117 seats in Punjab. We believe that the people will see through the way other parties want to push Punjab towards communal strife, towards drugs, and decide to forge a different future for themselves away from these parties. Captain Amarinder Singh (retd) recently broke away from the Congress and has hailed Mr. Modi’s decision to repeal the farm laws as one that takes a lot of “courage”. He has hinted that he is open to an alliance with the BJP. What is the party’s view? The BJP prioritises national interest above all, and any party that holds that priority is welcome. Having said that, in the BJP, any such decision is in the purview of the Parliamentary Board of the party and they will take an appropriate call when the situation arises. Now that the farm laws have been repealed, your old ally Akali Dal’s reason for walking out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is no longer valid. Has there been any outreach since between the two of you? We don’t need anyone’s outreach, we are on our own and have the confidence to go into polls under the leadership of Mr. Modi and other senior leaders of the BJP.  The BJP prioritises national interest above all, and any party that holds that priority is welcome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/repeal-announced-to-ensure-amity/article37655393.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||V-P complex work to start in Dec.||The construction of a new residence and office complex for the Vice-President near the Rashtrapati Bhavan is expected to start in December and take 11 months to complete, according to Central Public Works Department (CPWD) sources on Tuesday. As part of the redevelopment of the Central Vista, which stretches from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and includes Government offices on both sides, the proposed Vice-President’s Enclave would be constructed on a 15-acre plot near North Block and Rashtrapati Bhavan, according to the CPWD’s plans. Currently, the plot houses pre-Independence era hutments for Defence Ministry offices, which are being moved to two new buildings outside of the Central Vista. A senior CPWD official said the process of vacating the hutments was on and the construction of the V-P Enclave would begin next month. The current V-P residence on Maulana Azad Road would be demolished to make way for buildings of the new Common Central Secretariat (CCS) On November 15, the CPWD wrote to the Jharkhand-based Kamaladityya Construction Pvt. Ltd. accepting its bid of Rs. 206.49 crore, which was 3.52% below the estimated cost of Rs. 214.03 crore. The company’s bid included Rs. 189.15 crore for the construction of the complex and Rs. 173.42 crore for five years of operation and maintenance costs. The V-P Enclave would be a reinforced cement concrete framed structure building. The complex would include the V-P’s residence, a Secretariat, a guesthouse, a sports facility, staff quarters, barracks and ancillary buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/v-p-complex-work-to-start-in-dec/article37655527.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘India should have actioned a kinetic response to 26/11’||Days before the 13th anniversary of the 26/11 attacks, senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari on Tuesday triggered a political controversy by questioning the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) Government’s response to those attacks. In his yet to be released book, 10 Flash Points; 20 Years - National Security Situations that Impacted India , Mr. Tewari said restraint was not a sign of strength but was perceived as weakness, and asserted that “India should have actioned a kinetic response in the days following India’s 9/11”. While the BJP used the comments to embarrass the UPA’s track record on national security, the Congress spokesperson said the party would not comment without reading the book in detail. Mr. Tewari, however, said he was amused at the BJP’s reaction on one excerpt from a 304-page book, and wondered how it would react to his “hard analysis” of national security under the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) Government. The contents of the book are not public yet as the it will be released only on December 2, but the publishers, Rupa, released certain extracts and they were tweeted by Mr. Tewari. “For a state that has no compunctions in brutally slaughtering hundreds of innocent people, restraint is not a sign of strength, it is perceived as a symbol of weakness,” Mr. Tewari wrote, adding, “There comes a time when actions must speak louder than words. 26/11 was one such time when it just should have been done. It, therefore, is my considered opinion that India should have actioned a kinetic response in the days following India’s 9/11.” Doklam crisis In another extract, the Congress leader has also been critical of the Narendra Modi Government’s handling of the Doklam crisis. “However, in July 2018, the Defence and Finance Ministers of the subsequent Modi-led Government shelved all the plans of raising a mountain strike corps against China citing financial constraints. Mounting pressure on the LAC [Line of Actual Control] leading to the Doklam crisis in 2017 could have been averted, provided the mountain strike corps would have been raised, trained, resourced and efficaciously deployed. Scrapping the mountain strike corps is perhaps the greatest disservice that this Government did to India’s national security,” the Congress leader wrote. Asked to respond, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “The BJP wants to divert attention by raising such issues, but we won’t fall for the trap.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-should-have-actioned-a-kinetic-response-to-2611/article37655390.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Glacier changed track 20,000 years ago’||Nearly 20,000 years ago, a five-kilometre-long Himalayan glacier “abruptly” changed course and over time fused into an adjacent glacier in present-day Pittoragarh, Uttarakhand. This is the first time, say scientists who have described the findings in a peer-reviewed journal this week, that such a turn in glacier’s course has been recorded in the Himalayas. Change in climate along with tectonic movement probably caused this to happen. Based on remote sensing and an old survey map, the study, which appears in the Journal of Geosciences, assessed that the glacier had been affected by active fault and climate change. The glacier, which does not have a name and lies in an extremely inaccessible region, was large enough that it formed its own “valley” and the accumulated debris that accompanies the formation of glaciers probably caused it to turn from a north-eastern direction to a south-eastern course, said Manish Mehta of the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), a Department of Science and Technology institute, who is among the authors of the study. The study adds to evidence of the inherent instability of the Himalayan region, among the youngest mountain ranges in the world due to which the underlying tectonic plates that support it are not stable but are jittery and frequently trigger earthquakes and landslides. The event had “similarities” to the February disaster in Rishiganga valley, Uttarakhand, in which a large mass of rock and debris detached from a glacier and hurtled down the Rishiganga river. “This event that we have described is a much larger event. However, that the Himalayan region is ecologically fragile and prone to events such as these is certain,” Mr. Mehta added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/glacier-changed-track-20000-years-ago/article37655530.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Promotions, retirement benefits of ST staff in T.N. withheld||The retirement benefits of several Scheduled Tribes employees of the Centre have been withheld pending verification of their caste certificates by the Tamil Nadu Government. The promotions of dozens of employees have been stalled for the same reason. The issue pertains to particularly those who claimed to be belonging to the Kattu Naicker and Malaikuravan communities, official sources told The Hindu on Tuesday. The Department of Personnel and Training, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, has written to the Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories stating that instances had come to notice where pensionary benefits of employees working in various offices and organisations under the Central Government in Tamil Nadu were being withheld on the ground that their caste verification was pending from the State Government, sources said. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on the Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC and ST) took a serious view of this, and directed the DoPT to issue necessary guidelines to all concerned for timely verification of the certificates. Referring to the detailed guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court for effective verification so that no person on the basis of a fake certificate may secure employment wrongfully in the Government, the DoPT pointed out that the responsibility of the issue and verification of caste certificate lies with the State and Union Territory Government concerned. In Southern Railway (SR) alone, about 80 cases of ST certificates are pending verification with the State Government. The verification is done by the State Level Scrutiny Committee and District Level Vigilance Committee. Besides sending reminders, the General Manager met the authorities concerned with a request to expedite the process since the career prospects and statutory benefits had been withheld. All India Railwaymen Federation president N. Kanniah said the union had little role to play since the matter involved the Centre and the State Governments and the due process of law should prevail. According to a senior SR official, a majority of the cases pending verification involved employees who had obtained the ST certificates two or three decades ago when there was no online mechanism. The Revenue Department had no records of that time to verify the claims and had to depend on field visits and local enquiry on the family background of the staff concerned. While the reservation for Scheduled Tribes is 7.5%, the size of the tribal population in Tamil Nadu is very small. The disproportionate number of beneficiaries raises doubts and calls for verification, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/promotions-retirement-benefits-of-st-staff-in-tn-withheld/article37655377.ece
24 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Rashtriya Lok Dal, Samajwadi Party inch closer to poll tie-up||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Singh met Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday to firm up the alliance between the two parties for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election in 2022. Both the leaders shared photographs of the meeting on social media, with Mr. Singh captioning it as “ Badhte kadam [advancing steps]”. RLD sources said there had already been two rounds of talks, but Mr. Singh surprised many by making his Lucknow visit public. “Perhaps he wanted to silence the speculation around the alliance,” a senior party leader said. “As the caption suggests, the discussion on the seats has not reached a conclusion. We have been asking for 40-42 seats and might have to settle at 36-38 seats,” he said. “There may be a few seats where our candidate will fight on the SP’s symbol and there will be one or two seats where their candidate will contest on our symbol,” he added. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the repeal of the farm laws, rumours were rife that the BJP was once again trying for an alliance with the RLD, which had emerged as the political face of the farmers’ protest. Senior RLD leader Ajay Tomar said the SP and the RLD were “natural allies as both stood for the interests of farmers and workers. We might get 40-odd seats, but our impact would be felt in 120-130 seats of western U.P. and help the alliance vanquish the BJP”. With Home Minister Amit Shah primed to launch the ‘Win booth, win U.P.’ outreach in western U.P., Tuesday’s meeting will send a clear message to the party workers and help consolidate the Jat, Yadav and Muslim voters. Party sources said a formal announcement would be made on December 23, the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, the grandfather of Mr. Singh and mentor of Mulayam Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rashtriya-lok-dal-samajwadi-party-inch-closer-to-poll-tie-up/article37655396.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC bats for disabled NEET aspirant||The Supreme Court on Tuesday held that denial of “reasonable accommodation” to a disabled person will amount to discrimination. The judgment came on a plea by a student who suffers from dysgraphia. She was not allowed an hour’s compensatory time to complete her NEET paper this year. Giving her extra time amounted to reasonable accommodation for her disability. Moreover, the invigilator at her centre “forcibly” collected the answer sheet from her. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud held Ms. Prakash was “wrongfully deprived of compensatory time of one hour without any fault of her own”. The court threw out the National Testing Agency’s (NTA) argument that as NEET was a mammoth exercise in which 16 lakh students register and 15 lakh appear, mistakes were bound to happen. Upholding rights Justice Chandrachud said individual rights could not be sacrificed cheaply on the excuse that such mistakes were the “necessary consequence” of such huge competitive exams. The court gave the NTA a week to figure out how it could “rectify the injustice” done to Ms. Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-bats-for-disabled-neet-aspirant/article37655400.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: SC dismisses plea on change in land use||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition challenging a proposed change in land use from bus terminal and neighbourhood park to house the new official residences of high dignitaries such as the Vice-President as part of the ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said the change was a policy decision recommended as part of the holistic development of the entire area. The proposal was entirely a policy call and could not be said to be impermissible in law. The petitioner, Rajeev Suri, represented by advocate Shikhil Suri, said the green area, called “plot one” should be conserved as a green area in public interest and alternative land should be found to build on. “So, suggestions from common people have to be taken where the Vice-President’s house is to be located? Show us one judgment which says that the use of a plot once described as a recreational area cannot be changed? It is a matter of policy,” the court observed. Dictating the order, the court said, “The change effected in the development plan in one sense is a matter of policy. It is not the case of the petitioner that the change has been made for mala fide reasons. Suffice to observe sufficient explanation has been provided to justify the change in use of plot number one.” The petition had questioned the validity of a notification issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on October 28, 2020, notifying the change in land use by proposing modification to the Zonal Development Plan of Zone ‘D’ for plot number one in the Central Vista area of Lutyens Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-vista-sc-dismisses-plea-on-change-in-land-use/article37655533.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Call to probe killing of BJP, RSS workers in Kerala||The BJP on Tuesday sought a probe into the killing of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and BJP workers in Kerala, and declared that the State was “coming close to becoming Syria” because of a lack of action against the Popular Front of India (PFI). At a press conference at the party headquarters in New Delhi, and in the presence of Union Ministers Rajeev Chandrashekhar and V. Muraleedharan, BJP Kerala unit chief K. Surendran alleged that the PFI was a threat to the country. “There is no check on the rise of Islamic extremism and terror in the State. The entire State is flooded with halal meat shops... Kerala coming near to becoming Syria, that is the general feeling of the common man,” Mr. Surendran said. “Congress and CPI(M), both left and right parties, are supporting Muslim terror organisations in Kerala. This is a serious threat to the nation,” he said giving details of two workers of the BJP and RSS being killed. Mr. Surendran said BJP leaders from Kerala had also apprised Union Home Minister Amit Shah of the operations of the “fundamental group” and how no action had been taken by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s Government against the accused. He alleged that the police was not taking action against the culprits, as there was a nexus between the ruling CPI(M) and the PFI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-to-probe-killing-of-bjp-rss-workers-in-kerala/article37655391.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Abhinandan’s award for ‘imaginary feats’, says Pak.||A day after Group Captain Abhinandan Varthaman was given the Vir Chakra for shooting down a Pakistani F-16 fighter on February 27, 2019, Pakistan on Tuesday “categorically” rejected “baseless Indian claims” terming them a “classic case of Indian fabrications” and “pure fantasy to appease domestic audience and hide the embarrassment”. In turn, Pakistan claimed that in addition to the MiG-21 Bison fighter of then Wing Commander Varthaman that was shot down and fell in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), it had shot down an IAF Su-30 which it said fell on the Indian side of the Line of Control (LoC). “International experts and U.S. officials have already confirmed that no Pakistani F-16 was shot down on the day, after taking stock of Pakistani F-16 aircraft. India’s insistence on propagating a lie that has been thoroughly exposed is ludicrous and nonsensical. Granting military honours for imaginary feats of gallantry is contrary to every norm of military conduct. By giving such award, also as an afterthought, India has only made a mockery of itself,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan said in a statement. Claiming that two IAF jets were shot down, Pakistan said the release of Wing Commander (now Group Captain) Varthaman was testimony to Pakistan’s “desire” for peace despite India’s “hostility and ill-conceived aggressive action”. “It is obvious that India’s farcical story has no credibility whatsoever before the international community.” ‘Completely outplayed’ Referring to an IAF Mi-17 helicopter shot down by India’s own air defence system, the statement said the IAF was “completely outplayed” on the day. “India would do well to learn a lesson from its botched attempt to violate Pakistan’s sovereignty and refrain from any misadventure in future,” it said. Capt. Varthaman was awarded the Vir Chakra, the third highest gallantry award, by President Ram Nath Kovind at an investiture ceremony on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abhinandans-award-for-imaginary-feats-says-pak/article37655376.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||India, U.S. commit to linking economies||The plans would include identifying specific trade outcomes that could be finalised for an inter-sessional TPF meeting to be held by mid-2022. The U.S. indicated an interest in supplying ethanol to India for its goal of 20% ethanol blending with petrol by 2025, while the two sides decided to partner with allies in developing a secure pharmaceutical manufacturing base and de-risk global supply chains in critical sectors like health. On the services front, the Forum discussed ways in which legal, nursing and accountancy services can facilitate growth in trade and investment, and sought to work together on electronic payment services and the digital economy. While India welcomed the recent U.S. decision by the U.S. to permit fully vaccinated Indians to travel there, the two sides decided to continue engaging on visa issues to facilitate the movement of professionals, skilled workers, experts, and scientific personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-us-commit-to-linking-economies/article37655378.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||New Crypto Bill seeks to ban private players||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting on November 13, to assess the regulatory prospects for cryptocurrencies with the top brass of the central bank and the Ministries of Home Affairs and Finance, a consensus was reached to stop ‘attempts to mislead the youth through over-promising and non-transparent advertising’. It was also resolved that unregulated crypto markets cannot be allowed to become avenues for money laundering and terror financing. A close watch and pro-active steps are necessary for the sector, the Government had determined. Last Monday, when the Standing Committee on Finance met cryptocurrency stakeholders, industry representatives agreed with the need for regulation of the crypto market but were unable to answer several questions raised by parliamentarians. Apart from the proposed cryptocurrency law, the government has also listed a Bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws of 2020, as promised by Prime Minister Modi last Friday, after they had triggered an year-long protest from a section of farmers. The Government has also listed the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which seeks to remove all cross-subsidies and make all consumers pay the actual cost of supply. This could make farmers and rural consumers pay the highest price for electricity, as the cost of supply to rural areas is significantly higher than to urban consumers. Several non-BJP State governments have raised objections to the Bill, which was listed in the Monsoon session of Parliament but was not introduced to avoid further confrontation with the Opposition at a time they were raising objections over the Pegasus Project revelations. Three Bills issued as ordinances by the government will also be tabled for consideration and passing, including changes in the Central Vigilance Commission Act of 2003, the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act of 1985, and the law governing the Central Bureau of Investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govts-crypto-bill-seeks-to-ban-all-private-players/article37655382.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||More concessions for vehicle scrapping likely||Union Minister for Road Transport Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday said that the Government is considering a proposal to give buyers additional concessions on buying new vehicles after scrapping of their old vehicles. “We will once again sit and discuss with the Finance Ministry to see if we can give more concessions. We have planned something… this will facilitate [vehicle scrapping] and will help reduce pollution,” he said. He was speaking at the inauguration of Maruti Suzuki Toyotsu India Private Ltd.’s Government-approved end-of-life vehicles scrapping and recycling unit set up in Noida. “I have requested OEMs, it is not mandatory. Sales will go up by 12-13% after the scrappage policy… OEMs will also get the benefit. Plus, for Centre and State the GST will go up, so they should also give incentive,” he said, adding that he is also requesting the GST Council to explore what more incentives can be given under the National Automobile Scrappage Policy. “The final decision will be taken by the finance ministry and the GST Council,” Mr. Gadkari said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-concessions-for-vehicle-scrapping-likely/article37655384.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Former Congress, JD(U) leaders join Trinamool||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday welcomed former Congress leaders Kirti Azad and Ashok Tanwar, along with former JD(U) MP Pavan Varma, into the Trinamool Congress in Delhi. Since its victory in the West Bengal Assembly election, for the third consecutive time, trumping the BJP, the Trinamool is keen on occupying the national stage at the expense of the Congress. Mr. Tanwar, once considered close to senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, was an MP from Sirsa during 2009-2014 and also the president of the party’s Haryana unit. He quit the Congress days before the Haryana Assembly election in October 2019 after he was replaced by Kumari Selja and denied ticket for the Assembly election. In February this year he launched his own party, Apna Bharat Morcha. Ms. Banerjee said the Trinamool would start working soon in Haryana and hinted that the party could even contest the next Assembly elections in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-congress-jdu-leaders-join-trinamool/article37655385.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Bharat Gaurav’ scheme eyes Railway tourism||,To tap the huge potential of tourism, the Railways on Tuesday announced the ‘Bharat Gaurav’ scheme, under which theme-based tourist circuit trains, on the lines of the Ramayana Express, can be run either by private or State-owned operators. “Till now, the Railways had passenger segments and goods segments. Now, we will have a third segment for tourism — ‘Bharat Gaurav’ train,” Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said. “We have earmarked about 3,033 coaches or about 150 trains. We are inviting applications for them from today [Tuesday],” he added. The Minister said these will not be regular trains that will run as per a timetable but will be more on the lines of the Ramayana Express being run by the IRCTC. Service providers, who can be an individual, company, society, trust, joint venture or consortium, will be free to decide themes and circuits such as Guru Kripa trains for covering important places of Sikh culture or the Ramayana Express for places connected with Lord Ram. ‘Inclusive package’ They will offer an all-inclusive package to tourists, including rail travel, accommodation, sightseeing, visit to historical and heritage sites and tour guides, and have full flexibility to decide the package cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-bharat-gaurav-scheme-to-tap-into-tourism/article37655402.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Allahabad HC reduces sentence in POCSO case||Oral sex with a minor is not aggravated sexual assault and only a “lesser” offence, the Allahabad High Court has concluded in a judgment. The Bench has reduced the sentence of the convict. The case concerns a man who sexually assaulted a 10-year-old boy. The boy’s relative discovered the crime when he found an unaccounted Rs. 20 with the child. The sessions court had earlier convicted the man under “aggravated penetrative sexual assault” under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. The trial court had sentenced him to 10 years rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 5,000. The minimum sentence under Section 6 is 10 years which may extend to life imprisonment. However, the Single Judge of the High Court set aside the trial court findings and said oral sex did not amount to “aggravated penetrative sexual assault” but was only “penetrative sexual assault” under Section 4 of the Act. “Penetrative sexual assault being lesser offence from aggravated penetrative sexual assault is legally permissible to convict the appellant [accused],” the High Court said. The court reduced the prison sentence to a minimum seven years but retained the fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/allahabad-hc-reduces-sentence-in-pocso-case/article37655586.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||SC rejects Trinamool plea to delay Tripura civic polls||Noting that the law enforcement agencies in the State have to act in an “even-handed, non-partisan manner”, the court cautioned the DGP to scrupulously abide by the court’s directions to obviate the need for it to take “coercive action”. The court directed the State to provide a tabulated statement of the complaints lodged, FIRs registered, action taken, arrests made, to be filed along with a compliance affidavit on November 25, the next day of hearing of the case. During the hearing, the Trinamool Congress accused the State and the police of being mute spectators while goons roamed the street, indulging in wanton violence against its candidates. The party, represented by senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, produced photographs in court allegedly of “severe violence” meted out by helmeted men even as the “police look here and there”. Mr. Gupta said there has been instances of ransacking, a journalist was beaten up and political workers are being “driven out”. “All this would have a direct effect on the workers... Please give orders to bump up security, then grant a week for campaigning without fear of violence. This would not cause a significant change in the democratic process. Campaigning itself has not been possible. Voters' confidence are low,” Mr. Gupta submitted. The Tripura government, represented by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, said the petition by Trinamool Congress is a “politically contrived” one, filed in the Supreme Court on the eve of the elections. Query on arrests “How many arrests have you made,” Justice Chandrachud asked the government even as Trinamool said the “only arrests made so far is of my party members”. Mr. Jethmalani said “appropriate legal action” has been taken against 88 “trouble mongers”. “What do you mean by ‘appropriate legal action’? Have you made any arrests,” Justice Chandrachud quizzed. He said two out of three battalions of CRPF stationed in Tripura were already deployed to protect the elections. “The problem is with their performance, which is abysmal. They have been standing around as violence goes on,” Mr. Gupta said pointing to the photographs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-refuses-tmc-plea-on-tripura-civic-polls/article37655380.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Prakriti, the magician||Sastras explain that the embodied jiva is a complex subject associated with Prakriti comprising the three gunas, and its attendants the sarira, indriyas, and so on. As a result, the jiva is subject to ignorance, karma, vasana, etc. These are obvious obstacles for the jiva’s attainment of moksha. Why has the jiva come to be associated with Prakriti? The main reason is that the jiva has not heeded the Lord’s advice since time immemorial and this is the punishment meted out for this transgression, according to Vedanta Desika, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. The sins of the jiva prevent him from following the Lord’s code. Though the jiva has attained human birth when he has the sense to discriminate and understand the sastras, his mind is sullied to such an extent that he rejects it and instead believes in those ideas opposing the sastras. Ramanuja, in his Saranagati Gadya, speaks of the Tirodana power of the Lord. By this, the jiva is not only prevented from knowing the true swaroopa of the Lord, but is led to believe in distorted versions of the supreme truth. This also creates the impression that the jiva is independent and moves around thinking he is his own master in this world during the life tenure. Prakriti, though inanimate, controls the jiva’s senses and indriyas just as a magician conjures make believe worlds for his audiences with his magic wand. The jiva does not realise that whatever he is undergoing, birth, old age, disease and death, through countless births, in varied sariras such as animal, bird, human being or celestial being, is the price he has to pay for not abiding by the sastras. The enslavement by prakriti is so strong that he remains in ignorance of truth, believing that world of senses and sarira sukha are the be-all and end-all of his existence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prakriti-the-magician/article37655399.ece
24 November 2021||Srinagar,||Three held for attack on a Pandit’s shop||The police on Tuesday arrested three militants allegedly behind the conspiracy to kill a Kashmiri Pandit shopkeeper in Srinagar on November 9, which left his salesman dead. The police identified the accused as Aejaz Ahmad Lone, Naseer Ahmad Shah and Showkat Ahmad Dar, all residents of Lelhar village in Pulwama district. “During the questioning they have confessed about their involvement in the commission of the crime,” the police said. Preliminary investigations revealed that they were linked to The Resistance Front of the Lashkar-e-Taiba. “The terror attack was carried out on the directions of terrorist handler from across the border,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-held-for-attack-on-a-pandits-shop/article37655381.ece
24 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Owaisi inciting violence over CAA: U.P. CM||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday accused All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi of being an “agent” of the Samajwadi Party and trying to incite people in the name of a fresh protest against the Citizen Amendment Act (CAA). Addressing a meeting of BJP booth heads in Kanpur, Mr. Adityanath issued a warning to followers of “ chacha jaan and abba jaan ”, asserting that if they try to “spoil the atmosphere by trying to incite the feelings of the State, then the Government knows how to deal with them strictly.” Targeting Mr. Owaisi, Mr. Adityanath said he wanted to warn the Hyderabad MP against trying to incite people in the name of CAA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/owaisi-inciting-violence-over-caa-up-cm/article37655388.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Kovind to lead Constitution Day event||As part of the Constitution Day celebrations on November 26, the Union Government is organising an online reading of the Preamble to the Constitution open to the public. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi at a press conference said President Ram Nath Kovind will lead the celebrations from the Central Hall of Parliament. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Speaker Om Birla, Cabinet Ministers and MPs will participate in the event. The Parliamentary Affairs Minister invited the public to join the President in reading the Preamble. Two portals The Parliamentary Affairs Ministry has developed two portals — “online reading of the preamble to the Constitution”, which will be available in 23 languages — 22 official and English. A second portal for an “online quiz on Constitutional Democracy [mpa.nic.in/constitution-day]” will be launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kovind-to-lead-constitution-day-event/article37655394.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maha Vir Chakra for Galwan hero||Colonel B. Santhosh Babu, Commanding Officer of 16 Bihar who was among the 20 personnel killed in the clash with Chinese troops at Galwan in June 2020, was posthumously awarded the Maha Vir Chakra (MVC), the country’s second highest wartime gallantry award, by President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday. Havildar Tejinder Singh from 2 Medium Regiment was awarded the Vir Chakra, the third highest wartime gallantry award. Four other personnel — Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren and Naik Deepak Singh from 16 Bihar, Havildar K. Palani from 81 Field Regiment and Sepoy Gurtej Singh from 3 Punjab — were honoured with the Vir Chakra posthumously. In a coincidence and an honour for the Sainik School at Korukonda in Andhra Pradesh, six former students, including Col. Babu, were among the recipients of gallantry and distinguished service medals this time. Col. Babu’s wife B. Santoshi and mother Manjula received the award at the investiture ceremony attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and top military officers. Naib Soren’s wife Laxmi Mani Soren, Havildar Palani’s wife Vanathi Devi and Naik Singh’s wife Rekha Singh and Sepoy Singh’s parents Prakash Kaur and Virsa Singh received the Vir Chakra from the President. Valiant resistance In the first combat fatalities on the Line of Actual Control in 45 years, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the clash after they were attacked by Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on the night of June 15, 2020. Under Operation Snow Leopard, Col. Babu was tasked with establishing an observation post in the face of the enemy, and he successfully executed the task, organising and briefing his troops about the situation with a sound plan, the citation said. Col. Babu led from the front with absolute command and control despite hostile conditions to deter the vicious enemy attack at his position, the citation read. “In the skirmish that broke out and ensuing hand to hand combat with enemy soldiers, he valiantly resisted the enemy attack till his last breath, inspiring and motivating his troops to hold ground.” Naib Subedar Soren led his column and resisted the enemy’s attempt to push back the Indian soldiers while establishing the observation post, the citation said. “Soren displayed raw courage, fighting with a resolute spirit before succumbing to his injuries.” Fierce fight Havildar Palani stood bravely and tried to defend his comrades even when the enemy attacked him with a sharp weapon. His act of valour inspired other fellow soldiers to fight fiercely and resist enemy aggression, according to his citation. Naik Singh was performing duties as a nursing assistant and played a pivotal role in rendering treatment and saving the lives of more than 30 Indian soldiers. Sepoy Singh successfully spotted the enemy troops while establishing the observation post and displayed raw courage and exceptional combat skills in resisting the enemy troops and kept fighting even after he was seriously injured, his citation stated. The names of the 20 killed at Galwan have been inscribed at the National War Memorial in New Delhi. The Army has built a memorial to the ‘Gallants of Galwan’ at Post 120 in Eastern Ladakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maha-vir-chakra-for-galwan-hero/article37655375.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 144.40 cr in Insurance Medical Scheme case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 144.40 crore of the then director and some junior functionaries of the Insurance Medical Scheme (IMS) and others for allegedly causing a loss of Rs. 211 crore to the exchequer. The properties of some medicine suppliers and family members of the accused IMS officials have also been attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The ED probe is based on eight FIRs registered by the Telangana Anti-Corruption Branch in Hyderabad, against the IMS officials and others for alleged violations in tendering process and misappropriation of government funds. It is alleged that the then IMS director, Devika Rani, conspired with the joint director and other staff and violated all the norms and procedures to issue purchase orders to firms mostly belonging to a supplier named K. Srihari Babu and also “benami” entities set up by her, P. Rajeshwar Reddy and others. The agency said medical items were bought at inflated prices. Indents of dispensaries were falsified and stock registers fabricated. IMS joint director, K. Padma, was found to be diverting medicines and supplies. Dr. Rani and a pharmacist named Nagalaxmi entered into a conspiracy with PMJ Jewellers and regularly channelled the funds and bought jewellery worth about Rs. 6.28 crore. They made cash advances to acquire prime real estate. The ED has till now identified and attached 131 immovable assets in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Bengaluru and Noida, besides movable assets in the form of securities and fixed deposits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-14440-cr-in-insurance-medical-scheme-case/article37655528.ece
24 November 2021||Guwahati,||Arunachal Congress slams Governor for 1962 war remark||The Congress in Arunachal Pradesh has slammed State Governor B.D. Mishra for stating that India lost the war against China in 1962 because of weak leadership at the Centre. The party said the comment was in line with the Narendra Modi Government’s tendency of blaming all the ills of the country on former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. At a Sainik Sammelan in the State’s Changlang district on November 20, the Governor said: “India would not have faced reverses against China in the 1962 war if the country back then had a strong leadership.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-congress-slams-governor-for-1962-war-remark/article37655534.ece
24 November 2021||Mumbai,||Anand Teltumbde moves NIA court seeking interim bail||Prof. Anand Teltumbde, accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case, moved the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court seeking interim bail to be with his mother after the encounter of his brother Milind Teltumbde on November 13. Milind was among the 26 members of CPI(Maoist) killed in an encounter in Gadchiroli district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anand-teltumbde-moves-nia-court-seeking-interim-bail/article37655536.ece
24 November 2021||Patna,||Lalu appears before special CBI court||Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad Yadav appeared before a special CBI court here on Tuesday in connection with a fodder scam case. Mr. Prasad pleaded for exemption from physical appearances as he had a long history of ailments. Special court judge Prajesh Kumar granted him the relief saying his lawyer could represent him from the next hearing. Earlier, the special court had asked all 28 accused to appear in the court on November 23. The court will next hear the case on November 30. The case pertains to withdrawal of Rs. 46 lakh from the Banka treasury in 1996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lalu-appears-before-special-cbi-court/article37655406.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mandatory vaccine norm takes film industry by surprise||The Tamil Nadu Government’s recent decision to make COVID-19 vaccination compulsory for people frequenting public places has taken the Tamil film industry by surprise. Producer Suresh Kamatchi, whose production house is ready for the November 25 release of Manaadu , starring Silambarasan and S.J. Suriya in the lead roles, said in a statement that the decision would keep the audience away from theatres. In a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Mr. Suresh said making vaccination compulsory would affect the footfall at the theatres. “ Annaatthe [a Rajinikanth-starrer] brought the audience back to the theatres. The Government’s decision to allow 100% theatre occupancy gave a great relief to the industry. However, at a time when vaccination has not been made compulsory, and the inoculation for those aged below 18 has not been cleared, the decision has shocked us,” he said. Mr. Suresh pointed out that students aged below 18 started going to school and other public places. “If people are sent back from theatres, they will not come back.” Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association president Tirupur Subramanian has also written to the Chief Minister, urging him to reconsider the decision. ‘It will be ceremonial’ A leading producer rejected the claim that the decision would have a major impact on the footfall at public places. He said its implementation would largely be “ceremonial” because it would be impossible to check every person at public places. Udeep Reddy, Managing Director, Mayajaal Multiplex, saw a silver lining, even while admitting that the decision would increase the burden on the theatres. “The customers who are visiting public places will now feel more comfortable and safe. Anyway close to 80% of the eligible population in the State have got their first dose and the rest may now have an incentive to get themselves inoculated. According to the government plan, within a month or so, almost all the population will be covered with the first dose. so the requirement would almost become redundant by January 2022,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mandatory-vaccine-norm-takes-film-industry-by-surprise/article37655721.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Permanent solution to flooding of areas along the Adyar sought||Residents of the suburban areas along the banks of the Adyar have demanded better civic infrastructure for flood control. When the Central team toured the suburbs on Monday to assess the damage caused by the recent rain, representatives of residents’ association submitted petitions to it requesting flood mitigation projects in their area and pointed to the delay in the implementation of projects after the 2015 floods. Over 1.5 lakh people live in areas such as Varadharajapuram and Mudichur along the banks of the Adyar. They are prone to be affected by floods whenever large quantum of water is released from the Chembarambakkam tank. Federation of Varadharajapuram Welfare Associations president V. Rajasekaran said when the Adyar was in spate recently, there was water up to three feet level inside the houses. “The water level was five feet high on the roads. Many residents gathered to speak to members of the Central team on Monday. We demanded a permanent solution to the problem of flooding,” said Mr. Rajasekaran. Varadharajapuram village panchayat in Kancheepuram district has a population of more than 25,000. Prone to flooding Residential layouts formed with the approval of town planning authorities many decades ago in the area, including Bhuvaneswari Nagar, Royappa Nagar, Asthalakshmi Nagar and Selva Nagar, were flooded during the rain. Many of these localities had water up to 10 feet level during the 2015 floods, the residents said. On November 11 and 12, Varadharajapuram had water up to five feet. The temporary measures taken at the behest of Chief Minister M. K. Stalin after his visit to the area had brought some relief, the residents said. Residents demanded redesigning of the bridge on Outer Ring Road across the Adyar in Varadharajapuram. Dhamodaran, former president of Mudichur panchayat, said the residents had demanded drains in Madhanapuram leading to the Adyar. “Residents want a drain across Outer Ring Road near Amudham Nagar,” he said. Located in Chengalpattu district, Mudichur panchayat was affected when the Adyar was in spate. A proper study was sought to find engineering solutions to improve the carrying capacity of the Adyar and to prevent flooding. People complained to the team that many projects implemented in the past few years had not been based on a comprehensive study. The government should explore the possibility of deepening and widening the river under the guidance of a team of experienced engineers, the residents said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permanent-solution-to-flooding-of-areas-along-the-adyar-sought/article37655703.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Short of space, motorists break road traffic rules with impunity||Ever since Chennai started unlocking after the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic by the end of May, it has been witnessing an exponential growth in vehicular traffic which does not augur well for the limited road infrastructure. The traffic police have been caught between regulating traffic at important junctions and preventing violations triggered by the rising number of vehicles. Activists complain that traffic violations had become rampant every day. Most of the cases pertain to driving on the wrong side, especially arterial roads, breaking one-way rule and haphazard parking at several places. This created a burden on the traffic police personnel whose routine job involved regulating traffic during peak hours and booking traffic violators during non-peak hours. However, as more vehicles were getting added to the roads daily, the workload of the traffic police had become heavy. A case in point was pavements being increasingly occupied by two-wheelers for parking and motorists causing accidents by riding on the wrong side. T. Santhosh, a resident of Tambaram, said traffic violations had become a regular feature on several arterial roads of the Taluk Office Road and Velachery Main Road in Little Mount, motorists driving on the wrong direction on Taramani Link Road to save a few km and unauthorised parking of vehicles on the arterial Anna Salai near the Omandurar Estate. Despite limited manpower, the traffic police are on the job of regulating traffic and penalising violators in large numbers, said senior police officials. The traffic police have segregated traffic violations under two categories — 2H (driving without helmet and not wearing seat belt) and 6H (over-speeding, drunken driving, talking on cellphone, overloading of goods, signal violations and driving in wrong directions, and carrying passengers in commercial vehicles). A senior police official, while acknowledging the burgeoning number of vehicles, said there was a spike in the cases of traffic violations. He said Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal had given directions to the traffic police to launch a campaign against drunken driving and driving on the wrong side of the road. The official said nearly 7 lakh cases of traffic violations were booked between June and October. Of these, 80,000 cases were those of driving on the wrong side of the road. He said the traffic police had been targeting drunken driving by forming special squads and these squads had been able to catch over 15,000 offenders. As the menace of drunken driving was more prevalent at night, the city police have formed 12 special squads and these teams would be posted in important junctions with the squads changing their positions every day so that the offenders did not escape, he added. To ease the burden on the personnel, traffic wardens were posted to regulate traffic during peak hours besides taking steps to create awareness about following traffic rules and regulations by conducting meetings with app-based delivery companies such as Swiggy and Zomato. M. Radhakrishnan of Thozhan said the increasing job opportunities available in the e-commerce and app-based delivery companies had resulted in the growth of vehicles after the COVID-19 pandemic. While these companies had created jobs, the State government was yet to create a wing whereby these delivery persons could be audited for their driving skills and their behaviour, as they spent several hours on the road. Although talking on mobile phone while driving was a major traffic violation, most delivery persons could be seen speaking on or looking at the phone, he said. ‘Bring back spot fine’ Activists want the city traffic police to reintroduce spot fine, which was replaced with e-challan system, and the need for promulgating the new Motor Vehicles (MV) Act 2020 where the fines for traffic violations were stiff. A senior official of the traffic police said the e-challan system had helped in curbing corruption and creating an easy payment method for the public. Regarding the promulgation of the new MV Act announced by the Centre, it was for the State government to decide, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/short-of-space-motorists-break-road-traffic-rules-with-impunity/article37655715.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No damage to Ponneri GH structure, says Minister||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Tuesday inspected the Ponneri Government Hospital that was affected by floods. The water had entered the hospital premises on November 12 and patients had to be shifted to other hospitals. The Public Works Department officials also accompanied the Minister. Mr. Subramanian said there was no damage to the structure but the department had been instructed to immediately set right the crater on the Surakkaipettai Government Higher Secondary School premises. During his inspection of the hospital, the Minister said Chief Medical Officer S. Anurathna would continue to function in the institution. According to him, incorrect information about the transfer of Dr. Anurathna was spread on social media and the issue had come to the knowledge of the Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin. At the behest of Mr. Stalin, the Minister had conducted counselling, he informed reporters after the meeting. While Dr. Anurathna would continue to hold the post of the CMO, the deputy director of health and the medical professional Vijay Anand, appointed by the deputy director, would continue to work and would host a farewell to the deputy director, who is due to retire in six months, the Minister said. The Minister was accompanied by Tiruvallur Collector Alby John, Member of Parliament from Gummidipoondi T.J. Govindarajan, Ponneri MLA Durai Chandrasekar and district Panchayat Committee chairman K.V.G. Uma Maheswari and senior health department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-damage-to-ponneri-gh-structure-says-minister/article37655716.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Survey of India, T.N. sign MoU for SVAMITVA scheme||The Survey of India and the Tamil Nadu government signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) earlier this month to undertake a pilot project in two villages under the SVAMITVA scheme to study whether drone survey would help the State to further strengthen the land records database of natham areas. The Survey of Villages Abadi & Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme promoted by the Union Ministry of Panchayati Raj, aims at establishing clear ownership of property in rural inhabited areas (referred as grama natham in Tamil Nadu) by mapping of land parcels using drones and to provide ‘Record of Rights’ to village household owners. “Tamil Nadu has quite a strong database of land records. Since the Union government has launched SVAMITVA, the State government has given permission to undertake a pilot project to see whether the scheme would help the State to strengthen the natham land records database by geo referencing the land records,” a senior official told The Hindu . Initially, the project is set to be undertaken in two villages in the State, which will be selected for the scheme later. However, the scheme would require additional human resource since the drone survey would have to be complemented with ground proofing of the area. Though the State has given permission only for a pilot study, the framework for the implementation of the scheme says the survey would cover 18,463 Tamil Nadu villages by 2023-24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-of-india-tn-sign-mou-for-svamitva-scheme/article37655722.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water from man-made lake floods Virugambakkam||Water overflowing from a man-made lake in Nesapakkam has been wreaking havoc on Vembuliamman Koil Street and on First Cross Street in Virugambakkam. Due to high level of groundwater in the area after the recent rain, water has been seeping from the floor in many houses on the street. K.P. Chandrasekaran, a senior citizen, who had been approaching various authorities, including the Chief Minister’s Cell, said action had not been taken to prevent water from overflowing from the lake. “The waterbody, spread over about 20 acres of land from which sand was mined illegally several years ago, is about 10 feet deep,” he said. No response “Complaints on the Namma Chennai App and even official email ID of officials have not yielded any result. There is knee-deep water on the street and about ankle-deep water inside the homes,” Mr. Chandrasekaran said. S. Arumainathan of the Virugambakkam Residents Welfare Association said the area faced a similar problem in 2015. “Last time, a channel was cut and the water pumped out. In the past six years, no steps have been taken. I am happy that the Chief Minister has constituted an expert committee to study water stagnation issues in the city. The experts should consult residents before finalising any plans,” he said. “Water from areas, including Ramapuram and Thirunagar in zone 11, is pumped into this lake, which is in ward 128, zone 10,” said a source in Greater Chennai Corporation. “We are pumping out water from Lambret Nagar so that water from that area does not enter these streets,” the source added.  I am happy that the Chief Minister has constituted an expert committee to study water stagnation issues in the city S. Arumainathan Resident of Virugambakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-from-man-made-lake-floods-virugambakkam/article37655701.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Smart traffic system soon||The Traffic Regulation and Observation Zone (TROZ), which was implemented on a pilot basis in Anna Nagar a few years ago, is set to be expanded to cover the entire the city once the Intelligent Transport System (ITS) is commissioned by the Greater Chennai Corporation next year. The TROZ had helped the traffic police make better use of the personnel and has removed the need for deploying much of the workforce to patrol important traffic signals. Commissioned by the city police in association with auto major Hyundai, TROZ involves networking of automatic number plate reading cameras in five crowded traffic junctions, including Thirumangalam. Any violations in these junctions is flagged along with a photographic evidence for generating e-challan. The TROZ is linked with the Integrated Traffic Management System (ITMS) located at the city police headquarters. A senior official said that in the past, the ITMS was not linked with the website of National Informatics Centre (NIC) but this year after the upgrade of the ITMS with NIC, notices are being sent to vehicle owners through SMS or email. The TROZ had helped identify more traffic violations than the manual system where the personnel could miss instances of traffic violations. Improved version The city is set to have an improved version of ITMS through the ITS as part of the Smart City Mission. He said the tender for implementing ITS (Intelligent Traffic System) had been called and once the contractor was finalised, the ITS would become a reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-traffic-system-soon/article37655707.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to decide validity of making 6-year-old from Badaga community a temple priest||The Madras High Court has embarked on an exercise to decide whether a six-year-old boy can be appointed as a priest, not allowed to step outside the temple for any reason and prohibited from meeting any female as per a custom reportedly followed by the Badaga community in the Nilgiris since 14th Century. Acting Chief Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu have directed the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department Commissioner to file a counter affidavit after a public interest litigant questioned before the court the correctness of subjecting a child to such diktats. D. Sivan of Kattabettu village in Kothagiri had filed the case complaining about a minor boy, now an eight-year-old, serving as a priest of the Shree Hethai Amman temple at Pedala Naduhatty village in the hill station since 2019. He claimed that the boy had been deprived of his childhood and proper education. The petitioner’s counsel Thanga Vadhana Balakrishnan brought it to the notice of the court that, as per customs, the temple priest was supposed to stay inside the temple at all times, maintain the campus clean, sleep only on rugs (jute sack), milch the temple buffalo and prepare ghee for lighting a lamp on a five foot pillar. No cooked food would be allowed inside the temple, and the priest must cook his own food or take assistance from his father or any other male member in cooking. The court was told that though the child was enrolled in Class II in a panchayat union school, his parents had forced him to discontinue on August 16 this year. Filing a counter affidavit to the PIL petition, Udhagamandalam Block Education Officer (BEO) K. Balamurugan conceded that the boy was appointed as a priest in 2019 and justified such appointment on the ground that it was an age-old custom of the community to appoint a child between five and 14 years of age as a priest. The BEO said the priest would always be selected from Kuttamanai family. “Since this religious custom is followed by the entire Badaga community for a very long period, it cannot be broken. It is the custom that the priest shall be only in the premises of the temple and shall not leave the premises for any reason,” the official said. He went on to state that the boy was admitted in Class I under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act on July 5, 2019, and was provided with textbooks and other reading materials free of cost. He was given tuition by a qualified male teacher on the temple premises itself. “It is stated that the minor is also being taught different subjects and given coaching by other qualified male educationists with his and his parent’s consent. As per the age-old custom, females are not allowed to meet the priest and hence, male teachers were arranged, considering the welfare of the student,” the BEO added. Further, conceding that the child’s parents had obtained a transfer certificate from the school on August 16 citing inconvenience, the official said they were counselled, and after efforts taken by various people, the child was re-admitted on November 8 and was now being imparted proper education. “Steps have been taken to provide online education to the said minor after finding out the feasibility for the same,” the BEO said, and accused the PIL petitioner of having filed the case to settle personal scores and create disharmony. The official urged the court to dismiss the case with exemplary costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-to-decide-validity-of-making-six-year-old-from-badaga-community-a-temple-priest/article37655726.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami pitches for higher compensation||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday demanded a higher compensation of at least Rs. 40,000 a hectare to farmers for loss of paddy crops in the recent rain. In a statement, he demanded that at least Rs. 12,000 a hectare be given to farmers to help them replant the crops. He said drinking water supply should be ensured in the affected areas and the prices of essential commodities and tomato and onion should be kept in control. All damaged roads should be repaired and the State Government should take steps to ensure the availability of seeds and fertilizer for the replanting. Interest-free loans Grant of interest-free loans without any condition by cooperative credit societies, compensation for damaged houses, lost cattle and poultry and the conduct of medical camps in the affected areas were among the other demands made by Mr. Palaniswami. He said Rs. 5,000 should be given to every ration cardholder in the affected districts, along with essentials. AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam questioned the law and order situation in the context of the killing of special sub-inspector S. Boominathan and a vehicle running over motor vehicle inspector N. Kanagaraj in a matter of two days. He urged the Chief Minister to grant Rs. 1 crore to the family of Kanagaraj, as in the case of Boominathan. In a statement, he said the incident of an unidentified vehicle hitting Kanagaraj gave rise to the suspicion of foul play. He urged the Chief Minister to focus on law and order and bring to justice those responsible for the death of Boominathan. He demanded a probe into the death of Kanagaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-pitches-for-higher-compensation/article37655690.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pvt. schools must be proactive to tackle child abuse: Minister||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said private schools should be proactive and must immediately inform the School Education Department of instances of child sexual abuse or harassment on campus. “Managements of private schools should immediately reach out to us and not worry about their reputation being affected in case word gets out about such instances. Only if these schools are open about it and work with us to tackle these issues will parents too be reassured that the management is taking action. The department is ready to work with schools to address their concerns,” Mr. Poyyamozhi said. Workshop conducted Earlier this week, a workshop was conducted in Tiruchi on child safety for teaching and non-teaching staff members from the district. “A majority of government schoolteachers have attended an awareness session on the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Private schools too need to take more steps towards creating awareness,” Mr. Poyyamozhi said.   He had earlier called for printing the toll-free education helpline, 14417, as well as the childline, 1098, on textbooks. The Minister had said that the numbers could temporarily be given in the textbooks of students using a rubber stamp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-abuse-on-campus-minister/article37655719.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State announces financial assistance for FinTech firms||The Tamil Nadu government in its FinTech Policy 2021 has announced that a structured package of incentives would be extended to firms which have invested more than Rs. 50 crore and provided direct employment for 300 people or more over a period of less than 3 years, on a case-to-case basis. The first five large FinTech firms shall also be eligible for a relocation incentive of 50% up to Rs. 10 crore during the policy period. The policy that was released by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will be valid until December 2025. Operational guidelines and clarification would be issued from time to time. The government has said that it would support FinTech firms through multiple funding avenues. For instance, around Rs. 5 crore would be earmarked from the Tamil Nadu Startup Seed Grant Fund created under the Tamil Nadu Startup and Innovation Policy 2018. Another Rs. 20 crore has been earmarked from the Emerging Sector Seed Fund through TIDCO/Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation (TNIFMC). This fund will be used to provide venture capital for supporting the early-stage financing requirements of eligible FinTech startups. With a vision to transform Tamil Nadu into a leading global destination for FinTech firms by 2025, the State has announced single window clearance for them and said that it would set up a registry managed by the FinTech cell to track and monitor the progress of these firms. Designing curriculum Apart from this, the School Education Department will design online and offline curriculum and training, in vernacular languages for improving financial literacy among students, leveraging best practices from across the globe. The Tamil Nadu State Development Corporation (TNSDC) shall develop an Apex Skill Development Centre (APSDC) for banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) which will offer courses on FinTech and serve as a centre of excellence. The APSDC will be established in a PPP mode as a special purpose vehicle with TNSDC and an industry partner. Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, pro Vice-Chancellor, Krea University and past president of the Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI), who is now a part of the FinTech governing council set up by the government, said, “I am thrilled to see the importance accorded to refashioning the curriculum and syllabi in educational institutions, including establishing an Apex Skill Development Centre for skilling in Fintech,” he said. According to the policy, the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited will develop a FinTech city in Chennai with a built-up space of at least 1 million sq ft, in a phased manner. It shall largely be virtual, interconnected digitally with an iconic building in Chennai and other FinTech centres in tier 2 and 3 cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-announces-financial-assistance-for-fintech-firms/article37655698.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin lauds martyr Palani for his valour||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday lauded late Havildar K. Palani for his valour in the face of the enemy attack in Galwan valley. He was awarded the Vir Chakra posthumously by President Ram Nath Kovind at the Defence Investiture Ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi on Tuesday. In a social media post, Mr. Stalin said the President awarding the Vir Chakra to Havildar Palani was a matter of great pride. “His display of valour in Galwan valley is a sign of patriotism of the Tamils!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-lauds-martyr-palani/article37655723.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai to host Icelandic film festival||The Embassy of Iceland, New Delhi, Honorary Consulate of Iceland, Chennai, Icelandic Film Centre, Iceland, and the Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation are organising an Icelandic Film Festival on November 26 and 27. After the inaugural at 6 p.m. on November 26, the 2019 film Echo will be screened at 6.30 p.m. The 2019 film A White, White Day will be screened at 6 p.m. on November 27 and at 7.50 p.m., the 2019 film The County will be screened. The festival will be held at the Tagore Film Centre NFDC, Music College Road. For details, contact 9840151956/8939022618.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-to-host-icelandic-film-festival/article37655848.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court convicts litigant for contempt, imprisons him||The Madras High Court on Tuesday convicted a litigant for contempt of court and directed him to undergo three months of simple imprisonment. The court found him guilty of having sold a property despite a status quo ordered by it. Justice S.M. Subramaniam also directed the Velachery sub-registrar in Chennai to cancel the sale deed and construction agreement executed on July 2, 2018, and enter those details in the encumbrance certificate of the property. The orders were passed on a contempt of court petition filed jointly by a group of individuals against D. Nagaraj of Saligramam. The judge expressed displeasure over the contemnor not having cancelled the sale deed despite making such a promise before the court. He pointed out that the order of status quo was passed on June 25, 2018, and the sale deed was executed a week thereafter. Subsequently, the court granted the contemnor several opportunities to nullify the sale and continued to grant multiple adjournments. When he dodged, a non-bailable arrest warrant was issued. However, it was recalled after he appeared before the court and promised to execute the cancellation deed at the earliest. When the promise was not honoured again, a second warrant was issued to produce him before the court on Tuesday. “The first respondent’s behaviour before this court proves that he has no respect towards the court proceedings and abused the process by giving false undertakings and by not complying even after several adjournments. Thus, the first respondent has committed contempt of court wilfully and consequentially liable to be punished,” the judge concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-convicts-litigant-for-contempt-sends-him-to-prison/article37655724.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain likely in southern, delta districts||A low-pressure area (LPA), likely to form over southwest Bay of Bengal in the next 24 hours, is likely to bring heavy rain over several places in Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and the delta districts on Wednesday. Thunderstorms have also been forecast over isolated places in these districts by the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). The RMC, in its bulletin, said an LPA was likely to form due to the influence of a cyclonic circulation, that currently lies over central parts of south Bay of Bengal. The LPA is likely to move west-north-westwards towards Sri Lanka and south Tamil Nadu coast. Thunderstorms with moderate rain (2cm to 6 cm in a 24-hour period) are likely to occur on Wednesday in south Tamil Nadu. Isolated places in north Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal are likely to witness thunderstorms with light to moderate rain. As far as Chennai city is concerned, on Wednesday, the sky is likely to be partly cloudy and light rain may occur in some areas. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 32 degrees Celsius and 25 degrees Celsius. Forecast for Thursday The RMC has also given a warning of heavy to very heavy rain on Thursday, at isolated places in Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Ranipet districts. Heavy rain is likely to occur in isolated places over Chennai, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram districts. On Friday and Saturday, isolated places in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts are likely to record heavy to very heavy rain. Heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places in Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Ranipet, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai, the delta districts and Karaikal area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-likely-in-southern-delta-districts/article37655688.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 741 fresh cases and 13 fatalities||The State on Tuesday recorded 741 fresh infections, and its tally touched 27,21,762. At present, 8,536 people are under treatment for COVID-19. Coimbatore logged 119 cases, while Chennai saw 114. Coimbatore’s active cases stand at 1,258 and Chennai’s at 1,274. Except for Thoothukudi, all other districts recorded fresh cases. Twenty-two districts recorded cases in single digit. With 808 people being discharged after treatment, total recoveries reached 26,76,825. The State recorded 13 deaths, and its toll touched 36,401. Two 64-year-old women, who had no co-morbidity, died of the infection. As many as 3,57,931 people were vaccinated. With this, the total coverage in government centres touched 6,44,55,844.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-741-fresh-cases-and-13-fatalities/article37655692.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for harassing woman||A 28-year-old man was arrested for sexually harassing a woman on Tuesday. The accused, L. Udayakumar, was produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison. A police official of the Sembium All Women Police station said the woman, related to the accused, had fallen in love with him. However, she ended the relationship citing personal reasons. Angered by this, Udayakumar started sexually harassing her. Based on a complaint, the Sembium All Women Police station arrested Udayakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-harassing-woman/article37655705.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Envoy calls on Governor||Indian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka Gopal Baglay called on Governor R.N. Ravi here on Tuesday. Mr. Baglay, who is on a visit to Tamil Nadu, on Sunday met fishermen leaders from various associations in the coastal district of Ramanathapuram. He visited Dhanushkodi, Arichalmunai and other places accompanied by senior officers from the Department of Fisheries and Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat. He had a look at the infrastructure provided by the Union and State governments for fishermen. In early November, a delegation of Sri Lankan fishermen from the country's northern districts met Mr. Baglay and raised concerns over the “delay in India’s response” to the issue of bottom trawling in the Palk Strait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-high-commissioner-to-sri-lanka-calls-on-governor/article37655712.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aavin starts making ghee for Pongal gift scheme||Aavin has begun production of ghee to be supplied to 2.15 crore family cardholders as part of Pongal gift by the government. The ghee, with a shelf life of six months, will come in 100 ml plastic containers. An official release here said Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had announced a gift hamper of 21 items, including ghee from Aavin. Aavin would earn Rs. 135 crore from this, which would benefit 19 lakh dairy farmers, who are attached to cooperative societies that supply to the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers Federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aavin-starts-making-ghee-for-pongal-gift-scheme/article37655710.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNPCB seeks information on units making single-use plastics||The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has urged the public to provide information about illegal units that manufacture banned single-use plastics. In an appeal here, board chairman A. Udhayan said the information can be shared with the respective jurisdictional District Environmental Engineers, whose contact details are displayed in the TNPCB website (https://tnpcb.go v.in/contact.php). The board has made this appeal as it was finding it difficult to identify such units since many co-exist and operate illegally in small spaces within residential/commercial establishments. Most of these units were without proper registration and functioned on a temporary basis. The complainants had been requested to provide their names and mobile numbers so that additional details as requested might be sought from them. Details of residents providing information shall not be shared and kept confidential, said an official release here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnpcb-seeks-information-on-units-making-single-use-plastics/article37655709.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||College to offer religious course||A six-month certificate course on Saiva Siddhantha will be started at the Arulmigu Kapaleeswarar Arts and Science College in Kolathur. Application forms can be had from the college during working days till December 13. This follows a directive of the Madras High Court, ordering the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to start religious courses in the four colleges run by it on land belonging to various temples. S. Saravanan, a professor at the Saiva Siddhantha Department in the School of Philosophy and Religion of the University of Madras, has prepared the course content. Weekly classes Classes will be held on Saturdays and apart from students of the college, interested people who have passed class 12, can join. Admission will be on a first-come-first-served basis. There is no age limit, said a press release. For more details, contact V. Loganathan on ph: 7397396560.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kapaleeswarar-college-to-offer-religious-course/article37655708.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bus knocks down woman||A 37-year-old woman was crushed to death under the wheels of a private bus in Velachery on Monday night. An official of the Guindy Traffic Investigation wing said Sangeetha, a resident of Velachery, was going home on a bicycles. When she tried to cross the signal at the junction, a private bus, which was taking a U-turn, ran over her. The bus driver fled the spot. Police from Guindy Traffic Wing rushed to the spot and sent the body to Government Royapettah Hospital. Bus driver Pushparaj of Ulundurpet was later arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-runs-over-woman/article37655706.ece
24 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Neo-tidel parks in tier-2, tier-3 cities: CM||The State Government will set up neo-tidel parks in tier-2 and tier-3 cities, as part of the next level of information technology revolution, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Tuesday. Speaking at the “Tamil Nadu- investors’ first port of call” Investment Conclave, held at the CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex in Coimbatore, he recalled that the then Chief Minister, M. Karunanidhi, had inaugurated the Tidel Park in Chennai in 2000. “This was an important factor in the information technology revolution in Tamil Nadu. To take this to the next level, neo-tidel parks will come up in tier-2 and tier-3 cities,” Mr. Stalin said. Industrial park In Coimbatore district, a “Centre of excellence” for casting industries in the district; a group for coir processing industries in Pollachi, and an industrial park in Sulur will be set up by the State Government. The Chief Minister urged the industry heads of the district to focus on manufacturing products for the aerospace and defence sector, modernising the knitwear and garment industries, becoming a leading manufacturer of electronic hardware and bringing out new inventions that can benefit the economically weaker sections of the society, among other things. Mr. Stalin inked memoranda of understanding (MoUs) with 59 firms, with a cumulative investment of Rs. 35,208 crore, aimed at creating employment opportunities for 76,795 people across districts. The MoUs, with the first batch of 52 firms, were worth Rs. 34,723 crore, and included companies like Dalmia Bharat Green Vision, Adani Enterprises (Phase- 2), Larsen and Toubro, Hindustan Unilever Limited, Daicel Corporation and Makino India. Mr. Stalin also signed MoUs with seven firms in the aerospace and defence sector, with an investment of Rs. 485 crore and 1,960 potential jobs opportunities. Apart from these, Mr. Stalin laid foundation stones for 13 projects, with an investment commitment of Rs. 13,413 crore and employment potential for 11,681 people. He also inaugurated 10 projects, with a cumulative investment of Rs. 3,928 crore, which would employ up to 3,944 people. The Chief Minister released the Tamil Nadu Fintech Policy, 2021, for augmentation of investment in the fintech sector, launched the “Single window 2.0” mobile application and unveiled a directory of aerospace and defence industries in the State, compiled by the Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO), a press release said. Centre of excellence He also signed an MoU with Dassault Systems for the establishment of a “Centre of excellence”, worth Rs. 212 crore, in Chennai, to enable aerospace and defence firms and start-ups to utilise the latest design and engineering tools. Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu; chairman of TVS Motor Company Venu Srinivasan; chairman of Bannari Amman Group S.V. Balasubramaniam; chairperson of GRG Institutions Nandini Rangaswamy; managing director of Daicel Corporation Yoshifumi Takase; CODISSIA chairman M.V. Ramesh Babu, and other officials from the State Government and district administration took part in the conclave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neo-tidel-parks-in-tier-2-tier-3-cities-cm/article37655700.ece
24 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CM’s scheme road announcement disappointing, say activists||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s announcement on Monday that the government would fund development of five scheme roads in the city at Rs. 200 crore has come in from praise from activists, who, however, have questioned the choice of the roads. Corporation sources said the Chief Minister’s announcement followed a resolution the Council had passed in its last meeting in October – to develop a link road in Ward 56 connecting Fun Mall Road, PSG Road, Anna Nagar, Varadharaja Mill and a few other areas at Rs. 18.59 crore; Puliakulam Main Road – Rajiv Gandhi Nagar Main Road in Ward 65 and 66 at Rs. 45.62 crore, Aishwarya Nagar-Marudhamalai Main Road in Ward 15 at Rs. 19.87 crore, Anna Nagar Extension – Varadharaja Mill Road in Ward 56 at Rs. 55.54 crore and SNR College Road-Avarampalayam Road- Nava India Road in Ward 40 at Rs. 5.18 crore. The estimated cost of development roads was Rs. 144.80 crore, the Council had said and added that the Corporation had planned to utilise the Infrastructure and Amenities Fund. While the Chief Minister’s announcement was to be welcomed the choice of roads was not, said District Road Safety Committee member and activist K. Kathirmathiyon. Four of the five roads were off Avinashi Road and confined to a particular geography. To take up Avinashi Road as a base, more so at a time when an elevated express way was under construction on the road to ease traffic congestion, would not lead to equitable and all round development of the city. The Corporation should review the five roads and include at least one road from each of the five zones. A resident said plotting the five proposed roads on the Assembly constituency map would reveal who had influenced the Council resolution. Activist S.P. Thiyagarajan said it was disappointing that the Corporation had excluded roads or scheme roads that were high on priority list for development. For instance, the Corporation had omitted inclusion of Sowripalayam Main Road. The Corporation needed only around Rs. 3 crore to widen the narrow road where at present only one bus could pass through at a time. The civic body needed to acquire only 300m or so and the 27 land owners had expressed willingness to part with land for widening the road. Likewise, the Corporation had failed to include SIHS Colony Road that would have been the ideal alternative road to Kamarajar Road, Singanallur. It had also not considered for development the Nallampalayam Road, an alternative road connecting Mettupalayam Road to Sathyamangalam Road or the Jeeva Nagar Road, linking Mettupalayam Road to Kavundampalayam Road and Thadagam Road. A former councillor and DMK member said the roads proposed would only lead to lopsided development. There were 120-plus roads proposed for development and they were spread over the entire city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-scheme-road-announcement-disappointing-say-activists/article37655733.ece
24 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||City receives more rain than Northeast Monsoon average||The rainfall the city has recorded so far in the Northeast Monsoon is more than what it is supposed to receive the entire season. Data shared by the Agro Climate Research Centre at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University showed that the city had received 322.2 mm rainfall. This was the period from October 25, when the Northeast Monsoon season started, to November 23. Centre head Prof. S.P. Ramanathan said of the 322.2 mm, the city had received 71.6 mm in October and 250 mm in November so far. This was more than the Northeast Monsoon season (October, November and December) average rainfall of 305 mm. In November alone, the city had received 63 mm on November 8 – the highest so far for the season, 57 mm on November 18, 51 mm on November 2 and 31 mm on November 22. With more than a month to go for the season to end, the city was witnessing a surplus Northeast Monsoon season. Coimbatore resident and weather watcher G. Santhosh Krishnan said the rainfall the city had received this year so far was 680 mm, which was more than the annual average of 590 mm. This was based on the rainfall recorded at the Coimbatore airport. Coimbatore would continue to receive rain in the next few days and was predicted to receive 10 mm to 15 mm in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-receives-more-rain-than-northeast-monsoon-average/article37655734.ece
24 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CM felicitates Sulur Inspector||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday felicitated the Inspector of Sulur police station in Coimbatore for nabbing two accused who were allegedly involved in theft of two-wheelers. In a statement, he said that Inspector R. Mathaiyan along with a few constables were on night patrolling recently when they spotted two youths with motorcycles at around 3 a.m. in Neelambur. As the police personnel inquired them, the duo allegedly attacked the police and ran away from the spot. Mr. Mathaiyan and the constables chased them and nabbed one of the youths. Further investigations led to the arrest of the second accused and the police also seized allegedly stolen motorcycles from the accused, the statement said. “Your brave act has brought pride to all those who are honest and courageous in the Police Department,” Mr. Stalin told Mr. Mathaiyan in the statement. The Inspector was felicitated by the Chief Minister on Tuesday in the presence of Additional Director General of Police - Law and Order P. Thamarai Kannan and Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore district, S. Selvanagarathinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-felicitates-sulur-inspector/article37655740.ece
24 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two sentenced to 10-year imprisonment||A special court in Coimbatore on Tuesday sentenced a man and a woman, who were charged with cheating 99 depositors of over Rs. 1.55 crore through a poultry farm in Erode district in 2012, to 10 years of imprisonment. Legal sources said Karthika (32) and S. Prabhu (30) were the directors of a country chicken farm named Healthy Poultry Farms India at Nambiyur in Erode district in 2012. Karthika’s husband G.R. Manikandan, K. Sathish aka Sathishkumar, N. Murugan, M. Ramasamy, R. Jayasamundeswari and S. Rajendran were also working in the company. The firm had announced two schemes to lure in depositors, following which the farm allegedly cheated 99 depositors of Rs. 1,55,50,000. Subsequently, the Economic Offences Wing registered a case against the eight persons on charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy. On Tuesday, judge of the Special Court for Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors Act cases A.S. Ravi sentenced Karthika and Prabhu to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and acquitted the six persons who were booked in the case, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-sentenced-to-10-year-imprisonment/article37655735.ece
24 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four persons arrested for murder||The Podanur police on Tuesday arrested four persons for their alleged involvement in the murder of a man who was accused of stealing a goat. According to police sources, the accused were identified as Abu Thahir (28) and his brother Mohammad Ali (23), Mohammed Nazif (24) and Mohammed Ansar (24). The accused claimed that they assaulted Sait Fakruddin (45) on Sunday night with iron rods and wooden logs after they allegedly found him stealing a goat that belonged to Abu Thahir. Fakruddin, who served prison term in the 1998 Coimbatore serial bomb blast case, died during treatment at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday. The accused were remanded in judicial custody. Truck hits APW’s vehicle A truck loaded with around 4,000 bricks hit the vehicle of an anti-poaching watcher (APW) of the Forest Department near the Thadagam valley on Tuesday. According to the police, APW Rangasamy was at Kanuvai engaged in watching an elephant at around 5.30 p.m. when the truck hit his four-wheeler and drove off from the spot. As the APW was inside his vehicle, he suffered minor injuries, the police said. The truck was allegedly involved in the illegal transportation of bricks from the brick kilns in violation of the orders of the Madras High Court and Coimbatore district administration, according to the police. The Thadagam police booked three persons, including the truck driver. Efforts to nab the accused were on, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-persons-arrested-for-murder/article37655737.ece
24 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nadda to open BJP office in Tiruppur today||President of the Bharatiya Janata Party J.P. Nadda will inaugurate the party’s district office at Veerapandi here on Wednesday and address the cadre. According to party sources, Mr. Nadda, who arrives at the Coimbatore Airport at around 12 noon, will participate at the party’s State executive committee meeting. He will also inaugurate the party offices at Tirunelveli, Tirupattur and Erode via videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nadda-to-open-bjp-office-in-tiruppur-today/article37655829.ece
24 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down on Thursday and Friday||In view of the proposed monthly maintenance works to be undertaken at the R.S. Puram sub-station on November 25 , there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: Arockiyasamy Road, Ramachandra Road, part of DB Road, Lawley Road, Thadagam Road, Cowley Brown Road, West Periyasamy Road, TV Samy Road East and West, Sir C.V. Raman Road, Azad Road, Subramaniam Road, part of Sukrawarpet, TK Street, Mcricker Road, Ponniahrajapuram, EB Colony, part of Chockampudur, Gopal Lay-out, Sami Iyer New Street, Gandhi Park, part of Sullivan Street, Telugu Street, Edayar Street, part of Raja Street and Sundapalayam Road, Big Bazaar Street and PM Samy Colony.  Thudialur sub-station   (November 26 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. ):  K. Vadamadurai, Thudialur, Appanaickenpalayam, Aruna Nagar, VSK Nagar, VKV Nagar, NGGO Colony, Palanigoundanpudur, Pannimadai, Thaliyur, Madathur, Pappanaickenpalayam, Kalayanur, Somayanur, KNG Pudur and Venugopal hospital area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down-on-thursday-and-friday/article37655742.ece
24 November 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Complaint against Jai Bhim producers, director||Vanniyar Sangam president Pu.Tha. Arulmozhi on Tuesday lodged a private complaint before the Judicial Magistrate II in Chidambaram against the producers and director of the acclaimed film Jai Bhim and  Amazon.in, which released the movie on its OTT platform. The complaint accused 2D Entertainment Private Limited, producers Suriya and Jyothika, director T.J. Gnanavel and Amazon.in of distorting facts and portraying the Vanniyar community in bad light in the film, in an attempt to create communal disharmony. Mr. Arulmozhi said the film-makers intentionally portrayed the character of the Sub-Inspector of Police, who is responsible for a custodial death in the film, as belonging to the Vanniyar community. ‘Causing disrespute’ “The symbolic representations in various sequences in the movie, Jai Bhim, is per se defamatory and intentional, and is targeted to defame and cause greater disrepute to the community,” the complaint said. Mr. Arulmozhi said writer Kanmani Gunasekaran, who helped provide words from the local language to the film, had said that facts were suppressed and the Vanniyar community defamed. Mr. Gunasekaran had returned his remuneration of Rs. 50,000 to 2D Entertainment Private Limited. The plea sought a direction for initiating action against Mr. Suriya, Ms. Jyothika, Mr. Gnanavel and Amazon.in, under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony), 499, 500, 503, 504 and 505.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complaint-against-jai-bhim-producers-director/article37655686.ece
24 November 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Rain-hit areas in Cuddalore inspected||A four-member inter-Ministerial Central team on Tuesday visited rain-affected areas in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The delegation comprised of Rajiv Sharma, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA); Vijay Rajmohan, Director (IT), Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare; Rananjay Singh, Regional Officer, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and M.V.N. Varaprasad, Under Secretary, Ministry of Rural Development. In Cuddalore, the team assessed damage to infrastructure, roads and standing crops at Periyakanganakuppam, caused by flooding from Thenpennaiar river, which was in spate. K. Phanindra Reddy, Additional Chief Secretary/Commissioner of Revenue Administration and Collector K. Balasubramaniam elaborated the estimated loss on agriculture crops, roads and other infrastructure due to rain, with the help of a photo exhibition. Official sources said they had submitted the list of damage to infrastructure and standing crops due to inundation. Agricultural department sources said standing crops, raised on 5,919 hectares, were inundated due to the recent spell of heavy rain. About 2,036 farmers from 45 villages in the district had lost crops, grown on about 1324.8 hectares. The Central team also inspected damage to crops, on 283.26 hectares, in Poovalai in Parangipettai block, and interacted with the farmers. The Central team left for Mayiladuthurai district, from where they are expected to proceed to Tiruchi. Media persons were denied permission to cover the Central team’s visit at Poovalai village. Earlier in the day, the team toured rain-affected places in the Puducherry region. The team visited the coastal hamlet of Pillaichavady to study the damage caused by sea erosion. They also the inspected the affected farmlands in Bahour area, and interacted with people at N.R. Nagar. Relief for Puducherry Puducherry Chief Minister N. Rangasamy sought assistance of Rs. 300 crore during his interaction with the inter-Ministerial Central team, in his chambers, on Monday. Paddy cultivation on around 7,000 hectares in Puducherry and Karaikal region were affected in the heavy rain. Farmers also lost their livestock in floods, he said. The Chief Minister also briefed them about the damage in coastal areas due to sea erosion during the monsoon, an official said. He had already written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah about the damage caused due to rain in the Union Territory. Crop damage in Vellore A team, consisting R.B. Kaul, consultant, Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure; R. Thangamani, Director, Ministry of Water Resources; and Bhavya Pandey, Assistant Director, Ministry of Power, also visited flood-hit areas in Vellore and Ranipet districts. They visited affected areas, including Kapadi, Ponnai anaicut along the Palar river in Vellore, and agricultural areas like Nemili and Arcot in Ranipet along with district collectors. Officials said crops such as paddy, ragi, maize, red gram, groundnut, cotton and tapioca, spread over 32,887.61 hectares in Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupattur and Tiruvannamalai districts, were damaged in the rain. “Some of the most affected areas include Nemeli, Thimiri and Arcot where paddy has been cultivated widely. The total loss incurred is estimated at Rs. 29.44 crore,” D. Bhasakara Pandian, Collector, Ranipet, told The Hindu . Tiruvannmalai alone accounted for 24,018 hectares of paddy that was affected, followed by Ranipet (2,342 hectares). Vellore was the least affected region with a loss of 341.04 hectares of paddy. Cauvery delta survey Later, Mr. Sharma and his team checked the extent of damage to crops in the Cauvery delta districts. The team was accompanied by Additional Chief Secretary and Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy. They visited various parts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts for a first-hand account of the crop damages during the day. Officials in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur told the team that over 20,000 hectares of paddy crop had been affected in the two districts. The team inspected the flood-affected agriculture fields at Kavanoor and Kovilvenni in Tiruvarur district and at Ammapettai in Thanjavur. Detailing the damages caused to the standing crop, the Collectors of Thanjavur and Tiruvarur, Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and P. Gayathri Krishnan, pointed out that paddy crop on 2,396 hectares in Thanjavur and 18,460 hectares in Tiruvarur had suffered damage. At Nagapattinam, the team inspected submerged paddy fields at Erunsalai hamlet in Papa Kovil panchayat. Apprising the team, Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said 18 houses were completely damaged and 808 houses were partially damaged. They also assessed the crop damages at Tirumayiladi in Mayiladuthurai. Collector R. Lalitha said the rainfall had caused destruction to paddy crop on 5,423 hectares, affecting 5,645 farmers. The team interacted with affected farmers and representatives of farmers’ organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-hit-areas-in-tamil-nadu-and-puducherry-inspected/article37655728.ece
24 November 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Correspondent of nursing college surrenders in court||The nursing college correspondent Jothi Murugan, who was wanted in connection with a case filed under the POCSO Act, surrendered before a court at Polur in Tiruvannamalai district on Tuesday. Students of the private college at Muthanampatti blocked Dindigul-Palani Road last week demanding action against the correspondent as he had allegedly abused some students. DIG of Police (Dindigul Range) Vijayakumari assured them that the police would take firm action. Even as the police were on the look-out for the accused and formed five special teams, he surrendered before a court. The police have planned to take Jothi Murugan into custody for interrogation. Three students have lodged complaints with the Thadicombu police and the police have registered cases. Collector S. Visakan assured the students that Revenue Department authorities would examine the situation. The students and the SFI members had demanded formation of a committee to run the institutions owned by Jothi Murugan or sought transfer the students to different institution. On Monday, Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy told reporters that the government would hold an impartial probe and the guilty would be punished. Meanwhile, the students assembled near Kamarajar bus stand in Dindigul on Tuesday and staged a demonstration seeking the arrest of a few more suspects who were hand-in-glove with Jothi Murugan. The police pacified the agitators saying they would look into the complaints. Hostel warden Archana, who figured in the offence, had been arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correspondent-of-nursing-college-surrenders-in-court/article37655821.ece
24 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Landslips halt special bus service in Bargur Hills, students affected||Over 200 students studying in the Government Higher Secondary School at Devarmalai in Bargur Hills are unable to attend classes for 10 days now as the the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation’s special bus service from various hamlets to the school has been halted due to landslips. A total of 400 students are studying in Classes VI to XII in the school located 10 km from Thamaraikarai. Over 200 students from Thamaraikarai, Ondanai, Eratti, Minthangi and Kadaieratti hamlets commute to the school in the special bus operated on working days from Thamaraikarai to Ondanai and to the school. Due to incessant rain, landslips occurred on November 14 and 15 at Chettinodi on the Bargur ghat road affecting the movement of vehicles. Restoration works were carried out and two-wheelers, four-wheelers were allowed to use the ghat road. Since rains continue and there is a possibility of soil erosion, buses and heavy vehicles were not allowed to use the ghat road till now. The absence of bus service has affected students from Ondanai and other hamlets. The school is located about 15 km away and since students have to travel through forest areas, parents refuse to send their wards fearing animal attacks. School teachers said that over 200 students, who were absent from November 15, were studying in Classes X to XII and sought arrangement of alternative vehicles for them to reach the school. “We have to complete the syllabus and prepare them for board exams”, they added.  Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam told The Hindu that steps would be taken to arrange a van for the students to reach their school until restoration of the bus service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/landslips-halt-special-bus-service-in-bargur-hills-students-affected/article37655843.ece
24 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Welfare aid distributed||District Collector H. Krishnanunni handed over welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 52.71 lakh to beneficiaries in Bargur Hills. The Collector, in the presence of Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam, handed over assistance to people in Devarmalai, Thamaraikarai and Bargur recently. It includes old age pension, assistance for constructing houses, drip irrigation systems and sprayers. Tribal people received new family cards and identity cards. Mr. Krishnanunni inaugurated the works to drill a bore well in Thamaraikarai lake and installation of water tanks at Sundapur village. He inspected the Government Higher Secondary School at Devarmalai that was constructed a year ago and is yet to be inaugurated. The headmistress of the school wanted an additional building for the noon meal scheme and a compound wall for the school. Both the Collector and the MLA promised to take action. He inspected the primary school at Osur and held discussions with officials. Mr. Krishnanunni also visited Kongadai village and distributed assistance to the tune of Rs. 17.82 lakh to 123 beneficiaries .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/welfare-aid-distributed/article37655836.ece
24 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||10 Bangladeshi nationals jailed for illegal stay||A judicial magistrate court in Perundurai sentenced 10 Bangladeshi nationals to undergo one year imprisonment for staying illegally without valid documents. On July 28, the district police along with ‘Q’ Branch police and Special Intelligence Unit of the State police raided houses at Panickampalayam here and found 10 persons staying without valid documents. They were in the age group of 20 to 52 and a case was registered under the Foreigners’ Act. They were arrested and lodged in Puzhal Prison in Chennai. Judicial magistrate K.S. Shabeena found them guilty and sentenced them to undergo one year imprisonment and levied a fine of Rs. 1,000 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-bangladeshi-nationals-jailed-for-illegal-stay/article37655841.ece
24 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 78 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 78 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,05,847. While 63 persons were discharged, the district has 830 active cases. Salem district reported 39 new cases. According to health officials, 21 cases were indigenous and 10 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal reported 43 new cases, all indigenous. Krishnagiri recorded five fresh cases and Dharmapuri nine cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-78-new-covid-19-cases/article37655837.ece
24 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievances redress meeting||The monthly farmers’ grievances redress meeting will be held at the Collectorate at 10 a.m. on November 26. A press release from Collector H. Krishnanunni said that farmers can submit their petitions from 10 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and can air their grievances during the meeting scheduled to be held from 11.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Officials will give explanations from 12.30 p.m. to 1.30 p.m., the release added.    The water level in Bhavanisagar dam stood at 104 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet on Tuesday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 4,708 cusecs, while the discharge was 4,800 cusecs into River Bhavani and 2,000 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal. The outflow from Mettur dam in Salem was reduced to 30,000 cusecs from Monday and the water level at the dam remained at 120.10ft. The dam had a stored capacity of 93,630 mcft and received an inflow of 30,000 cusecs.    The district recorded a total rainfall of 312.2 mm on Tuesday morning. Rainfall recorded at various places were Elanthakuttaimedu- 58.2 mm, Modakkurichi-44 mm, Nambiyur- 32 mm, Bhavanisagar -28.2 mm, Gobichettipalayam -27.4 mm, Gunderipallam -25.2 mm and Kodiveri -22.2 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievances-redress-meeting/article37655839.ece
24 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of pipeline laying works in the Erode substation – Sakthi Road electric line pathway, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 25 at Meera Moideen Street, Madhava Krishna Street, Mosikeeranar Street, Ayyappan Kovil Street, Jinna Street, Indira Nagar, Market areas, Marimuthu Street, Periya Mariamman Kovil Street, K.A.S. Nagar, Cauvery Road, SCM Mil Road, Arasilango Street and R.K.V. Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37655840.ece
24 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Slow pace of works on NH 77 troubles road users||The slow pace of works by the National Highways Authority of India on the Uthangarai-Singarapettai stretch of the Tindivanam-Krishnagiri National Highway 77, combined with the recent rain, has made commute through the road impossible. The stretch, riddled with potholes, constitutes the 180-km-long Tindivanam-Krishnagiri NH that was announced a little over a decade ago in 2010 and commissioned in 2012. However, the project was stalled and eventually abandoned by the concessionaire Transtory Krishnagiri-Tindivanam Highways Private Limited due to cost escalation. The hike in cost of raw materials escalated the project cost way above the commissioned cost of Rs. 612 crore. The NH 77 from Puducherry to Krishnagiri provides connectivity via Tindivanam, Tiruvanamalai and Uthangarai. In 2018, the Union government made a one time-fund infusion and resurrected the project, however not at a desired speed. The road expansion works that commenced along the stretch was carried out at a snail’s pace, say commuters. Heavy vehicles caught in the slush left behind by the road expansion works irks public. Trucks stuck in the slush cause additional burden to the commuting traffic, says a local. “The promise to expedite the NH 77 works was made during each election and then forgotten,” says the local not wanting to be named. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy acknowledged the slow pace of works and the complaints reaching the administration’s control room. “The trouble is the 8-km stretch between Uthangarai and Singarapettai. The district administration is conducting weekly reviews on the progress of the works and monitoring the situation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slow-pace-of-works-on-nh-77-troubles-road-users/article37655835.ece
24 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Paambaru bridge out of bounds for heavy vehicles||The Paambaru bridge continues to be cordoned off for the movement of heavy vehicles as the river is in spate following the release of water from Paambaru dam. The shutters of the dam were opened on Friday to release over 11,500 cusecs into the river. In its wake, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy directed the officials to cordon off the bridge to prevent the movement of heavy vehicles. Four days after the move, Dr. Reddy told The Hindu that the bridge was structurally safe. As a precautionary measure, the bridge has been closed to heavy vehicles as the water flow was high. A meeting would be held with the officials to review the move based on the inflow, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paambaru-bridge-out-of-bounds-for-heavy-vehicles/article37655833.ece
24 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||City gets Rs. 60 crore for relaying of battered roads||The State government had allotted Rs. 60 crore for relaying bad roads in the city, said Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan. Making a presentation on the progress of Smart City works at Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting held here on Tuesday, he said underground drainage works and drinking water projects were under execution and domestic lines needed to be provided. The road relaying work with the special fund could be taken up in May or June 2022. Minister for Registration and Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy, Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore and Madurai North MLA G. Thalapathi flagged the poor condition of the city roads after rains. When Mr. Karthiekyan said Rs. 1 crore had been allotted for repairing the roads, Mr. Moorthy said the funds would not be adequate if there were more rains. “At least bituminous macadam should be laid on unmotorable roads so that people can safely walk,” said Mr. Thalapathi. The Commissioner assured them that he would seek additional funds from the government. Chairing the meeting, Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan said Smart City project should not mean making the city a concrete jungle. “It should be made to co-exist with nature and more parks should be created, as planned, along the Vaigai banks,” he said. To a question raised by Mr. Tagore on the lower ranking of Madurai under Swachh Survekshan, Mr. Karthiekyan said officials were preoccupied with COVID-related works when the survey was conducted during November 2020-January 2021 and could not provide all data for the survey. To a question raised by the Minister, Mr. Karthikeyan said all the organic manure produced by the Corporation would be supplied free of cost to farmers. When Theni MP P. Ravindranath sought the plan of action to augment water sources for Madurai bearing in mind the population growth in future, the Commissioner said 317 MLD of water was needed by 2034. Efforts were taken to renovate all waterbodies in the city and sewage would be treated and used for industrial purposes. The renovated Periyar bus stand was ready and waiting for clearance for commissioning, he said. Mr. Venkatesan insisted that New Natham Road that was damaged for the construction of the elevated corridor should be immediately relaid as people had suffered enough for three years. The meeting reprimanded School Education Department officials for not providing correct data on the number of students who moved from private schools to government schools. The MLAs expressed concern over non-availability of buses to cater to school students. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar promised to redress the issue immediately. MLAs A. Venkatesan (Sholavandan), M. Boominathan (Madurai South), P. Periyapullan alias Selvam (Melur) and P. Ayyappan (Usilampatti); District Revenue Officer G. Senthilkumari and Project Director - District Rural Development Agency Abitha Haneef also participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-gets-rs-60-crore-for-relaying-of-battered-roads/article37656042.ece
24 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers stage protests over bad quality of ration rice||The residents of Periyakarpoorampatti, Chinnakarpoorampatti and Kidaripatti near Melur staged a demonstration outside the ration shops on Tuesday, complaining about the poor quality of rice supplied to them. The residents of Periyakarpoorampatti and Chinnakarpoorampatti staged a demonstration from the morning till the afternoon. The residents of Kidaripatti dumped the rice on the road and staged their protest. The villagers complained that the ration rice supplied to them was of poor quality, infested with worms and stinking. “How can we eat this rice? Will the authorities eat this? What about our health?,” asked an elderly woman. The villagers said it was the duty of the authorities to ensure that good quality rice was supplied to the people. Ration shop employees were also indulging in other irregularities, they said. The protesters complained that the ration shops were not opened on time, palm oil was sold at a much higher price, the commodities were not stored properly and they were sold in the black market. They said when they questioned the ration shop employees about these irregularities, the staff were arrogant in their response. ‘No action on complaints’ It was not the first time that this was happening. Despite several complaints being made to the authorities, the situation had not improved, said K. Selvaraj, one of the protesters. He said the authorities should take action against the ration shop staff involved in irregularities and ensure that this was not repeated. They called off the protest after they were assured that the authorities would look into the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-stage-protests-over-bad-quality-of-ration-rice/article37656037.ece
24 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Owners of stray cattle fined Rs. 1.20 lakh in 10 days||In the last 10 days, Madurai Corporation secured about 85 stray cattle heads, wandering on the roads and posing a threat to vehicle users, and imposed a total fine of Rs. 1.20 lakh. Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan said on Tuesday that repeated warnings were issued to cattle owners. Freak accidents were caused by cattle staying in the middle of the roads. With the help of Blue Cross members, the Corporation formed special teams comprising trained personnel to secure the stray cattle. More such volunteer groups would be formed and the roads would be free of cattle soon. Corporation authorities said they had planned to impose fines on owners of the stray cattle. “We had requested them and warned them of legal action,” a senior official said. The Corporation would impound the cattle for three days and if the owners did not turn up the animals would auctioned. Madurai City Traffic Police and the Corporation officials said high numbers of stray cattle heads were spotted in Sellur, New Natham Road, Chinna Chokkikulam, B.B. Kulam, K. Pudur, Vandiyur, Gomathipuram, around Meenakshi Temple, Arapalayam bus stand and on Kamarajar Salai and Dhanappa Mudali Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/owners-of-stray-cattle-fined-rs-120-lakh-in-10-days/article37656036.ece
24 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Trouble brewing again over toll collection for local vehicles at Kappalur||Trouble is brewing again in Tirumangalam as taxi owners and drivers are planning a protest against the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) collecting toll for vehicles from villages in the vicinity of Kappalur toll plaza. Minister raises issue Minister for Registration and Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy and Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore and former Minister R.B. Udhayakumar raised the issue at DISHA meeting held here on Tuesday. Mr. Moorthy told the Project Director, NHAI, Madurai, that the local people were agitated over toll collection for commercial vehicles from Tirumangalam, T. Kallupatti and Peraiyur. “When it comes to people’s problem, there will not be any differences among political parties,” the Minister told the official. Local people charged that the NHAI had misled the Supreme Court on the issue, he said. Tirumangalam residents were demanding shifting of the toll plaza at Kappalur (north of Tirumangalam) to the south of the town. They asked why they should pay toll for travelling on the road for less than a kilometre to reach Tirumangalam. Similarly, they were agitated as they had to travel for less than two km on the toll road to reach Rajapalayam highway. Road blocked The local people blocked the highway for nearly two hours a fortnight ago prompting the intervention of the district administration, and consequently, the NHAI suspended toll collection for commercial vehicles from Tirumangalam area. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar said the NHAI contractor had sought police protection for resuming toll collection for all vehicles at Kappalur toll plaza with effect from Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trouble-brewing-again-over-toll-collection-for-local-vehicles-at-kappalur/article37656039.ece
24 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea seeks removal of encroachment on water channel||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Madurai district administration to file a report in response to a public interest litigation petition that seeks a direction to remove encroachments on a water channel of Periyar-Vaigai river basin division. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought the response from the authorities on the petition filed by M. Rameshwari of Puduthamaraipatti in Madurai district. The petitioner complained that the water channel in the village was encroached upon by a real estate developer. She said the Public Works Department channel in the village was a source of water for irrigation in the area. A huge compound wall was being built by encroaching on the water channel, and the villagers were not getting adequate water for agricultural activities, the petitioner said. Despite the area receiving good rains in November, the villagers were not getting enough water for agricultural purposes. A representation was made to the authorities in this regard, but no steps were taken to restore the water channel to its original shape, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-seeks-removal-of-encroachment-on-water-channel/article37656043.ece
24 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Congress cadre stage protest against fuel price hike||Congress party members targeted the Union government and the BJP for the high prices of petroleum products. Shouting slogans at a protest organised at K. Pudur bus stand, Madurai District Congress Committee president V. Karthikeyan said the BJP was in no mood to listen to the suggestions made by Opposition party leaders. As a result, the common man suffered by paying huge prices for all essential commodities. When the UPA was in power, the international crude oil prices were volatile. Manmohan’s handling  The then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had handled the scenario in a much better way that the common man did not feel the heat. Today, the prices of all essential commodities touched a new high forcing people to face hardship. The people should neglect the BJP and support the Congress, which alone had the ability to rule the nation, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-blames-bjp-government-for-increase-in-fuel-prices/article37655815.ece
24 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Car hits three college students||Three college students, including two girls, were injured when a speeding car from Puducherry hit them at a bus stop on Tiruchi-Madurai highway under Othakadai police station limits on Tuesday. The police identified the injured as P. Dharani, 17, of Goripalayam, T. Nitish Kumar, 18, of Kappalur and P. Lavanya, 18, of Sellur. The police said the students of a private arts and science college were waiting at the bus stop when the car, proceeding towards Tiruchendur, knocked them down at around 4 p.m. They have been rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital. While three of the occupants of the car fled the spot, the police nabbed N. Ravikumar, 44, of Mudaliarpet in Puducherry. The police are on the lookout for the others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-hits-college-students/article37655816.ece
24 November 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 20-year jail term for sexual assault||The District Mahila Court on Tuesday sentenced a 33-year-old man to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a minor girl. According to the police, Thangarasu, an auto driver, lured a 17-year-old girl with false promises and sexually assaulted her in 2016. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim's father, Tiruchengode Town police registered a case and arrested Thangarasu. On Tuesday, the court sentenced Thangarasu to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs. 11,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-20-year-jail-term-for-sexual-assault/article37655844.ece
24 November 2021||PALAKKAD,TAMIL NADU||Man accused of RSS worker’s murder is a PFI activist: police||The Kerala police team probing the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker A. Sanjith on Tuesday brought an accused to the crime site at Mambaram near here as part of the investigation procedure. Police said the accused was a Popular Front of India (PFI) activist. However, they did not reveal his name. His face was covered, and the police had provided a tight security. The accused was seen showing the police the exact location where they hacked Sanjith. The police team led by District Police chief R. Viswanath was seen asking various details about the execution of the murder. He was later taken to Kannanur, where they had abandoned the weapons used for the murder. He reportedly told the police that he travelled along with the gang members in a white car until Kuzhalmannam. After leaving the car in a workshop, the accused dispersed in different directions. The accused is reported to have told the police that the murder was executed after a two-month planning. It is learnt that the police rounded up a few others in connection with the murder. However, their arrests were not registered. Police sources said the details of the accused would be released only after an identification parade, which is likely to take place on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-accused-of-rss-workers-murder-is-a-pfi-activist-police/article37655538.ece
24 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy seeks Rs. 300 crore assistance from Union Govt.||The territorial administration has sought an interim Central assistance of Rs. 300 crore to compensate the loss to farmers and to take up relief work for the damage caused by the recent monsoon rain in the Union Territory. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy sought the assistance during his interaction with the inter-Ministerial Central team, in his chambers, on Monday night. The Chief Minister elaborated on the damage caused to the agricultural sector and civic infrastructure. Paddy cultivation, on around 7000 hectares, in Puducherry and Karaikal region were affected in the heavy rain. Farmers also lost their livestock in floods, he said. The Chief Minister also briefed them about the damage in coastal areas due to sea erosion during monsoon period, an official said. He had already written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah about the damage caused due to rain in the Union Terrritory. Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan on Saturday had personally handed over the letter to the officials in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), a government source said. Talking to reporters after the meeting on Monday night, the Chief Minister said the government has decided to provide Rs. 5000 to those who hold yellow ration cards, in addition to the already announced Rs. 5000 to those having red ration cards. On Tuesday morning, the inter-Ministerial team, headed by Ajay Sharma, Joint Secretary, Home Affairs, toured rain-affected places in the Puducherry region. The team visited the coastal hamlet of Pillaichavady to study the damage caused by sea erosion. They also the inspected the afffected farmlands, in Bahour area, and interacted with people at N. R Nagar. They left for Cuddalore around 10 a.m. Meanwhile, a DMK delegation led by Opposition leader R. Siva, met the team and sought a Central assistance of Rs. 500 crore. The damage to agriculture was extensive but the government had only assessed the damage to paddy cultivation, Mr. Siva said. AIADMK secretary (East) A. Anbalagan, also submitted a representation to the team seeking immediate assistance from the Centre to take up relief works. The territorial administration would require a minimum of Rs. 300 crore to provide assistance to the affected people and another Rs. 100 crore to repair roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-seeks-rs-300-crore-assistance-from-central-team/article37655790.ece
24 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 38 new cases||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 38 new COVID-19 cases from 2615 tests. No COVID-19-related deaths were reported in the Union Territory during the last 24 hours, ending Tuesday 10 a.m. Of the total new infections, 19 were from Puducherry , 10 from Mahe, seven from Karaikal and two from Yanam. Currently, there are 301 active cases, of which 238 are under home isolation. The toll in the Union Territory now is 1870 and the total number of infections stood at at 1,287,18. The total number of vaccinated people is 11,813,86.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-38-new-cases/article37655791.ece
24 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Fisher missing after boat overturns||A fisherman from Pudukottai district was reported missing after a fibre boat, which he and another fisherman set sail in from the coastal village of Kottaipattinam on Monday night, overturned in the sea. Coastal Security Group sources said the two fishermen — K. Ganesan, 45, and L. Manimuthu, 40 — ventured into the sea in an unregistered fibre boat owned by the former, around 7 p.m. on Monday. As they were heading to fish, the boat overturned in the sea due to strong winds. The incident took place around 8.30 p.m., two nautical miles off the Jegathapattinam coast. Mr. Ganesan was rescued by people fishing nearby. Mr. Manimuthu was reported missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisher-missing-after-boat-overturns/article37655689.ece
24 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Gas cylinder blast kills five||Five persons died and 13, including children, were injured when two double-storey buildings collapsed in the impact of a gas cylinder blast in a house at Karungalpatti in Salem district on Tuesday. The cylinder exploded in the house of Rajalakshmi, 80, on Pandurangan Vittal Road around 6.45 a.m., and the double-storey house and the adjacent building collapsed. Rajalakshmi succumbed to the injuries. Six other houses in the vicinity were damaged, revenue officials said. The police said Rajalakshmi’s son-in-law Gopi, 53, who was into making snacks at home, suffered 90% burns. Mr. Gopi, among the first to be rescued from under the debris, was rushed to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital (GMKMCH). Padmanabhan, 49, his wife Devi, 39, Karthik Ram, 18, and Ellammal, 90, were pulled out of the debris and rushed to the hospital where doctors declared them dead. The facade of the buildings, located in a congested neighbourhood, had collapsed. In the intensity of the blast, debris flew for about 10 m, hitting a milkman, Gopal, and a woman drawing a kolam in front of her house. Both were rushed to the GMKMCH. Collector S. Karmegham, Salem Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj, Salem City Police Commissioner Najmul Hoda and DMK MLA R. Rajendran rushed to the site. Mr. Karmegham said there were 15 persons in the four houses and 11 persons, including children, were rescued immediately. Padmanabhan and his family, who were residing in one of the houses, also got stuck under the debris. A State Disaster Response Force team was called in from Arakkonam. Mr. Karmegham said the cause of the blast would be investigated. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru visited the site and the injured persons at the hospital. He said a commercial gas cylinder was used for cooking by Mr. Gopi at his home. He said those manufacturing snacks using commercial cylinders should adhere to safety measures. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced a solatium of Rs. 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 to those who were severely injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gas-cylinder-blast-kills-five/article37655696.ece
24 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Train services between Chennai Egmore and Salem junction to be resumed||The Salem Railway Division will be resuming train services between Salem junction and Chennai Egmore station from December 2. According to a press release, Train No.22153 Chennai Egmore – Salem Jn. Tri-weekly Super Fast Express will depart from Chennai Egmore at 11.55 p.m on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and would reach Salem junction at 06.10 a.m. the next day from December 2, until further advice. Train No.22154 Salem Jn. – Chennai Egmore Tri-weekly Super Fast Express will depart from Salem junction at 9.40 p.m. on Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays to reach Chennai Egmore at 3.50 a.m. the next day from December 3 until further advice. The trains would be composed of one AC 2-tier, four AC 3-tier, eight sleeper class, two general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches. Reservation Advance reservations for the services would begin from 8 a.m. on November 24, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-services-between-chennai-egmore-and-salem-junction-to-be-resumed/article37655845.ece
24 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||SFI demands action against sexual abuse in institutions||Members of the Students Federation of India (SFI) staged a protest in front of the Salem Collectorate on Tuesday condemning the incidents of sexual harassments in educational institutions. Led by State president A.T.Kannan, the members sought the constitution of a complaints committees headed by women in all educational institutions to hear such complaints. ‘Prevent suicides’ They also wanted the government to conduct necessary sensitisation programmes in institutions to prevent student suicides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sfi-demands-action-against-sexual-abuse-in-institutions/article37655846.ece
24 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Declare T.N. disaster-prone’||The Thamizhaga All Farmers Organisation Coordination Committee has sought more powers for the State government in the implementation of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (crop insurance scheme). The committee also urged the Central government to declare Tamil Nadu ‘disaster-prone’ as the annual monsoon floods had become routine and provide necessary funds to the State. In the memorandum submitted to the Central team on Tuesday during its inspection of delta districts to assess the damages and crop loss caused due to rain, Committee president P.R. Pandian said the State government should be empowered to formulate the guidelines for assessment of crop loss and empowered legally to monitor the companies implementing the crop insurance schemes. The present practice of considering test harvest results for determining the compensation should be dispensed with, and revenue village-based rainfall data should be considered for arriving at the compensation. This year, the rain which started in the first week of October, adversely affected the standing kuruvai paddy and inundated the young samba paddy in about 50% of the cultivated areas in each revenue village in the delta districts, Mr. Pandian said. Exhorting the Central government to revise its percentage of contribution in PMFBY back to 49%, he sought the establishment of a sub-regional office of National Agricultural Crop Insurance Corporation in Thanjavur and also to declare the NACIC as the sole crop insurance implementing agency. At the same time, the Centre should ensure that the crop insurance compensation was distributed within three months from the date of completion of the assessment of crop loss. The committee also sought Rs. 30,000 per acre as compensation for the loss of kuruvai crop suffered by farmers due to the recent incessant rain. Since the State government was not able to enter into an agreement with the insurance companies to provide insurance cover for the kuruvai crop within time, farmers were not able to insure their crops. Hence, the Central and State governments should take the responsibility of compensating the kuruvai loss suffered by farmers by providing Rs. 30,000 per acre. Apart from this, an input compensation of Rs. 10,000 per acre for paddy should also be extended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declare-tn-disaster-prone/article37655747.ece
24 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Vanniyar Sangam demands action against film crew||Members of Vanniyar Sangam on Tuesday staged a demonstration here urging the State government to initiate action against the Jai Bhim crew, which produced the film “with an ulterior motive to disturb the peace and harmony in the State.” The demonstrators assembled near Panagal Building and raised slogans condemning the lead actor in the film, the director and producer for intentionally belittling the Vanniyar community. While demanding initiation of legal proceedings on the complaints lodged by community representatives in various police stations across the State against the film crew, the demonstrators said if no action was taken on the complaints the Sangam would not hesitate to organise demonstrations in villages where they were in considerable numbers. They also urged the State government to approach the SC to obtain a stay against the Madras High Court order impeding the implementation of 10.5% inner-reservation for Vanniyars in the MBC quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanniyar-sangam-stages-demonstration/article37655795.ece
24 November 2021||THANJAVUR/NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Central team inspects crop damage in delta region||The Central team, deputed to assess the rain damage in the State, checked the extent of damage caused to crops in the Cauvery delta districts on Tuesday. The team, led by Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Rajiv Sharma,visited various parts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts for a first-hand account of the crop damages during the day. Officials in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur told the team that over 20,000 hectares of paddy crop had been affected in the recent rain in the two districts.The team inspected the flood-affected agriculture fields at Kavanoor and Kovilvenni in Tiruvarur district and at Ammapettai in Thanjavur district. Detailing the damages caused to the standing crop, the Collectors of Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts, Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and P.Gayathri Krishnan, pointed out that paddy crop on 2,396 hectares in Thanjavur and 18,460 hectares in Tiruvarur had suffered damage. The team was accompanied by Additional Chief Secretary and Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy. At Nagapattinam, the team inspected submerged paddy fields at Erunsalai hamlet in Papa Kovil Panchayat and interacted with the farmers affected by the heavy rainfall. The team was also shown photographs of the destruction caused to samba and kuruvai crops on 5,917.28 hectares in Nagapattinam, Kilvelur, Thirukuvalai, and Vedaranyam blocks. Apprising the team of the total damages, Collector A.Arun Thamburaj said 18 houses were completely damaged and 808 houses were partially damaged in the Northeast monsoon rainfall. Two women died and seven women suffered injuries due to the impact. Twenty-nine heads of cattle and 157 goats perished in the rain, the Collector said. Earlier, the Central team assessed the crop damages at Tirumayiladi in Mayiladuthurai district. Collector R. Lalitha told the team that the heavy rainfall had caused destruction to paddy crop on 5,423 hectares, affecting 5,645 farmers. Farmers’ appeal The team members also interacted with affected farmers and representatives of farmers’ organisations, who appealed for sufficient compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-assesses-crop-damage-caused-by-monsoon-in-delta-region/article37655797.ece
24 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 assistance given to four children||Four children from the district, who were orphaned by COVID-19, have received Rs. 5 lakh each while 70 others who have lost either father or mother have been given Rs. 3 lakh each, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan has said. Addressing the meeting held here on Tuesday to give new ration cards to 40 beneficiaries in the presence of K. Senthil Raj, Collector, Ms. Geetha said Rs. 5 lakh each had been deposited in the names of 4 children who had lost their parents to COVID-19. Another 70 children had been given Rs. 3 lakh each after they lost their father or mother to the viral infection. Even though the modalities for getting this benefit under this scheme had been simplified, most of the affected families were not aware of it. Even the RT – PCR test result showing the positivity of the viral infection or the CT scan report proving the infection was enough for getting the assistance. Some of the families which have not been categorized as ‘below poverty line’ families can apply if they have lost both the parents or father or mother to COVID-19. The district-level committee led by the Collector will scrunitize those applications to give the assistance. If no one is there to take care of the children after this tragedy, they will be admitted in the government homes after the amount is deposited in their names,” Ms. Geetha said adding that 6,800 children across Tamil Nadu had benefited so far under this scheme. She appealed to the children to speak to their parents or teachers openly about sexual harassment or sexual abuse so as to take the culprits to books. “Or they can contact 1098 to file their complaint will evoke immediate and stringent action against those criminals,” she assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-assistance-given-to-four-children/article37656135.ece
24 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Job racket: one held||A youth has been arrested for cheating a group of people. Police said M. Mari Sasikumar, 35, of Sudalai Colony near Muniyasamypuram here, who is working in a two-wheeler showroom, came in contact with G. Ramesh Kumar, 36, of Marudhu Pandian Maettu Theru in Sivakasi, who told the former that he was a reporter. As Ramesh promised him that he could get government job, Mr. Mari Sasikumar gave him Rs. 10 lakh for getting employment in a government department for his wife and his sister. His relatives also gave Rs. 15.60 lakh. When Ramesh Kumar failed to get job and refused to return the money, Mr. Mari Sasikumar filed a complaint with the police. They instructed the Economic Offences Wing to probe the complaint. When it found the complaints to be true, Ramesh Kumar was arrested at Thiruthangal near Sivakasi on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-racket-one-held/article37655825.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Women in Mayiladuthurai district paint their way to empowerment||Durga Santhanam, D. Rajakumari and S. Venmathi, from Mayiladuthurai had a memorable Ayudha puja and Deepavali this year. As members of a group of seven homemakers, who are certified wall painters, they were felicitated by local organisations alongside male professionals during the festivals. “It was an honour to be considered on a par with men in this field,” Ms. Rajakumari said. “The male painters also acknowledged our achievement, and welcomed us to the fraternity. It was a new experience for us.” Wall painting, which used to once be a male-dominated field in the construction sector, has emerged as a new employment opportunity for women in rural areas. Under its Nshakti training programme, Japanese company Nippon Paint has trained over 500 women in Tamil Nadu in places such as Mayiladuthurai, Ocheri, Ramasamypatti and Anaimalai. This has led to the rise of small clusters of female painting contractors equipped with the skills to bring a new look to schools, homes and temples in their vicinity with a swipe of their brushes. “We never had a job before this,” said Ms. Venmathi, who brought her three-month daughter for the orientation. “Most of our family members discouraged us because they feared for our safety and also doubted our ability to take up such a strenuous profession.” But the homemakers stuck to their guns and went ahead with the course in 2019. After a lull caused by the lockdown, they are back at work and are among the most active painting contractors in their area, earning up to Rs. 650 per day. “Videos of our paintwork shot on our phones helped us convince our families to let us take it up professionally,” says Ms. Durga, “The videos also acted as electronic business cards for us and got us new assignments.” There is an easy camaraderie between the women, who spoke to The Hindu on a video conference call. “After a lifetime of wearing saris , it was awkward to wear T-shirts and slacks to work,” Venmathi said with a laugh. “Now we feel like working only in uniform: it is better than a sari when you are scaling a high wall. Some of us have modified it to suit our dress code, but we ensure that we wear protective gear such as harness and headwear.” The women have also travelled outside Mayiladuthurai for painting contracts at their own expense. “We painted buildings in Chidambaram and wehave also gone to Vellore and Veppampattu in Chennai, where we stayed for two months to complete assignments,” says Durga. Financial independence They enjoy their new financial independence. “I was able to buy a two-wheeler. It helps me get to my assignment faster,” says Rajakumari, adding “and I can repay the vehicle loan with my earnings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-in-mayiladuthurai-district-paint-their-way-to-empowerment/article37655794.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers’ sense of relief over receiving salary dues short-lived||The sense of relief for the over 600 guest lecturers of the 10 newly-converted government arts and science colleges in the central districts over receiving pending salary dues last month seems to be short-lived. When they received their salary dues for three preceding months from the Bharathidasan University after a series of protests, the guest lecturers of the 10 colleges that were earlier constituent units of the university were given an assurance that the salary expenditure would henceforth be met by the Higher Education Department. “We have not been paid the salary for October, and now find ourselves left high and dry as there is no word yet from the department on fulfilment of its promise to come out with an order in writing, specifying government takeover of the responsibility of paying the salaries,” a guest lecturer said. Amid reservations expressed by its own teaching and non-teaching staff over utilising reserve funds for meeting salary expenditure of the guest lecturers, Bharathidasan University, despite its poor financial position, had coughed up the amount required for paying salary dues for three months. “The university had been assured that the amount it had spent on settling pending salaries would be reimbursed, but the final word on a government order to this effect is still awaited," a senior professor said. Earlier in the year, the university received a communication from the higher education department that the government would start paying the guest lecturers their monthly salaries with effect from the start of the 2021-22 academic year. However, on the insistence of the government thereafter, the university paid the salaries to the guest lecturers for July, August and September. The premise of the university for not paying the guest lecturers their salary for the month of June was that the State had been following this policy for paying guest lecturers of government arts and science colleges. The guest lecturers are given re-appointment orders every year. Guest lecturers in the newly converted 10 government arts and science colleges wondered why they were not yet being accorded parity with the existing guest lecturers of older government colleges. The salary ought to have been Rs. 20,000 per month for the three months of unpaid dues, as per the revision made by the government for guest lecturers through an official order last year. “We are eligible to receive the revised amount as monthly pay, and hope the Government issues an order to that effect," another guest lecturer said. The guest lecturers indicated that they had plans to approach Chancellor and Governor R.N. Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-sense-of-relief-over-receiving-salary-dues-short-lived/article37655799.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Madhya Pradesh CM offers prayers at Srirangam temple||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan offered prayers at Srirangam Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple on Tuesday. Mr. Chouhan, who arrived here by a special flight from Bhopal in the evening, was received by Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu and Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan at the airport. He went to the temple where he was accorded a warm reception by the temple authorities and priests at the Ranga Ranga Gopuram entrance. Thereafter, Mr. Chouhan went to Sri Ramanujar sannidhi and Sri Chakrathazhwar sannidhi and offered prayers. He worshipped Lord Ranganatha and offered prayers at Sri Thayar sannidhi during his nearly two-hour visit to the shrine. In a brief interaction with reporters, Mr. Chouhan said he prayed for the development and growth of the country and his home State Madhya Pradesh besides praying for the welfare of the people. The Madhya Pradesh CM later left by the special flight to Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madhya-pradesh-cm-offers-prayers-at-srirangam-temple/article37655804.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police to carry firearms while patrolling desolate areas||Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on Tuesday said instructions had been given to police personnel to carry firearms, as a safety measure, when they patrol remote and desolate areas. The law says that police personnel can act in self-defence, using firearms, against those carrying out deadly attacks on them. Officers should not hesitate to use firearms, under such extreme circumstances, even while upholding the law, Mr. Babu said in Tiruchi. The DGP placed a wreath before the portrait of murdered Special Sub-Inspector S. Boominathan, and consoled the family of the deceased at their house in Navalpattu. Boominathan faced the situation boldly and sacrificed his life while discharging his duty, the DGP said. Without treating the theft of a goat as a minor issue, Boominathan chased the three culprits on his motorcycle, for 15 km, and intercepted them, he said. Describing Boominathan as a hero, the DGP said the SSI had undergone commando training and received the Chief Minister’s medal. He acted with valour, wisdom and utmost dedication to duty, the DGP said.  He expressed his “heartfelt thanks”, on behalf of the State police, to the Chief Minister, for issuing an order granting Rs. 1 crore as solatium to Boominathan’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-carry-firearms-while-patrolling-desolate-areas/article37655694.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. ITIs wrap up admissions||Government Industrial Training Institutes have wrapped up admissions for this academic year after a few extensions of the last date. The last extension culminated on November 18 and the institutions, by and large, have attracted considerable number of students for mainstream two-year ITI programme. Monthly stipend, laptop, uniforms and other freebies of the government have been the prompting factors for students to seek admissions. “Unlike last year, the admissions this year have been far better. The placements of the students have also improved though there is not much inclination on the part of students to pursue polytechnic education through lateral entry system,” Elangovan, Principal of Government ITI, Manikandam, said. Poor performance However, there are concerns among the ITI teachers that the performance of the students in the All India Test for Craftsmen Training Scheme (CTS) has not been encouraging. They are disappointed by the results of the students in the All India Trade Test (AITT) held during December 2020 for CTS Academic Session 2020-21 by the Directorate General of Training under the aegis of Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship. “The AITT 2020 examinations, including Computer Based Test, simply do not suit the students. There were glitches in the conduct of the online exam,” Selvam, Principal of Government ITI, Perambalur, said. For the two-year trades, the AITT scheme implemented in 15,000 ITIs across the State, the pass percentage was about 73, according to official statistics. “The examination system under the semester system is complicated. Unless this is changed to suit the practical skill training undergone by the students, the patronage for ITIs could face a downslide in the coming years,” Mr. Selvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-itis-wrap-up-admissions/article37655792.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Firefighters rescue cows trapped on shoal in Coleroon river||Fire and Rescue Services personnel, with help of villagers, rescued 75 cows and calves which had got trapped on a manal thittu (shoal) surrounded by Coleroon river near Kodalikaruppur village in Ariyalur district on Tuesday. The rescue operation carried out meticulously went on for nearly five hours. A section of villagers had complained that a herd of cows which went to the manal thittu for grazing a few days ago had got trapped due to heavy flow of Coleroon water in the wake of the recent rains. Acting on the complaint, a team of firefighters from the Jayamkondam fire station with a rubber boat fitted with an outboard motor and armed with other paraphernalia including life buoys and life jackets took a group of villagers in the rubber boat to the manal thittu to rescue the cows and calves. The firefighters and the villagers helped the cows slowly move towards the side where the depth of the water and the flow were less for them to swim in order to reach the other side. It was a meticulous operation in which the safety of the fire fighters, the locals involved in the rescue operation and that of the cows were all ensured, said P. Ambika, District Fire Officer, Perambalur, who led the rescue mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firefighters-rescue-cows-trapped-on-shoal-in-coleroon-river/article37655818.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SSI murder: special teams get DGP’s pat for arrest of accused||Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on Tuesday commended the special teams of Pudukottai police and Tiruchi Rural Police for arresting the accused involved in the murder of Special Sub Inspector Boominathan within 24 hours. Mr. Sylendra Babu, who was on a brief visit to Tiruchi to console the wife and the son of the murdered SSI and pay homage to the slain officer at his residence in Solama Devi Nagar on the city’s outskirts, later went to Navalpat police station. Accompanied by Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan, Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, A. Saravana Sundar and Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Sujit Kumar, he met the members of the special teams that were eset up to trace the identity of the absconding killers and apprehending them. A press release said the DGP appreciated the special teams for carrying out the investigation into the murder speedily and nabbing the accused within 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ssi-murder-special-teams-get-dgps-pat-for-arrest-of-accused/article37655801.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T, C-DAC sign agreement||The National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi (NITT), and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, Thiruvananthapuram (C-DAC), on Monday entered into a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) to establish a centre of research on the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) on the NITT campus here. C-DAC, a premier research and development organisation of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, was entrusted with the responsibility of developing a complete solution for ERSS to implement a ‘One India one emergency number 112’ by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. It was the total solution provider for implementation of ERSS-112 across the country. C-DAC has developed the core ERSS solution as per the guidelines of the Ministry and installed it in all States and Union Territories. The Union government is now planning to modernise ERSS-112 with next generation solutions in terms of performance and intelligence, a NITT press release said. Towards developing the advanced solutions, C-DAC has signed the MoA with NIT-T for development of advanced analytical solutions using computational intelligence as extension of research, development and implementation for ERSS modernisation, which is being undertaken and deployed by C-DAC across the country. Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT-T, and A. Kalai Selvan, Project Director, ERSS-112, CDAC-T, signed the MoA in the presence of S. Muthukumaran, Dean (Research and Consultancy), N. Sivakumaran, Professor, Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering and Coordinator, and other faculty members of NITT. Ms. Thomas said establishing such a facility at NITT would improve decision-making in emergency situation which minimisds response time and paved way for a better industry and institute interface for a social cause. The collaboration was focused on establishing an automated facility to handle emergency signals and rush aid to people in distress within the best possible time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-c-dac-sign-agreement/article37655812.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi college team wins moot court contest||The Government Law College, Tiruchi, has won the Prof. R.V.Dhanapalan National Moot Court Competition-2021 held at Central Law College, Salem, recently. The team comprising K. Kanmani and V.Gandhipriya, both final year BA LLB students, and J. Arnesh Krishnan, second year BA LLB, emerged winners at the competition. The moot proposition dealt with cutting-edge questions on environmental law and constitutional law and developments. Twenty teams from across the country participated in the competition, M. Rajeswaran, Principal, Tiruchi Law College, said in a press release. Last month, another the team from the college comprising V.Gandhi Priya, S. Prasanna of third year BA LLB, and A. Swathi, final year BA LLB, won the Third National Tamil Moot Court Competition-202l organised by SRM School of Law. The event attracted 28 teams. The college team also secured the ‘Best Memorandum Award’ for the third consecutive time and the winner trophy for the second time. The moot proposition dealt with constitutional law and transgender reservation policy. The 2021 edition was conducted online, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-college-team-wins-moot-court-contest/article37655805.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||86 fresh cases, two deaths reported in central region||The number of fresh daily cases was 86 in the central region on Tuesday as per the bulletin issued by the Department of Health. Two more patients, one each from Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts, died of the infection. With 23 people testing positive, Tiruchi accounted for the most number of fresh cases among the nine districts in the region. Thanjavur reported 20 cases, Karur 18, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam eight each, Pudukottai four, Ariyalur and Mayiladuthurai two each and Perambalur one. Tiruchi had the most number of active cases with 362 patients undergoing treatment including those under home treatment. Thanjavur district had 269 cases, Karur 173, Tiruvarur 143, Nagapattinam 97, Pudukottai 56, Ariyalur 25, Mayiladuthurai 22 and Perambalur 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/86-fresh-cases-two-deaths-reported-in-central-region/article37655808.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ordnance factory employees decide to support protest against corporatisation||Employees of the two ordnance factories in Tiruchi are understood to have decided to extend their fullest cooperation to the protest announced by trade unions next month to highlight the difficulties they have been facing post-corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board. Earlier this month, the All India Defence Employees' Federation, Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh and Confederation of Defence Recognised Federations communicated to the Secretary - Defence Production, the notice for observance of protest from December 8-10 by employees of 41 ordnance factories through demonstrations and wearing black badges. “The Union Cabinet’s decision to protect the service conditions of the employees and applicability of all extant rules and regulations which are applicable to Central government employees, including related to their pay scales, allowances, leave, medical facilities career progression and other service conditions, is blatantly being violated by the seven Corporations,” AIDEF general secretary C. Srikumar contended . The first of the charter of 20 demands calls for restraining the seven corporations from “unilaterally and whimsically” altering service conditions of the employees of ordnance factories in violation of the Cabinet decision. The trade unions have emphasised on proper functioning of all industrial relation machineries. Overtime allowance If employees are deployed for additional work, in addition to the normal working hours of 44 3/4 hours per week, they should be paid overtime allowance/wages. The overtime payment must cover industrial employees deployed on piece work system, Mr. Srikumar said. The other demands of the federations include continuance of medical facilities for employees, ensuring regular payment of General Provident Fund withdrawals, granting compassionate appointment to dependent of deceased employees without further delay, settlement of all pending inter-factory/inter-directorate transfer cases, granting promotions in accordance with government instructions and recruitment rules, carrying out cadre restructuring in consultation with the federations and desisting from dismissing contract workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ordnance-factory-employees-decide-to-support-protest-against-corporatisation/article37655810.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BDO held on graft charge||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption, Karur unit, on Tuesday held a Block Development Officer in Karur district on graft charge and seized the bribe money from his alleged possession. DVAC sources said R. Kumaravel, Block Development Officer of the village panchayat of K. Paramathi block, demanded Rs. 25,000 as bribe from the complainant E. Sakthivel of Thanthondrimalai in Karur district for processing the application submitted for regularisation of four house plots which was in the name of the complainant's wife. Acting on a complaint, the DVAC officials laid a trap and caught Kumaravel in his office when he allegedly received the bribe money. The DVAC officials conducted a search in the house of Kumaravel in Manapparai, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bdo-held-on-graft-charge/article37655802.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Delimitation of wards ‘biased’||Residents of Melapalayam in Tirunelveli Corporation are up in arms against the ‘biased’ delimitation of wards as more number of wards have been given to the area housing less number of voters while the area with more voters has been given less number wards. When delimitation was taken up in 2019 in the Tirunelveli Corporation, having 55 wards in Tirunelveli, Thatchanallur, Palayamkottai and Melapalayam Zones, the total number of wards in the four zones was retained even as the boundaries while the number of voters of the wards differ. Melapalayam Zone of Tirunelveli Corporation, the most populous of the four zones with 14 wards then, now has 15 wards. Of this, the number of voters in wards 44 to 50 – all Muslim-dominant areas – ranges between 8,077 and 9,986 voters. At the same time, wards 40 to 43 and 51 to 54 – 8 wards - have smaller number of voters ranging between 2,734 and 2,690 voters. In other words, 7 wards having large number of Muslim population have 62,125 voters while the remaining 8 wards of Melapalayam zone have only 39,492 voters. While ward 47 in Melapalayam has 9986 voters, ward 41, which is outside Melapalayam, has only 2,734 voters after delimitation. In the past, owing to the good number of Muslim councillors getting elected from Melapalayam area, the chairman of Melapalayam Zone of Tirunelveli Corporation would also be a Muslim. “Now, with the ulterior motive of decimating the Muslim’s democratic rights and the election of a Muslim as the chairman of Melapalayam Zone, the officials have given only 7 wards to Melapalayam area with large number of voters while the remaining 8 wards have less number of voters. This is nothing but a mockery of democracy. Even though we opposed in the initial stages of delimitation, the officials completed the exercise according to their plan,” says Tirunelveli district president of Manithaneya Makkal Katchi K.S. Rasool Maideen. Members of other political parties excluding the DMK and the AIADMK support Mr. Rasool. Challenging the “biased” delimitation, a petition has been filed in the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court even as the State Election Commission is expected to notify the urban local body polls anytime now as these civic polls are likely to be conducted before ‘Pongal 2022’. All shops in Melapalayam area were closed on Monday and a few thousand Muslims participated in the demonstration. “As per the number of voters present in Melapalayam Zone, the Melapalayam area with over 62,000 voters should have 10 wards while the remaining 5 wards can be given to the areas outside Melapalayam as these wards have only 39,500 voters,” said Ghani of Social Democratic Party of India. While a section of the Melapalayam residents say that the voters of Melapalayam should boycott the upcoming urban civic polls if the election was conducted in the present form, others hope that the State Election Commission would render justice to them. “The injustice should be rectified,” says Mr. Rasool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delimitation-of-wards-biased/article37655826.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 138.55 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 1,013.89 cusecs and a discharge of 1,404.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 92.95 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 261 cusecs and a discharge of 10 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37656134.ece
24 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Increase awareness on Childline helpline 1098 in schools, HMs told||Nearly 200 headmasters from government and aided schools in Tiruppur district on Tuesday participated in an event to raise awareness on sexual offences against school students. The meeting was organised at the Collectorate by the District Child Protection Unit along with the Tiruppur District Police. According to sources, District Collector S. Vineeth, Superintendent of Police G. Shashank Sai and police officers from All Women Police Stations conducted the session for the headmasters from government high and higher secondary schools. The headmasters were also asked to increase awareness regarding the Childline helpline 1098 in all schools. Provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, examples of sexual offences committed against school students, formation of child safety committees in every school and ensuring the redressal of complaints in the complaint boxes were discussed during the meeting, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-awareness-on-childline-helpline-1098-in-schools-hms-told/article37655736.ece
24 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Birders, photographers head to the Nilgiris to document winter visitor||With the season for migrating winter birds to the Nilgiris ongoing, wildlife photographers and bird watchers from the district and nearby cities are heading to the hills to document one of the most colourful of the winter visitors – the Kashmir flycatcher ( Fidecula subrubra ). The district has become a hotspot for bird watchers and photographers to document the winter migrant due to the ease with which the bird can be spotted. Titus John, a wildlife photographer from Coonoor, who was one of the people to document the bird in the Nilgiris last year, said that the bird was easy to spot as it stayed for many months in the Nilgiris each year. “Another interesting fact is that the bird doesn’t seem to prefer native Shola forests, but instead, can be seen in pine and wattle plantations, which are much more easily accessible to the public,” he said. The Nilgiris seems to be a safe haven for the migrating bird each year, which is listed as “vulnerable” with populations declining by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). N. Moinudheen and A. Samson, two researchers and wildlife biologists working in the Nilgiris, have analysed the migratory sites of the Kashmir flycatcher in the Nilgiris between 1974 and 2021. They note that the species was first recorded in 1974, 1988, 1999, 2003 and every year since 2011. During their visits, the species was recorded most in Kotagiri, Udhagamandalam, Avalanche, Coonoor and Upper Bhavani. “The study revealed that except from its breeding range in Jammu and Kashmir, it was recorded in 11 States in 24 districts. Out of the 11 States, the most frequent records were in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and Himachal Pradesh,” said Mr. Samson. Mr. Moinudheen said that their analysis also showed that the most frequent records of the species outside Jammu and Kashmir was at elevation ranges between 747 and 1800 meters above sea level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/birders-photographers-head-to-the-nilgiris-to-document-winter-visitor/article37655746.ece
24 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Gaur calf rescued from well in Coonoor||A gaur calf was rescued after it fell into an open tank in a private estate near the Aravankadu railway station in Coonoor on Tuesday. The gaur, believed to be just a few months old, had fallen into the tank inside the estate owned by Geetha Raman. The calf was with a herd of adult animals when the incident occurred. After being informed of the incident, staff from the forest department as well as fire and rescue service personnel reached the spot and chased away the herd of gaur before initiating the rescue operations to save the animal. They fastened ropes onto the calf and managed to lift it out from the tank. They treated the animal for its injuries before releasing it back into the wild near to where its herd was waiting. Forest department officials said that the animal will be monitored and that the owner of the property, Geetha Raman, has been warned and told to cover the tank into which the animal had fallen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaur-calf-rescued-from-well-in-coonoor/article37655744.ece
24 November 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||‘Walayar’ Manoj granted bail||One of the prime accused in the Kodanad dacoity-cum-murder case ‘Walayar’ Manoj was granted bail by the district sessions court here on Tuesday. The district sessions court had granted Manoj conditional bail in July of 2021. Among the bail conditions was that Manoj would have to provide surety from two persons, either residing in the Nilgiris or in Coimbatore that he would not abscond. As Manoj was unable to get two people to sign on as sureties, his lawyer pushed for more relaxations from the court. On Tuesday, District Judge-cum-Chief Judicial Magistrate, Udhagamandalam, C. Sanjai Baba, further relaxed his bail conditions. Manoj was asked to sign in the court register every Monday and was instructed to not leave Udhagamandalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/walayar-manoj-granted-bail/article37655748.ece
24 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Central team visits Vellore, nearby districts||An inter-Ministerial Central team visited several flood-hit areas in Vellore and Ranipet districts on Tuesday to assess the damage. Officials said crops such as paddy, ragi, maize, red gram, groundnut, cotton and tapioca, spread over 32,887.61 hectares in Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupattur and Tiruvannamalai districts, were damaged in the rain as of November 23. Of these, paddy alone covers 90% of the total affected crops in these districts. Paddy, spread over 28,751 hectares, millets (804.45 hectares), bhendi (92.21 hectares) and groundnuts (47.65 hectares) were damaged. “Some of the most affected agricultural areas include Nemeli, Thimiri and Arcot where paddy has been cultivated widely for the second season in the year. The total loss incurred due to the rain is estimated at Rs. 29.44 crore,” D. Bhasakara Pandian, Collector, Ranipet, told The Hindu . Tiruvannmalai alone accounted for 24,018 hectares of paddy that was affected, followed by Ranipet (2,342 hectares). Vellore was the least affected region with a loss of 341.04 hectares of paddy. Apart from crop damage, these districts also witnessed severe damage to livestock, properties and human lives. In Tiruvannamalai 1,539 houses were damaged followed by Tirupattur district with 545 houses. Tiruvannamalai also lost 106 cattle, including 81 milch cows, the highest among the four districts, followed by Ranipet district which lost 10 cattle, mostly cows. More than a dozen persons lost their lives in these districts due to the rain. Together, these districts have also set up 185 relief camps accommodating 13,681 rain-affected people. The Central team consisted of R.B. Kaul, consultant, Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure, R. Thangamani, director, Ministry of Water Resources and Bhavya Pandey, assistant director, Ministry of Power. Nodal Officer Kumar Jayant, who is also the principal secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department and the Liaison Officer, S. Venkatesh, joint director, Tamil Nadu e-governance agency, were also present. The team visited affected areas including Kapadi, Ponnai anaicut along the Palar river in Vellore and agricultural areas like Nemili and Arcot in Ranipet along with district collectors. In Vellore alone, 14 concrete houses along Palar have been washed away. Kin stage protest Meanwhile, along with family members and relatives, M. Divya, wife of the deceased army personnel S. R. Manoharan, who was washed away in the Palar river on November 18 in Vellore, staged a sit-in inside the Collectorate on Tuesday. She demanded that the body of Manoharan be retrieved from the river. Immediately, Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian roped in the services of IAF helicopter from Tirupati for aerial search along the river. An IAF team, led by its Wing Commodore Sharan, did a three-hour aerial search operation between noon and 3 p.m from Vellore to Kalpakkam along the river. A report has been submitted to the collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-visits-vellore-nearby-districts/article37656139.ece
24 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Clogged outlets keep temple waterlogged||Two clogged outlets have kept the famous Jalakanteshwara temple in the Vellore Fort waterlogged for a week, forcing devotees to wade through knee-deep water. Officials of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Chennai Circle, and the temple have requested Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian to desilt the outlets. As a stopgap, they have suggested that the stagnant rainwater be pumped out. “The inlets and outlets in the temple were the ancient structures. The heavy rain and the discharge of excess water into the Palar have caused waterlogging in the temple,” said S. Suresh Kumar, secretary, Sri Jalakanteshwara Temple Welfare Society. The temple has been flooded for the first time since 1995 mainly because the moat reached its capacity last week with a quantum of excess water diverted to it from the Palar. As the moat is full, rainwater had no place to drain from the temple. Along with the mosque and the parapet wall of the Fort, the 16th century Shiva temple is a protected monument in the Fort complex, which has 58 colonial buildings. After a decade, the temple was restored to its original splendour a month ago by a 25-member team of conservationists that cut out vegetation and scrapped fungus. The vegetation had caused granite pillars and walls to develop cracks and fungus had disfigured the sculptures. The temple, built during the reign of Vijayanagara king Sadasivadeva Maharaya (1540-1572 CE), has large wooden gates, sculptures, carved granite pillars and towers, typical of the 16th century architecture in the Arcot region. The Fort complex was taken over by the ASI in 1921.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clogged-outlets-keep-temple-waterlogged/article37656137.ece
24 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 15 new COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,110 with 15 new cases reported on November 23. With a total of 48,858 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 114. The district's toll is 1138. In Ranipet district, four positive cases were reported and the total number of cases stood at 43,526. In Tirupattur district, two cases were reported on Tuesday and the total positive cases stood at 29,370. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was five, which took the total number of cases to 55,152. Of this, 54,423 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-15-new-covid-19-infections/article37656140.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 119 new COVID-19 cases||A total of 119 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The Health Department reported three new deaths, increasing the toll to 2,449. As many as 108 persons recovered on Tuesday and the district had 1,258 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 57 new cases on Tuesday. The district had 555 active cases and 48 persons recovered. The Health Department reported the death of two persons on Tuesday, taking the toll to 995. In the Nilgiris, 16 persons tested positive on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 33,977. The toll stood at 213 in the Nilgiris on Tuesday while 208 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-119-new-covid-19-cases/article37655738.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Probe is in public interest’||Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, for the commission, said the commissions of inquiry were an antidote to distorting rumours and allegations. Truth must be established even if it brought the conduct of people into the “fierce light of publicity”. He submitted that there were cases in which rumours and allegations could not be quelled by leaving them in the hands of the police. A high-powered commission of inquiry had to be constituted to go through the facts of the case and afford the parties concerned a free and fair atmosphere to make their statements, he said. “For one year, they [Apollo Hospitals] participated in the inquiry... they sat on the fence for a year and then they say the inquiry was biased. The doctrine of waiver applies here,” Mr. Dave submitted. The senior lawyer argued that it would be “premature” on the part of the Supreme Court to intervene now. Mr. Dave said the commission would submit its report to the Government. “Until the Government decides there is a need for action, nothing will happen. It is only when action is taken, they [Apollo Hospitals] can object... However unpalatable the proceedings [before the commission] may be, it has to be left to the future. The court cannot intervene now... Allow the commission to complete its inquiry, which is eminently in public interest,” he submitted. Later at the hearing, Mr. Kumar said the commission’s report, along with the Government’s action taken report, is placed before the Legislature. “‘Action taken’ is in the past tense... What if, on the basis of the commission’s report, an FIR is registered,” the Bench asked. Mr. Kumar referred in general to how in the past the Government had put reports submitted by commissions in the “cold storage”. Justice Nazeer said commissions were constituted for “time-pass...just to defuse the situation”. “Why do you appoint commissions if you do not intend to make their reports public...is it to wriggle out of the situation,” he asked. “There are commissions… and then there are commissions,” Mr. Kumar responded. He referred to how the Nanavati Commission’s report on the 1984 riots had led to prosecutions. The court asked the commission to file an affidavit clarifying whether the nature of its inquiry was public or in camera .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/probe-is-in-public-interest/article37655697.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Coimbatore District Welfare Association: Inauguration of Senior Citizens Day Centre “Adaravu”, 537/1, Sreenivasa Nagar, Kavundampalayam, 9 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Biryani Feast, 11.30 a.m.  Adithya School of Business Management: Corporate Competency development programme, 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37655741.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Nandha College of Nursing: Lamp lighting ceremony, Jacinta’21, K. Saraswathi, Nursing Superintendent – Grade 1, Government Headquarters Hospital, chief guest, V. Shanmugan, Chairman, Sri Nandha Educational Trust, presides, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37655838.ece
24 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi sees rallies as candidates file nomination papers||Belagavi witnessed show of strength rallies by the BJP, Congress and the Jarkiholi brothers who are said to be backing their brother Lakhan Jarkiholi, an independent candidate, in the Legislative Council elections. BJP’s Mahantesh Kavatagimath, Channaraj Hattiholi of the Congress and influential independent candidate Lakhan Jarkiholi submitted their nomination papers to Deputy Commissioner and Returning Officer R. Venkatesh Kumar. Aam Admi Party’s Shankar Hegde also filed his nomination papers. There are a total of eight candidates in the fray, including five independents. The two major parties took out rallies to the Deputy Commissioner’s office before their candidates submitting their nomination papers. However, the rally by the supporters of the Jarkiholi brothers was the biggest. They came in tractors, jeeps and buses and filled the Sardar School Grounds. They marched from the grounds to the Deputy Commissioner’s office shouting slogans in favour of Lakhan Jarkiholi and the Gokak family. They waited till Lakhan Jarkiholi emerged from the office after filing his nomination papers. Once again, they raised slogans in favour of their leader. Lakhan Jarkiholi said that around 10,000 of his followers had come to Belagavi on their own. “This includes around 4,000 gram panchayat members who are my close followers and who will vote for me in this election. We are sure to win in the first round,’’ he told journalists. Lakhan Jarkiholi’s fight is likely to affect the chances of both Mr. Kavatagimath and Mr. Hattiholi. “The Jarkiholis are miffed at the BJP as it did not give ticket to Lakhan Jarkiholi as the second candidate. The BJP MLAs may campaign more for their brother than the BJP’s official candidate, as blood is thicker than water. Secondly, the brothers, Ramesh and Balachandra, are in the BJP and naturally they will campaign against Mr. Hattiholi, who is the younger brother of Congress MLA Lakshmi Hebbalkar,’’ said a Gokak municipal council member who is close to the family. When asked to react Mr. Hattiholi’s candidature on Wednesday, Ramesh Jarkiholi, who considers Ms. Hebbalkar as his political adversary, refused to comment saying that it was below his dignity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/belagavi-sees-rallies-as-candidates-file-nomination-papers/article37655861.ece
24 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sunilgouda Patil files papers||Sunilgouda Patil, younger brother of M.B. Patil, former minister and Congress MLA, filed his nomination papers for the Legislative Council elections from the Vijayapura-Bagalkot constituency in Vijayapura on Tuesday. This puts en end to speculation that the Congress can change its candidate till the last minute and renominate S.R. Patil instead. It seemed that the dissent among leaders has not quelled down, as only a few Congress legislators from the twin districts joined Mr. Patil when he filed his nomination papers. MLC R.B. Thimmapur and MLA Ananda Nyamgouda were present. But MLAs Shivananda Patil, Y.V. Patil and the former Chief Minister and Badami MLA Siddaramaiahwere absent. Sunilgouda Patil dismissed rumours of a dissent. “I am here with the blessings of all the party leaders. Even S.R. Patil has expressed his support. Other leaders could not come due to personal reasons,” he said. In an apparent violation of the model code of conduct, Sunilgouda Patil claimed that the State Government is likely to increase honorarium amount paid to gram panchayat members, in response to a demand from him. Gram panchayat members are part of the electoral college in these elections. Sunilgouda Patil has served as a member of the Upper House for three years now. C.S. Nadagouda, former Minister, told a Congress workers meeting that the party had made a promise to Sunilgouda Patil in 2018 that he will be given ticket again in 2021. Sunilgouda Patil was not ready to fight the bypolls after the MLC seat was vacated by Basanagouda Patil Yatnal in 2018. But Congress leaders in Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Bengaluru put pressure on him, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sunilgouda-patil-files-papers/article37655867.ece
24 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lakhan files nomination paper as Independent||In an interesting development, Lakhan Jarkiholi, younger brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, BJP MLA, filed his nomination for the Legislative Council election as an Independent in Belagavi on Tuesday. He is seen as a BJP “rebel candidate” after the party rejected requests by his elder brother Balachandra Jarkiholi to give him the ticket. His presence in the fray is likely to affect both BJP’s official candidate, Mahantesh Kavatagimath, and Channaraj Hattiholi, Congress nominee and younger brother of Lakshmi Hebbalkar, the political adversary of Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi. In the last Council polls, the Jarkiholi brothers had backed Vivekrao Patil, an Independent, as against the Congress candidate Veerkumar Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lakhan-files-nomination-paper-as-independent/article37655668.ece
24 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Officials prepare for Council polls and winter session||The Belagavi district administration is busy preparing for the Legislative Council polls and the winter session of the Legislature that will be held in December. Polling for the Council elections will be held on December 10 and the session is scheduled to begin on December 13. “We have formed two teams for the smooth management of these two events,” Deputy Commissioner and District Electoral Officer R. Venkatesh Kumar told journalists in Belagavi on Monday. Teams have been formed for the polls and for accommodation, food, transport, and other arrangements for the winter session. The Deputy Commissioner has also sent a proposal to the Election Commission to shift the counting centre to Chikkodi. “We need to hold counting of votes for both seats, Belagavi and Chikkodi, on December 14. Counting of votes for general elections have been routinely conducted in Chikkodi. The town has all necessary facilities for counting,” he said. The two seats have a total of 8,875 voters, including 4,628 women and 4,243 men. Officers are setting up 511 polling stations across the district. Meetings of Excise officers, code of conduct enforcement officers, mobile squads, and polling officers are being held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-prepare-for-council-polls-and-winter-session/article37655872.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic body claims rain damages of around Rs. 1,158 crore||The recent spate of heavy rains, especially on Sunday, not only threw life out of gear for thousands of citizens, but also left its mark on the city’s already crumbling infrastructure. According to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) estimates, the city has suffered infrastructure loss of around Rs. 1,158 crore owing to the excess rains in October and November. Following heavy rains late on Sunday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, on Tuesday, said that 10 km of main roads and 20 km of other roads had been damaged in Yelahanka assembly constituency, while 45 km of roads had been damaged in Byatarayanapura constituency. Areas coming under both these constituencies were most affected by the rains. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that heavy rains had battered almost all parts of the city. The civic body, he said, had so far utilised its own funds for taking up restoration, repairs of the infrastructure, apart from providing relief to families affected by the rains. “We have sought funds from the Government as well to take up restoration works across the city,” he added. Thulasi Maddineni, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Finance), told The Hindu that as per initial estimates, the extent of loss to major roads is Rs. 98 crore and ward roads is Rs. 600 crore. The other major damage caused by drains is to the storm water drain network. This is estimated at Rs. 410 crore. “Drains in most of the areas that were flooded or waterlogged needed urgent repairs or strengthening. The civic body has also sought Rs. 50 crore for the transportation of waste to the processing plants, which had become difficult owing to the heavy downpour in outer areas of the city,” she said. Ms. Thulasi said the civic body had given out compensation amounting to Rs. 75 lakh to families whose homes were inundated following heavy rains in October in Rajarajeshwarinagar zone and around Rs. 95 lakh in the West zone. These funds had been disbursed to the Zonal Joint Commissioners directly for disbursal to the affected families. “Each affected house is given Rs. 10,000 compensation, as specified under the National Disaster Management Authority’s norms. This is disbursed only after a spot inspection and verification by the jurisdictional revenue officials,” she said. She added that on Friday, it was also decided to sanction Rs. 25 lakh per zone to take up any emergency rain-related work or give out compensation to the affected families. This was after the Meteorological Department had forecast heavy rains during the weekend.  Estimated loss  Major roads: Rs. 98 crore Ward roads: Rs. 600 crore Stormwater drains: Rs. 410 crore Solid waste management: Rs. 50 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-body-claims-rain-damages-of-around-rs-1158-crore/article37655646.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pvt. hospitals now push for booster dose||Despite the the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) extending the shelf life of Covaxin up to 12 months, private hospitals continue to be worried about the effective utilisation of vaccine stock lying with them. In the wake of this, the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) has recommended that the government consider allowing eligible population to get a booster dose. In a letter to Union Health Minister Mansukh L. Mandaviya on November 12, AHPI said the government should consider allowing booster dose on a voluntary basis. “This will enable effective utilisation of the ample stock of vaccines available with the private sector,” the letter stated. “Although the shelf life has been extended, we are worried as there are not many takers for the vaccine in the private sector. Overall, nearly 50 lakh doses of vaccines are lying unused in private hospitals across the country,” AHPI president Alexander Thomas told The Hindu.  “There is uncertainty regarding the duration of vaccine protection as a result of probable waning of antibodies. Moreover, we are also seeing several breakthrough infections in people who have been fully vaccinated. Our scientific committee comprising eminent doctors deliberated on these aspects. Keeping in mind the introduction of booster doses in several countries, we have recommended that the government should consider booster doses, at least for the healthcare workers now. We are told there is a meeting this week at the national level to discuss this,” Dr. Thomas said. In another meeting with the Union Minister, a team of AHPI members led by Dr. Thomas suggested that the government should buy the vaccine stock available in the private sector. “But, the Minister assured us that the government will explore the possibility of exporting the stocks in private hospitals to countries that are in need,” the doctor said. However, some doctors expressed apprehension over the feasibility of exporting the stocks. H.M. Prasanna, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association in Karnataka, said although the extension of shelf life has brought relief, hospitals are banking on paediatric vaccination to be rolled out in the country. “Our stocks can be utilised effectively only if paediatric vaccination is rolled out and booster dose is introduced,” he said. Private hospitals in Bengaluru were worried as the original six-month expiry of vaccines was nearing. They have nearly eight lakh doses of vaccines (including two lakh doses of Covishield) stocked up. However, a recent letter from Bharat Biotech (manufacturer of Covaxin) to stakeholders stated that it was extending the shelf life of Covaxin from the existing six months to a year. Doses which were to expire between September 2021 and June 2022 can be used anywhere from March to September next year depending on the date of manufacture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-hospitals-now-push-for-booster-dose/article37655656.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Agricultural price commission for increasing foodgrain procurement||The Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission (KAPC) has recommended to the State Government to seek permission from the Centre for increasing the procurement of quantity of foodgrains under the MSP for distribution at subsidised prices under the public distribution system (PDS). The State needs about 20 lakh tonnes of rice for distribution under PDS for its beneficiaries at the rate of 3 kg per beneficiary. Currently, the Centre has fixed the cap for procurement at five lakh tonnes only, the KAPC said in a report. KAPC chairman Hanumanagouda Belagurki submitted the report for the year 2021-22 on the ground reality of crop produce, pricing and marketing in the State to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday. The State Government should seek permission to procure 5.29 lakh tonnes of ragi and 5 lakh tonnes of jowar (2 kg per beneficiary). With this, the Government can ensure MSP to farmers and availability of locally grown produce to the people of the State, the report suggested. It further said, whether crops are procured within the APMC or outside, the Central Government-fixed MSP must be considered as the “reference price”. The State has made provisions for procurement of produce by private players outside the APMC yards. The Government must formulate parameters and fix prices for the produce being sold by farmers outside APMC yards, the report said. It strongly recommended upward revision of the compensation for farmers for crop loss during floods/droughts. Currently, the compensation is fixed at Rs. 6,800 per hectare and Rs. 13,500 per hectare in rainfed and irrigated land, respectively. This should be categorised as agriculture/commercial crops and perennial crops and the compensation should be increased to Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 1 lakh, it recommended. Financial sufferings Noting financial sufferings of farmers owing to floods/droughts/COVID-19 pandemic, the KAPC has suggested to the Government to develop an app that can predict market prices for produce. Its other major recommendation included provision to subsidise agricultural equipment at 90%, 75%, and 50%, respectively, for small and marginal farmers, medium farmers, and big farmers. The GST levied on agricultural equipment must also be reduced, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agricultural-price-commission-for-increasing-foodgrain-procurement/article37655666.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Massive irregularities causing huge losses to State exchequer found: ACB||Over a hundred Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials continued search operations at offices of the Bangalore Development Authority. Teams carried out the operations at the development authority’s offices at five locations: its headquarters and offices in R.T. Nagar, Vijay Nagar, HSR Layout, and Banashankari. ACB officials stated that massive irregularities causing huge losses to the State exchequer were found. They alleged that in the land acquisition section, BDA officers and staff created fake documents to facilitate rewarding compensation to non-deserving persons. There were huge irregularities while sanctioning civic amenity (CA) sites which had been granted in HSR and HBCS Layouts. “Despite having the knowledge about the irregularities, neither officials nor staff have initiated any action against the persons or organisations for the violations,” stated the ACB. Investigators said they are probing further to ascertain who are the officials involved in the irregularities. The location of the sites allocated to the beneficiaries have been changed illegally to give them sites in different locations, ACB has alleged. “Big dimension sites have not been allotted for personal gain and officials and staff allowed private parties to encroach to build sheds illegally on these sites. This has caused huge loss to the State exchequer,” the probe revealed. “Corner sites have also been allotted illegally instead of auctioning them as per the rules. There are no proper records maintained. In Kempegowda Layout, land acquisition compensation has been granted to third parties instead of actual owners,” said the ACB. The ACB had initiated an investigation into the BDA following multiple complaints. Officials have requested people who have grievances or complaints to approach the ACB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/massive-irregularities-causing-huge-losses-to-state-exchequer-found-acb/article37655648.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 60% of total daily COVID-19 cases in Karnataka are from Bengaluru Urban||Although there has been a steady decline in the number of new COVID-19 cases in the State, Bengaluru Urban has been witnessing fluctuations week on week. Over 60% of the total cases reported in the State are from Bengaluru Urban alone. While there was a marginal increase in the number of cases since the beginning of this month, cases have been declining since the last five days. From 95 cases on November 1, cases rose to 148 on November 6 and remained at 147 on November 12. The number shot up to 179 on November 18. Subsequently, the number of cases reduced to 144 on November 19, 134 on November 20 and November 21, 112 on November 22 and again rose to 122 on Tuesday (November 23). Attributing the fluctuations to inter-state and inter-district movement of people and crowding during the festival season, officials said it was not an alarming situation. “The week on week numbers have remained almost the same. Over 60% of cases are from Bengaluru because more than half of the daily tests conducted in the State are from Bengaluru. We have been regularly conducting over 25,000 tests daily, the highest in the State” said K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health). Targeted testing The Special Commissioner said the focus was on targeted testing now. “We are sending teams of officials to private clinics and hospitals to monitor targeted testing. All fever clinics and hospitals have been directed to test all ILI and SARI cases mandatorily. We have learnt that there is resistance from people to get tested. Hence, we want to make sure that all those with symptoms of ILI and SARI are tested. We had a meeting with representatives of private hospitals in this regard on Tuesday,” the official said. At the meeting, private hospitals were also directed to be more vigilant about dengue and other vector borne diseases. “There is a possibility of a rise in dengue cases after this spell of rain and there is a need to initiate prevention measures,” he said. Besides, private hospitals have also been directed to call up people who took the first dose of vaccine at their centres and remind them about the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-60-of-total-daily-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-are-from-bengaluru-urban/article37655661.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hariprasad likely to be Leader of the Opposition in Council||Senior Congress leader and MLC B.K. Hariprasad is likely to be appointed Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council as the term of the incumbent, S.R. Patil, will end on January 5, 2022, and he is not contesting the elections scheduled for December 10. Mr. Hariprasad, who served in various capacities in the Congress at the national level and as four-time Rajya Sabha member, is expected to get the Leader of the Opposition post in the Council in 2022. The Congress is keen to utilise his vast experience in parliamentary affairs, according to party sources. Further, he has demonstrated his aggressiveness in taking on the BJP Government. Other contenders Two other senior leaders and members in the contention are the former Minister B.R. Thimmapur and former KPCC president and former Minister Allum Veerabhadrappa. Since the term of both the MLCs would end on June 14, 2022, they are unlikely to get the post, sources said. Mr. Hariprasad’s term would end on June 30, 2026, and since he has a long term as the member, the party high command is expected to clear his name for the post of the Leader of the Opposition. Moreover, Mr. Hariprasad is apparently close to KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and this would further boost his chances in getting the coveted post in the Council, sources in the party maintained. From Bengaluru South Mr. Hariprasad contested the Lok Sabha elections in 1999 and 2019 from Bengaluru South and lost both times to the BJP candidate. In 1999, he lost to the former Union Minister late Ananth Kumar, while in 2019 he was defeated by Tejasvi Surya. He was the candidate of the united Opposition for the post of the Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha and lost to Harivansh Narayan Singh of the NDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hariprasad-likely-to-be-leader-of-the-opposition-in-council/article37655680.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Master plan to widen stormwater drain network will be drafted: CM||The extensive flooding in many parts of Yelahanka and Byatarayanapura assembly constituencies has been attributed to unprecedented rain that lashed in a couple of hours and the narrow stormwater drain network. Undertaking an inspection of rain-affected Kendriya Vihar, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), and the Manyata Tech Park on Tuesday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he had directed officials to draft a master plan to widen rajakaluves and build diversion canals to address the problem of flooding.. The heavy rains had resulted in many lakes in Yelahanka overflowing. “The existing rajakaluves are narrow with a varying width of just 8-10 feet. This is not sufficient to carry the huge volume of discharge,” he said. The problem had its source at Yelahanka lake which is connected to 11 more lakes upstream. The heavy rains had led to overflow from all the lakes to Yelahanka lake which has two narrow rajakaluves that are either choked or are encroached at different points, he stated. These drains would have to be widened to at least 30 ft. The required land could be acquired through TDR (transfer of development rights). The Government will also coordinate with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for the construction of a drain across the highway, he said after assessing the situation at Kendriya Vihar residential complex that houses 603 flats. Flood waters flow through Yelahanka lake and down to Jakkur lake, Rachenahalli lake, and then towards K.R. Puram to join the Pinakini before entering Tamil Nadu. “Measures will be taken to widen the rajakaluves and build diversion canals. Action to divert the waters from inundated apartment complexes and institutions would also be initiated,” he said. The Government had recently directed the civic body to take up strengthening and remodelling of 50 km of rajakaluves, apart from widening and clearing encroachments. He admitted that many apartments that had come up on the buffer zone of drains and lakes had been most affected. He said such areas would be identified and work on clearing encroachments, strengthening the drain network taken up on priority basis. Mr. Bommai said BBMP had identified 714 illegal structures on the rajakaluves. Those belonging to lower socio-economic groups would be rehabilitated, while other encroachers would be given time to move out before their buildings/ structures are demolished.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/master-plan-to-widen-stormwater-drain-network-will-be-drafted-cm/article37655651.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘It may take months for JNCASR to function normally’||The damage caused by rainwater flooding the premises of the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) in Jakkur is yet to be estimated. Several buildings, including laboratories and library were inundated. On Tuesday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, accompanied by Yelahanka MLA and senior civic officials, visited the centre and met with Bharat Ratna awardee, C.N.R. Rao, who is honorary president of JNCASR. Admitting that the centre was also once part of Jakkur lake, he took stock of the damage which includes equipment and vital research samples. “Necessary action will be taken to prevent water from entering the institution. A master plan would be drawn up to prevent flooding. The Centre will also be involved in drafting it,” said Mr. Bommai. Damage not assessed The exact extent of damage has not been assessed as rainwater had not receded and affected laboratory equipment has yet to be switched on, said K.R. Srinivas, Dean (Research and Development), JNCASR. “There are three kinds of loss – of equipment, some of which are worth crores, of samples, and of time for students who are in different stages of their course,” he said, and added that some of the samples were salvaged and shipped to neighbouring research institutions. Damage to the expensive equipment can be assessed by the engineers only after the water recedes. “Some may be serviced. But we are not sure if some have been damaged beyond repair,” he said. Prof. Srinivas said it was only on Tuesday afternoon that the email server was turned on again. “It may take months for the multi-disciplinary centre to resume regular operations. For instance, the biology laboratories will have to be cleaned, fumigated and sanitised to ensure there is no contamination. This will also have a bearing on projects and thesis deadlines,” he said.  It may take months for the multi-disciplinary centre to resume regular operations. For instance, the biology laboratories will have to be cleaned, fumigated and sanitised to ensure there is no contamination. This will also have a bearing on projects and thesis deadlines: K.R. Srinivas, Dean (Research and Development), JNCASR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-may-take-months-for-jncasr-to-function-normally/article37655654.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSP polls: BJP relieves office-bearer||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has relieved office-bearer M. Mahendra Gowda from all party posts for opposing Mahesh Joshi in the recently-concluded Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP) polls. “You have worked against Dr. Joshi, whom BJP has officially supported as a candidate for the president of KSP, and have circulated WhatsApp messages supporting another candidate,” said the letter communicating disciplinary action against Mr. Gowda from N.R. Ramesh, president, Bengaluru south unit of BJP. When contacted, Mr. Ramesh said it was “no secret” that the party had officially supported the candidature of Dr. Joshi. Concerns raised Several writers had raised concerns over “party politics” entering parishat polls with Dr. Joshi being backed by the BJP. Dr. Joshi had, however, claimed that he had sought support of all political parties during the polls and denied that he was a “BJP candidate.” He had said he was “politically neutral.” Dr. Joshi is set to win the polls with a record margin and the results will be announced on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksp-polls-bjp-relieves-office-bearer/article37655657.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Norovirus: Border districts on high alert||In the wake of Norovirus cases being reported in 13 students of a veterinary college in Wayanad district of neighbouring Kerala, Karnataka has directed health officials in the border Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu districts to be on high alert. In a circular issued on Tuesday, the State Joint Director (Communicable Diseases) has said people need to be vigilant about the contagious virus. The Norovirus is a group of viruses that cause gastrointestinal illness. The virus causes inflammation of the lining of the stomach and intestines, as well as severe vomiting and diarrhoea, similar to cholera, the circular stated.  Health officials in the border districts have been directed to intensify preventive measures including super chlorination of drinking water sources and spread awareness about the disease. A nodal officer should be appointed in each of the border districts to monitor the situation, the circular stated. As treatment for this infection is non-specific, doctors should treat anyone who reports with symptoms symptomatically. Most importantly, officials should report any symptomatic person besides those arriving from Kerala, to the local authorities.  “Apart from door-to-door monitoring, ASHAs, anganawadi workers and gram panchayat members should be roped in to ensure strict vigilance,” the circular added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/norovirus-border-districts-on-high-alert/article37655662.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police arrest burglar||The Jnanabharathi police have arrested a habitual burglar and recovered stolen items worth Rs. 20 lakh. With the arrest of Syed Ahmed, 38, the police claim to have cracked 12 cases of house break-ins. According to the police, Ahmed, who hails from Kolar, would scout different areas in Bengaluru to identify houses that are locked by the owners. “He would knock on the door and ring the bells repeatedly to see if there are any occupants. If someone answered the door, he would pretend to ask for an address, and move on to find another house,” said a police officer. Based on a complaint filed by a house owner in Jnanabharathi, who was recently robbed, the police stepped up patrolling and nabbed Ahmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-arrest-burglar/article37655652.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents can use pools in apartment complexes||Residents who are fully vaccinated and residing in apartment complexes, housing societies and gated communities will now be able to use gymnasiums, sporting facilities and swimming pools within the premises as long as they follow COVID appropriate behaviour. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike on Tuesday issued a circular easing restrictions but warned that these spaces should not get converted into socialising or meeting points. Swimming pools can operate at 50% capacity and will have to display the number of people allowed in a batch at the entrance. Visitors will be screened at the entry point, and only those with no symptoms will be allowed to use the pool. “Only those with two dose vaccination certificates shall be allowed,” stated the circular. The BBMP also listed precautionary measures that have to be followed including disinfecting of rest rooms, walkways, and other communal areas after every batch. 224 new cases, five deaths Karnataka on Tuesday reported 224 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,94,001. Bengaluru Urban reported 122 cases and one death. With five deaths, the toll rose to 38,182. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.43%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.23%. As many as 51,618 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 38,336 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,27,82,021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-can-use-pools-in-apartment-complexes/article37655664.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Even negligible fraud linked to financial institutions has to be dealt seriously: HC||Observing that “any fraud, however negligible, associated with financial institution has to be viewed very seriously and dealt with an iron hand,” the High Court of Karnataka has declined to give relief to a former bank employee who was dismissed from service for committing fraud. “Frauds carried out by bank employees have now become a global problem. Cash theft such as skimming customers’ cash deposit has become rampant and the employe fraud or occupational fraud is likely the largest and most prevalent threat faced by financial institutions,” the court observed. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum made these observations while dismissing an appeal filed by one K. Satishchandra Shetty, a former employee of Union Bank of India. Zero tolerance “There has to be zero tolerance as a fraudulent employee constitutes an attack against the organisation from within, by the very people who are entrusted to protect its assets and resources,” the court said. Mr. Shetty, during 1997-98, had misappropriate a few thousands of rupees, which were given to him at his house by an account holder known to him, instead of depositing the cash. The fraud had come to light when the customer personally visited the bank to withdraw the FD. It was also revealed that Mr. Shetty had made entries in the passbook of the customer but had not made corresponding entries in bank ledgers. He was dismissed from service in 1999 after he admitted to the fraud during the disciplinary inquiry proceedings conducted by the bank. Thoughhe had not challenged the dismissal order, he raised a dispute in 2003 when the bank asked him to settle his terminal benefit. An industrial tribunal in 2007 ordered his re-instatement while setting aside the order of dismissal though the tribunal found that inquiry was conducted in a fair and proper manner. And a judge, while allowing the bank’s petition, had set aside the tribunal’s order for reinstating him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/even-negligible-fraud-linked-to-financial-institutions-has-to-be-dealt-seriously-hc/article37655669.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. opposes stay on new law banning online gaming||Opposing the plea of firms, associated with the online gaming industry, for staying the enforcement of a new law banning online games involving wagering or betting, the State Government on Tuesday told the High Court of Karnataka that the petitioners have failed to show cause to challenge the validity of the new legislation as they were not even charged under the new law. State Advocate-General Prabhuling K Navadgi also told a Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Magadum, that there are thousands of online games and it is a pure question of fact whether a game could be classified as a ‘game of skill’ of a ‘game of chance’ during investigation by the police, and the petitioners were not charged under the new law If anybody risks their money by soliciting or betting on an unknown result of an event, either in money or otherwise, amounts to wagering and betting, and unknown result can be a ‘game of chance’ or a ‘game of skill’, the A-G argued. The Bench, which is hearing a batch petitions filed by the All-India Gaming Federation, individual online gaming firms, operators and the players, who have challenged the legality of the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Act, 2021, through which online games were banned, has adjourned further hearing till November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-opposes-stay-on-new-law-banning-online-gaming/article37655644.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Infosys Foundation to develop sports facilities for police||The Infosys Foundation on Tuesday expressed its interest in developing sports facilities at the Police Housing Complex at Binny Mills and Command Armed Reserve (South) in Bengaluru at a cost of Rs. 68 lakh. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the State Government has given its consent to receive the funds and develop the sports facilities, which can be made available to residents of the Police Housing Complex, the CAR (South), and to the public. “Infosys Foundation has set a good precedent to other corporate houses in joining hands with the Police Department,” the Minister said. Incidentally, a month ago, a newly constructed multi-storeyed police quarters at Binny Mills developed huge cracks following which families were relocated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infosys-foundation-to-develop-sports-facilities-for-police/article37655660.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Revised RT-PCR test rules for travellers from Maharashtra||The Karnataka Health Department said there is no requirement of an RT-PCR negative certificate for those returning from Maharashtra to their hometown in Karnataka within two days of stay in the neighbouring State. “However, all returnees should be fully vaccinated and completed 14 days after the second dose. They should be strictly free from any COVID-19 symptoms,” stated a circular on Tuesday. The short-term returnees should produce a valid travel ticket of to and fro journey to ensure two days of stay in Maharashtra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revised-rt-pcr-test-rules-for-travellers-from-maharashtra/article37655658.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police search for scamsters||The Amruthahalli police are on the lookout for two people who allegedly sold fake degree certificates to clients to help them get a job. They ran the racket through a firm in Hebbal, Dream Education Centre, said the police. The police have registered an FIR against Dreams Education Centre and efforts are on to track down Rakesh and Krishna who are absconding, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-search-for-scamsters/article37655653.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Complaint against Kangana||Upset over remarks by actor Kangana Ranaut and journalist and co-founder of Do Politics Ajeet Bharti on freedom fighters, Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC) on Tuesday lodged a police complaint against the two here. A delegation led by KPYCC president M.S. Raksha Ramaiah lodged the complaint and demanded that the two be tried under various sections of the IPC and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, for their “unsavoury remarks against freedom fighters”. He said their remarks had ruined not only the reputation of freedom fighters but also the country’s standing in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaint-against-kangana/article37655670.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) to contest in seven seats||The JD(S), which was last to announce its list of candidates for the Legislative Council polls, will be contesting for seven seats out of the 25 for which elections are being held. While four of its members are retiring on January 5, only Appaji Gowda has been re-nominated to contest from Mandya. Of the three other incumbent members Sandesh Nagaraj and C.R. Manohar had sought ticket from the BJP, which has been denied, another member, Kanthraj, was not given the ticket by the JD(S). Party patriarch’s grandson Sooraj Revanna will be making his electoral debut from Hassan while incumbent MLC H.M. Ramesh Gowda will be contesting from Bangalore Rural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-to-contest-in-seven-seats/article37655671.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only 2 of 121 who have filed papers are women||As many as 121 people have filed their nomination papers for the elections to 25 seats of the Legislative Council from the Local Authorities’ constituencies. Tuesday was the last day for the process. According to the Election Commission, only two of the 121 people are women, one each in Chikkamagaluru and Chitradurga. In all, 215 nomination papers have been received. Vijayapura–Bagalkot Local Authorities’ constituency, where two people will be elected, has the highest number of candidates at 13, followed by Dharwad, which also has two seats, at 12Bengaluru Rural, Kodagu, Chitradurga, Bidar, and Kalaburagi have three candidates each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-2-of-121-who-have-filed-papers-are-women/article37655672.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Compensation box||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and expressed concern over the crop loss and loss of lives owing to heavy rainfall in several districts of Karnataka and assured all assistance. Mr. Bommai, in a tweet, said that he had updated the Prime Minister on the relief and rescue measures taken up by the Government    The State Government on Tuesday announced compensation packages to citizens whose houses were damaged by the recent floods and heavy rain. Immediate compensation of Rs. 10,000 will be given to households where water entered the premises. Those whose houses were completely destroyed will receive compensation of Rs. 5 lakh. An amount of Rs. 1 lakh has been allocated for citizens whose houses were damaged due to incessant rains and flooding in Yelahanka area recently, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. “I have ordered release of Rs. 10,000 today itself for those who had to suffer due to water entering their homes. About 400 houses are affected in Yelahanka area. About 10 km of main roads and 20 km of interior roads are also damaged. Funds would be released immediately to take up repair works,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/compensation-box/article37655649.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru/Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sons, relatives make it big in list of candidates for Council polls||Despite constantly sparring in political circles over dynasty politics, family members of popular leaders have managed to get the ticket in all parties to contest the Legislative Council elections in Karnataka. All three major parties are guilty of propagating dynasty politics in the elections scheduled for December 10 and at least a dozen candidates in the fray are linked to political families. In most cases, political careers of grass-roots workers in these constituencies are sidelined with elected legislators pushing their family members into the fray. Eighth entry In Janata Dal (Secular), often described as the party of “fathers and sons”, the former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda’s family will be witnessing the entry of the eighth person into electoral politics with the patriarch’s grandson Sooraj Revanna filing his nomination. He is the son of Holenarsipur legislator and former Minister H.D. Revanna, whose other son is a member of Parliament representing Hassan. Dr. Sooraj Revanna’s mother, Bhavani, was a Hassan Zilla Panchayat member. In Congress The Congress has fielded a host of candidates who come from influential political families. Its candidate in Vijayapura–Bagalkot constituency Sunilgouda Patil is the brother of the former Water Resources Minister M.B. Patil. The party chose him over its four-time MLC and Leader of the Opposition in the Council S.R. Patil. Party’s candidate for Bidar, Bhimrao B. Patil, is the younger brother of Humnabad MLA Rajshekar Patil while its candidate in Raichur Sharanegouda Bayyapur is the nephew of Kushtagi legislator Amaregouda Bayyapur. Interestingly, Mantar Gowda, Congress candidate in Kodagu, is the son of the former Congress Minister A. Manju, who switched over to the BJP. Tumakuru candidate R. Rajendra is the son of the former Congress legislator K.N. Rajanna. The party’s candidate in Belagavi Channaraja Basavaraja Hattiholi is the brother of Congress legislator Lakshmi Hebbalkar. S. Ravi, contesting from Bengaluru Rural, is the brother-in-law of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. BJP no exception The BJP, which constantly attacks both the Congress and the JD(S) of propagating dynasty politics, is also not free of this trend. The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar’s brother Pradeep Shettar is contesting from Dharwad while D.S. Arun, son of the former Chairman of the Legislative Council D.H. Shankaramurthy, has been fielded in Shivamogga. The saffron party has replaced its member Sunil Subramani with his brother Suja Kushalappa for the Kodagu seat. They are brothers of Madikeri legislator Appachu Ranjan. The BJP has also fielded Prakash Khandre, from the politically powerful Khandre clan, in Bidar. Bheemappa Gadad, an RTI activist, pointed out that the dynastic politics discourages young and pro-people leaders from aspiring for positions in public life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sons-relatives-make-it-big-in-list-of-candidates-for-council-polls/article37655677.ece
24 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Suraj Revanna owns properties worth over Rs. 65 crore||Suraj Revanna, son of former Minister H.D. Revanna, contesting for Hassan Local Authorities’ Constituency on JD(S) ticket, owns properties worth over Rs. 65 crore and liabilities worth over Rs. 14.97 crore. According to the affidavit of assets and liabilities he submitted along with his nomination papers, Dr. Suraj Revanna, 33, has movable assets worth over Rs. 3.53 crore and immovable properties worth over Rs. 61.68 crore. He has taken loans from various sources including his relatives. Dr. Revanna, who completed his MS in General Surgery in 2015, owns no vehicle except a tractor. He has 12 kg of silver articles and 1 kg of gold jewellery gifted by friends and relatives, besides another set of 6 kg of silver articles. He has 36 cows, six bullocks and eight buffaloes. He has not disclosed properties owned by his spouse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suraj-revanna-owns-properties-worth-over-rs-65-crore/article37656072.ece
24 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Appointed||The former Senate Member of Kuvempu University and Academic Director of University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot, K.N. Omkarappa has been appointed Non-Official Part-time Director of Power Grid Corporation of India, Limited (PGCIL), for a period of three years.    The 116th Founder’s Day of Canara Bank and birth anniversary of bank’s founder Ammembala Subbarao Pai was celebrated recently at the Circle Office of the bank in Hubballi. Loyal customers of the bank were felicitated on the occasion. Senior bank officials were present, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appointed/article37655870.ece
24 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||B.G. Patil, Shivanand Patil enter the fray||B.G. Patil from the BJP and Shivanand Patil from the Congress filed their nomination papers for Kalaburagi local bodies constituency of the Legislative Council on Tuesday. The BJP candidate [B.G. Patil], who had filed a set of his nomination papers in the morning, again arrived with a large number of his supporters in a procession from Veerashaiva Kalyan Mantap to the office of the Deputy Commissioner and filed his nomination papers for the second time. He was accompanied by Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur, Gulbarga South MLA and Chairperson of Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board Dattatreya Patil Revoor, Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav, legislators Basavaraj Mattimadu, BJP Rural district unit president Shivaraj Patil Raddewadagi, BJP urban district president Siddaji Patil and other party leaders. “The Congress had to struggle hard to find a suitable candidate against our candidate [B.G. Patil]. The Congress candidate [Shivanand Patil] is submitting his nomination papers just to keep his party in the fray. The rally that was taken out when B.G. Patil filed his nomination papers makes it clear that the BJP candidate has already won the election,” Mr. Telkur said, outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner. Mr. Revoor appealed to the voters to strengthen the hands of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai by electing the BJP candidates in the Council elections across the State. Terming B.G. Patil as a down-to-earth person, Dr. Jadhav said that Mr. B.G. Patil has raised many issues concerning the local bodies of governance in the Legislative Council and appealed to the voters to elect him once again. The Congress candidate [Shivanand Patil] also filed his nomination papers in two sets. After addressing a party workers meeting on the District Congress Committee office premises, Mr. Shivanand Patil arrived at the office of the Deputy Commissioner in a rally to file his nomination papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bg-patil-shivanand-patil-enter-the-fray/article37655865.ece
24 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Yechareddy Satish, Kondaiah file papers||Congress candidate K.C. Kondaiah and BJP candidate Y. Yechareddy Satish filed their nomination papers for the Ballari local bodies constituency of the Legislative Council on Tuesday. Mr. Kondaiah filed four sets of nomination papers and Mr. Satish submitted two. Both the candidates arrived on the premises of the Deputy Commissioner’s office with a large number of their supporters. However, only four people were allowed with each candidate to enter the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Mr. Satish filed his nomination papers at around 11.30 a.m. Tourism Minister Anand Singh, Transport Minister B. Sriramulu, legislators Somashekhar Reddy and Somalingappa and others accompanied him. Mr. Kondaiah was accompanied by Congress MLAs P.T. Parameshwar Naik, E. Tukaram and other party leaders. Another leader Anil Lad, who was also an aspirant for Congress ticket, was found standing outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner. Mr. Parameshwar Naik and Mr. Tukaram had, in fact, been against Mr. Kondaiah’s candidature. They had lobbied for Mundargi Nagaraj. Setting aside all the differences, the Congress leadership then finalised Mr. Kondaiah’s candidature. Two candidates, Gangireddi and C.M. Manjunath, also filed their nomination papers as Independents on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yechareddy-satish-kondaiah-file-papers/article37655854.ece
24 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Prakash Khandre files nomination papers||Prakash Khandre from the BJP, Bhimarao Patil from the Congress and Govindarao Suryavamshi from the Aam Admi Party filed their nomination papers for the Bidar local bodies constituency of the Legislative Council on Tuesday. After a meeting of Congress workers on the District Congress Committee office premises, Mr. Patil went to the office of the Deputy Commissioner along with Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Working President Eshwar Khandre and legislator Rahim Khan for submitting his nomination papers. Speaking to media representatives, Mr. Eshwar Khandre said that his party will seek the support of Janata Dal (Secular) which has not fielded a candidate in the constituency. “The BJP governments at the Centre and the State have crossed all limits in exploiting the common people. The sky-rocketing prices of essential commodities, including those of petroleum products, have caused inconvenience to the people. The anti-people policies and the misrule of the BJP will work in favour of the Congress in the Legislative Council elections,” Mr. Eshwar Khandre said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prakash-khandre-files-nomination-papers/article37655862.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rain, vented dam dash hopes of residents||Unseasonal rain as well as the barrage-cum-bridge at Adyar Padavu across the Netravathi appear to have dashed the hopes of Pavoor Uliya Kudru residents who used to build a makeshift footbridge after the monsoon to reach the mainland at Adyar on National Highway 75. Members of about 40 households residing in the Kudru (river island) pooled in money from their own resources and also collected donations to build the footbridge on steel fabrication every year. Initially, they had spent about Rs. 15 lakh for steel pipes and wood planks. They were guided by Fr. Jerald Lobo, parish priest of Infant Jesus shrine on the Kudru. While boats were the only option to cross the swollen Netravathi during the monsoon, they conceptualised the makeshift bridge when the rain receded. They would dismantle the bridge once it started raining. This was after government agencies failed to address their demand for a permanent bridge, at least a smaller one. When the construction of the Harekala-Adyar vented dam-cum-bridge commenced this January downstream at Adyar Padavu, the impounded waters of the coffer-bund submerged the footbridge in March-April. Residents had to dismantle the bridge then. They had hoped to restore the bridge after this monsoon; but the Netravathi water is yet to recede, said Basil D’Souza, who was rowing a boat to ferry Kudru residents from one bank to the other on Monday. He said that the exact situation will become known only when the vented dam is completed and water is impounded. If the water level is higher than the steel fabrication of the footbridge, residents may have to depend on boats alone unless the government provides a permanent solution. Fr. Lobo had earlier appealed to the district administration and local MLA U.T. Khader to address the issue. He told The Hindu on Monday that there has been no response from the government to residents demand so far. An appeal has been made to the Prime Minister’s Office also. The steel fabrications could be erected if the water level is up to about 19 ft from the riverbed. However, the residents are yet to hear from the Minor Irrigation Department about the backwater level when the dam-cum-bridge is commissioned, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-vented-dam-dash-hopes-of-residents/article37656050.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police return recovered stolen items to owners in Bantwal||The Bantwal Town Police on Monday handed over recovered stolen items to their owners. The valuables included 252.39 grams of gold ornaments, two four-wheelers and four two-wheelers. Bantwal Assistant Superintendent of Police Shivanshu Rajput handed over the keys of the vehicles to their owners. The police have cracked 12 cases from January till date and recovered items worth Rs. 11.34 lakh. After obtaining permission from the jurisdictional court, the stolen items were returned, said a release from Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane. Bantwal Town Police Inspector Vivekananda and other staff were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-return-recovered-stolen-items-to-owners-in-bantwal/article37656053.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Annual Lakshadeepotsava in Dharmasthala from Nov. 29||The annual Lakshadeepotsava celebrations will begin at Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala on November 29 and go on till December 3, while the 89th sessions of Sarvadharma Sammelan and Sahitya Sammelan will be held on December 2 and 3. Governor Thawarchand Gehlot will inaugurate the Sarvadharma Sammelan to be presided over by the former Vice-Chancellor of Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana University, Bengaluru, Ramachandra G. Bhat, at 5 p.m. on December 2 at the Amruthavarshini Sabha Bhavan. Professor and writer from Sagar Sarfraz Chandragutti, retired Jainology professor M.S. Padma and Shivamogga Diocese PRO Rev. Fr. Veeresh V. Maras will be the chief guests. The Sahitya Sammelan will be inaugurated by Health, Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar to be presided over by the former Vice- Chancellor of Sanskrit University Mallepuram G. Venkatesh on December 3 at 5 p.m. at the same venue. Writer Gajanana Sharma, writer P. Chandrika and writer K.P. Putturaya will be the chief guests. Cultural programmes will follow these events at 8 p.m. on both the days. At the Lalithakala Goshti on December 1, there will be a Vidyagoshti between 5.30 p.m. and 7 p.m.; Thathvasinchana-Gayana by Padmini Oak and Troupe, Bengaluru, from 7 p.m. to 8.30 p.m., and Nrithyaroopaka by Raghavendra Sangeetha Seva Pratishthana, Bengaluru, from 8.30 p.m. to 10 p.m. at the Amruthavarshini Sabha Bhavan. Samavasarana Puja of Bhagavan Sri Chandranatha Swamy by members of Sri Bahubali Seva Samithi, Dharmasthala, will be held at 6.30 p.m. at Sri Chandranatha Swamy Basadi, Dharmasthala, on December 4. It will be followed by a discourse by Ajith Kumar Kokradi, teacher, Government PU College, Gerukatte. The daily utsavas at Sri Manjunatha Swamy Temple include Hosakatte Utsava on November 29; Kerekatte Utsava on November 30; Lalithodyana Utsava on December 1; Kanchimarukatte Utsava on December 2 and Gowrimarukatte Utsava on December 3, all at 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/annual-lakshadeepotsava-in-dharmasthala-from-nov-29/article37656054.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Valuables returned to owners in Udupi||The Udupi District Police handed over recovered stolen valuables worth over Rs. 90 lakh to their owners at the District Reserve Police Parade Grounds in Udupi on Tuesday. The valuables were reported stolen in cases since 2020 till date. Valuables worth Rs. 3.13 crore were stolen or taken away in 151 cases registered during 2020 that included one murder, 14 robbery, one daytime robbery, seven theft, five vehicle theft, one house break-in and theft and 13 other cases. Of these, items worth Rs. 58.47 lakh were recovered and handed over to owners on Tuesday. As many as 151 cases, including one robbery, one daytime theft, six night theft, 13 vehicle theft, one house break-in and theft and seven other cases were registered till date in 2021 involving valuables worth Rs. 2.61 crore. Of these, items worth Rs. 32.31 lakh were recovered and handed over to owners. Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan, Additional Superintendent of Police Kumarachandra and other senior officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/valuables-returned-to-owners-in-udupi/article37656059.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Day train extended till further advice||The Railways has extended the services of Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur tri-weekly day trains till further advice. A release from Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. said that Train No 06211 Yeshwantpur-Karwar tri-weekly express was to run till November 26 and its pairing train, No 06212, was to run till November 27, as per the earlier communication. With the Railways restoring the original train numbers and fares of special and holiday trains, the services have received their earlier numbers, 16515/16516. In coordination with South Western Railway, Train No 16515 (Yeshwantpur-Karwar) running on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays will now run until further advice. Similarly, Train No 16516 (Karwar-Yeshwantpur) running on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays will run until further advice. There will be no change in schedule and commercial halts, the release added. Passengers have to follow all COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, including maintaining social distancing and wearing face covers within the Railway premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/day-train-extended-till-further-advice/article37656056.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Book on Yakshagana to be released tomorrow||A Kannada book, Eppatthu Thirugatagalu, written by doyen of Tenku Thittu school of Yakshagana Soorikumeru Govinda Bhat will be released at St. Aloysius College here on Thursday. Published by St. Aloysius Prakashana, the book has recorded the experience of the artiste during his 70 years of performance in Yakshagana. In addition to Rajyotsava Award, the author was conferred with the Kendra Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for 2016. Mr. Bhat performed in the Dharmasthala Manjunatheswara Yakshagana Mandali alone for 54 years. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, principal of the college Praveen Martis said: “Mr. Bhat has enumerated and recorded the highs and lows of his Yakshagana journey in the form of a conversational and intimate narrative in the book which would definitely make a novel and interesting reading.” By publishing the book, the fifth by St. Aloysius Prakashana, the college has paid a fitting tribute to the legendary artiste, he added. After the book release event at 2.30 p.m., a talamaddale, Thyagameva Jayathe, will be performed by senior artistes. It will be based on the epic narrative of Bharatha Bahubali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-on-yakshagana-to-be-released-tomorrow/article37656061.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Build party at village level’||CPI(M) leader and former Kerala Health Minister Shailaja Teacher asked here on Tuesday her party workers to build the organisation at the grassroots level in every village in the State to counter what she said the growth of Sangh Parivar. Addressing a gathering during the second day of the 23rd Dakshina Kannada conference of the party at Gurupura-Kaikamba, she said that the Left parties in Kerala have grounded the affiliates of Sangh Parivar. The CPI(M) is not allowing their affiliates to grow, she said. The Sangh Parivar’s objective is to divide people on the basis of caste and religion and promote the corporate sector and capitalists in the country, she said and added that it should be countered. Both the BJP and the Congress share the same objective, that is to promote the corporate sector in the country, she said. “Unity in diversity is the soul of India. It should be sustained and the CPI(M) continues to protect it,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/build-party-at-village-level/article37656063.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested in theft case||The Udupi Town Police on Sunday arrested Sukesh Naik (34), resident of Kukkikatte, on the charge of stealing valuables worth Rs. 3.7 lakh from the residence of Babu Acharya in Gundibailu on November 17. Mr. Acharya told the police that the family members were sleeping in their newly-built house, behind the old house. On the night of November 16 and in the early hours of November 17, miscreants entered his old house, opened the safe locker and stole 90 grams of gold ornaments and other valuables. A jurisdictional court has remanded the accused to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-in-theft-case/article37656057.ece
24 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested||The Puttur Town Police on Monday arrested Devappa Gowda of Shanthigodu village in Puttur taluk on the charge of attempt to murder when he surrendered before the police. The accused is said to have made an attempt to shoot his sister-in-law K. Darnamma (54), wife of Babu Gowda, on Sunday over a property dispute. The accused was sent to 14 days judicial custody by the jurisdictional court, said a release. In her complaint to the police, Ms. Darnamma said that when she was working in her field with her husband and son, K. Ravi, on Sunday, the accused opened fire from the rifle aiming at the complainant but missed the target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested/article37656051.ece
24 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nominations filed for Mysuru-Chamarajanagar seat||The candidates from the three mainstream parties – Congress, JD(S) and BJP – submitted their nominations to the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham, who is also the Returning Officer for the dual-member Mysuru-Chamarajanagar Legislative Council seat from local authorities’ constituency on Tuesday. While the names of Congress candidate D. Thimmaiah and JD(S) candidate C.N. Manje Gowda were cleared by their respective party leadership only on Monday, the BJP had cleared Raghu Kautilya as its candidate late last week. Mr. Thimmaiah, a retired district health officer, who replaced incumbent MLC R. Dharmasena as the Congress nominee, marched to the DC’s office from the party office along with party leaders and workers to submit the nomination. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Working President R. Dhruvanarayan, former Minister H.C. Mahadevappa, MLAs H.P. Manjunath and Anil Chikkamadu, and Mysuru District Congress President Vijaykumar accompanied Mr. Thimmaiah. C.N. Manje Gowda, former ZP member, Mysuru, who joined the JD(S) only on Monday, went to the Congress office on Tuesday and submitted his resignation from the party’s primary membership. He later went to the DC’s office along with former Minister S.R. Mahesh and MLAs Ashwin Kumar and K. Mahadev, besides several party workers to submit his nomination. BJP candidate Raghu Kautilya, who is also the Chairperson of D. Devaraj Urs Backward Class Development Corporation, too filed his papers on Tuesday, the last date for filing nominations. He was accompanied by Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar, Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman H.V. Rajeev, MLA L. Nagendra and other party leaders. Scrutiny of nominations is scheduled for November 24 while the last date for withdrawal of nominations is November 26. Polling will be held between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. on December 10 while counting of votes will be taken up on December 14. Interestingly, both the sitting MLCs R. Dharmasena and Sandesh Nagaraj, whose term ends on January 5, 2022, were not among the candidates, who filed their nominations. About 6,500 members of gram panchayats, town panchayats, town municipal councils, city municipal councils and Mysuru City Corporation are expected to exercise their franchise in the preferential pattern of voting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nominations-filed-for-mysuru-chamarajanagar-seat/article37656079.ece
24 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||MLC elections in Mysuru: Denied ticket, Sandesh Nagaraj to stay out of race||Incumbent JD(S) MLC Sandesh Nagaraj has declared that he will not participate in the Legislative Council elections from Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local authorities’ constituency. Mr. Nagaraj has been an MLC for the last 12 years. The announcement came on the last date for filing nominations on November 23 after he was refused a ticket by the BJP as well as the JD(S). In the run-up to the elections, Mr. Nagaraj had made public his intentions to quit the JD(S) and seek nomination from the BJP. But, the BJP re-nominated Raghu Kautilya, who had finished third in the dual-member constituency during the last elections. After being denied a ticket by the BJP, Mr. Nagaraj called on former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy in Mysuru on November 22 in a last-ditch effort to secure the party nomination. After the JD(S) announced the party ticket to C.N. Manje Gowda, Mr. Nagaraj issued a statement declaring that he will not be contesting the ensuing elections. “I regret to state that I will not contest the Legislative Council elections this time. I have satisfaction about the work done for the people during my 12 years as a member of the Legislative Council,” he said. Referring to his efforts to secure a ticket from the BJP, Mr. Nagaraj said the hurdle was the saffron party’s age restriction. He thanked the party’s State unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel and other party leaders for making an effort on his behalf. He also thanked former Prime Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Deve Gowda, and former Minister H.D. Revanna for supporting his candidature from the JD(S). Mr. Kumaraswamy, who held meetings with party leaders till late on November 22 night, told reporters that party workers were not in favour of re-renominating Mr. Nagaraj. The party leaders were unanimously in favour of a new face. “They were not in favour of candidates who had not shown respect to party workers,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. The term of Mr. Nagaraj, who had been elected from the seat along with R. Dharmasena of the Congress during the last elections, comes to an end on January 5, 2022. Polling for the ensuing elections is scheduled on December 10. The votes will be counted on December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlc-elections-in-mysuru-denied-ticket-sandesh-nagaraj-to-stay-out-of-race/article37656073.ece
24 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||BJP divests Manju of his responsibilities||A day after the Congress announced party ticket for the Legislative Council election from Kodagu Local Authorities’ constituency to his son Mantar Gowda, the BJP chose to divest the former Minister A. Manju of his responsibilities in the party. President of BJP State disciplinary committee Lingaraj Patil, in a letter to Mr. Manju on Tuesday said he had been divested of his responsibility as the party’s Mandya district in charge and all other responsibilities in the party. The letter did not make any reference to his son’s candidature from the Congress, but attributed the reason for the party’s action to “suspicion arising over recent developments”. Mr. Manju, who was earlier with the Congress, had joined the BJP and contested as the party’s candidate in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-divests-manju-of-his-responsibilities/article37655678.ece
24 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||UoM to host UGC-CEC awards event, Prakriti Film Festival||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan will be inaugurating the award-cum-film screening of 23rd UGC-CEC Educational Video Competition and Prakriti International Documentary Film Festival in Mysuru on Wednesday. The event is jointly organised by UGC, Consortium for Educational Communication (CEC), New Delhi, and Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC), University of Mysore. The event will be inaugurated at 11 a.m. at Crawford Hall. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar will deliver the keynote address while Jagat Bhushan Nadda, Director, CEC, New Delhi, will deliver the festival address. Prof. Hemantha Kumar and Prof. Nadda held a press conference here on Tuesday in connection with the event. The CEC organises the Prakriti Film Festival every year. In 1997 The 1st Prakriti Festival was organised in 1997 and since then has been planned as an annual media event, bringing together filmmakers, students, academics, administrators, development workers and media, and appreciating the artistic genre of documentary filmmaking. This year, the joint award-cum-screening of CEC’s Educational Video Competition will be held on November 24 and 25 and the Prakriti Film Festival’s screening sessions on November 26 and 27, at Vijnana Bhavan Auditorium in Manasagangotri campus. In the Educational Video Competition, 12 films will be screened, and in the Prakriti International Documentary Film Festival, 17 documentaries will be screened. These films have been previewed and selected following a stringent process by an eminent jury, a release by CEC said here. Winners The winning entries in the Educational Video Competition featured in 9 different categories get cash prizes ranging from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 1 lakh, along with special screening certificates, and trophy. Also, the winning documentaries of the Prakriti Festival receive a cash prize of Rs. 50,000 besides special screening certificates and trophy. The results of the Educational Video competition were announced on Tuesday. In total, it received 137 entries, while the Prakriti Festival received 97 entries. “CEC actively organises the Educational Video Competition and the Prakriti Film Festival to help learners develop holistically by finding symmetry in learning and evolving their understanding of multiple subjects/topics of interest,” the release said. Subha Das Mollick’s film Calcutta Sonata and Bobbeeta Sharma’s film A Light that Refuses to Fade Out have jointly shared the first prize while Living with Autism by Vasim Ayub Pathan will be specially screened and awarded a certificate in the Best Educational Programme of the Year. Also, the awards will be presented in Best Formative Research category in the best script, best camera work, best sound and best graphic/animation/special effects’ categories. In the results of the Prakriti Film Festival, the winner in the environment category is the documentary Green Moksha by Ashish Bhawalkar. In the development category, the winning documentary is Wave of Transformation by Ashok Bhutani. The winner of the Human Rights category is the documentary Blooming Together by Jaya Jose Raj C.L. In the Swachh Bharat category, the documentary Six Women’s – Solid Waste Management by Varadanayaka T.P is the winner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-to-host-ugc-cec-awards-event-prakriti-film-festival/article37656075.ece
24 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vatal Nagaraj enters fray||The last date for submitting nominations to the dual-member Mysuru-Chamarajanagar Legislative Council seat from local authorities’ constituency on Tuesday saw a steady stream of candidates submitting their papers. Apart from the three mainstream political parties, noted Kannada protagonist and chief of Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha Vatal Nagaraj too entered the poll fray. Arriving at the office of Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, who is also the Returning Officer, along with his supporters, Mr. Nagaraj submitted his papers. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Nagaraj sought to distinguish himself from the members of mainstream parties. He said he was not among the turncoats, who changed parties, and claimed that his politics was based on principles and values in public life. He said he was entering the fray to protect the interests of gram panchayat members. He said mainstream political parties had ruined the electoral system. Pointing out that the polling was on the basis of preferential voting, he called upon the voters to exercise their second, third and fourth option along with the first. Also throwing his hat in the ring was the namesake of a former Chief Minister of the BJP. From Periyapatna in Mysuru P.S. Yediyurappa also filed his nomination from the dual-member Mysuru Chamarajanagar Legislative Council seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vatal-nagaraj-enters-fray/article37656081.ece
24 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Crop loss compensation sought along Delhi model||The Aam Aadmi Party in Mysuru has demanded that the State government pay compensation for crop loss to every affected farmer at the rate of Rs. 50,000 a hectare as done by Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal there. Addressing presspersons here on Tuesday, Malavika Gubbivani, president, AAP, Mysuru distric, said crop loss has occurred in about a million hectares across the State due to untimely rains and the farmers are in a big crisis. “It’s nothing but an insult to farmers that the State government fixes compensation for the crop loss at the rate of Rs. 13,500 for irrigated lands, Rs. 6,800 for arid lands and Rs. 18,000 for commercial crops,” she argued. The party claimed that relief has been calculated based on rates fixed six years ago and deplored the State government’s decision as the compensation won’t cover labour charges incurred on cultivation. If the Bommai government is concerned about farmers, let it pay compensation at the rate of Rs. 50,000 per hectare as being done in Delhi, she suggested. “Already, two farmers have reportedly died by suicide due to distress over crop loss. Farmers are being asked to produce documents for which they are made to run around in government offices to secure the meagre compensation. In case of any errors in the documents, the compensation is rejected,” she claimed. She demanded that the officers also consider the post-harvest loss. “Until the compensation reaches farmers’ accounts, banks must not pressurize them for loan repayment and the government should bring out an order in this effect,” Ms. Gubbivani demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crop-loss-compensation-sought-along-delhi-model/article37656074.ece
24 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Property parade held||Stolen valuables were returned to their owners during a property parade conducted by the Mysuru district police here on Tuesday. The total value of the stolen properties was Rs. 1.62 crore, the police said. The valuables were recovered in cases registered in police stations across the district, and returned to the owners after cross-checking the documents submitted by them. Some antique portraits that were stolen from a temple and a government library were also returned at the parade. Inspector General of Police (Southern range) Pravin Madhukar Pawar handed over the valuables to the owners at the parade. Superintendent of Police R. Chetan and other police officers were present. Stolen properties in over 72 cases registered in Mysuru, Nanjangud and Hunsur sub-divisions from January till date were handed over to the owners. On the occasion, 82 police personnel were rewarded with certificates and cash prizes for playing a key role in cracking the cases and recovering the stolen goods from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-parade-held/article37656082.ece
24 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Five file 12 sets in Raichur||As the last date for filing nomination papers ended on Tuesday, a total five candidates have submitted 12 sets of nomination papers for the elections to Legislative Council from the local bodies in Raichur-Koppal constituency. Deputy Commissioner and District Election Officer Avinash Menon Rajendran said in a release that Congress candidate Sharanagowda Patil Bayyapur has filed four sets of nomination papers. BJP candidate Vishwanath Bannatti also has filed four sets of nomination papers, he said. Tirupati Narasappa from Janahita Party has filed two sets of nomination papers, while one each nomination papers were filed by independent candidates Dodda Basanagowda Patil and Narendra Arya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-file-12-sets-in-raichur/article37655868.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rape victim-accused couple’s plea to drop case rejected||The advocate for both the accused Anil, a resident of Basavana Bagewadi taluk in Vijayapura district, and the victim had cited the earlier case for seeking quashing of criminal proceedings. However, Justice Sandhesh observed, “This Court in Vijaya Kumar’s case though referred to the judgment of the apex court in Gian Singh’s case, but lost sight of the principles laid down in the said judgment. Hence, this Court based on the order passed in Vijaya Kumar’s case supra, cannot exercise power under Section 482 of Cr.P.C [to quash criminal proceedings].” “The apex court in Gian Singh’s case held that in serious offences like murder, rape, dacoity, etc... the proceedings cannot be quashed, even though the victim or victim’s family and the offender have settled the dispute, since it will have serious impact on society,” Justice Sandhesh observed. Pointing out that the provisions of POCSO Act, 2012, were invoked against Anil, and the girl had told the trial court during examination that she was 19 years at the time of alleged offence, the HC said that this aspect requires to be ascertained during the trial. “The HC has to look into the statute and object in bringing the special enactment of the Act and hence, considering the object and scope of special enactment of POCSO Act, exercising power under Section 482 of Cr.P.C., does not arise,” Justice Sandhesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rape-victim-accused-couples-plea-to-drop-case-rejected/article37655882.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In short supply||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-short-supply/article37656066.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pradeep Shettar, Saleem Ahmed file papers||While Mr. Pradeep Shettar represents the constituency, Srinivas Mane, who won in the last Council election, has now shifted to the Legislative Assembly with a win in the bypoll in Hangal. Despite a large number of aspirants from the region, the Congress has now fielded Mr. Saleem Ahmed, who contested unsuccessfully twice in the Parliamentary elections from Haveri. Although his candidature has led to voices of dissent in the Congress circle, the high command has managed to placate the local aspirants. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Saleem Ahmed said that as he had contested twice from Haveri in the Parliamentary elections, he was familiar with the constituency and thanked the party high command for considering his candidature. The former Minister and senior leader H.K. Patil justified the party’s decision to field a single candidate in the constituency terming it a strategic move. Mr. Patil also accused the BJP government in the State of not holding the elections to the zilla and taluk panchayats in the fear of losing elections. The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, who accompanied his brother and BJP nominee [Pradeep Shettar] when the latter filed his nomination papers, said that the party is confident of winning 15 out of the 20 seats that it was contesting. Senior leaders of both the BJP and the Congress accompanied the party nominees while submitting different sets of nomination papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pradeep-shettar-saleem-ahmed-file-papers/article37655871.ece
24 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Food park to be opened in January||The mega food park being set up by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) at the Industrial Growth Centre at Pallippuram, near Cherthala, will be opened in January 2022, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve has said. He was inaugurating a renovated fabrication unit at Steel Industrials Limited Kerala (SILK) at Kanichukulangara on Monday. Mr. Rajeeve said that the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation and SILK would jointly construct an industrial park on the land owned by the latter at Kanichukulangara. The KSIDC’s food park is being constructed on 68 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 128 crore, with equity contribution from the KSIDC/State government worth Rs. 72 crore, a grant-in-aid of Rs. 50 crore from the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MOFPI) under the Mega Food Park Scheme and the rest is a bank loan. The park, focusing on seafood processing, has three components—a central processing centre for seafood collection, grading, quality inspection, freezing unit and cold store; a primary processing centre for seafood peeling, cleaning, sorting and ice planting from harbours; and collection centres. The primary processing centres at Thoppumpady, Vypeen and Munambam will also be connected to it. Mr. Rajeeve said two more entrepreneurs had shown interest in starting ventures in the park. With the completion of the park, an investment of Rs. 500 crore is expected. Once fully operational, the park would generate about 3,000 direct and indirect jobs. The land is given to entrepreneurs on a 30-year lease. The park is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities like a warehouse, 3,000-metric tonne cold storage, a deep freezer with a capacity of 10-metric tonne per day and a deboning centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-park-to-be-opened-in-january/article37656020.ece
24 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Aroor division bypoll: four candidates in fray||A total of four candidates are in the fray for byelection to the Aroor division of the Alappuzha district panchayat. The candidates contesting the bypoll are Anandu Rameshan (CPI (M)/LDF), K. Umeshan (Congress/UDF), K.M. Manilal (BDJS/NDA), and Krishnakumar (Independent). The election will be held on December 7. In the 2020 local body polls, Daleema Jojo of the CPI (M) won from Aroor by a margin of 3,498 votes. The seat fell vacant after Ms. Jojo got elected to the State Assembly from the Aroor constituency in the 2021 polls. 115 in fray in State In all, 115 candidates are in the fray for the December 7 bypolls to 32 local body wards in the State, State Election Commissioner A. Shajahan said. There are 21 women candidates in the fray. Six candidates each are in the fray for the bypolls to the Vettucaud ward of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation and the Gandhi Nagar ward of the Kochi city Corporation. Apart from the four candidates in the Aroor ward, three each are to contest from the Sreekrishnapuram ward of the Palakkad district panchayat and the Nanmanda wardof the Kozhikode district panchayat. On December 7, the polling will be from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Counting will begin at 10 a.m. on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aroor-division-bypoll-four-candidates-in-fray/article37656021.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI,KERALA||Submit details of hospitals, NGT tells Kerala PCB||The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal has directed the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to submit district-wise data on the number of hospitals — public and private — in each district and the quantity of biomedical waste generated by them. The bench directed the KSPCB to also provide data of clinics under the purview of the Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016. The bench gave the directions to ascertain how the distribution of bio-medical waste can be made between the Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Limited (KEIL) and the Indian Medical Association Goes Eco-friendly (IMAGE) established by the Indian Medical Association, Kerala State Branch. The KSPCB had submitted a report detailing the proposals made by KEIL and IMAGE. KEIL had requested the Board for permission to collect biomedical waste from hospitals from within 75 km of its facility that covered five districts. The operation of the plant was not viable with less quantity of waste they were getting from government hospitals from three districts, KEIL had said. The company pointed out that as the service charge for government health-care facilities was subsidised, the transportation cost could be utilised effectively only if the waste from both government and private hospitals within 75 km of its facility was allotted to it. Since IMAGE did not respond to the KSPCB, it issued orders demarcating the districts to be covered by both the companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/submit-details-of-hospitals-ngt-tells-kerala-pcb/article37655972.ece
24 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||7 spillway shutters of Mullaperiyar opened||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday opened seven spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam in the wake of increased inflow. The water level at 7 p.m. was 141.56 feet. Idukki District Collector Sheeba George said those living close to the Periyar bank should take precautionary measures. On Monday, Tamil Nadu reduced the water intake to 476 cusecs and the heavy rainfall on Monday night resulted in the sudden increase in inflow into the Mullaperiyar dam. The tunnel discharge was raised to 1,867 cusecs, while the water discharge through the spillway shutters was 397 cusecs at 3 p.m. The average inflow to the dam was 2,592.45 cusecs at 3 p.m. As per the new rule level, Tamil Nadu can store water up to 142 feet, which is the maximum storage level allowed by the Supreme Court. In Idukki dam The water level in the Idukki reservoir continued to be steady at 2,400.10 feet on Tuesday. The blue alert level is 2,395 feet, the orange alert is 2,401 feet, and the red alert level is 2,402 feet. The upper rule level is 2,403 feet which is also the full reserve level. Power generation at the Moolamattam plant was at the maximum level of 17.390 mu on Monday. According to an official of Dam Monitoring and Research Station, if the catchment area is free of extreme rainfall, the water will dip in a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-spillway-shutters-of-mullaperiyar-opened/article37655975.ece
24 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Thalassery-Mysuru rail line aerial survey to begin today||The Konkan Railway Corporation Limited (KRCL) is gearing to launch the survey for the proposed Thalassery-Wayanad-Mysuru rail line by using the heliborne geophysical mapping technique. CSIR institute The KRCL would reportedly use the service of the CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), Hyderabad, for the purpose. The officials of the NGRI conducted a trial run of the survey at Sulthan Bathery in the district on Tuesday, sources said. The aerial survey would be conducted by using a helicopter attached with electromagnetic instruments, sources said. It would fly at a height of 50 metres with the instruments. It would provide a high resolution 3D image of the sub-surface up to a depth of 500 metres below the ground, sources said. Soil structure The survey would also assess the structure of the soil, rock formations, underground water sources, and marshy lands, the sources said. If the climate was be favourable, the survey would begin at 9 a.m. on Wednesday, the sources said. During the first phase, the survey would be conducted from Sulthan Bathery to Mananthavady and later, similar surveys would be held in Thalassery and Mysuru. The state-of-the-art technology, heli survey technology, would also be used to map the map aquifers in the northwestern States of the country, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aerial-survey-for-rail-line-to-begin-today/article37655944.ece
24 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Unseasonal rain puts Wayanad tribal farmers in a fix||The majority of Mullakuruma tribal farmers in Alathur, Athikkuni, and Manmadhamoola in Noolpuzha grama panchayat in Wayanad cultivate rice for own consumption. As many as 115 tribal farmers have cultivated traditional drought-tolerant rice varieties such as Thondi and Adukkan on 150 acres under the Muthanga Padasekhara Samiti. As no irrigation facilities are available, farmers usually cultivate drought-tolerant rice varieties. Though the traditional rice varieties can withstand harsh climatic conditions, they have drawbacks such as low yield and lodging characteristics. (Lodging is the bending over of the stem of grain crops, which makes them difficult to harvest.) “Usually, harvest will be over by the first week of November but, this year, we are yet to start harvesting owing to unseasonal rain. Hence, plants have started to lodge and paddy has began to germinate on the field itself,” says A.K. Gopinathan, a member of the Alathur tribal hamlet. Effort gone waste “When farmers sow seeds they also erect tree houses to keep wild animals away from the paddy fields, which are on the fringes of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. Our year-long hard work has gone in vain,” he says. Mr.Gopinathan, who is also the welfare standing committee chairman of the Noolpuzha grama panchayat, has cultivated rice varieties on eight acres following organic methods. He says he had spent around Rs. 30,000 an acre for the cultivation, but he is not hopeful of recouping even one-third of it after harvest. “Usually, we get eight to 10 quintals of rice from an acre. This year, there is no chance to get even three quintals,” says K. Balan, another farmer. “Many farmers here rear a local cattle variety, Wayanadan, and usually get enough fodder for our cattle after harvest. We have no idea how to feed our cattle as the hay is under water ,” he said. The condition of many farmers in the district who have cultivated the ‘Nanja’ crop is not different.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unseasonal-rain-puts-wayanad-tribal-farmers-in-a-fix/article37655983.ece
24 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man held on charge of raping minor||The Kannur police have arrested a 25-year-old man, who had been absconding for the past six months, in connection with the rape of a 16-year-old girl from Rajasthan, who was selling balloons in the district. Following the direction of District Police Chief (Kannur City) R. Ilango, a special squad led by Circle Inspector Sreejith Kotteri arrested the accused, Vicky Bavari, a native of Kota, from Rajasthan. The incident took place in April, when the accused with the help of his sister Kajol allegedly lured the victim by promising help to get balloons at a lower rate from a trader in Kozhikode. He then allegedly raped her on various occasions. When the matter came up before the police, he fled to Rajasthan. The police arrested his sister. The girl and her family filed a petition again during an adalat held by Director General of Police Anil Kant in Kannur, complaining that the police were yet to arrest the accused who continued to threaten them. The accused was produced in Kannur court, which remanded him in custody for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-raping-minor/article37655935.ece
24 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||UDF stages protest against proposal to hike property tax||United Democratic Front (UDF) councillors in the Kochi Corporation on Tuesday staged a dharna before the office of the civic body protesting against what they termed as an unjustifiable proposal to hike the property tax. Inaugurating the meeting, T.J. Vinod, MLA, said the attempt of the civic administration to overburden residents by hiking taxes shall be resisted. The civic body had steeply hiked the property tax in violation of all the norms, he said. Antony Kureethara, the leader of the Congress in the council, said the civic administration was plundering the residents of Kochi. The UDF will give shape to a series of protests if the civic administration fails to roll back the flawed proposals, he said. UDF councillors Sunitha Dixon, V.K. Minimol, Anthony Painuthara, Zakkir Thammanam and A.R. Padmadas spoke. However, Mayor M. Anilkumar termed the protest as a politically motivated one, which was being held with an eye on the Gandhi Nagar bypoll. The property tax was last revised in the Kochi Corporation during the tenure of the UDF. The order for revising the tax with retrospective effect was issued during the term of the Oommen Chandy-led UDF government. However, the proposal was not implemented due to various reasons, he said. Though the UDF-led council had issued notices for the revision of property tax on April 1, 2019, the then Deputy Mayor Mr. Vinod stalled the proceedings as an Assembly by-election was due in the Ernakulam Assembly constituency. Incidentally, Mr. Vinod was the UDF candidate in the election. The tax revision measures resumed soon after the bypoll, Mr. Anilkumar said in a statement. Mr. Anilkumar also said the LDF-led council had adopted various steps that brought relief to the tax payers in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-stages-protest-against-proposal-to-hike-property-tax/article37655966.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||SPV likely to be formed for Marine Drive extension project||A Special Purpose Vehicle (a company constituted to undertake a specific project or activity) is likely to be formed for the extension and development of Marine Drive up to Vaduthala. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan briefed the civic heads of Kochi Corporation and the Mulavukad panchayat on the “urban sustainable land reconstitution project in Kochi” programme at a meeting held in the State capital on Tuesday. V.S. Akbar, president of Mulavukad panchayat suggested the construction of a bridge connecting Vaduthala and Mulavukad at the meeting. One more bridge connecting Mulavukad panchayat with the Kochi Corporation area needs to be constructed considering the heavy flow of vehicles through the existing bridge. The Bolgatty junction should be developed to handle the future traffic demands, he suggested. Mr. Akbar also proposed the development of a tourism project along the 2-km-long water body that lies between Container Road and Mulavukad Island. The project area, which begins from the Marine Drive and Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary in the southern part, extends to Cheranalloor grama panchayat in the north and covers the Vaduthala, Pachalam areas and the Mulavukad island on the eastern side across the backwaters. The project proposal is to extend the Marine Drive to Vaduthala at a distance of 9.1 km. The Chief Minister assured the meeting that the project would be implemented in an eco-friendly and sustainable manner, said Nicholas D. Couth, the Health Standing Committee chairman of the panchayat. Kochi Mayor M. Anilkumar welcomed the project. Senior government functionaries also attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spv-likely-to-be-formed-for-marine-drive-extension-project/article37655970.ece
24 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Protest against facility to process construction, demolition refuse||The Kadungalloor panchayat has opposed the move by the district administration to set up a common facility for proper disposal of construction and demolition waste generated in the district. The proposed facility is being envisaged on a 2-acre land in ward 18 of the panchayat. It will be the first of its kind if the project turns a reality, according to the district administration. However, panchayat representatives have made it clear that they would take the legal recourse once the authorities decide to go ahead with the implementation process without addressing their concerns. “The proposed site is close to a residential area. Moreover, the original plan has included a facility for processing chicken and other meat waste. The site is also near to paddy fields and any such project will have a detrimental impact on people and the ecology here,” said Suresh Muttathil, president of the Kadungalloor panchayat. “We have requested the district administration to identify land in the Edayar industrial area and shift the facility from the current location. The district administration should not insist on having the facility in the panchayat in the best interests of people here,” he said. Allaying the fears of the panchayat representatives, the district authorities pointed out that their priority is to have the facility for processing construction and demolition waste in the first phase. It will be a state-of-the-art facility, which would crush construction and demolition waste and convert it into blocks. It could be also recycled and used as pavement blocks, they said. The functioning of the plant will be monitored before sanctioning other approvals. The licence and other approvals granted to the firm chosen to set up the plant will be cancelled, if they violate rules, according to the authorities. District Collector Jafar Malik said that such projects had been successfully implemented in other places. The district administration is ready to hold discussions with the elected representatives to clear their doubts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-against-facility-to-process-construction-demolition-refuse/article37655960.ece
24 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Outbound tourism hamstrung by inadequate flights, high fares||Relaxation of COVID curbs in most countries and the yearning to explore the world after being confined to their homes during the pandemic have resulted in Keralites making a beeline to travel abroad, despite the limited number of international flights and high fares. A group of 24 tourists from Kerala who flew to the U.S. earlier this month – 22 of them visiting that country for the first time, were among the first set of group tourists to land there after the pandemic, after the U.S. opened up its skies on November 8. The tour was priced at Rs. 3.45 lakh per person, while an eight-day Europe tour is currently priced at Rs. 1.63 lakh, said M.K. Soman, managing director of a city-based tour firm. “With U.S. consulates yet to resume issuing of visas, people who had a valid visa were hand-picked for travel. Guests for outbound tours get a special insurance cover of $1,000, just in case they turn positive for COVID,” he said. The reluctance of airlines to provide group booking for package tours, citing limited availability of flights (and the lesser profit margin they would get from group bookings), has resulted in many people keeping their fingers crossed, said Joby George, a Thrissur-based tour operator. The director of a tour agency, Isaac Francis, said most of the travellers were aged 50 and upwards. “Travel to Maldives and Sri Lanka is yet to pick up in a big way despite demand, due to inadequate flights.” Travellers elated The latest group to travel from here to Russia has had a thrilling experience, said some of the travellers. “It was a wonderful experience for our group from Kerala in Russia – a highlight being a tour of a military facility there on Tuesday (November 23) despite heavy snowfall. We got to travel in a battle tank, handle and fire from AK 47 rifles and also visit the mausoleum of Lenin – fulfilling my long-pending wish,” said Prof. G.R. Anil from Kozhikode. Writer Babu Parekkattil spoke of how travelling by Moscow Metro and visiting among other places Kremlin, and ancient churches, was an entirely new experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/outbound-tourism-hamstrung-by-inadequate-flights-high-fares/article37655964.ece
24 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Dumped in the open, building waste remains a headache||Construction and demolition waste continues to be dumped in the open for want of proper surveillance and enforcement of norms under the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016. The State Pollution Control Board and local bodies lack any concrete information on the quantity of such waste generated in the district. With no proper mechanism to check violations, vendors engaged by the generators of the waste either hand it over to contractors from neighbouring districts of Tamil Nadu or use it as landfill to reclaim wetlands illegally or to rehabilitate quarries here. Gaps in the scientific management of construction and demolition waste emerged when the Supreme Court directed the demolition of four apartment complexes in Maradu on May 8, 2019. A similar situation came up at the time of the demolition of the Palarivattom flyover too. The Pollution Control Board had directed the Kochi Corporation to come up with a recycling plant for construction and demolition waste. However, the proposal remained in the cold storage as the civic body had cited lack of funds and land for setting up the facility. The board had suggested turning debris into usable sand and gravel. It’s considered as a good substitute to natural sand in concrete mix. Waste is segregated into big concrete pieces according to the size. Such plants use manual segregation for bigger plastic pieces as well as a magnetic separator for metallic objects. Waste is crushed, washed and used to make ready-mix concrete, kerb stones, cement bricks, pavement blocks, hollow bricks and manufactured sand, according to the proposal. Local bodies were also told to enter into a profit-sharing agreement with private firms ready to set up such plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-concrete-data-on-quantity-of-waste-generated-in-district/article37655959.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Young law student commits suicide in Aluva||A young law student from Aluva took her life, leaving behind a hand-written note, alleging harassment and domestic violence from her husband and his family, and seeking action against the Inspector of Aluva East police station, who is reported to have behaved in a rude and unprofessional manner towards her and her family members. The 21-year-old woman, Mofiya Parveen, from Edayapuram in Aluva, alleged in the note that her husband, Suhail, with whom she got married in April, and his family tortured her and portrayed her as a mentally ill person, while Police Inspector C.L. Sudheer spoke very rudely to her in front of her husband and father when they were called to the station in connection with a domestic violence complaint she had filed a month ago. The note ends with a “final wish”, demanding action against Suhail and his family and also against the Inspector. Soon after the incident, Mr. Sudheer was removed from the post of Aluva East SHO by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. He was also the investigating officer in the Uthra murder case, Anchal, in which the woman’s husband was charged with murder by making a cobra bite her. He was subsequently transferred to Aluva allegedly as a punishment for his unprofessional handling of the investigation of the murder case. A probe into Mofiya’s suicide has been initiated by the Aluva DySP, while Suhail and family members have been charged with abetting suicide. Suhail reportedly used to torture her demanding dowry and funds to produce a film. The police allegedly failed to register a case, and instead tried to “settle” the case by involving Suhail and his parents. The police refused to mete out justice even after the State Women’s Commission had sought an explanation from the Aluva DySP after Mofiya submitted a complaint to the commission, it is learnt. Activists of the Youth Congress took out a march to the police station to protest against the police “inaction and high-handedness”. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal - 0495-2760000 and DISHA – 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/law-student-commits-suicide-blames-husband-cop-in-note/article37655965.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rome unlikely to intervene before Nov. 28||The community of priests of the Syro-Malabar Major Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly, who have stood staunchly for a fully congregation-facing Mass celebration do not expect Rome to intervene in the matter before November 28, even as the synod of bishops of the Sryo-Malabar Church has issued a diktat on starting the unified Mass celebration throughout the Church from November 28. At the same time, the priests, religious and lay persons opposed to the synod demand for a uniform Mass celebration have said they would observe November 28 as Cardinal Joseph Parekkttil remembrance day with a Mass. The unified Mass system involves the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation for half the duration and facing away from the congregation for the other half of the Mass. Administrator in Rome A senior priest of the major archdiocese said that there was little chance of Rome intervening before November 28 though Archbishop Antony Kariyil, administrator of the major archdiocese, had landed in Rome with the intention of possibly meeting Pope Francis. He is scheduled to meet the Vatican State secretary and head of the Congregation for Oriental Churches on the developments following the synodal decision. He is accompanied by Msgr. Antony Narikulam, who is an expert of liturgy, church sources said. Church sources said that Cardinal Parekkattil, who headed the archdiocese in 1956 and passed away in 1987 was a staunch supporter of the Mass with the celebrant facing the people throughout its duration. Many modern elements in the Syrian Catholic liturgy were introduced through his intervention. He had imbibed the spirit of the second Vatican Council after he attended it between 1962 and 1965. A senior priest said that ‘the pilgrimage to the tomb’ would be an occasion to remember him and seek his blessings. He felt that the spirit of the second Vatican Council was being forgotten. The council had called for restoration, revival and adaptation in keeping with the spirit of the times and culture of the people, he added. Mass celebration facing away from the people was going back in time, he felt. Meanwhile, hearing began at the Ernakulam munsiff court Tuesday on a plea by Riju Kanjookkaran that the decision by the synod of bishops of the Syro-Malabar Church to introduce a uniform system of celebrating the Mass should be stayed. Transparency sought The plea is on behalf of Alamaya Munnettam, representing a group of priests, religious and lay people calling for more transparency and accountability in church administration. The plea before the court is that the a recent synod of bishops decision to impose a uniform way of celebrating the Mass in the Syrian Catholic Church went against the desire of the faithful in several dioceses, including in Ernakulam-Angamaly Major Archdiocese, who have, over more than 50 years, adopted a system in which the celebrant faced the congregation throughout the Mass. The hearing is set to continue on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rome-unlikely-to-intervene-before-nov-28/article37655986.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Improved weather predictions saving lives’||M. Mohapatra, Director General of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said on Tuesday that a constantly improving weather prediction system in the country had helped considerably reduce human pain as well as make savings in terms of rescue, rehabilitation, and related expenses. He was delivering the presidential address, online, at the opening day of the international symposium on “Tropical meteorology on changing climate, consequences and challenges”. Intromet-2021 is being jointly hosted by the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) and the local chapter of the Indian Meteorological Society. There has been 35% to 50% improvement in the way the course and intensity of cyclones are predicted. There has also been improvement in the way intense rainfall was predicted. The ability to make better predictions had saved thousands of lives during the Orissa super cyclone in 1999, he said. The inaugural session was addressed, among others, by Cusat Vice Chancellor K. N. Madhusoodanan, D. R. Pattanaik, secretary, IMS, New Delhil and chairman of Intromet 2021 K. Mohankumar. The whole of South India has now come under the influence of rapidly changing climate conditions and Northeast monsoon rain is intensifying, said M. Rajeevan, former Secretary of the Ministry of Earth Sciences. He said the Bay of Bengal had a key role to play in the Northeast monsoon and the unprecedented heating of the Bay as well as the Arabian Sea was evident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/improved-weather-predictions-saving-lives/article37655961.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maldives Defence Minister arrives||Mariya Ahmed Didi, Defence Minister of the Maldives, arrived in Kochi on Tuesday on a six-day official visit. Rear Admiral T.V.N. Prasanna, Chief Staff Officer (Training), Southern Naval Command, received the Maldivian Minister at the Cochin International Airport. Ms. Didi will be the chief guest at the passing-out parade of officer cadets at the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala, Kannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maldives-minister-arrives/article37655942.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Coast Guard evacuates Myanmarese mariner||In a swift, coordinated operation, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) evacuated a critically injured Myanmarese mariner off Kochi from the merchant vessel mv Hyundai Goodwill. Seaman Min Min Latt, 46, floundered and suffered injuries in his right ear and shoulder, while working in the vessel’s engine room. He was persistently bleeding from his ear and was experiencing acute pain in the shoulder, in the incident that took place around 250 nautical miles (over 450 km) west of Kochi. The master of the vessel raised a distress alarm and requested the Marine Rescue Sub Centre (MRSC), Kochi, through email for helicopter evacuation of the patient, on Monday. Directed to Kochi Considering the long distance from the shore, the vessel was directed to close in to Kochi, with maximum available speed. In addition, the master was telephonically advised on medical guidelines and asked to monitor the parameters of the patient. In the meantime, Coast Guard Headquarters (Kerala and Mahe) activated the rescue network and liaised with various stakeholders, including the State administration, Customs, Immigration and the company agent, for necessary clearance. A Coast Guard vessel with a special medical team was deployed during night hours, along with a port tug, to facilitate and coordinate the safe transfer of the critically injured patient. Soon after, the medical team boarded the merchant vessel, carried out a preliminary medical inspection and transferred the patient from the ship to the port tug. On Tuesday noon, the Coast Guard vessel and tug returned to the harbour and the patient was admitted to the Medical Trust Hospital for further treatment, an ICG release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coast-guard-evacuates-critically-injured-mariner/article37655937.ece
24 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||High Court asks Centre, State to file affidavit||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the State Government to file an affidavit in response to a writ petition seeking a directive to remove Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photograph from the COVID-19 vaccination certificate given to paid vaccine recipients. Justice N. Nagaresh issued the directive when the petition filed by Peter Mayaliparambil from Kottayam came up for hearing. According to the petition, the photograph of the Prime Minister on the COVID-19 vaccination certificate did not have any utility. It was a certificate issued merely to confirm the status of COVID-19 vaccination of a person. The Centre had no right to claim the credit by inserting a photograph of the Prime Minister in the certificate issued to a paid vaccine recipient. The petitioner also contended that he had already paid for his vaccination. As a result, he had not obtained any subsidy or largesse from the Government on his vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-asks-centre-state-to-file-affidavit/article37655950.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Strengthen jagratha samithis in Ernakulam district, says Women’s Commission||Kerala State Women’s Commission has recommended strengthening the jagratha samithis in the district. “We had received more complaints related to disputes between neighbours and property issues involving them at the adalat. Jagratha samithis have to step in to resolve such complaints,” said P. Sathidevi, Chairperson of the commission at the adalat here on Tuesday. Ms. Sathidevi said that the suicide of a law student in Aluva owing to harassment by the husband was an unfortunate incident. The commission would inquire whether the police personnel at the station concerned had failed to take timely action against those responsible. The Chairperson said that directives had been issued to the senior police personnel concerned to probe the incident. The commission would take further action based on the police report, she said. Ms. Sathidevi said that the number of complaints submitted in the adalats was going up in Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram. The adalats were being held to intervene in such cases and take action, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strengthen-jagratha-samithis-in-ernakulam-district-says-womens-commission/article37655962.ece
24 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||LPG issue: transporters seek CM’s intervention||LPG Transporters’ Association has appealed to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to intervene to ease the transport of cooking gas in the wake of an ‘undeclared strike’ by loading and unloading workers at the BPCL Bharat Gas filling station here. Binoy Alex and Bijoy Mathew of the association, among others, said in a submission to the Chief Minister that gas cylinder loading and unloading workers had resorted to a strike without notice since November 18. They said that as a result of the ‘undeclared strike’, the daily number of gas cylinders being despatched from the BPCL facility had come down to 30%. The situation is likely to affect cooking gas distribution in nine districts in the State. Binu K. Paul of the Kerala Petroleum and Gas Workers’ Union, CITU, denied any strike at the plant by loading and unloading workers, who number around 60. Mr. Paul said a wages revision for loading and unloading workers had been pending. The last wages agreement was for a period of five years. The agreement expired but it was extended for one year, and it is learnt that the validity of the agreement has now been extended for another two years, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lpg-transporters-seek-cms-intervention/article37655938.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks explanation||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Secretary to the government, Tribal Development Department, Thiruvananthapuram to appear in person on November 24 to explain the steps taken to construct a road from Pettimudi to Edalippara under the special package for Edamalakudy. The directive came on a petition filed by Jobish Tharani of Thodupuzha seeking a directive to complete the road construction from Pettimudi to Edalippara in consultation with the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-explanation/article37656035.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Coast Guard search turns futile||A specialised team of the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) searched in vain on Tuesday to retrieve the DVR containing CCTV visuals of No. 18 Hotel, Fort Kochi, that was reportedly thrown into the water body from Kannanghat bridge after the November 1 car accident in which two models died at Palarivattom. A similar search done on Monday by the Fire and Rescue Service too had failed to retrieve it. Suspicious conduct In the meantime, District Police Chief (City), C.H. Nagaraju, said the police had intensified the probe into the suspicious conduct of the hotel staff who are said to have thrown the device into the water body in the wake of the fatal accident. “Prima facie, the accident was caused by drunk driving. We are probing the reason why another car was seen chasing the ill-fated car, in CCTV footage. Its driver is being questioned”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coast-guard-search-for-dvr-turns-futile/article37655946.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Must wear uniform while on duty, HC tells police||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday held that the requirement of police officers to wear a uniform while on duty should be scrupulously observed. Justice Mohammed Nias directed the State Police Chief (SPC) to look into the matter and issue appropriate directives to ensure that police officers comply with the relevant statutory provisions and guidelines making it mandatory to wear the uniform while on duty except when it is permissible under law to deviate from the mandatory requirement. The court also asked the SPC to file an action taken report before it within four months. The court issued the order on a petition filed by Avinash of Thrissur seeking to quash a case registered against him by the Guruvayur police for causing obstruction to official duty of a police officer. The petitioner said the officer was in plain cloth. Direct identification The court observed that the uniform of a policeman was his direct identification. A policeman in uniform was visible and a citizen immediately knew that he was a policeman, which would inform that the individual was in charge of his protection and prevention of offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/must-wear-uniform-while-on-duty-hc-tells-police/article37655976.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Swapna can now leave Ernakulam||Swapna Suresh, the accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, can now leave Kochi as the Special Court considering the case booked against her under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) modified the bail conditions on Wednesday. Though Swapna was released from the jail on November 6, she had to stay back in Kochi, as the court had earlier imposed the bail condition that she shall not leave Ernakulam without its prior permission. She submitted that she was in the district jail at Kakkanad while the court had imposed the bail condition. She was later shifted to the Women's prison, Attakulangara. She submitted that she had no residence in Ernakulam and the only residence that was available for her to stay was with her mother in Thiruvananthapuram. Swapna also submitted that it had become practically impossible for her to continue to stay in Ernakulam. T.A. Unnikrishnan, the special prosecutor for the Enforcement Directorate, submitted that he had no objection to the court relaxing the bail condition. Accepting the contentions, Honey M. Varghese, the Special Judge for the PMLA cases, permitted Swapna to leave Ernakulam. The court also directed that she shall not leave the State without its permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swapna-can-now-leave-ernakulam/article37655977.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Municipal councillor collapses, dies||K.T. Saigal, chairman of the Thripunithura municipality’s health standing committee and a member of the newly reconstituted area committee of the CPI(M) in Thripunithura, collapsed and died on Monday night. He was 45 and tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 post-death. Saigal, who represented Ilamanathope ward at the municipal council, was also vice-chairman of the People’s Urban Cooperative Bank. He is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/municipal-councillor-collapses-dies/article37655968.ece
24 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Govt. seeks rain damage report||The State Government has directed the various departments including the Revenue and Public Works to submit detailed reports on the overall damages inflicted by the heavy showers and landslides that struck the high-ranges of Kottayam by November 30. Addressing a meeting of different agencies, Cooperation and Registration Minister V.N. Vasavan has directed the authorities to file the final report on the damage sustained to houses, besides the estimate for repairing the damaged roads and bridges Asking to prepare the final reports with a view to help people get maximum assistance as per the Government norms, he also asked the elected representatives of respective local bodies to carry out inspections jointly with officials of the Revenue and Local Self Governance departments. The restoration of roads should be carried out by avoiding traffic gridlocks to the maximum possible extent. As part of it, the Minister also directed the executive engineer to deploy more staff to help complete the assessment process in a time-bound manner. Executive Engineer of the PWD (Bridge Section) elaborated on the steps initiated towards the restoration of the damaged bridges and their handrails. The meeting also evaluated the activities carried out in the disaster-hit region and noted the exemplary works carried out by the KSEB, Kerala Water Authority, and the BSNL. According to the Minister, the Mahatma Gandhi University will soon be holding a special adalat in the disaster-struck region to help the victims recover the certificates lost in the rains.  State’s direction Elected representatives should carry out inspections in affected areas More staff should be deployed to help complete assessment process soon Roads should be restored by avoiding traffic gridlocks MG varsity to hold special adalat to help victims recover lost certificates||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-seeks-rain-damage-report/article37656024.ece
24 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rubber Board calls for business trainees||The Market Promotion Division of the Rubber Board, RRII campus at Puthuppally, Kottayam, proposes to engage ‘Business Trainees’ for assisting the work related to electronic trading platform on consolidated remuneration. Candidates must hold a degree in Master of Business Administration (Marketing) or Master of Arts in Economics with knowledge in basic computer applications. Aspirants may send their applications to Deputy Director (Marketing), Market Promotion Division, RRII, Rubber Board, Kottayam – 9. Last date for submission of application is November 29. Website:www.rubberboard.org.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rubber-board-calls-for-business-trainees/article37656022.ece
24 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two killed in accident||Two persons including a woman, who had fallen off their motorcycle, were run over by a mini truck near Ettumanur on Tuesday. The deceased are yet to be identified. The accident took place on the Ettumanur-Pala road around 6.30 p.m. when the duo fell off their bike while trying to overtake another vehicle. The mini-truck, coming from the opposite direction, ran over the duo, killing both on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-in-accident/article37656026.ece
24 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wakf Board ex-chief refutes Jaleel’s claim||Panakkad Syed Rasheed Ali Shihab Thangal, former chairperson of the Kerala Wakf Board, has denied former Minister K.T. Jaleel’s claim that a meeting chaired by him had approved giving board appointments to the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC). Mr. Jaleel had flashed the copy of the minutes of a board meeting during a debate in the Assembly to allege that it was Mr. Rasheed Ali Thangal, as the chairperson, who gave a green signal for the decision. He had claimed that he too was present at the meeting. No truth: Thangal Mr. Rasheed Ali Thangal told the media here on Tuesday that the former Minister’s argument that he had attended the Wakf Board meeting itself was a lie. A Central Act forbade State or Union Ministers from becoming its members. “Mr. Jaleel had participated in a meeting of the social welfare sanction committee under the board in his capacity as the chairperson on July 19, 2016. Showing the minutes of that meeting, he is now claiming that he had attended a board meeting,” Mr. Rasheed Ali Thangal said. He also produced a copy of the minutes of that day’s board meeting, which had not discussed the issue of PSC appointments. M.C. Mayin Haji, a member of the previous and existing Wakf Board, said only Muslims could be appointed in it as per regulations. If the PSC takes over the recruitment, it could be legally challenged in the future saying why only members of one community was being chosen for the jobs. To lose benefits He said that it could also lead to Muslims losing out quota benefits, which would be now based on a rotation basis. P.V. Sainudheen, another member of the previous and existing board, said that none of the Wakf boards in other States had the practice of PSC conducting appointments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wakf-board-ex-chief-refutes-jaleels-claim/article37655949.ece
24 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Agricultural labourers to stage protest march today||The Kerala Karshaka Thozhilali Federation is planning a march to the office of the Chief Executive Officer of Kerala Agricultural Workers’ Welfare Fund Board in Thrissur on Wednesday demanding faster delivery of services. Federation president Parakka Mammootty told reporters here on Tuesday that the board had been delaying the benefits due to farmers unreasonably. “We have to go to the office several times to get every service. What is the need for such a board if it cannot provide timely help to farmers?” he said. The organisation’s State secretary P.C. Muhammed said the board had failed to provide retirement benefits to farmers. A demand of the federation is a hike in the benefits on par with an increase in premium. Benefits had not been paid for years and the board should pay them soon. The federation has also demanded an increase in agricultural labourers’ pension to Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agricultural-labourers-to-stage-protest-march-today/article37655939.ece
24 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Plea to start off-campus centres of CU in the Gulf||The Calicut University authorities have been urged to resume offshore campuses in the Gulf countries against the backdrop of the State Government issuing a no-objection certificate to the Mahatma Gandhi University to start such centres in Qatar with the permission of the University Grants Commission. P. Rasheed Ahammed, Syndicate member, in a letter to the Vice-Chancellor said that the university had operated offshore centres in the Gulf countries. Completing education They were highly helpful for the youth from Malabar who migrated to these countries due to financial issues before completing their formal education. Relocation These centres helped them earn degrees without relocating to Kerala. However, they were closed down reportedly after a petition filed by Godwin Samraj, Principal, Malabar Christian College, Kozhikode. Mr. Ahammed urged the university to approach the government seeking an NoC. Reopening the closed centres or starting new campuses afresh should be looked into, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-start-off-campus-centres-in-the-gulf/article37655940.ece
24 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Resource team for hygiene protocol||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation has launched a resource team for the smooth implementation of its hygiene protocol. The team consists of experts from various fields such as scientists from CWRDM, former scientists, doctors, teachers, cultural activists, councillors, former officials from local bodies, and experts from the waste management sector. The team was formed as a first step to impart training to people from various sections of society. The members of the team will be the resource persons for the training that will be conducted on December 3, 4, 5, and 6. The first meeting of the team was held on Tuesday presided over by Mayor Beena Philip.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resource-team-for-hygiene-protocol/article37655936.ece
24 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Frequent flooding of canals raises concern||Wherever it rains in Kozhikode city, be it at West Hill or at Mananchira, the people living on the banks of the Aviyil and Vellayil canals near the beach need to brace up for a flood. The region has become increasingly prone to flooding of late, with all the water from the heart of the city flowing into the canals that have very narrow exit routes into the sea. “These canals were natural drains in the past and are networked in such a way that water from the West Hill Guest House in the north to the Red Cross Road in the south flows into them ultimately,” said C.P. Sulaiman, the councillor of Thoppayil ward of Kozhikode Corporation. Filling of wetlands Though the flooding has been happening for a long time, the situation has turned worse now with most of the wetlands nearby getting filled and buildings being constructed on them. The decades-old septic tanks in the region have also started leaking. The floodwater worsens the situation and causes the spread of contagious diseases such as jaundice, malaria, dengue and leptospirosis. Vellayil and Thoppayil have become the hub of contagious diseases in the Corporation area. Mr. Sulaiman had made a submission at a recent meeting of the Corporation Council, demanding immediate steps to resolve the issue at Vellayil. He had suggested diverting the canals into the sea before they reached Vellayil in order to avoid flooding. “One diversion of the canal could be near Tagore Centenary Hall while the other could either be near Bhatt Road or near the industrial estate. This could save a whole region from flooding,” he said. Dredging The councillor has also suggested the dredging of the mouths of the canals to make them deeper and wider. “At present, the mouth is not big enough to take in the flow and hence, a lot of water flows back into the land due to this pressure, adding to the flooding. If the mouths of the canals are wider and deeper, this problem could be averted,” he said. Mr. Sulaiman said his submission was considered positively by the council. “The Corporation is ready to take action depending on the availability of funds,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/frequent-flooding-on-aviyil-and-vellayil-canal-banks-raises-concern/article37655931.ece
24 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Operation Vibrio launched in Kozhikode||Operation Vibrio, an action plan to tackle the recurring incidents of food poisoning and waterborne diseases, has been launched in Kozhikode. The Health Department has also issued an alert against cholera in the district. District Medical Officer Ummer Farooque said on Tuesday that the effort was to detect diseases such as cholera, shigella, amoebiasis, typhoid and jaundice that spread through contaminated food and water. As many as 17 cases of food poisoning had been reported in the district between February and November this year. As many as 257 people were infected and two died. Family events and wedding receptions and the food supplied in shops and hostels were reported to be the source of the infection. Some others took ill through having ice cream and fruit juices. The presence of bacteria such as vibrio cholerae, coliform, and e-coli had been found in water sources in some parts of the district as well. The first phase of Operation Vibrio will cover seven days from November 23. A survey on drinking water sources, superchlorination of wells, and awareness events will be held. Water samples will be collected from drinking water sources that are suspected to be contaminated. Catering units and those which cook and sell food, hostels and wedding events will be inspected by health inspectors, medical officers, and health supervisors. The second phase will cover all wards in the local bodies. Meanwhile, the DMO urged the people to be on alert against all waterborne diseases, including cholera. Adults are often found to get infected in areas where fresh outbreaks are reported. In places where the infection is found to prolong, children too will get affected. The symptoms will manifest either within hours or by five days. Rarely, there are carriers of the infection who are asymptomatic. Personal hygiene and environmental hygiene should be observed and quality of drinking water and food should be ensured, the DMO added.  Heightened vigil 17 cases of food poisoning reported in Kozhikode between February and November; 257 people were infected and two persons died Effort on to detect diseases such as cholera, shigella, amoebiasis, typhoid and jaundice that spread through contaminated food and water: DMO Survey on drinking water sources, superchlorination of wells, and awareness events to be held Catering units and those which cook and sell food, hostels and wedding events to be inspected||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/operation-vibrio-launched-to-tackle-waterborne-diseases/article37655932.ece
24 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Jumbo ‘Tintumon’ dies||Mangalamkunnu Rajan, a popular elephant of Mangalamkunnu at Ottppalam near here, died on Tuesday. Nicknamed ‘Tintumon,’ the elephant with curved tusks was unwell for several days. It was the third elephant death in the Mangalamkunnu family in recent months. The elephant from Assam had been known by such names as Keethapalli Rajan and Gurujiyil Ganapathi before it was rechristened Mangalamkunnu Rajan. Although the elephant used to be a notable figure during major temple processions, it did not have as many fans as other popular elephants largely because of its naughtiness. It won the name Tintumon because of its naughtiness. The carcass was buried at Walayar after a necropsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jumbo-tintumon-dies/article37656126.ece
24 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||‘Spiritual healer’ gets life term for raping woman||The Additional District Court at Ottapalam on Tuesday sentenced a spiritual healer to life imprisonment for raping a woman under the guise of treatment. Fine imposed Additional District Judge P. Saidalavi sentenced Abu Thahir Musliar, 37, from Pattambi to life imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs. 50,000 on him. Two of the woman’s relatives, who were also accused in the case, were exonerated as the court found them not guilty. The incident had taken place on April 8, 2017, at Pattambi, where the 21-year-old woman from Ukkadam, Coimbatore, had reached along with her family in connection with a religious gathering. Exorcised The woman, who complained of constant headache and body pain, was made to believe that she was haunted and that the evil should be exorcised. She was taken to a room, where she was raped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spiritual-healer-gets-life-imprisonment-for-raping-woman/article37655945.ece
24 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Move to open Neelimala route||As the pilgrim footfall at Sabarimala witnesses a gradual surge, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has come up with a plan to open the Neelimala-Marakkoottam route to devotees. With the COVID-19 restrictions in place, devotees are currently permitted to trek the hillock only through the Swami Ayyappan Road. Buoyed by the rising footfall, which has already crossed 75,000, the TDB has approached the State Government with a request to lift the regulations in place for using the Neelimala route. Confirming the development, TDB president K. Ananthagopan said preparations for opening the route were on and the steps would be expedited upon receiving the Government approval. A final decision is expected during a meeting to be convened by Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan in a few days. “The proposal on opening the route, which passes via Appachimedu, Saramkuthi and Sabaripeedam, is being forwarded in consideration of its ritualistic significance. Restoration of handrails and hospital buildings along the route are complete. The route can be opened once the health facilities are in place,” he said. Fire-safety audit Prior to opening the route, the Fire and Rescue Services has been directed to carry out a fire-safety audit. Meanwhile, as many as 287 Vishudhi Sena members have been deployed at Nilackal, Pampa and Sannidhanam to keep the pilgrimage zone free from garbage. As many as 575 toilets too have been set up across the zone, besides facilities for shower bath. Review meeting A review meeting convened by Sabarimala Additional District Magistrate Arjun Pandian the other day also decided to arrange for drinking water for pilgrims waiting at the Valiya Nadapandal. The Department of Health has been entrusted with providing CPR training to selected persons from all departments, besides the Akhila Bharata Ayyappa Seva Sangham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/move-to-open-neelimala-route/article37655952.ece
24 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Man gets six years jail for raping minor||The Pathanamthitta Principal Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Court on Tuesday awarded six years of imprisonment and Rs. 35,000 fine to a 25-year-old man for abusing a minor girl. The judge found Renjith, a native of Kadampanad, guilty under IPC section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage)and section 8 (punishment for sexual assault of a minor) of the POCSO Act. The incident took place in 2015 when the convict, a bus conductor, entered into a relationship with the victim, a Plus One student and sexually assaulted her at a friend’s house.  The convict, a bus conductor, sexually assaulted the victim, a Plus One student, in 2015||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-six-years-jail-for-raping-minor/article37656025.ece
24 November 2021||Special Correspondent,KERALA||2 killed as private bus rams bike||Two youths died after a rashly driven private bus rammed their two-wheeler at Ochanturuth, near Vypin in the city, at noon on Tuesday. The bus, which was overtaking another vehicle, rammed the bike of the ill-fated youths and another two wheeler, whose rider escaped unhurt. The victims are K.J. Freddy, 21, of Kunjeluparambil, Cherai, and Alana, of Pallippuram. They had worked together at a supermarket at Pallippuram. Alana was preparing to go abroad for a job and the two had reportedly gone to a hypermarket in Edappally to purchase a cell phone to be gifted to her father. The driver of the bus fled from the spot after the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-killed-as-private-bus-rams-bike/article37655957.ece
24 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel to frame vaccine policy for State||The State Government has set up a seven-member committee to frame a vaccine policy for the State, as part of the efforts to establish a vaccine- manufacturing zone at the Life Sciences Park at Thonnakkal in the capital. The said committee is chaired by B. Ekbal, who is also the chairperson of the State-level Expert Committee on COVID-19 Management . One of the primary mandates of the committee is to examine the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) and the vaccine schedule currently being followed in the State and to make necessary modifications, if required. It has been a long-standing issue that while the public sector hospitals follow the UIP schedule of vaccinations for child immunisation, paediatricians in the private sector follow a vaccine schedule recommended by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics, which includes more optional childhood vaccines It was only recently, with the introduction of the Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) in the UIP schedule by the Union Government that the immunisation schedule of all children below one year in the State became on par with the immunisation schedule followed by the private sector. Epidemiological shift Adult immunisation is another main subject that the committee will look into, as part of a vaccine policy for the State. Adult immunisation is being discussed in the context of the epidemiological shift in the State as the proportion of adults who have grown up without being exposed to childhood infections like chicken pox has been going up, putting them at increased risk of serious disease if they are exposed to the virus as adults. Also it had been found that young adults might require booster doses against diphtheria, a vaccine-preventable disease of childhood, immunity to which may be on the wane. The vaccine policy will also address the introduction of the flu vaccine, pneumococcal vaccine and human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccine for adults. Terms of reference The committee’s terms of reference also include preparing a protocol for administering vaccines to immunologically compromised adults, including cancer patients and organ transplant recipients. Categorising vaccines to be administered as mandatory, optional and advisory is another aspect that the committee will examine. The committee will also guide the Health Department on conducting epidemiological and cost effectiveness studies on vaccine usage as necessary. The other members of the committee include R. Aravind, Professor of Infectious Diseases, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram; Chandni R., chairperson, Kerala State Medical Board; P.P Preetha, Additional Director of Health Services and member, State Technical Advisory Group on Immunization; C. Prathapa Chandran, Surveillance Medical Officer, WHO; R. Sajith Kumar, Professor of Infectious Diseases, Government Medical College, Kottayam and T.P. Jayaraman, Paediatrician, District Early Intervention Centre, Government Women and Children Hospital, Palakkad.  Vaccine policy will address introduction of flu vaccine, pneumococcal vaccine and HPV vaccine for adults.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-set-up-to-frame-vaccine-policy-for-state/article37656027.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Less than 30 plaints on tax defaulters’ list||The publication of the list of property tax defaulters by the city Corporation was expected to lead to a flurry of complaints and objections. However, though more than 70% of the data has been published, the number of complaints have remained less than 30 till now. Consequently, the civic body postponed the property tax adalat, which it had scheduled for Monday, expecting a large number of complaints from across the wards. The property tax collection issue came to the fore following a controversy over misappropriation of funds by some officials in zonal offices of the Corporation. Software issues The debates over this also revealed the issues concerning the Sanchaya software used for property tax collection. Some of the payments made offline as well as online were not getting reflected in the online system, as these were not being updated on the same day. The system has also been plagued with issues, including database discrepancies. These technical issues are being corrected and the database cleaned up for each ward. For current year The Corporation has over the past few weeks been publishing the list of tax defaulters from each ward, including those who have pending tax payments for the second half of the current year. As on Tuesday, the lists for 71 wards have been published. A total of 22 complaints have so far been received under the main office, while four complaints were received at the Kazhakuttam zone. The Corporation will organise an adalat to take up these few complaints in the coming weeks, as it had already made an announcement for an adalat. On higher amount Those who have objections to the tax defaulters’ list published can file their complaints online or at the Corporation office. The complaint can either be about tax paid not being reflected in the database or about higher amounts than expected being demanded as tax. A majority of the complaints till now have been about higher tax amounts being demanded, according to Corporation officials. Meanwhile, property tax collections at the Corporation have witnessed a major jump in the past two months, after the tax database clean-up process and the publication of list of defaulters began.  22 complaints received at main office Four complaints at Kazhakuttam zone Major jump in property-tax collection in two months Adalats to address complaints in coming weeks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/less-than-30-plaints-on-tax-defaulters-list/article37656155.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB flags precarious state of its finances||Amid speculation regarding revision of electricity tariffs, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has come out with a statement on the precarious state of its finances. The KSEB said it was facing a loss of 11 paise on every unit of electricity sold, as it carries out its responsibility to society by providing electricity at low rates to the weaker sections and farmers. The daily loss on this account comes to Rs. 71.5 lakh, according to the power utility. Citing audit figures for 2019-20, the KSEB pegged its net loss at Rs. 12,104 crore. Although the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC) has recognised a revenue deficit of of Rs. 6,862 crore, the KSEB has not been permitted to recover it fully though its tariffs. On another front, the arrears on electricity bills due to the KSEB stood at Rs. 3,200 crore. Of this, government departments/agencies accounted for Rs. 1,200 crore. The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) alone owes Rs. 817 crore, the KSEB said. Speculation baseless The KSEB pointed out that the present speculations regarding the tariff revision were baseless. The KSERC, through the KSERC (Terms and Conditions for Determination of Tariff) Regulations, 2021 published on November 11, has directed the KSEB to submit the Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR) and tariff proposals by December 31. The KSERC will finalise a decision only after holding public hearings and making the necessary revisions, according to the KSEB. The KSEB pointed out that the State was facing a shortage of 100 to 300 MW during peak evening consumption hours. The deficit was met through purchases from the power exchanges to avoid load-shedding and power cuts. The power utility has sought the public’s cooperation in reducing consumption during the evening hours.  Arrears on electricity bills due to the KSEB stand at Rs. 3,200 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-flags-precarious-state-of-its-finances/article37655980.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 96.5-cr. project for lake restoration||Decks have been cleared for restoring Vellayani lake to its past glory. The Water Resources Department has accorded administrative sanction for a Rs. 96.5-crore project to revive the freshwater lake and boost tourism in the region. Desilting Announcing the project, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said desilting would be undertaken to increase the depth and carrying capacity of the lake. Besides erecting granite walls on either side, steps would also be adopted to merge the lake at points, including Kakkamoola and Vavvamoola. He added that the project would focus on identifying and reviving the 64 canals that were the major sources of the lake. Funds to cleanse lake In addition, adequate allocation of funds had been made to cleanse the waterbody of polluted water. A ‘lock-cum-shutter’ would be established at the originating point of the Kannukalichal-Pallichal canal. The boundaries of the lake would be fixed and delineated in collaboration with the Revenue Department to prevent further encroachments on the lake, the Minister said. As part of enhancing the region’s tourism prospects, both sides of the lake would be beautified. The perimeter of the lake would be developed as bund walk way, cycle track and view point. The project was being designed to attract nearly 25,000 tourists to the region on a daily basis, Mr. Augustine said. Parking facilities Vacant land under the College of Agriculture, Vellayani, would be utilised to develop parking facilities and other basic amenities for visitors. Funds would also be earmarked to launch boating facilities and water sports in the famed lake, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-965-cr-project-for-lake-restoration/article37656146.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Standing tall, in memory of Verghese Kurien||The Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) is all set to honour Verghese Kurien, father of the White Revolution, with an eight-foot-tall statue at its headquarters at Pattom here. Sculptor Unni Kanayi is giving the final touches to the statue, crafted in fibreglass, at Enikkara, Karakulam, in the district. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will unveil the statue on November 26, the birth centenary of Dr. Kurien. “A plaster of paris mould was prepared over the original clay model of the statue, and then cast in fibreglass. The preliminary work on the statue was carried out at Payyannur. The finishing touches were given at Enikkara here,” Unni Kanayi said. Milma officials checked out the statue on Tuesday. Unni Kanayi had sculpted a statue of Dr. Kurien for the Kozhikode office of Milma last year. A bust is set to be unveiled at the Milma office in Kochi also. Campaign for honour In November last year, Milma had launched a campaign to get the Centre confer the nation’s highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna, on Dr. Kurien. At the time, it was also decided to erect a statue of Dr. Kurien at the Milma headquarters at Pattom and busts at the headquarters of the regional unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/standing-tall-in-memory-of-verghese-kurien/article37656148.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU, digital university to tie up for teaching, R&D||The oldest and youngest universities in the State, the University of Kerala and the Digital University Kerala (DUK) respectively, have joined hands to collaborate in the field of teaching, research and development (R&D), and other areas of higher education. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed by the registrars of the University of Kerala and Digital University Kerala K.S. Anil Kumar and P. Suresh Babu respectively here on Monday. The respective Vice Chancellors, V.P. Mahadevan Pillai and Saji Gopinath, were present. Areas of cooperation As per the 10-year agreement, the universities will engage in collaborative projects, R&D, organising training programmes and providing industrial inputs and value addition in data science and technology management, besides cooperating in teaching. The agreement will also foster exchange programmes involving researchers, faculty and students of both the universities. Curriculum development is another thrust area where both the universities will work on incorporating skill sets that could equip students to face the changing employment scenario, an official press release issued here said. ‘Mutually beneficial’ The MoU is seen as a mutually beneficial proposition for DUK, having expertise in latest technologies, and the University of Kerala that has a wide range of departments offering technical and non-technical courses. According to the DUK Vice Chancellor, the collaboration will enable the DUK to enhance its activities and offerings by combining its experience in digital technologies with the expertise available in various departments of the University of Kerala like optoelectronics, future studies, environmental sciences, geology and so on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-digital-university-to-tie-up-for-teaching-rd/article37656153.ece
24 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Adoption row has put State to shame, says Satheesan||Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan has demanded action against those responsible for abducting and putting up a child for adoption against the express wishes of its biological parents. He said the compelling account of Anupama S. Chandran and B. Ajith Kumar’s struggle to reclaim custody of their trafficked child had put Kerala to shame. Communist Party of India (Marxist) political appointees at the helm of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare and the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) were primarily responsible for the felony. Heinous crime The council and the committee had also wronged that Andhra Pradesh couple who adopted the child innocently. Both the families were victims of a heinous crime carried out at the behest of the CPI(M) and government agencies. CPI(M) district secretary, Thiruvananthapuram, Anavoor Nagappan had stated that the party was ready to give the child back to its biological parents after the scandal broke: “Is the CPI(M) the law? How can the party decide the fate of families,” he asked. Blind eye Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had turned a blind eye to the angst of Anupama and her husband. P.K. Sreemathi, CPI(M) central committee member, had petitioned Mr. Vijayan’s office to return the trafficked child to the couple in vain. Even CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Vrinda Karat’s forceful interventions made no headway in the case. The police refused to take cognisance of the mother’s complaint for six months under CPI(M) pressure. They pushed Anupama from pillar to post, searching for her “disappeared child”. Not progressive The CPI(M) was anything but progressive. The couple’s plight had revealed CPI(M) leadership’s thinly veiled conservatism, patriarchal ethos, and pronounced anti-woman bias, Mr. Satheesan said. Mr. Satheesan said the UDF Opposition would not rest till those responsible for the baby-snatching was ejected out of the KSCCW and CWC and criminally prosecuted.  The couple’s plight has revealed CPI(M) leadership’s thinly veiled conservatism, patriarchal ethos, and pronounced anti-woman bias.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adoption-row-has-put-state-to-shame-says-satheesan/article37656144.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre accused of strangulating States||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan has accused the Centre of strangulating States by denying funds and resources that were crucial for reviving local economies. Inaugurating a Statewide agitation organised by the CPI(M) in front of Raj Bhavan here on Tuesday in protest against the rise in prices of petroleum products and essential commodities, Mr. Vijayaraghavan held the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union Government responsible for purportedly stifling the development of States. “At a time when the State Governments have been focused on resuscitating the pandemic-hit domestic economies by reviving the manufacturing sector, the Centre has indiscriminately hiked the prices of raw materials. Their apparent reluctance to rein in the price hike of essential commodities by controlling the rates of petroleum products has worsened the plight of the common man,” he said. Aiding corporates He also accused the Centre of formulating policies that benefited corporates. Through its alleged move to privatise the oil sector, the Government had left the public to the mercy of commercial entities. “The common man will see through such evil designs in spite of the cosmetic measures made by the Centre such as the recent reduction of Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 for petrol and diesel after hiking prices by Rs. 32 and Rs. 33 respectively,” the CPI (M) leader remarked. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said such “anti-people” policies had led to the country dropping to to the 101st place in the Global Hunger Index 2021 ranking among 116 nations. There had been an increase of 2.23% in the population affected by starvation during the past four years. The dwindling purchasing capacity of the citizens had led to the deplorable situation, he said. Price deregulation The CPI(M) leader also accused the Congress of being hand-in-glove with the BJP by refusing to admit its “blunder” of deregulating petrol pricing during its rule. Senior party leaders E.P. Jayarajan, T.M. Thomas Isaac, P.K. Sreemathi, K.J. Thomas, M.M. Mani and M.C. Josephine inaugurated the protests in Kannur, Kollam, Pilathara (in Kannur), Kottayam, Thodupuzha and Perumbavoor respectively. Demonstrations were held in front of Central Government institutions from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-accused-of-strangulating-states/article37656014.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Steps to check vegetable prices||The Agriculture Department has intensified efforts to check the skyrocketing prices of vegetables through market intervention programmes, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. The Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) and the Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) had been directed to procure vegetables locally and from other States to ensure adequate supply, Mr. Prasad said here on Tuesday. Street-side markets The Agriculture Department also intended to revive street-side vegetable markets. Vegetables produced by clusters would be made available in the market through direct procurement. He also demanded urgent intervention of the Union Government, adding that the rise in fuel prices had also affected the market. Vegetable markets were witnessing low arrivals due to the heavy rainfall in Kerala and neighbouring States and the consequent crop loss, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-to-check-vegetable-prices/article37655971.ece
24 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oppn. accuses police of abetting suicide||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has accused the Kochi police of abetting the suicide of a dowry victim. He said the death of Mofiya Praveen at Aluva was the latest incident highlighting the misogynist conduct of the State police. Mr. Satheesan said Mofiya had damned the Aluva police in her suicide note. She had approached the Aluva police to seek relief in a dowry harassment complaint filed against her husband. However, the Circle Inspector had berated Mofiya and her father in the presence of her in-laws. The distressed woman had come home and hung herself to death in her room. She had penned a suicide note narrating her harrowing experience at the police station and singled out the Circle Inspector for blame. The State Women's Commission had also failed Mofiya, he added. Mr. Satheesan said the police had denied justice to an AISF woman Dalit leader who was assaulted by SFI activists on the M.G. University campus. They treated women complainants as persons of questionable moral character. Addressing complaints The Government should shed its penchant for shielding errant officers. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should call a conference of police officers to address the tide of complaints against law enforcement, most of them from women. He said women were afraid to approach the police. The Government harped about gender justice, women empowerment and Renaissance values. Recent incidents had proved that the claims were mere bluster. Mr. Satheesan said the police should bring officers responsible for Mofiya's death to justice.  Mofiya Praveen of Aluva had blamed the Aluva police in her suicide note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oppn-accuses-police-of-abetting-suicide/article37655953.ece
24 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Drop move to hike bus, power charges: Oppn.||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has slammed the government’s purported move to tax people further by hiking the bus charge and increasing the power tariff for household consumers. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government was “left” only in name. Its “tax terrorism” shamed pro-corporate right-wing parties. The State has refused to cut local duty on fuel. Now, it plans to hike power charges when inflation has upended household budgets. People in distress The government has given no relief to the COVID-19 crippled economy. It was further distressing families, which were struggling to survive. Mr. Satheesan warned the government to drop the bus charge and power tariff hike or face street protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drop-move-to-hike-bus-power-charges-oppn/article37655987.ece
24 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,972 new cases in State||Kerala registered 4,972 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 60,265 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 51,09,674 cases. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 38,045 with the State adding 370 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Tuesday. This include 57 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 313 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. Till now, a total of 9,054 deaths have been newly added to the State’s official list of COVID deaths. The State’s active case pool is declining and has further dropped to 52,710 patients, with 5,978 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on Tuesday. According to the Health Department, only 7.4% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals . On Tuesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 376. Most cases in capital Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of 917 new cases, Thrissur 619, Kozhikode 527, Kottayam 476, Ernakulam 469, Kollam 383, Kannur 291, Pathanamthitta 270, Palakkad 238, Wayanad 212, Idukki 206, Alappuzha 169, Malappuram 135, and Kasaragod 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4972-new-cases-in-state/article37655979.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Labourer killed in accident at Titanium||A freak accident at Travancore Titanium Products Ltd. (TTP) claimed the life of a casual labourer after his arm got entangled in the rotating drum of a conveyor belt. The incident occurred around 10.30 p.m. on Monday. The victim, identified as Renjith R., 33, of Mosque Lane, Pettah, sustained serious injuries to his hand and head. Although he was rushed to a nearby private hospital, he could not be saved. Renjith was on night shift and was at the conveyor belt feeding sulphur when the mishap occurred. His arm somehow got entangled in the conveyor belt mechanism. According to TTP officials, the belt stopped moving soon after the accident and the other workers extricated Renjith. The Valiyathura police have registered a case in connection with the incident. A bachelor, Renjith leaves behind his mother and a sister. His body was released to the family after an post-mortem examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/labourer-killed-in-accident-at-titanium/article37656157.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Gopinath Ravindran reappointed VC||Gopinath Ravindran will continue to helm the Kannur University for another four years. He was reappointed as the Vice Chancellor by Governor Arif Mohammed Khan for yet another term with effect from November 24. The decision has come at a time when the university is embroiled in a controversy over its decision to include the wife of K.K. Ragesh, private secretary of the Chief Minister, on the shortlist for a teaching post allegedly in violation of UGC norms. The Save University Campaign Committee (SUCC), which had raked up the controversy, has termed Prof. Ravindran’s reappointment illegal. Accusing him of “engaging in nepotism to get the plum posting”, SUCC chairman R.S. Sasikumar and convener M. Shajarkhan claimed the Chancellor to have been “ill-advised” by his office since the reappointment has been made despite Prof. Ravindran crossing the age of 60 years. The Kannur University Act of 1996 mandated that “no person who is more than 60 years shall be appointment as Vice Chancellor”, they argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gopinath-ravindran-reappointed-vc/article37655954.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Anupama, Ajith meet baby boy at Sisu Bhavan||A few hours after DNA tests confirmed their claim, Anupama S. Chandran and B. Ajith Kumar on Tuesday met their baby boy who is being cared for at the Nirmala Sisu Bhavan here. Ms. Chandran was meeting the baby for the first time after he was given in adoption allegedly without her consent. Mr. Ajith Kumar was seeing him for the first time. Ms. Chandran and her partner arrived at the Sisu Bhavan at Kunnukuzhy by 4.30 p.m., on receiving the approval from the Child Welfare Committee. They spent close to 30 minutes with the child who has been at the centre of an adoption row. Ms. Chandran told the media that she was extremely happy to have met her baby, but also felt sad having to leave him there for the time being. He was well cared for at the Sisu Bhavan, Ms. Chandran said, adding that she hoped to be reunited with her son soon as the court procedures are likely to be expedited. The result of the DNA tests carried out at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in the capital came out earlier in the day, proving that Ms. Chandran and Mr. Ajith Kumar were the biological parents. Blood samples had been collected from the child and the two of them on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anupama-ajith-meet-baby-boy-at-sisu-bhavan/article37655974.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Paddy land Act files to be cleared in two months: Revenue Minister||The pending files related to the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act will be disposed of within two months, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. Inaugurating a workshop for Revenue Divisional Officers (RDO) here on Tuesday, he said that it had been noticed that middlemen were functioning in several places offering to convert land for other purposes. Stringent action would be taken against such people. The Minister also released a standard operating procedure document for disposing of such files. Twenty-seven RDOs from across the State participated in the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-land-act-files-to-be-cleared-in-two-months-revenue-minister/article37656149.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||917 COVID cases in district||The district reported 917 COVID-19 cases and 921 recoveries on Tuesday. The test positivity rate stood at 11.2%. In all, 7,253 people were under treatment for COVID-19 on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/917-covid-cases-in-district/article37656150.ece
24 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SilverLine against State’s interest, says Sreedharan||Noted engineer E. Sreedharan, who unsuccessfully contested the last Assembly elections as a BJP candidate, has accused the State Government of trying to bypass the Railway Board by offering to bear the entire cost of the SilverLine project to construct a semi-high speed railway line from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod. Terming the project a great folly, he said: “Who authorised this Government to make this impossible commitment? Not our MLAs.” Wrong estimate In a release, Mr. Sreedharan said the project was totally against the interests of the State for several reasons, including flawed alignment and technical parameters, wrong cost estimate and unrealistic schedule of competition. The SilverLine would cost Rs. 75,000 crore at present and more than Rs. 1,10,000 crore on completion based on the last accepted rates of Delhi Rapid Rail Transit (RRTS), which has a maximum speed of 180 kmph, he said.  Taking a dig at K-Rail, the special purpose vehicle for the project, Mr. Sreedharan said the agency’s claim that SilverLine would be completed by 2025 showed how ignorant the project agency was. “Even the best executing agency in the country, such as the DMRC, will take eight to 10 years for completing such a project. Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited has not been able to start even one ROB (railway overbridge) out of 27 entrusted to it in the last five years,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-against-states-interest-says-sreedharan/article37655981.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU begins induction programme||A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University launched the induction programme for first-year BTech students on Tuesday. Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree, who inaugurated the event, exhorted students to empower the society through learning. Students and teachers of 145 engineering colleges took part. She added that engineering differed from other disciplines in terms of invention and creativity.  Till Nov. 27 The training session will continue until November 27. The session will feature experts from various technical fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-begins-induction-programme/article37656128.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||115 in fray for bypolls to 32 local body wards||In all, 115 candidates are in the fray for the December 7 bypolls to 32 local body wards in the State, State Election Commissioner A. Shajahan said on Tuesday. There are 21 women candidates in the fray. Six in Vettucaud Six candidates each are in the fray for the bypolls to the Vettucaud ward of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation and the Gandhi Nagar ward of the Kochi city Corporation. Four candidates are contesting in the Aroor ward of the Alappuzha district panchayat and three each to the Sreekrishnapuram ward of the Palakkad district panchayat and the Nanmanda ward of the Kozhikode district panchayat. Polling od Dec. 7 On December 7, the polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Counting will begin at 10 a.m. on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/115-in-fray-for-bypolls-to-local-bodies/article37655947.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth held on charge of fraud||The City police have arrested a 33-year-old man on the charge of fund embezzlement. The Pettah police arrested Deepak Dinesh, 33, of Pathanapuram, for allegedly misappropriating funds to the tune of Rs. 2.5 crore from a Saudi Arabia-headquartered firm. The accused, who worked as an account manager in the company, allegedly siphoned off the salaries of the employees of the Thiruvananthapuram branch of the IT firm in various instalments since 2020. He went absconding soon after the company authorities realised the fraud and complained to the police. The accused, who remained in hiding in various parts of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, was apprehended from a hideout in Punalur. He has been remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-on-charge-of-fraud/article37656154.ece
24 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ailing U.S. national unwilling to return home||The 77-year-old U.S. national who was found in a bed-ridden condition in a hotel room at Kovalam has been admitted to a private hospital for palliative care and other treatment. Although U.S. Embassy officials got in touch with him, he expressed his unwillingness to return to his native country. The Kovalam police said that they had got in touch with the Embassy officials, and asked them to convince him to return. From Pennsylvania The man, identified as Irvin Foc from Pennsylvania, was found with bed sores at his hotel. He has been bed-ridden ever since he sustained a leg injury from a fall recently. Though he had initially sought treatment for the injuries, he had failed to follow it up. The police said the treatment would continue for some more days considering his health condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ailing-us-national-unwilling-to-return-home/article37656156.ece
24 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Four get bail in Kerala gold smuggling case||Four main accused in the UAE consulate linked gold smuggling case were enlarged on bail on Tuesday. They are first accused P. Sarith, Rameez, Jalal and Muhammad Shafi. They were released from the Central Prison, Poojappura, here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-get-bail-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/article37655539.ece
24 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||An initiative to help artistes||The COVID-19 and its fallout had hit artistes much harder than expected. Without a stage to perform, most of them were pushed to penury. Rangachetana, a Thrissur-based theatre group, had been doing a novel crowd funding initiative to support performing artistes, who are struggling to survive. Through the programme ‘Rangachetana Live’, the theatre group organises performances of the artistes at their own houses. The programme will be recorded and streamed live on Facebook. People, who watch the programme on Facebook, are requested to contribute whatever they can for supporting the artistes. “Situation is much harder than we think. The COVID-induced lockdown had pushed many artistes and their families to penury. Though performances have started slowly, it will take a lot of time to get out of the situation,” said K.V. Ganesh of Rangachetana, coordinator of the programme. “We have so far conducted 31 programmes. Each artiste was given an amount of Rs. 10,000. We could distribute more than Rs. 3 lakh so far to the struggling artists, Mr. Ganesh said. Rangachetana includes artistes from every sector in the programme. “The pain of poverty is the same for everyone,” he added. Denying a stage for the performing artistes is very much frustrating. The ‘Rangachetana Live’ provides them a platform to perform. “What they are getting is the remuneration for their performance. We respect their self-esteem,” he said. The Rangachetana Live started on August 5. “We conducted the programme at the house of Omana Valliserry (N.N. Velayudhan), a music director of many plays, on November 7. He, who played harmonium, flute, bulbul and percussion instruments and was an active presence on the stages. Omana, who was fighting cancer, died on Monday,” he said. “Performances were the sole source of income for most of the artistes. When the stage itself is closed, what will they do to make a living. As it is an online programme, art loving people from anywhere can be part of it. We have been running the program mostly with the support of art lovers and friends. Now we need contribution and sponsorship from more people to take the programme forward,” Mr. Ganesh said. Art and culture have kept us going in our hard times. Now it’s the time for us to give back, he said. 31st episode In the 31st episode of Rangachetana Live on Tuesday, Keshavan Nair and Saramma of Premalekhanam , the famed novel of Vaikam Mohammed Basheer, met each other once again. After more than two-decades of the first performance of Premalekhanam , theatre adaptation directed by film and theatre director Priyanandanan, Sajeevan Vallissery, who donned role of Keshavan Nair went to the house of Tessy Pazhuvil, who did Saramma’s role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/an-initiative-to-help-artistes/article37656017.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article37655934.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Not a smooth sailing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/not-a-smooth-sailing/article37655985.ece
24 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai’s anniversary celebrated||The 96th birth anniversary of Sri Sathya Sai Baba was celebrated in a ceremonial way on Tuesday and devotees were allowed to have a glimpse of Sai Sannadhi on the occasion. Renderings of the Prasanthi Mandir Bhajan group set the tone of the day’s event, followed by the release of the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust’s annual report. The report shows an income of Rs. 165.46 crore and Rs. 31.87 crore as a donation to the corpus fund in addition to the income. While expenditure on medical care was Rs. 67.60 crore, the highest, Rs. 23.09 crore was spent on education, Rs. 13.86 crore in capital expenditure, Rs. 7.48 crore was on COVID-19 relief work, and Rs. 13.5 crore towards administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sathya-sais-anniversary-celebrated/article37655599.ece
24 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Solar park to come up at Ramagiri soon||Anantapur district will soon get a 300 MW Solar Park at Ramagiri to be set up by the Solar Energy Corporation of India Ltd. (SECI) for which 70% of the land has been acquired and the preparation of the Detailed Project Report (DPR) has begun. Power generated here will be exported to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka under the Solar Energy Export Policy. The district officials on Tuesday discussed the impediments in acquiring the remaining land for the project. In addition to the solar park, the district will also get a 500 MW Pumped Storage Power Generation project at Chitravathi balancing reservoir. The detailed project report for these projects was also under preparation and within the next one year, the project ideas would be put up for tendering/bidding, said Non-conventional Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Limited [NEDCAP] District Manager Kodanda Rama Murthy. During the non-peak hours, these projects would pump water to a hill-top reservoir, and during the peak time, water on top of the hill would be utilised for power generation to provide grid support, he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/solar-park-to-come-up-at-ramagiri-soon/article37655600.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Veerashaiva mahasabha calls for ‘ghar wapsi’||Just as the Government is preparing the ground for introduction of an anti-conversion Bill in Karnataka, the Akhila Bharatha Veerashaiva Mahasabha has asked its units to report any case of conversion of its members and prepare for “ghar wapsi” to bring such people back into the fold. The mahasabha is a body representing Veerashaiva- Lingayats. The timing of the letter by mahasabha president and veteran Congress leader Shamanur Shivashankarappa to all its taluk and district units comes amid opposition to the proposed Bill from the Christian community. To press for law The mahasabha, sources said, was expected to urge the State Government to bring in a law to monitor and prevent “forcible or induced” conversions. The letter, dated November 15, 2021, has asked office-bearers to be in constant touch with religious mutts and watch out for such moves. Programmes should be framed to bring those people “who were trapped under pressure”, the letter says, adding that it is a matter of grave concern that some community members have been “induced to convert” to other religions, such as Christianity. Defending the letter, mahasabha secretary H.M. Renuka Prasanna said, “The letter has nothing to do with the Government’s proposed anti-conversion Bill. We received information from districts where a few such conversions have taken place.” The issue of conversion will be on the agenda during the mahasabha’s working committee meeting in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/veerashaiva-mahasabha-calls-for-ghar-wapsi/article37655544.ece
24 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly withdraws resolution abolishing Council||In a dramatic U-turn, the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Tuesday adopted a resolution withdrawing the earlier resolution seeking the abolition of the Legislative Council. The Assembly in January 2020 passed a resolution seeking abolition of the Council after the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of all Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts were referred to a special committee by the then Chairperson of the Council. Moving the resolution, Minister for Legislative Affairs Buggana Rajendranath said the resolution was adopted by the Assembly on January 27, 2020, seeking abolition of the Council. It was sent to Union Home Ministry for consideration and with response not coming and ambiguity and dilemma on the functioning of the House prevailing, the government decided to withdraw the earlier resolution. In the motion passed on Tuesday, the Minister said the Assembly had adopted a statutory resolution on January 27, 2020, stating that the Council be abolished. The decision for the abolition of the Council was taken to remove intentional and avoidable delays in the passing of Bills, he said. The resolution was escalated to the Centre for necessary action. However, despite constant persuasion of the matter at various levels, and elapse of one year and 10 months, there was no action from the Centre, he said. In the meantime, the Council had been functioning and discharging its bounden duties. However, there was uncertainty amongst the members over the inordinate delay, as the matter was kept pending with the Union Home Ministry, and there being no time-frame for the process to be completed, it was considered necessary to put an end to the prevailing situation of uncertainty and ambiguity, which has been affecting the dignity and decorum associated with the Council and its members, he said. “This is the reason, we propose to withdraw the resolution of January 27, 2020 and instead continue with the Council which is in existence,” he said. Later the House adopted the resolution unanimously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assembly-withdraws-resolution-abolishing-council/article37656095.ece
24 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 Bills passed in House||The Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Monday passed 14 Bills, including The Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Andhra Pradesh Self Help Groups (SHG) Women Co-contributory Pension (Amendment) Bill, 2021 were passed by voice vote. They were moved by Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botcha Satyanarayana. The Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books (Amendment) Bill 2021, The Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which were moved by Deputy Chief Minister (Revenue) Dharmana Krishna Das were passed by voice vote. Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (Amendment) Bill, 2021, tabled by Deputy Chief Minister Alla Krishna Srinivas, The Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Second Amendment) Bill, 2021, moved by Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas were passed. The Andhra Pradesh Private Universities Establishment and Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, introduced by Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Sreevani, on behalf of Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, was passed by voice vote. The other Bills passed include The Andhra Pradesh Registration of Horticulture Nurseries (Regulation) (Amendment) Bill 2021, The Andhra Pradesh Education (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Andhra Pradesh Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 moved by Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannabau and The Andhra Pradesh Bovine Breeding (Regulation of Production and Sale of Bovine Semen and Artificial Insemination Services) Bill, 2021, moved by Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Minister Seediri Appalaraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-bills-passed-in-house/article37656096.ece
24 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Develop Agency areas, CM tells officials||A delegation of legislators of tribal constituencies, including Deputy Chief Minister P. Pushpa Srivani, MLAs Peedika Rajanna Dora, Tellam Balaraju, Viswasarayi Kalavathi, Chetti Palguna, Kottagulli Bhagyalakshmi and Nagulapalli Dhanalakshmi met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his chamber in the Assembly on Tuesday. It brought to the notice of the Chief Minister the issues related to development and local problems. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to take legal opinion with regard to G.O. No. 3 and to take measures for the development of Agency areas. A resolution would be adopted in the next Assembly session to include more villages in the Scheduled Area. The issues related to roads damaged by rains, bridges, resuming laying of roads stopped during the pandemic, permissions to use machines to build roads in hilly areas and better internet facilities were brought to his notice .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/develop-agency-areas-cm-tells-officials/article37656097.ece
24 November 2021||Guntur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cinemas, motor vehicle taxation Bills introduced||Transport and Information and Public Relations Minister Perni Venkatramaiah, on behalf of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, introduced the Andhra Pradesh Cinemas (Regulation) (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and Andhra Pradesh Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Assembly on Tuesday. The Andhra Pradesh State Educational Institutions Reservations in Teachers Cadre Bill, 2021 was introduced by Deputy Chief Minister and Tribal Welfare Minister P. Pushpa Srivani, on behalf of Education Minister A. Suresh and the Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Land Conversion for Non-agriculture Purposes (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced by Deputy Chief Minister and Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cinemas-motor-vehicle-taxation-bills-introduced/article37656162.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP corporators ransack GHMC Mayor, Deputy Mayor offices||State BJP and TRS’s ongoing battle of attrition spread to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Tuesday. BJP corporators ransacked the offices of Mayor and Deputy Mayor, defaced the walls, name plates and smashed flower pots, glass doors inside the head office, ostensibly angry over not getting any response to their demand to convene the general body meeting of the elected council. The party has been demanding that Mayor G.R. Vijayalakshmi call for a meeting to discuss the civic issues since the last such meeting was held in June virtually. Corporators led by Karunakar first held a demonstration outside the head office and demanded an appointment but she was not at office. Soon, the corporators barged inside and smashed whatever they could lay their hands on before police rushed in and arrested him. The BJP has 47 corporators in the 150-strong elected council of the GHMC but has no place in the powerful standing committee due to the pact between TRS and Majlis Party, hence the demand for holding the general body meeting. Later, the Mayor, talking to the media, condemned the violence and said such acts had no place in a democracy. She claimed that the corporators did not bother to meet her even after she gave them an appointment. “Destroying our own property sends wrong signals to citizens and this is not way to behave when we have been working round the clock to respond to the citizens grievances on a daily basis,” she said. Ms. Vijayalakshmi said she was inspecting the areas in L.B. Nagar which had faced inundation in recent rains and also held a review meeting with officials and corporators concerned. “The BJP should introspect about its members’ action. We held the general body meeting during the peak pandemic online where the budget was passed and prevailing civic issues were also discussed. The election code due to the MLC polls has prevented us from convening the general body meeting which the BJP corporators were aware yet they resorted to violence. This is unacceptable,” she maintained. TS BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar demanded the immediate release of the arrested corporators and charged the police of manhandling them. “Where is the need for elected body if the government decides everything? It is against norms not to convene a general body meeting physically, though it is a year since the polls were held. By deciding issues in the standing committee meetings unilaterally, where our corporators have no representation, they are insulting the electorate,” he charged. He added that neither the GHMC Commissioner nor the Mayor were accessible to the corporators and many civic issues had been pending. Saifabad police on Tuesday slapped a case against as many as 82 persons which include BJP workers and corporators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-corporators-ransack-offices-of-mayor-and-deputy-mayor/article37655920.ece
24 November 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu blames negligence of officials for Annamayya reservoir disaster||Telugu Desam Party president and Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu has attributed the submergence of villages downstream of Annamayya project in Rajampet constituency to official negligence and called it a case of “administrative failure”. Mr. Naidu, who visited the flood-hit areas in Nandaluru town and later at the project site on Tuesday, offered to pay an ex gratia of Rs. 25 lakh to the kin of the deceased upon coming to power. He said the loss of lives and property in the 10 villages near the project could have been avoided with foresight and timely action. Accompanied by TDP State general secretary Batyala Chengalrayudu, Mr. Naidu visited Pulapathuru, Mandapalli and Gundluru villages in Rajampet mandal. Many people got washed away due to the water overflowing from the reservoir, which he squarely blamed on ‘indifference’ on part of the government. He said the TDP would provide Rs. 1 lakh to the kin of the deceased and Rs. 20,000 to every affected household as “immediate relief”. The TDP leader also announced to get a wall built around the Annamayya project, on the lines of the one in Visakhapatnam, to safeguard the villages. He accused the local ruling party leaders of “dabbling with” the water bodies for the sake of the sand reaches, which he said led to the deaths. “The Assembly did not allocate sufficient time to discuss public issues, but the members debated unwanted things. What will you do if someone speaks ill of the women in your family?” he asked, turning towards the women, who vociferously spoke in his support. TDP Kadapa parliamentary constituency in-charge M. Linga Reddy, Railway Kodur convener K. Viswanatha Naidu, MLA candidate M. Narasimha Prasad and others accompanied Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-blames-negligence-of-officials-for-annamayya-reservoir-disaster/article37656103.ece
24 November 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 YSRCP sarpanches resign in Kadapa||As many as thirteen Sarpanches from Kazipet mandal in Kadapa district tendered their resignation to their elected posts on Tuesday, expressing concern over alleged lack of funds. The Sarpanches, all of them owing allegiance to the ruling YSR Congress Party, took the step after they were reportedly forced to spend money for development from their own pockets and non-sanction of money for the last eight months. “Even motor repair bills have not been released,” said a reliable source. CPI district Secretary G. Eswaraiah blamed the State government for diversion of 14th and 15th Finance Commission funds. “Even as the floods wreaked havoc across the district, the Sarpanches remained mute spectators, thanks to paucity of funds,” he said. The local self governance took a beating with the Sarpanches unable to buy water pipes, fill the potholes on roads, nor pay MGNREGS bills to workers, Mr. Eswaraiah added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-ysrcp-sarpanches-resign-in-kadapa/article37655607.ece
24 November 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy crop damaged in over 66,295 hectares in East Godavari||Paddy crop in over 66,295 hectares has been damaged due to recent rains across the East Godavari district in the present kharif season. The total extent of land under the paddy cultivation is over 2.25 lakh hectares in the district.District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran on Tuesday stated that the paddy crop with above 30% damage has been recommended for compensation. “The survey numbers and details of farmers who suffered the crop damage are put on display at the Rythu Barosa Kendras for the social audit,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-crop-damaged-in-over-66295-hectares-in-east-godavari/article37656111.ece
24 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Data on road accidents to be shared with IIT-M, MoRTH||Personnel from the police department and the national highways’ patrolling and road transportation departments have been trained on the iRAD app (Integrated Road Accident Database) being monitored by IIT-Madras and the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH). Addressing the gathering during a one-day training programme, East Godavari SP M. Raveendranath Babu directed all stakeholders to share the required data with MoRTH . Government General Hospital Dr. Sudheer presented a demonstration on the Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/data-on-road-accidents-to-be-shared-with-iit-m-morth/article37656110.ece
24 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 independents file papers||Two independent candidates filed their nomination papers for the East Godavari district MLC (Local Authorities) election on Tuesday. Kollati Isreal of Rangampeta mandal and M. Devi Prasad of Ambajipeta mandal submitted their nomination papers to East Godavari Joint Collector (Revenue) Mr. Sumit Kumar here at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-independents-file-papers/article37656117.ece
24 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||DNA tests confirm Kerala woman’s claim on baby||Anupama S. Chandran, the biological mother of the baby boy who was given in pre-adoption foster care, may get her child back in a day or two. The State Government is likely to move the Family Court, Thiruvananthapuram, on Wednesday, with a plea to advance the hearing in the adoption case, which has been posted for November 30, in the wake of DNA tests confirming that Ms. Anupama and B. Ajith Kumar are the biological parents of the baby. The DNA tests, said the report issued by the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), Thiruvananthapuram, performed on the blood samples of the child, Ms. Anupama and Mr. Ajith Kumar were sufficient to conclude that Mr. Ajith Kumar was the biological father of the baby and Ms. Anupama its mother. The DNA profiles of Ms. Anupama and Mr. Ajith Kumar were found matching with that of the baby, it said. It was on Tuesday afternoon that the DNA test results were available, thus ending the uncertainty over the biological parenthood of the baby. Though a judicial order in the case is unlikely to be pronounced on Wednesday, the court may consider the matter on Wednesday, if the plea is moved on the same day. The court proceedings would be expedited considering the welfare of the infant, sources said. The counsel for the Department of Women and Child Development will move the application for advancing the hearing on Wednesday, while briefing the court about the later developments in the case, including the DNA test results. On its part, the Child Welfare Committee, which conducted the DNA tests, will submit the result to the court through the counsel for the department. The mother had been on a warpath demanding that her baby be given back and legal action taken against the officials of the committee and the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare for what she alleged as the ‘‘illegal adoption processes.’’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dna-tests-confirm-kerala-womans-claim-on-baby/article37655550.ece
24 November 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treat nokkukooli as extortion: Kerala HC||Observing that demands for ‘nokkukooli’ should be treated as an extortion, the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the State Police Chief (SPC) to issue a circular to all police stations and the competent authority under the Kerala Headload Workers Act asking them to register a case for extortion as well as for offences under the the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the workers and trade unions leaders who demanded nokkukooli. Justice Devan Ramachandran, while dealing with a case seeking police protection against the headload workers' demand for nokkukooli, observed that in view of the deleterious tendency to demand nokkukooli that had held sway for the last several decades, the court was certain that such a circular would have to be issued by the SPC. The court observed that monopoly for a set of people was created because it was thought at one point that the headload workers were vulnerable. State’s image destroyed The irony was that what was intended for the benefits of the workers had become a tool for extortion. It had destroyed the image of the State all over the country. The fact remained that people associated Kerala with the militant trade unionism. It should be stopped. The trade union leaders and the workers should be told that the demand for nokkukoolli was tantamount to extortion. When the case came up for hearing, the Government Pleader submitted that the Government was intending to amend the Kerala Headload Workers’ Act and grant power to the competent authority under the Act to expel the workers who were established to have demanded nokkukooli and impose penalties on such persons. The court directed the SPC to issue the circular by December 8 and file a report in this regard. The court directed the State Government to inform the court about the progress in the decision to amend the Act. The court posted the case for further hearing on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/treat-nokkukooli-as-extortion-kerala-hc/article37655547.ece
24 November 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foster parents yearn for return of their ‘little God’||Battling grief and depression, the foster parents of the baby boy entangled in the adoption controversy are yearning for the return of the child. “He is the little God of our life. We want him back. We want immediate justice,” the father demanded as he broke down. DNA results It was on Saturday that the baby was taken back to the State from the couple on an order from the Child Welfare Committee, Thiruvananthapuram. Like his foster parents, the State authorities too were keenly awaiting the DNA results to find out if his biological mother is Anupama S. Chandran as she claimed. She had moved court alleging her baby was given in adoption against her will. ‘No grouse’ “I want him back,” the woman told The Hindu over telephone from Darsi in Andhra Pradesh. “He never cried when he was hungry. Instead, he would nibble on clothes. He whimpered when we were not around.” “He is a cheerful and lovable kid,” the foster father said. “We don't nurse any grouse against Ms. Chandran. If it’s her biological baby, let him grow with her. But one should also understand our plight as the baby got emotionally bonded to us during the 135 days of his life with us.” Flaw in process? The foster mother wondered whether the adoption process was a flawed one as she had to painfully return the child after completing the due legal process and subsequently getting emotionally attached. It was after four years of waiting that they received the baby. The couple had decided to go in for adoption as doctors advised against having their biological baby for health reasons. “We took the baby after furnishing all the documents. Yet, he was snatched away from me. How will you justify it? Why is our plight ignored?” asks the mother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foster-parents-yearn-for-return-of-their-little-god/article37655551.ece
24 November 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea in HC against new liquor outlets||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday adjourned to November 25 the hearing on a petition moved by Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran against the Government move to open more liquor outlets allegedly under the cover of a High Court order to provide better facilities in liquor shops. In his petition, Mr. Sudheeran pointed out that the court order was being misinterpreted by the Government to legitimise the opening of new outlets. Therefore, it had become necessary to clarify the intention of the court. He said the decision would have a drastic and direct impact on the consumption of liquor. Court’s concern When the petition came up for hearing, Justice Devan Ramachandran orally observed that the court was not in favour of increasing the number of outlets. It had not issued any directive to increase the number of outlets. The court was concerned only with the long queues on public road. The decision to increase liquor outlets was the policy decision of the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-in-hc-against-new-liquor-outlets/article37655548.ece
24 November 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chamundi development plan invites flak||Saraswathi Samman awardee and Kannada writer S.L. Bhyrappa has expressed his anguish over the State government’s move to ‘develop’ Chamundi Hills under Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual, Heritage Augmentation Drive (PRASHAD) scheme and said that it is environmentally unsustainable. He has sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to ask the Tourism Ministry to apply the true spirit of an ‘imaginatively and beautifully conceived concept of PRASHAD’ to promote spiritual tourism for a project in Chamundi Hills in Mysuru. “What I have heard about the project proposal submitted by the Karnataka government has pained me. It is concentrating more on the modern concept of architecture using concrete and environmentally unsustainable materials. What we need is to demolish the already existing concrete jungle and restore the natural beauty of the hill with minimum interference from contractors. The proposal adds some more to the concrete jungle in the name of glamorizing it,” said Mr. Bhyrappa in his letter. He instead suggested a slew of measures for the conservation of Chamundi Hills and called for planting more trees suitable to the terrain. “Around the temple, on the hill top, we should have massive planting of trees instead of the artificial roof constructed. For the most part today there are hardly any trees and the proposal also does not talk of any greening,” said Mr. Bhyrappa. Rise in population The letter also drew attention to increase in the population atop Chamundi Hills. “With over 4,000 residents atop the hill which was hardly in hundreds few years back, it has reached unsustainable levels. We should limit houses only to priests and working staff of the temple. All other houses should be relocated in the city and compensated as we have done with tribals in some reserve forests,” the letter added. Traffic He also called for restriction on the movement of vehicles and said all private vehicles including VIPs (as a model to others) should be banned and only electric operated buses should be allowed. The earlier government constructed, with cement and bricks, a parking lot for 600 cars and 100 commercial shops. They have converted the hill top to commercial centre destroying the Yatra centre which it was earlier, and the serenity and peace has been totally destroyed, said Mr. Bhyrappa. Instead of Chamundi Hill copying Hampi or Tirupathi, it should develop its own development model for others to adapt and only pooja materials should be sold and the atmosphere on the hill top should be conducive to people who want to meditate, he added. Paris summit Mr. Bhyrappa also said his suggestion was in compliance with what Mr. Modi had proposed during the Paris summit in 2015 to fight climate change. “It is to adapt India’s civilization message of ‘simple living, high thinking’. One other unintended benefit is that we do not need to spend huge funds to implement what I am proposing,” said Mr. Bhyrappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chamundi-development-plan-invites-flak/article37655543.ece
24 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jawad’ causes Rs. 535 cr. loss in Nellore district||The heavy rain, and the flood in Penna river that followed, had caused a loss of Rs. 535 crore and left three people dead and one missing in SPSR Nellore district. This was revealed at a review meeting chaired by Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, in-charge of the district on Tuesday. The number of casualties was minimal as the district administration swiftly evacuated over 30,000 persons to 104 relief camps organised by the district administration in Nellore and other riverine mandals of Anatasagaram, Kaluvaya, Chejerla, Atmakur, Sangam, Podalakur, Buchireddipalem, Kovur, Vidavaluru and Indukurpeta as Penna river was in spate, noted the Minister. Somasila reservoir carried an all time record flood of 5.50 lakh cusecs on Sunday. The Minister exhorted the district officials to speed up distribution of essential commodities to the over 48,000 affected families. In Kovur, which bore the brunt of the flood fury, 5,835 persons were evacuated speedily. The wet spell left crops in 16,287 hectares damaged including horticulture crops in 1,952 hectares. Roads maintained by R&B department to a distance of 649.79 km were damaged as also 1,258.65 km roads coming under the Panchayat raj department, said District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu. The Minister, who visited some of the affected parts in Baghatsing Nagar in the city and Kovur on the city outskirts along with local MLA Nallapareddy Prasanna Kumar Reddy and officials, faced the ire of local people who staged a noisy protest as they had lost essential commodities as also electrical appliances in their homes in the wake of the release of water from Somasila reservoir without giving time to take their belongings to a safe place. Their houses had suffered inundation since Sunday. Some of them had lost all important documents including Aadhaar cards and certificates, they complained. Officials allay fears Meanwhile, the district administration allayed the fears of people living in the riverine mandals over the safety of the reservoir. The threat of floods have receded with the inflows drastically coming down to 1.07 lakh cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jawad-causes-rs-535-cr-loss-in-nellore-district/article37655602.ece
24 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati farmers plan State-wide stir||The farmers from Amaravati have vowed to launch a State-wide march on the completion of their ‘maha padayatra’ to Tirumala demanding that Amaravati be retained as the single capital of Andhra Pradesh. Upset with the reports that government intended to introduce a more comprehensive legislation in place of the revoked three-capital Act, Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti co-convenor G. Tirupati Rao said that the farmers would intensify their agitation by organising more padayatras to cover the entire State. The walkathon of the farmers resumed from Konda Bitragunta after offering prayers to Lord Prasanna Venkateswara Swamy on Tuesday. “In the next leg of the march, we have planned to cover Dwaraka Tirumala, Annavaram and Simhachalam,” he said on reaching Sunnapubati village for a night halt after covering a distance of 14.5 km. Legal scrutiny Mr. Tirupati Rao contended that the three-capital Act was revoked as those in power feared that it would not stand legal scrutiny. He questioned the reported decision of the government to revive the State Legislative Council, after urging the Centre to do away with the Upper House when it did not have a majority. A large number of fishermen expressed solidarity with the farmers as the padayatra meandered through Alluru and Isakapalem among other villages. “We are not against decentralised development. All we want is that the capital should be located where the land was pooled for the purpose,” said Mr. Tirupati Rao. The farmers were perplexed as to why the police personnel were creating hurdles. “We will face all 3,000 cases foisted on us legally,” said a group of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-farmers-plan-state-wide-stir/article37656100.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe into Jaya’s death is in public interest: T.N.||Former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Jayalalithaa was “undoubtedly one of the tallest leaders” of the State whose 75-day treatment, and death, at Apollo Hospitals in Chennai needs to be probed in “eminent public interest”, the Tamil Nadu Government said in the Supreme Court on Tuesday. Appearing before a Bench of Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, for the State, said, “All the government wants is an inquiry.” The State narrated a series of events which showed the seriousness of her death. “Her estate was burgled within days. A guard there was murdered. Another person’s wife and daughter were killed. A third person manning the computer died... All this shows the seriousness of her death,” he said. The investigation into these cases was under way. The State was replying to Apollo Hospitals’ petition alleging bias on the part of the A. Arumughaswamy Commission of inquiry. Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, for the commission, said the commissions of inquiry were an antidote to distorting rumours and allegations. Truth must be established even if it brought the conduct of people into the “fierce light of publicity”. He submitted that there were cases in which rumours and allegations could not be quelled by leaving them in the hands of the police. A high-powered commission of inquiry had to be constituted to go through the facts of the case and afford the parties concerned a free and fair atmosphere to make their statements, he said. “For one year, they [Apollo Hospitals] participated in the inquiry... they sat on the fence for a year and then they say the inquiry was biased. The doctrine of waiver applies here,” Mr. Dave submitted. The senior lawyer argued that it would be “premature” on the part of the Supreme Court to intervene now. Mr. Dave said the commission would submit its report to the Government. “Until the Government decides there is a need for action, nothing will happen. It is only when action is taken, they [Apollo Hospitals] can object... However unpalatable the proceedings [before the commission] may be, it has to be left to the future. The court cannot intervene now... Allow the commission to complete its inquiry, which is eminently in public interest,” he submitted. Later at the hearing, Mr. Kumar said the commission’s report, along with the Government’s action taken report, is placed before the Legislature. “‘Action taken’ is in the past tense... What if, on the basis of the Commission’s report, an FIR is registered,” the Bench asked. Mr. Kumar referred in general to how in the past the Government had put reports submitted by commissions in the “cold storage” without taking any action. Justice Nazeer said commissions were constituted for “time-pass...just to defuse the situation”. “Why do you appoint commissions if you do not intend to make their reports public...is it to wriggle out of the situation,” Justice Nazeer asked. “There are commissions… and then there are commissions,” Mr. Kumar responded. The court asked the commission to file an affidavit clarifying whether the nature of its inquiry was public or in camera . At the hearing, the court asked whether the commission could be reconstituted. To this, Mr. Dave referred to the precedents of the Supreme Court having held that the executive, once it had constituted a commission of inquiry, could not interfere in its functioning or usurp its powers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-into-jayas-death-is-in-public-interest-tn/article37655663.ece
24 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Incessant rain spells doom for tobacco farmers||Tobacco farmers kept their fingers crossed as rain induced by ‘Jawad’ damaged crops, in their transplantation stage, in the traditional tobacco growing areas both in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts. Much against odds, including the ever-increasing cost of cultivation, tobacco farmers had raised the crop. But, like last year, unabated rain damaged the standing crops in over 30% of the cropped area, shattering all their hopes. The wet spell during the peak rabi season had partially damaged tobacco crop in 3,712 hectares and fully destroyed the crop in 2,444 hectares. The downpour had taken away 30% of the planted crop in 19,696 hectares, as per Tobacco Board. This year, the crop was grown in over 10,000 hectares as against 22,750 hectares permitted by the Tobacco Board in the Southern Black Soil(SBS) region. In the Southern Light Soil(SLS) region, the crop coverage was 9,502 hectares as against the permitted area of 25,423 hectares. “We have no option but to go for replantation, even if that means bearing additional costs,” said a group of farmers at Chekurpadu village while scooping out water from their crops in a bid to salvage whatever little they can. Crop infestation As if the damage caused by the rain to the crop was not enough, the wet spell had also spurred leaf blight disease in crops raised in the SLS and SBS regions, said a farmer V.V. Prasad. “The government should come to our rescue by providing input subsidy to raise a new crop. Rain in November has turned out to be a bane for us,” said a farmer S. Guruva Reddy said. For farmers in D.C. Palli, it is a different challenge as there is a rampant pest infestation to crops following the wet spell. The farmers demand that the Tobacco Board and the State Government provide 33% input subsidy as they have to go for grow crops afresh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/incessant-rain-spells-doom-for-tobacco-farmers/article37655604.ece
24 November 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor seized, 3 held||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials of Ranasthalam seized 300 litres of ID liquor which was being transported from Malli village of Sithampet mandal to Visakhapatnam. SEB Circle Inspector Bh. Kiran Maneswari and Sub-Inspector Vasudeva Rao seized the liquor being transported in a car. Three accused Savara Sudhakar, S. Jeevan Kumar and S. Mukhalingam were taken into custody, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-liquor-seized-3-held/article37656112.ece
24 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam sees 11 cases||Srikakulam district reported 11 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Out of 1,545 samples collected, nine tested positive for the virus, according to a bulletin released by the district administration. With the new cases, the total number of cases reported in the district so far has risen to 1,23,299. Currently, 67 patients are in home isolation and seven are being treated at various hospitals in the district for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikakulam-sees-11-cases/article37656114.ece
24 November 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP: develop Buddhist circuit in Srikakulam||Srikakulam district BJP president Attada Ravi Babji, senior leaders Pydi Venugopalam, Birlangi Umamaheswara Rao and others on Tuesday urged Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy to develop a Buddhist circuit and establish a cultural museum in Srikakulam district. They met the Union Minister in Visakhapatnam and submitted a detailed memorandum explaining the tourism opportunities in the district. Mr.Babji said that Srikakulam was known for Buddhist structures in Sarubujjili and Gara mandals and they can be developed on the lines of Thotlakonda and Bavikonda of Visakhapatnam district. Mr. Umamaheswara Rao said that many tourism spots could be developed all along the 180 km coast of the district. Mr. Kishan Reddy assured the delegation to look into the proposal and directed the officials to study the feasibility for extending Central government’s assistance,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-develop-buddhist-circuit-in-srikakulam/article37656113.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Road traffic restored in Chittoor, long-distance train services hit||The speedy repair works done to the arterial roads that were damaged in floods in Chittoor district have ensured restoration of traffic on most of the routes. However, traffic remained disrupted on the Tirupati – Chittoor route via Pachikapalam and Devalampeta as flood water from Rayalacheruvu tank inundated the roads. However, the highway route connecting the temple city to the district headquarters is intact. Similarly, traffic remained hit on the Pakala-Punganur route via Sodam and Somala, as the bridge on the Gargeya river turned creaky. The overflowing Swarnamukhi river also caused disruption in rural traffic in Yerpedu and Srikalahasti mandals. The Tirupati region of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has suffered a loss of Rs. 60 lakh each for three days when the swollen water bodies brought life to a standstill last week. “Even as the long-distance services from Tirupati towards Chennai, Kanchipuram, Vellore, Bengaluru, Nellore and Kadapa have been restored, the intra-district routes, especially those covering villages, remain disrupted or diverted,” said APSRTC Regional Manager T. Chengal Reddy. Rural services from Tirupati towards Kandada, Musalipedu and Gudimallam suffered due to obstruction at Govindavaram and Papanaidupeta. The damaged Pakala underbridge took a toll on Mangalampeta and Maddinayanapalli routes. Similarly, services from Chittoor towards Bangarupalyam and Ragimanupenta were confined up to Aragonda and those towards Paturu and Pakala stopped at Irala. Madanapalle - Galiveedu services are operating up to Peddamandyam. Trains diverted The flood water in Rajampet – Nandalur section of the South Central Railways’ Guntakal division and Renigunta – Pudi section of the Chennai division continues to haunt railways, with many trains running on diverted routes. The 17417/17418 Tirupati – Sainagar Shirdi – Tiruipati has been restored, but diverted via Pakala Dharmavaram and Gooty. 12246 Yesvantpur – Howrah and 12864 Howrah – Yesvantpur got cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-traffic-restored-in-chittoor-long-distance-train-services-hit/article37656106.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials air-dropped in villages abutting Rayalacheruvu||The government air-dropped essential commodities for the residents in the flood-ravaged villages of Chittoor district on Tuesday. A naval helicopter was pressed into service to air-drop bags containing 5 kg of rice, 1 kg of redgram, one litre of palm oil and other items to the marooned villages abutting Rayalacheruvu tank. The villages remained submerged due to the heavy release of water from the tank, to save its bund from the breaches it suffered near Kuppam Badur end. The urgent release of water was necessitated to prevent the breach from developing into a gaping hole, which was feared to flood around a 100 villages in Ramachandrapuram and Tirupati rural mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/essentials-air-dropped-in-villages-abutting-rayalacheruvu/article37655606.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bridges will be repaired soon, says Peddireddi||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has announced that the crop loss in the Rayalaseema districts due to the floods will be assessed using ‘e-crop’. Accompanied by Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan, the Minister on Tuesday toured the flood-ravaged areas in Punganur, Pulicherla, Sodam and Gangavaram mandals falling under his Punganur constituency and visited the fields where the standing crops were damaged. He said every cent of land would be brought under the purview of e-crop and the exact damage assessed to benefit the victim farmers. Similarly, he offered to provide input subsidy to every farmer whose crop remained submerged under water. Mr. Reddy asked the officials to be available to the public during such ‘harsh’ times. He inspected the bridge over the Gargeya river that had been swept away during the previous flood, cutting access between Sodam and Punganur. The temporary arrangement made over the bridge was washed away last week. The Minister said every bridge in the Punganur municipality would be repaired after the rains stopped in a bid to provide a ‘rain-proof’ solution to the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bridges-will-be-repaired-soon-says-peddireddi/article37656104.ece
24 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No damage to Rayalacheruvu: Minister||Chittoor district in-charge Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy has allayed the apprehensions among the public over the fate of Rayalacheruvu and stated that the water body is in good shape. The Minister, accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, MP (Tirupati) M. Gurumoorthy and legislators Ch. Bhaskar Reddy (Chandragiri) and B. Madhusudhan Reddy (Srikalahasti), visited the submerged villages in the vicinity of the Rayalacheruvu tank on Tuesday. He assured the residents who spent sleepless nights that their problems would be solved in a couple of days. He further said that there was absolutely no danger to the ancient water body, though damp soil patches chipped off at some points. The Minister also offered to get the tank repaired at the earliest. Referring to the long-pending dispute between villages upstream and downstream of the Rayalacheruvu, Mr. Narayanaswamy said that all the affected villages would be brought to the negotiating table under the leadership of Mr. Bhaskar Reddy to find a solution soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-damage-to-rayalacheruvu-minister/article37656101.ece
24 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State gears up for IndiaSkills 2021||The Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) is gearing up to host the South edition of IndiaSkills 2021, at the Andhra University Convention Centre in Visakhapatnam, from December 1 to 4. “The skill competitions are being decentralised this year and will be held at 10 partner institutes specialising in different skills,” said Chairman of the Corporation K. Ajay Reddy. To scout for talent from across the country, the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), under the guidance of the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE), organises the IndiaSkill competition every two years at regional and national levels. The objective is to create a national platform for skilled youth from districts, States and regions to showcase their talent. The winners of the IndiaSkill nationals undergo training and then prepare to represent the country at the WorldSkills International Competitions. This year, the national-level event will witness the participation of 30 States and union territories and around 1,500 candidates will participate in 54 skills, including seven newly-introduced new-age trades, informed the Managing Director N. Bangara Raju. “After conducting three regional-level competitions in East (Patna, Bihar), West (Gandhinagar and Gujarat) and North (Chandigarh) in October and November, the NSDC will organise the championship for South, in Visakhapatnam,” said Advisor, Skill Development Challa Madhusudan Reddy. The southern round will bring together more than 400 participants from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana, showcasing their talent in 50 different skills. Founded in 1950, WorldSkills is a global hub for skill excellence and development that brings youth, industries and educators together. Objective “The objective is to motivate the youth to pursue vocational education, create partnership network and establish long-term association with WorldSkills International and other member countries,” said Mr. Bangara Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-gears-up-for-indiaskills-2021/article37656168.ece
24 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Concern over high infant, maternal deaths in Krishna||Krishna Collector J. Nivas expressed discontent over the higher number of infant and maternal deaths in the district. In a review meeting with the officials and staff of the Health Department on Tuesday, he said so far 55 infant and maternal deaths occurred during delivery due to issues like anaemia and lack of nutritious food in the district this year. It is unfortunate that the Krishna district which has a higher per capita income had an infant and maternal mortality rate similar to that of some African countries. He warned the Health Department staff of severe action if they failed to ensure services to the public without negligence. He said no person should be turned away from government hospitals and clinics and any such negligence would not be tolerated. He said a woman from Bapulapadu of Krishna was referred to the Eluru government hospital where she delivered a baby and was later referred to GGH, Vijayawada. Due to a blood pressure issue, she died on her way to Vijayawada, he said. He said staff at public health centres and area hospitals were inclined to refer patients to government hospitals which were far away from most villages and many were losing lives on the way to the hospitals. Joint Collector L. Siva Shankar, District Medical and Health Officer M. Suhasini were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concern-over-high-infant-maternal-deaths-in-krishna/article37656160.ece
24 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retain Amaravati as sole capital, BJP tells govt.||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has asked the YSRCP government to retain Amaravati as the sole capital of the State, pointing out that the ruling party had accepted it and took a stand in favour of it before the 2019 elections. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has no commitment to resolving the capital issue. The decision to withdraw the Act pertaining to three capitals was taken to avoid the legal hurdles. In the run-up to the 2019 elections, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had said he had built his house in the capital region and that he would build capital in the same place. The YSRCP leaders must stop using the Assembly to peddle lies,” Mr. Veerraju told the media on Tuesday. He said that the government had no funds to pay salary to the employees. “In such scenario, how can they speak about decentralised development? The BJP has set up the key institutions in various parts of the States where it is in power,” he said. The YSRCP government was misleading farmers and the people in the name of decentralisation where as it could not repair roads which would require Rs. 2,000 crore, said Mr. Veerraju. Referring to the flood situation, the BJP leader alleged that the government had failed in providing relief to the flood victims in Nellore, Kadapa, Chittoor and Anantapur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retain-amaravati-as-sole-capital-of-ap-bjp-tells-jagan/article37655541.ece
24 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State logs one death, 196 COVID cases||The State reported one more death due to COVID-19 and 196 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,429 and 20,71,567 respectively. The lone death was reported from Krishna district. The number of active cases came down to 2,159 with 242 patients recovering in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,54,979 and 99.20%. The test positivity rate of the 26,119 samples tested in the past day was 0.75% and that of the 3.019 crore samples tested so far was 6.85%. Krishna also reported the highest infection tally of 34 cases among the districts in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (29), Guntur (21), West Godavari (21), Visakhapatnam (19), East Godavari (16), Nellore (12), Srikakulam (11), Vizianagaram (11), Prakasam (8), Kadapa (7), Kurnool (4) and Anantapur (3). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,94,524), Chittoor (2,47,825), West Godavari (1,79,504), Guntur (1,78,694), Visakhapatnam (1,58,288), Anantapur (1,57,977), Nellore (1,46,772), Prakasam (1,38,663), Kurnool (1,24,184), Srikakulam (1,23,344), Krishna (1,20,032), Kadapa (1,15,826) and Vizianagaram (83,039).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-logs-one-death-196-covid-cases/article37656093.ece
24 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APITA, GCS sign pact to mould entrepreneurs||City-based Glocal Technology Solutions (GTS) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Andhra Pradesh Information Technology Academy (APITA) to foster entrepreneurship among youth across the State. CEOs of the two companies Tarun Kakani and Anil Tentu signed the MoU on Tuesday. As part of the collaboration, GTC will organise workshops in up-skilling the students in technologies like Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, mobile app development, website designing, hackathons and start-up rendezvous. “The government is keen on promoting education and entrepreneurship amongst youth. APITA is coming up with several novel initiatives and signing an MoU with GTS is one such initiative to drive the IT and skill development in niche technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Internet of Things,” Mr. Anil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apita-gcs-sign-pact-to-mould-entrepreneurs/article37656163.ece
24 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati Balotsavam evokes good response||Union Bank of India’s Deputy General Manager V. Ramesh on Tuesday urged students to look beyond academics and aim to become all-rounders. Addressing the valedictory session of the Amaravati Balotsavam, organised at M.B. Vignana Kendram, Mr. Ramesh said in the current competitive world, securing good marks and ranks was not enough. Students should equip themselves with other social and cultural skills besides excelling in sports to be all-rounders. He said platforms like Balotsavam provide ample scope to them to enhance their creative talent. Amaravati Balotsava secretary Pinnamaneni Muralikrishna said the event ‘Maatalu-Paatalu’ witnessed participation of more than 600 children. Winners of various events like essay writing, personality development, patriotic songs and story-telling were given prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-balotsavam-evokes-good-response/article37656165.ece
24 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make Amaravati sole capital, demands Anitha||Telugu Mahila State president V. Anitha has demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should pass a resolution in the State Assembly in favour of developing Amaravati as the sole capital of Andhra Pradesh. “There are doubts over the motives behind the withdrawal of the laws pertaining to three capitals and the revival of the CRDA Act. Grapevines suggest that the YSRCP leaders are preparing ground for another huge land scam in the CRDA region,” Ms. Anitha told the media on Tuesday. Thousands of acres had been already acquired in this area and it would reap benefits once the prices shot up after the restoration of the CRDA Act, she said. The Chief Minister must fulfil the commitment he had made at the time of election to develop Amaravati as the capital, she said, adding the Amaravati agitation would intensify, if the ruling party MLAs and Ministers continued insulting others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-amaravati-sole-capital-demands-anitha/article37656170.ece
24 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor returns to Raj Bhavan||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, who was discharged from AIG Hospitals in Hyderabad, returned to Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. He was admitted to hospital after being diagnosed with COVID-19. Special Chief Secretary to the Governor R.P. Sisodia and Joint Secretary A. Shyam Prasad received Mr. Harichandan and his wife, Suprava Harichandan, at Raj Bhavan. The Governor thanked the people of the State for wishing him a speedy recovery and thanked the staff of AIG Hospitals for their care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-returns-to-raj-bhavan/article37656091.ece
24 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sniffer dog from SCR tops national contest||A Labrador Retriever named Remo of the South Central Railway’s (SCR) Vijayawada Division of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) secured first place in the explosives detection category in the All India RPF Dog Competitions. 37 dogs participated The competitions were held at the Zonal Training Centre, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu recently. In all, 37 dogs from 15 zones participated in the competitions. Remo stood top in explosives detection with high speed, said Senior Divisional Security Commissioner Valleswara B. Thokala. He appreciated Assistant Security Commissioner G. Madhusudhana Rao and dog handlers (RPF head constables) B. Vijaya Raju and G. Mahesh Babu for imparting high-quality training to Remo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sniffer-dog-from-scr-tops-national-contest/article37655597.ece
24 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kondapalli municipal chairperson election today||Kondapalli municipality chairperson election will be held on Wednesday as per the orders of the High Court. The officials were asked to arrange tight security for the election in view of recent events between the YSRCP and TDP which won equal number of seats in the municipality elections held recently. Both the parties won 14 wards each while one ward was won by an independent candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kondapalli-municipal-chairperson-election-today/article37656161.ece
24 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Integrated tourism policy will be brought out soon: Kishan Reddy||Union Minister of Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy visited the Buddhist heritage site at Bhavikonda, on the outskirts of the city, on Tuesday. An integrated tourism policy would be brought out soon for the promotion of tourism in a big and to promote it as an industry. Andhra Pradesh has vast scope for temple tourism, he told the media persons. The Centre has already sanctioned funds to Srisailam and Simhachalam temples under the PRASAD (Pilgrimage Rejuvenation And Spirituality Augmentation Drive) scheme and soon Annavaram temple would also be sanctioned funds under it, he said. Similarly, the Mahayana Buddhist circuit would be developed and beach coastal corridor would be developed in Kakinada and Nellore. The Central Tourism Ministry had sanctioned Rs. 234 crore to Andhra Pradesh and there was vast scope for development of tourism in Andhra Pradesh, he said. A Buddhist kshetram would be developed at a cost of Rs. 27 crore at Amaravati and tourism would be developed in a full-fledged manner in Visakhapatnam, the Union Minister said. Mr. Kishan Reddy said that measures were being taken to sanction Rs. 10 lakh to tour operators and Rs. 1 lakh to tour guides as loans. The announcement made by BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Amaravati as capital was the decision of the Centre, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/integrated-tourism-policy-will-be-brought-out-soon-kishan-reddy/article37655612.ece
24 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||117 girls fall sick after having dinner in KGBV hostel||As many as 117 girl students of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) at Paderu were hospitalised after they fell sick reportedly due food poisoning late on Monday night. The students alleged that the rice and sambar provided to them as dinner in the hostel was stale. The condition of the girls is said to be stable. There are about 284 students studying in the KGBV of which 53 were absent. Of the 231 students in the hostel, around 120 had their dinner in the first round on Monday night. About 15 minutes after dinner, 117 students had bouts of vomiting and stomachache, while a few of them fell unconscious. The students were shifted to the District Hospital at Paderu in ambulances and private vehicles by the school authorities and the locals. “The students were administered intravenous fluids. Their condition is said to be stable. They are likely to be discharged by the afternoon. However, the students will be under observation for at least five days,” Additional District Medical & Health Officer, Paderu, Leela Prasad said on Tuesday morning. He also said that the food and water samples had been collected from the hostel and they would be sent to lab for testing. Many students complained that the drinking water was a major issue in the hostel. They said the water tank was not cleaned, despite many complaints. Meanwhile, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna said a comprehensive enquiry would be conducted and strict action would be taken against those responsible. He met the students at the District Hospital. He said the students were being discharged in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/117-girls-fall-sick-after-having-dinner-in-kgbv-hostel/article37655608.ece
24 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps will be taken to spruce up city: official||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha said that steps are going to be taken to improve sanitation, solid waste management, sewerage treatment plant connectivity and development of wards with all amenities in the next one year. The GVMC will come up with a detailed action plan in coordination with people, officials, organisations to make things happen, he said. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Lakshmisha stressed upon the need to improve sanitation in the city and said that the civic body needs to ensure that there is adequate men, machine and materials. He said that the GVMC will upgrade sewerage network and sewerage treatment plants (STPs). “As of now, we have only 16,000 households connected to the network,” he added. The current inflow of two STPs at Mudasarlova and Apughar is 38 MLD. The GVMC is working on sewerage network upgradation in two areas in two phases at Pendurthi and Gajuwaka. Once the upgradation is completed, the STPs treatment capacity will increase with another 108 MLD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-will-be-taken-to-spruce-up-city-official/article37656177.ece
24 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||House plans: VARWA members stage protest||The members of Visakhapatnam Apartment Residents’ Welfare Association (VARWA) staged a protest near the GVMC office on Tuesday. VARWA president N. Prakash Rao and general secretary B.B. Ganesh alleged that the sachivalayam staff were demanding house plans and threatening to impose penalties against households, if they failed to submit the documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/house-plans-varwa-members-stage-protest/article37656178.ece
24 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four persons held for bid to smuggle ganja||The officials of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested four persons on charge of trying to smuggle ganja from the city. Sources in the SEB said that acting on the inputs from a recent ganja bust in Bhopal, the teams conducted raids in the city and made the arrests. The accused were allegedly using courier services for the illegal activity. One more member of the group is said to have escaped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-persons-held-for-bid-to-smuggle-ganja/article37656179.ece
24 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai Baba’s birth anniversary celebrated||Several service and spiritual activities marked Sri Sathya Sai Baba’s 96th birth anniversary at Ukkunagaram Sri Sathya Sai Mandir here on Tuesday. The day was filled with devotional, spiritual and service activities. The celebrations began with the soulful playing of ‘nadaswaram,’ chanting of Suprabhatam, Nagarasankirtana, recitation of Hanuman Chalisa and Rudrabhishekam followed by Jyoti Prajvalana by Nupur Bhatt, president, Visteel Mahila Samithi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sathya-sai-babas-birth-anniversary-celebrated/article37656173.ece
24 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure speedy completion of cruise terminal’||Union Minister of Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy said that there is immense potential for promotion of tourism in Visakhapatnam region and it will be developed in a big way. The Union Minister held a review meeting with officials here on Tuesday evening. Later, speaking to the media along with State Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Mr. Kishan Reddy said that he had asked the Visakhapatnam Port Trust officials to ensure early completion of the cruise terminal, being constructed at the port at a cost of about Rs. 100 crore. He said that the Union and the State governments have decided to observe the 125th birth anniversary of freedom fighter Alluri Sitarama Raju in Delhi next year. The State government has agreed to complete the construction of Alluri Sitarama Raju Museum by next year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-speedy-completion-of-cruise-terminal/article37656172.ece
24 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dr. K. Sarada Bai gold medal awarded||P. Anusha was awarded Dr. K. Sarada Bai gold medal for securing the highest marks in MS OBG 2021 in Andhra Medical College (AMC) at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (OBG) in the AMC on Tuesday. Principal P.V. Sudhakar presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dr-k-sarada-bai-gold-medal-awarded/article37656175.ece
24 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bapatla agri. college emerges overall champion at meet||NTR College of Agricultural Engineering- Bapatla emerged as the overall champion in athletics in the Inter-Collegiate Sports-Games, Cultural and Literary Meet held for five days in Srikakulam district. Agriculture College of Bapatla won in the girls’ category. College of Food Science and Technology-Pulivendula won first prize in sports and games and Naira Agriculture College of Srikakulam won in cultural and literary activities. Dean of Students Affairs of Acharya NG Ranga Agriculture University said that around 900 students participated in the competitions. Programme convener A. Rama Rao said that such a big sports meet was held for the first time in Srikakulam district. SKY College of Agricultural Sciences-Etcherla correspondent Budumuru Srirama Murthy, and University Board members Dr. L. Vijaya Bhaskar, Dr.Netaji distributed prizes to the winners at a function held on Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bapatla-agri-college-emerges-overall-champion-at-meet/article37656116.ece
24 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambiguity over capital issue hampered growth of N. Andhra: Ashok||Former Union Minister for Civil Aviation P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju has alleged that the State government’s ambiguity over the issues pertaining to the capital has hampered the development of the north coastal region including Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram. Referring to the repeal of the laws on three capitals, the TDP leader said setting up executive capital in Visakhapatnam would not benefit much as the people of the north Andhra region also wanted Amaravati as the capital, effective administration and overall development of all 13 districts in the State. Bhogapuram airport “The growth of the north Andhra region has come a halt with the uncertainty over the capital issue,” he said and expressed displeasure over the inordinate delay in the construction of Bhogapuram greenfield airport for which he had taken initiative as the Union Civil Aviation Minister. “The government had taken back 500 acres from the allocated 2,700 acres for the project. The remaining 2,200 acres is not sufficient for the construction of cargo and MRO facilities. The delay is depriving the region of growth and job opportunities,” said Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju. He alleged that the YSRCP government had no commitment to the development of the North Andhra region and that it was evident with the decision to take back 500 acres of land allocated to the Bhogapuram airport project,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ambiguity-over-capital-issue-hampered-growth-of-n-andhra/article37655610.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resolution urging Centre for BC Census adopted||“Unlike the previous Telugu Desam Party government that neglected the BCs, our government duly implemented every welfare scheme without any corruption, keeping eligibility as the only requirement. Besides welfare, BCs got a major share in posts, jobs, and schemes, as the State government enacted a law providing 50% reservation in all nominated posts and nominated works to all BC, SC, ST, and Minorities,” he said. He said the government had set up a permanent BC Commission and also sent two BC leaders to Rajya Sabha. He stated that 7 of the 13 Mayors, 6 of the 13 ZP chairpersons, 76 of the 196 market committee chairpersons, 201 of 484 nominated directors, 53 of the 137 corporation chairpersons belonged to BCs, besides establishing 56 BC Corporations. He assured to bring better initiatives and do more good for the communities in the coming days. Earlier, moving the resolution for caste-wise census of Backward Classes, Minister for Backward Classes, Chelluboina Srinivasa Venu Gopala Krishna said the conduct of caste census would help the government evolve schemes for the uplift of BCs. He said the State government had been implementing various flagship programmes for the welfare of BCs to bring socio-economic development. He explained in detail about the schemes which included Jagananna Amma Vodi, YSR Aasara Scheme, YSR Cheyutha Scheme, Jagananna Vasathi Deevena, Jagananna Vidya Deevena Scheme, YSR Pension Kanuka, Jagananna Saswatha Bhoo Hakku and others that were benefiting BC’s across the State. MLAs Karanam Dharmasri, K.V. Usha Sricharan, K. Venkata Nageswara Rao and Parthasaradhi hailed the Chief Minister for the State government’s welfare schemes and reiterated the need for bringing enumeration of BCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resolution-urging-centre-for-bc-census-adopted/article37656107.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water world||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-world/article37655559.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-woes/article37656167.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah Naidu visits Forest Research Centre||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu visited the Forest Research Centre here on Tuesday. He inaugurated the Marine Interpretation Unit at the centre and exhibition organised on the occasion. He expressed satisfaction at the research being conducted at thecentre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/venkaiah-naidu-visits-forest-research-centre/article37656176.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman develops resistance to 15 drugs, doctors alarmed||A few doctors here faced a unique situation a couple of days ago after coming across a 75-year-old female patient who has developed resistance to as many as 15 antibiotics! The list includes three drugs in reserve category. However, specialists say that it is not an isolated case. Doctors heading Intensive Care Units (ICUs) say they are increasingly coming across such patients, which is alarming. Given the situation, finding the next antibiotic which could work on such patients is proving to be a challenge. Head of Critical Care Division at Continental Hospitals, Palepu Gopal says a large number of COVID-19 patients who died did not succumb to the infection itself. “The reason for their deaths was multidrug-resistant secondary infections. They were resistant to all kinds of antibiotics,” he explains. Global threat World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared antimicrobial resistance (AMR) as one of the top 10 global health threats facing humanity. Antimicrobials include antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals and antiparasitics. The World Antimicrobial Awareness Week is celebrated from November 18 to 24 every year. This year, the theme is ‘Spread Awareness, Stop Resistance’. Vice-president of Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association (HRDA) Mohammad Jahangir, who brought to the fore the case of the woman resistant to 15 antibiotics, says quackery needs to be stopped as unqualified medical practitioners give high grade antibiotics along with steroids for simple fevers, when the medicines are not required. “This increases antibiotic resistance,” he adds. HRDA president K. Mahesh Kumar asserts that a few corporate hospitals also use broad spectrum antibiotics when it was not required. Apart from the indiscriminate prescription by unqualified practitioners, there could be three other reasons for the drug resistance, says President of Infection Control Academy of India, Ranga Reddy Burri. The first is use of antibiotics in livestock/ fisheries industries. Then there are companies discharging pharmaceutical effluents without treating it and that gets seeped into soil, thereby polluting crops and water. Finally, the habit of people popping pills for quick recovery with an eye to get back to work at the earliest. “Antibiotics are used by poultry, fisheries, and other meat growers as a prophylaxis to save the crop from possible infections. This is a misconception. Besides, it is believed that low doses of antibiotics promotes growth of the livestock,” he says.  Quackery needs to be stopped. Unqualified medical practitioners give high grade antibiotics along with steroids for simple fevers. This increases antibiotic resistance. Mohammad Jahangir, Vice-president, Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-develops-resistance-to-15-drugs-doctors-alarmed/article37655893.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Experts call for revamp of public health infrastructure||With the COVID caseload low, public health experts are urging the government to seriously consider strengthening preventive healthcare with surveillance systems in place before the next ‘wave’ or pandemic hits us. Certain short-term measures can be immediately initiated while other long term steps can be discussed and planned for implementation in phases for improving public health care, say experts at the Indian Institute of Public Health-Hyderabad (IIPH). Institute director G.V.S. Murthy, on Sunday, informed that initially, the serving personnel at different levels of the district, regional and State can be skilled through short duration programmes if they show willingness to join the public health cadre solely and not undertake clinical duties. Such personnel will need to have at least 10 years of experience at the sub-district level for district-level positions and at least 15 years of experience for State-level positions, covering primary to tertiary healthcare. Those with a post graduation in community medicine or public health (MD, DPH, MPH) will only need to attend a short reorientation course while all others will need a certified public health programme, he explained. Long-term measures include recruitment to a dedicated public health cadre from the block level onwards, of personnel with specific mandated public health qualifications with promotion based on seniority and qualification register. Those from clinical services cadre can be considered following a mandated public health course. Multidisciplinary cadre Such dedicated public health cadre will be multi-disciplinary, including nurses, doctors, health administrators etc. who can make a difference to the health indicators of Telangana from bottom to top tier. The government could consider appointing an expert committee with leading public health experts at State and national levels to deliberate on the public health cadre, architecture and establishment. The panel should be tasked to submit its recommendations within six months, suggested Dr. Murthy. Senior academic registrar at the Public Health Foundation of India’s institute, M. Jayaram pointed out that Telangana faced a double burden of diseases — emergence of non-communicable diseases adding to the existence of major communicable diseases like tuberculosis, diarrhoea and pneumonia along with vector-borne disease like malaria, dengue and chikungunya. The coronavirus pandemic has brought communicable diseases to the fore, so controlling both ends of the disease spectrum needs a concentrated effort with the responsibilities vested in a dedicated public health workforce. Within the country, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra with dedicated public health cadre have shown ‘remarkable’ progress in health indicators. A ‘good foundation’ of public health is considered complimentary to curative medicine, as a part of “Comprehensive Health Care” and a concept note was shared with the government for consideration, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/overhaul-public-health-infrastructure-say-experts/article37655890.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nizam’s grandson seeks rights in properties||Nawab Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of the last Nizam Nawab Mir Osman Ali Khan, has challenged Prince Mukarram Jah alias Nawab Mir Barkat Ali Khan’s sole ownership of the five prime properties in Hyderabad and Tamil Nadu, here in the City Civil Court on Monday. He has filed a suit seeking partition and separate possession by metes and bounds, of the properties — Falaknuma Palace, King Kothi Palace or Nazri Bagh, Chowmahalla Palace and Purani Haveli in Hyderabad, and Harewood and Cedars Bungalow in Udhagamandalam. Mr. Najaf Ali Khan, through a press release, claimed that Mr. Mukarram Jah, now the titular eighth Nizam of Hyderabad, was actually not in India when the Nizam executed the gift deed of the said properties in 1957. Gift deed “Knowing about the gift deed the Nizam made in his favour, Mukarram Jah had expressed unwillingness to accept the gift, as he was not sure about maintaining them with his meagre income. He orally gifted them back to the Nizam and a memorandum acknowledging the oral gift was also executed,” the claimant stated. “He is not the absolute owner. It is totally baseless and erroneous,” Mr. Najaf Ali Khan maintained, and alleged that Mr. Mukarram Jah continued to act like the sole owner through advocates and general power of attorney deprived the other heirs of the legitimate rights and shares, while also misguiding the authorities and the common public. Mr. Najaf Ali Khan’s advocate Md. Adnan Shaheed opined that Mr. Mukarram Jah was guilty of suppressing the material facts, and thereby the legitimate right and shares of all the heirs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nizams-grandson-seeks-rights-in-properties/article37655908.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Drones in agricultural farms get wings||Life science firm Bayer on Tuesday conducted a field demonstration on use of drones in agricultural operations at its multi-crop breeding centre in Chandipa, near Hyderabad. First such by the firm, it came on the back of Bayer securing approvals to conduct research and development and agriculture spraying operations to make the drone technology available for smallholders. Stating this the firm, in a release, said, drones can help support more targeted applications of insect, weed and disease-control products. The move will ensure correct dosage and also limit the risk of accidental exposure to chemicals. Besides, drones also offer real-time agronomic advisory to farmers, enhancing farm productivity and fostering sustainability, it said. CEO and managing director of Bayer CropScience D. Narain said, “We are proud of the results of our drone trial in Hyderabad. It showcases the potential of the future of farming. Drone applications are operating in other small farmer countries in Asia and have the potential to deliver significant value to smallholders in India.” Bayer said it has partnered with drone start-up General Aeronautics and conducted several in-house and external R&D trials with universities and central research institutions to generate data to make drone-based services available to farmers. Growers may be able to explore the technology’s capabilities in aiding paddy, corn, sugarcane, wheat, vegetables, fruits and plantation crops and harvests in the future, the company said. Union Minister of Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar, in a message on the occasion, said Bayer’s pilot project, on use of drones in agriculture, comes amid India’s giant strides in technology and digitalisation. “Use of drones in agriculture will revolutionise farm operations and empower our farmers especially the smallholders with information and applications that will help them enhance their yields and income in the in the long run. I appreciate Bayer’s efforts in early adoption of this technology,” he said. Seeking to highlight the government’s effort to create a liberalised policy framework that facilitates more participation by industry, academia and startups, Joint Secretary to Ministry of Civil Aviation Amber Dubey said, “We look forward to seeing the commercial application of agri-drones for the betterment of our farmers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drones-in-agricultural-farms-get-wings/article37655916.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre non-committal on paddy||The Central government has remained non-committal on the issue of purchase of paddy cultivated in the State during the just-concluded kharif season. The Centre has, at the same time, remained adamant on its stand that it will not purchase boiled/parboiled rice produced in Telangana. The decisions were announced after the marathon discussions were held between the delegation of the State government led by Minister K.T. Rama Rao with Union Ministers Piyush Goyal and Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday. The delegation comprised Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and other senior officials. The Central government postponed the discussions on the issue to November 26 without announcing any decision after the meeting. The State delegation led by Mr. Rama Rao made a fervent appeal to the Union government about the need to purchase paddy produced during the kharif season as also the anticipated produce during the yasangi (rabi) season. The delegation sought clarity on the quantum of rice that would be purchased through the FCI. Mr. Rama Rao demanded that the Centre give a clarity on the quantum and quality of paddy that would be purchased from Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-non-committal-on-paddy/article37655923.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Drug resistance surveillance offers multiple advantages’||Health experts and doctors have called for intensive surveillance to draw an estimate of the number of people in Telangana who have developed resistance to antibiotics, medicines which have become redundant and need not be procured by the government, and other advantages. President of Infection Control Academy of India, Ranga Reddy Burri said surveillance or research to understand the Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) level in the State will help figure out four things — microbes prevalent in a patient group or locality; the antibiotics that can be discarded; which antibiotics have to be kept in reserve, and define the medicine purchasing policy. Head of Critical Care Division at Continental Hospitals, Palepu Gopal said antibiotics are divided into three categories — regular, higher end and reserved. “The antibiotics in the reserve category have to be regulated, which is not done currently. In the United Kingdom, prescriptions containing reserve antibiotics have to go through infection control committees,” he explained.  Dr Ranga Reddy said our arsenal of antibiotics is limited and only a few more candidates are in the industry pipeline. Protecting drugs “It takes 10-15 years for a drug to clear all phases of clinical trials. Huge amounts of money are not invested in developing these medicines, unlike the funding available to develop cancer drugs, for instance. The reason is that the return of investment is low as the new drug will not be sold much if microbes become resistant to it. So we have to protect the existing line of antibiotics,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drug-resistance-surveillance-offers-multiple-advantages/article37655894.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Indira Gandhi’s role in 1971 war was exemplary’||The present regime in the country led by Narendra Modi is trying to dilute the monumental role of Indira Gandhi in the liberation of Bangladesh, but without her courageous decisions, the Bangladesh war could have continued for months, argued Praveen Davar, convenor of the AICC Commemoration Committee on Bangladesh Liberation War. Capt. Davar, who was speaking at a programme organised by Telangana Congress unit to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, said Indira Gandhi proved how decisive leadership can lead the country to victory. He said over 4,000 Indian soldiers made supreme sacrifice in the 1971 war while about 10,000 others were injured. Former TPCC president and Nalgonda MP, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, who himself served as an Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot, said the dynamic leadership of Indira Gandhi led to victory over Pakistan in just 13 days. He said Indira Gandhi did not succumb to the pressures of USA and China. Her strong leadership and unwavering commitment to the Bangladeshis was the decisive factor. Hailing the Indian armed forces, he said the army occupied 15,000 sq km of area and took 93,000 Pakistani solders as prisoners of war, paving the way for the creation of Bangladesh. This is a golden chapter in the history of Indian Army and the young generation should recall the sacrifices of our soldiers and the political leadership, he added. Lt. Gen. A.R.K. Reddy, who participated in the war, said Indira Gandhi travelled for 23 days to various countries during that time to convince the world why India was entering the liberation war. He revealed that then US President, Richard Nixon tried to ignore her argument and she had the courage to walk out of that meeting. Then she confabulated with Atal Behari Vajpayee, a leader in the opposition party then, and convinced him to go to United Nations to explain India’s position, which he did with aplomb. There was no politics when it came to the country and that’s why she managed the war so well, he said. She also neutralised several Arab nations with the political acumen giving an advantage to India’s position, the former Army officer averred. Lt Gen Reddy said exemplary leadership of the then Defence Minister Jagjivan Ram and military leadership of Army Chief Sam Manekshaw ensured that there was no escape for Pakistan. Tracing the history of the war, he said the present and future generations should be made aware of the great Indian victory, ultimately liberating Bangladesh. TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy and CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka also spoke while former MLA A. Maheshwar Reddy presided. A photo exhibition of the war organised at Gandhi Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indira-gandhis-role-in-the-1971-war-was-exemplary/article37655901.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AG to HC: Ex-Collector to tender unconditional written apology||Former IAS officer and newly-elected MLC P. Venkatrami Reddy would tender an unconditional written apology over his remarks on High Court and Supreme Court orders, Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the Telangana High Court on Tuesday. Appearing for the State before a Bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy, the AG said that the written apology would be placed before the Bench. Mr. Reddy, who served as Siddipet Collector for long, resigned from government service. Within two days of his resignation, ruling TRS supremo and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao fielded him as candidate for MLC post along with five others, all of whom got elected unanimously. A few weeks before his resignation during his stint as Collector, Mr. Reddy warned seed-sellers against selling paddy seeds to farmers as the State government decided to discourage paddy cultivation. Farmer moves HC In an open meeting with fertilizer shop owners and seed-selling agents, he allegedly stated that licences of persons selling paddy seed would be cancelled and they would not be revoked even if they get orders from the High Court or Supreme Court. A farmer, Bathula Narayana from Imambad village of the district, moved the HC questioning the remarks made by Mr. Reddy. Justice T. Vinod Kumar, who took a serious view of the Collector’s remarks, instructed the Registry to place the writ petition before the Chief Justice Bench as the comments would attract provisions of Contempt of Court Act. The contempt of case petition arising out of the writ petition was heard by the Division Bench headed by the CJ. Bench order On hearing content of the petition, the Bench passed an order issuing notice to the former bureaucrat and instructed him to reply within four weeks. When the AG presented his contention, the CJ sought to know if the former officer tendered any apology for making comments showing disregard to the HC and SC orders. “He should have apologised,” the CJ observed. The AG explained that the officer was ready to tender an apology when the writ petition came up for hearing before the single judge. A written unconditional apology would be placed before the Bench, he assured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ag-to-hc-ex-collector-to-tender-unconditional-written-apology/article37655914.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Airport ‘prime service’ for elderly, children||GMR Hyderabad International Airport has stated that its ‘GMR Prime’ guest services will help the aged, children, first-time travellers or anyone seeking quick passage to enjoy seamless service. From arrival at the airport, regardless of the airlines or class of travel, GMR Prime aims to provide express check-in, fast track security services, secured transit, assistance with luggage etc. Bonus amenities The facility with trained team is available for both domestic and international passengers during arrival, departures and transit, besides there is access to complimentary amenities in the lounge More details are available on ‘https://gmrprime.hyderabad.aero/departure-packages’, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/airport-prime-service-for-elderly-children/article37655897.ece
24 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Spiritual leader takes part in Green India Challenge||Spiritual leader and founder of Art of Living, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar planted a sapling as part of the Green India Challenge initiated by Rajya Sabha MP Santosh Joginapally. He planted an Indian gooseberry (amla) sapling at the Manasa Ganga Ashram in Shankarpalli. He was presented with ‘Vrikshavedam’ book by Green India Challenge representative Raghava. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ravi Shankar termed the programme as a gift to the nation and said Mr. Santosh’s idea of conserving nature with a view to safeguard future generations was ‘fantastic’. He felt that there was a need to plant saplings recognising the need of living beings. BC Commission chairman Vakula Bharanam Krishna Mohan Rao, Mallikarjun Reddy, Ashram representatives and other devotees were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spiritual-leader-joins-green-india-challenge/article37655903.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman found hanging||The body of a woman was found hanging near the National Investigation Agency office in Madhapur. Madhapur police identified the victim as Gumudavelli Srilatha (36). On Monday around 12.30 noon she left home after breakfast, switched off her phone and did not return. “There is no suspicion over anyone and it is a case of suicide due to psychological problems only,” police said.  [Roshini-suicide prevention helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-found-hanging/article37656121.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Contempt, if statues are installed on roads’||Telangana High Court on Tuesday said that contempt of court proceedings would be initiated suo motu if statues were erected or installed on public roads without permission. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy instructed the Chief Secretary to be attentive and cautious on the issue of installing statues on or in the middle of public roads. The bench was hearing a PIL petition on the issue of inconvenience caused to general public due to unauthorised erection of statues on roads. The bench reminded the authorities that the Supreme Court had earlier issued guidelines and categorically stated not to permit installation of idols on public roads, pavements and public places. A ny violation of the apex court’s guidelines on this matter would be taken seriously, the bench said. The bench recalled that in 2013 the then undivided erstwhile Andhra Pradesh government had issued an order prohibition installation of idols on public roads. Hereafter, suo motu contempt proceedings would be started against authorities and persons if any instances of installation of statues on public roads come to light, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/contempt-if-statues-are-installed-on-roads/article37655909.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR seeks clarity from Centre on paddy buying||The State Government has requested the Central government yet again to give clarity on purchase of paddy from Telangana. A delegation of Telangana Ministers, MPs and senior officials led by Minister K.T. Rama Rao called on Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday and briefed him about the crop yields in the State. Mr. Rama Rao was particular about the quantum of the food grain that the Centre was prepared to purchase from the State. He wanted the Centre to clarify as to the quantum of paddy that would be purchased and the form in which it would be made. Mr. Piyush Goyal was explained about the problems faced by the farmers on account of delays in the announcement of the Centre’s decision. Mr. Goyal met the Telangana delegation at Krishi Bhavan after participating in a meeting with a business delegation from the US. The Minister is understood to have assured Mr. Rama Rao that the Centre would clarify its stand on the issues raised by the Telangana delegation on November 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-seeks-clarity-from-centre-on-paddy-buying/article37656123.ece
24 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress fields Nirmala Jagga Reddy, Rayala||After weighing political options of staying away from the Local Body MLC elections, Telangana Congress finally decided to field candidates in Medak and Khammam districts while exploring the options of supporting Independents in other districts. Nirmala Jagga Reddy, wife of Sangareddy legislator T. Jayaprakash Reddy, filed the nomination from Medak distrct while Rayala Nageshwar Rao filed his candidature from Khammam district. The party has decided to support Independent candidate Vem Vasudev Reddy from Warangal district and will decide on supporting Independents in Nizamabad, Warangal and Nalgonda districts. “In the past, we had eight seats and TRS had only two MLA seats. The same may be repeated in future as well. We do have 230 votes and party leader should strive to get remaining votes to win the seat. Some TRS councillors, MPTCs and ZPTCs might be happy for Congress contesting the election. I appeal to them to vote for Congress candidate,” said Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy after accompanying Ms. Nirmala for filing nomination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-fields-nirmala-jagga-reddy-rayala/article37655925.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plug disparities in yield, output with tech: ICAR DG||There is the need to overcome disparities in production and productivity of crops in different States and areas in the country by making available modern technologies to the farming community, Director General of Indian Council of Agricultural Research Prof. Trilochan Mohapatra said. Speaking virtually from Delhi at the inaugural event of the five-day 5th International Agronomy Congress, jointly organised by PJTSAU and the Indian Society of Agronomy (ISA) here on Tuesday, he said the country was lagging behind in the production of oilseeds and there was need to focus on it to achieve self reliance and to save huge foreign exchange being spent on the import of edible oils. Effective and efficient use of water and land resources, reducing use of chemical fertilizers, bringing down costs of cultivation were the major challenges being faced by the agriculture sector now, he said. In his welcome address, Vice Chancellor of PJTSAU V. Praveen Rao, who is also the president of ISA, said the country had proved its capability as a major food producer in the world by ensuring that there was no shortage even during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plug-disparities-in-yield-output-with-tech-icar-dg/article37656122.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fintech firm to hire more for Hyderabad centre||Digital tax compliance and regulatory reporting software provider for businesses Zenwork, which has a development centre in Hyderabad, raised Rs. 1,200 crore recently from Spectrum Equity, a growth equity firm in the U.S. focused on internet-enabled software and information services companies. Most of the funds will be utilised for hiring, particularly at the Hyderabad facility, on building more products as well as enhancing sales and marketing efforts in key geographies, Zenwork co-founder and CEO Sanjeev Singh said. “We are looking at expanding operations in Hyderabad to support our global entities and aim to be a 200-member strong team by end of 2022,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fintech-firm-to-hire-more-for-hyderabad-centre/article37655896.ece
24 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Owaisi is ‘BJP ka bhatija’, ‘CM ka bhanja’, says Cong. leader||Former Minister and senior Congress leader Mohammed Ali Shabbir has accused AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi of yet again trying to benefit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Uttar Pradesh elections by raking up the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) suddenly and trying to polarise voters. In a statement here, he said Mr. Owaisi is perfectly playing the role of ‘Bhatija’ (nephew) of the BJP and concurred with the view of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who described the relationship between Owaisi and BJP as of ‘Chacha-Bhatija’ (uncle-nephew). He alleged that Mr. Owaisi had sabotaged the agitations against the CAA and NRC in different parts of the country, especially Telangana. “Asaduddin Owaisi and KCR share the ‘Mama-Bhanja’ relationship,” the former Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/owaisi-is-bjp-ka-bhatija-cm-ka-bhanja-says-cong-leader/article37655924.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR urged to keep promise made to ryots||Welcoming Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao for deciding to provide financial help to farmers who died in the nation-wide agitation, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka hoped that he would not turn back on his promise after meeting Home Minister Amit Shah. Mr. Vikramarka alleged that Mr. Rao had the habit of retracting on his promises and threats every time after he meets the Home Minister. “This time also he has gone to New Delhi to meet Mr. Shah and I hope he delivers the promise he made.” In a sarcastic tone, Mr. Vikramarka said that the CM had made similar promises to the families of the 1200-odd Telangana martyrs and the Assembly unanimously passed the resolution. However, only a few were compensated and there is no information on why the remaining were ignored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-urged-to-keep-promise-made-to-ryots/article37655926.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||153 new COVID cases in TS||Telangana recorded as many as 153 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total to 6,74,845. The GHMC region had the highest case burden with 60 infections. On the day, two more patients succumbed to the infectious disease, putting the death toll at 3,984. Of the total 36,570 samples put to test, results of 1,208 were awaited. Of the total cases, 3,533 were active as of Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/153-new-covid-cases-in-ts/article37655895.ece
24 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 2 - Picture briefly - Photo available =========== MCEME Commandant gets AVSM||President Ram Nath Kovind presented Ati Vishisht Seva Medal to MCEME Commandant and Colonel Commandant of the Corps of EME Lieutenant General Tirtala Subramanian Anantha Narayanan at the Defence Investiture Ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-2-picture-briefly-photo-available-mceme-commandant-gets-avsm/article37655899.ece
24 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||AP Governor discharged||Andhra Pradesh governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan was discharged from AIG Hospitals, Gachibowli, on Tuesday. He was admitted there on November 17 after testing positive for COVID-19. The governor was detected with moderate form of the infectious disease. “His clinical parameters showed complete recovery from the disease,” stated the hospital’s administration on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-governor-discharged/article37655912.ece
24 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Transfers and postings for officials||The State government gave postings to officers in different levels who were promoted to higher cadre recently. Accordingly, transfers and postings were given to 76 officials working as section officers, assistant secretaries (42), deputy secretaries (19), joint secretaries (10) and additional secretaries (9). Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued the orders on Monday stating that the orders will come into effect immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transfers-and-postings-for-officials/article37655921.ece
24 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||3 policemen suspended for corruption||Three policemen were suspended for corruption, Hyderabad City Police said on Tuesday. Chikkadpally Inspector P. Sivashanker Rao, sub-inspector from the same police station P. Narsing Rao, and P. Nagaraj Goud, a sub-inspector with the Central Crime Station, were suspended. “Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar placed under suspension the following officers with immediate effect for misconduct, corruption, moral turpitude and intimidating complainant,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-policemen-suspended-for-corruption/article37655929.ece
24 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||13 candidates file papers from Karimnagar LAC||As many as 13 candidates filed their nominations for the December 10 biennial election to the State Legislative Council from Karimnagar Local Authorities Constituency (LAC) on Tuesday, the last day for filing of nominations, taking the total number of candidates who joined the fray to 27. The TRS candidates, former MP L. Ramana and the incumbent MLC T. Bhanu Prasad Rao, submitted their nomination papers to Collector R.V. Karnan, who is the Returning Officer, at the Collectorate here on Tuesday afternoon. In an unexpected move, TRS local leader and former Karimnagar Mayor S. Ravinder Singh filed his nomination from the Karimnagar LAC as an Independent candidate on the last day of filing of nominations. In Khammam, Congress fielded R. Nageswara Rao from the Khammam LAC. Mr. Rao accompanied by a host of district Congress leaders filed his nomination at the Collectorate on Tuesday. TRS candidate Tata Madhusudhan filed three sets of nomination papers on Tuesday afternoon. Independent candidate K. Sudha Rani also entered into the fray from Khammam LAC by filing her nomination papers on Tuesday. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is November 26. The biennial election for 12 MLC seats from nine LACs, including Adilabad, Warangal, Nalgonda, Medak, Nizamabad, Khammam, Karimnagar, Mahabubnagar and Ranga Reddy, is scheduled to be held on December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/13-candidates-file-papers-from-karimnagar-lac/article37655928.ece
24 November 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Kishan has no knowledge on paddy: Harish||Minister for Finance and Health Harish Rao alleged that Union Tourism Minister Kishan Reddy was speaking about paddy procurement without any knowledge on the subject. He said that only boiled rice can be made from paddy produce during summer and it was not possible to make raw rice as stated by the Union Minister. “We are repeatedly saying the same thing. Let him come to the field and meet farmers,” Harish Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-has-no-knowledge-on-paddy-harish/article37655918.ece
24 November 2021||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||SCCL organising short film contest||To foster social awareness and promote local talent, the Public Relations wing of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) is organising a short-film contest as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to commemorate 75 years of India’s independence. The competition is open to SCCL employees and their immediate family members, talented short filmmakers and artists of the coal belt and its surrounding areas, SCCL sources said. The short films should be of a maximum of 10 minutes duration each in Telugu/Hindi/English languages based on message-oriented social themes. The competition will be conducted on the specified themes such as Environmental Protection, Patriotism/Organisational Commitment, Mines Safety, Women Empowerment, Road Safety, role of family head/member of a family in COVID-19 safety precautions, eradication of corruption and social service. Big prize money The top three short films of the contest at the company level will receive a cash prize of Rs. 75,000, Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 30,000 respectively. Area-wise, the two best short films will be selected and presented with a cash prize of Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 10,000 respectively, said SCCL sources. Those interested can send their entries to the SCCL General Managers concerned of their respective areas through a CD, DVD, USB drive in the prescribed formats till 5 p.m. on December 31, 2021. Entries will be judged by the panel of jury comprising subject experts in filmmaking and senior officials of the SCCL Hyderabad office on the basis of elements of creativity, originality, composition, simplicity, merit and visual impact on the given themes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-organising-short-film-contest/article37656119.ece
24 November 2021||Sarvail,TELANGANA||Golden Jubilee of Sarvail residential school held||It’s been 50 years since a golden chapter was written in the school education pages of Telangana, with the late Prime Minister and then Chief Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao inaugurating the Andhra Pradesh Residential School in Sarvail village in Nalgonda district on November 23, 1971. The alumni association celebrated the ‘golden’ day with the Telangana Director General of Police (DGP) M. Mahender Reddy, an alumnus of the school, planting saplings and distributing prizes to the winners of various events conducted for the school children by the alumni association. The DGP attributed his success in life to the Sarvail school and said it shaped his thinking leading to cracking the Civil Services. Give wings to your ideas and don’t be afraid to take the leap, he said. The DGP and other members of the association garlanded the statues of P.V. Narasimha Rao; land donor Maddi Narayana Reddy and Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on the occasion. He also inspected the ongoing works of the new buildings being constructed by the government spending Rs. 17 crore. Alumni Association president B. Narender Reddy; vice-president S. Mallesham; general secretary Rajashekhar Reddy; Organising secretary S. Vijayaraju and Treasurer, Vivekanand were among those present. The main celebrations of the golden jubilee will be held in December. The school is now renamed as the Telangana State Residential School Centre of Excellence and falls in Yadadri district. The Sarvail school is the role model for all residential schools across the country as P.V. Narasimha Rao as the Union HRD Minister replicated the same by establishing Navodaya Vidyalayas in backward districts of the country when Rajiv Gandhi was the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/golden-jubilee-of-sarvail-residential-school-held/article37655911.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Paddy procurement going on at a snail’s pace||Despite assurances by officials and public representatives, paddy procurement has been moving at a snail’s pace worrying farmers. Any dark cloud has been sending shivers down their spine as paddy spread by some of the farmers got damaged and incurred huge loss. According to sources, lack of required number of lorries and stock already piled up at rice mills was stated to be one of the reasons for the delay in procurement. At several places farmers had already held protest demanding that the government procure paddy on war footing. On Tuesday also farmers in Medak town and Shamnapur village in Havelighanapur mandal held dharna demanding lorries and lifting of paddy. The dharna was held beyond party lines. It was stated that the paddy sprouted at drying platforms in Jhansilingapur village in Shankarampet mandal. On Monday also farmers held dharna at several places. Even officials were admitting that there was a delay in paddy procurement. For instance take the case of Medak district. As many as 390 paddy procurement centres (PPC) were established in the district to purchase about 4 lakh metric tonnes of paddy and so far 1.27 lakh metric tonnes was procured. In the case of Siddipet, as many as 412 PPCs were established and it was expected that about 6.86 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was expected for procurement. About one lakh metric tonnes of paddy was procured so far and the remaining would be completed in the next few weeks depending on the availability of space. Meanwhile, TPCC working president Jayaprakash Reddy visited Medak market yard on Tuesday and interacted with farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/procurement-of-paddy-sluggish/article37655917.ece
24 November 2021||Agartala,||Tripura CM, party MLA in verbal bickering||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar compared party MLA Sudip Roy Barman, his baiter, with Mir Jafar and Jaichand soon after the latter criticised his Government and held him responsible for the current phase of political violence in the State. Speaking exclusively with a group of television journalists on Tuesday, the Chief Minister alleged that “Mir Jafar and Jaichand type of people become active before every election and they are now trying to cause damage to the party ahead of the civic elections slated for November 25”. Violence, clashes, targeted attacks and apathy of the police have overshadowed the poll campaigning which ended at 4 p.m. on Tuesday. Top leaders of new entrant Trinamool Congress and the ruling BJP regularly engaged in spats, while the main Opposition CPI(M) had silently carried out its campaign. Chief Minister Deb did not say who the Mir Jafar and Jaichand were but his comments were thought to be aimed at Sudip Roy Barman and his dissident camp mate MLA Asish Kumar Saha. Earlier in the day, the duo spoke at length to criticise the Chief Minister without naming him, his Government for alleged gross failures and the police for apathy. In a harsh voice, Mr. Barman, who was axed from the Cabinet after the Lok Sabha poll in 2019, alleged “there is no democracy in Tripura”. He mocked the Chief Minister stating “a parachutist is now leading the helm of affairs of the State” and “his [Mr. Deb’s) days are now numbered”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tripura-cm-party-mla-in-verbal-bickering/article37655786.ece
24 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP: press ‘broom’ for revolution in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced over half-dozen assurances for trade and industrial development in poll-bound Punjab, if the party comes to power in the State. Mr. Kejriwal, who was in Amritsar as part of his ‘Mission Punjab’ programme, held a meeting with traders and industrialists and shared the party’s strategies after listening to their problems and needs. His assurances included setting up of a commission, comprising traders and businessmen, to make decisions and formulate policies, abolishing ‘inspector raj’, fixing VAT refunds, ensuring power supply, setting up of a Punjab Bazaar portal, improving law and order and construction and development of focal points. “Punjab’s land has great potential to revolutionise. But due to the wrong policies of the Congress and the Akali Dal, the youth are going abroad. Therefore, every trader, entrepreneur, farmer, labourer, woman, and student of Punjab must press the ‘broom’ button once to bring a revolution in the State,” he said. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi hit back and termed the AAP chief a rumour-monger. “Kejriwal is making hollow promises whereas my Government is delivering good governance. People should not be misled by false claims.” Mr. Channi also attacked former CM Capt. Amarinder Singh, accusing him of conniving with the Shiromani Akali Dal and BJP to harm the interests of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/press-broom-for-revolution-in-punjab-aap/article37655757.ece
24 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||A chance to own a rare vintage beauty||For those interested in car collection, here is an opportunity to own some rare vintage cars ranging from the 1924 Austin 7, fondly known as “Baby Austin”, and1947 Chrysler Windsor, a luxury sedan, to an ex-Indian Army Mahindra Jeep from 1971 Indo-Pak war. In a first-of-its-kind event in India, 20 vehicles from a bygone era, would be up for grabs in an online auction from December 3-9. The preview for the event to be held by Historic Auction, the country’s first specialist automobile and automotive fine arts auction house, will be open to the public from November 24-27 at the Museo Camera in Sector 28 here. Besides the cars, 15 pieces of automotive art — paintings by renowned filmmaker and artist Raja Muzaffar Ali — will also go under the hammer. Historic Auctions chief executive officer Amal Tanna told The Hindu that the event, aimed at automotive enthusiasts and high net-worth individuals, had many firsts to boast about such as the Indo-Pak jeep with no reserve price, a Land Rover belonging to an ex-royal family of Kutch and an assurance to the winner to have the vehicle restored in a colour of their choice. Fetch higher bids “The vehicles up for auction have a minimum reserve price, except the jeep. Of the vintage cars, the 1959 Cadillac Sedan made famous by Hollywood film Cadillac Pink has the highest reserve price in the range of Rs. 1 crore to 1.20 crore, but we expect it to fetch higher bids. It is an extremely unique and one-of-its-kind car in the country in this condition,” said Mr. Tanna. The proceeds from the auction of the cars, belonging to different personalities across the country, will be donated to different foundations. While the proceeds from the Indo-Pak war jeep will be donated to Army Veterans’ Welfare Group, those from the paintings are pledged to Kotwara Welfare Trust working for the upliftment of artists and craftsmen. “The auction of paintings is open to all across the world, but the cars are only for the residents of India with restrictions on their export,” said Mr. Tanna. Mr. Ali, speaking at a press meet for the event, said the whole journey of understanding and appreciating the old machines had come of age today and it was really a milestone in a culture when people begin to respect, value and cherish old things. “For me these cars are not just beauties in themselves, but are full of memories. Each car for me is a story, a place and a person. It is the child inside you that makes you fall in love with a car. We need to see them with our inner eyes or they are just pieces of metal,” said Mr. Ali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-chance-to-own-a-rare-vintage-beauty/article37655768.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks Govt.’s stand on plea against liquor outlet in locality||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Delhi Government to respond to a plea by a group of residents challenging the proposed opening of a liquor shop outside their locality in Jangpura here. The residents of Jangpura-A have contended that no wine shop is permitted to be opened within 100 metres of any educational institution, religious place or hospital. Justice Yashwant Varma said he will consider issuing notice to the licence holder of the wine shop only after getting response from the Delhi Government and the Commissioner (Excise, Entertainment, and Luxury Tax). The High Court listed the petition for further hearing on December 3. The petition said the proposal for opening of the wine or beer shop at the place was against the provisions of relevant laws, rules, including the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22. The plea said in terms of a clause of the Delhi Excise Policy and the Delhi Excise Rules, 2010, no wine/beer shop is permitted to be opened within 100 metres of any major educational institution, religious place or hospitals with 50 beds and above. “The proposal for opening of a wine/beer shop at the said place is taken without adhering to the aforesaid provisions of rules as there are not only more than one religious places like temple, gurdwara but also school and hospital,” the plea said. It added that, “Arya Samaj Mandir with a school is situated at 30 metres, Kanthi Mata Mandir is at the distance of 60 metres, Mai Ka Gurdwara is at the distance of 90 metres, and a municipal hospital is at the distance of 60 metres”. It said the residents of Jangpura-A and Bhogal have made a complaint to their councillor and the Member of Legislative Assembly of the area and a meeting was convened where concerns regarding law and order problem, danger to children, women, and elderly people were also addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-govts-stand-on-plea-against-liquor-outlet-in-locality/article37655758.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal’s promises ahead of Punjab polls a bundle of lies: BJP||The BJP on Tuesday attacked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for his poll-related announcements in Punjab and accused the AAP-led Delhi Government of stifling the voice of the Opposition in the Capital. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said convening the Delhi Assembly for a one-day session on November 26 in the name of winter session was “murder of democracy”. “Kejriwal calls himself the son of Delhi but is not giving social welfare pensions to elders and widows here for several months. He has shamelessly announced Rs. 1,000 per month stipend for women in Punjab,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said while interacting with slum residents in north-west Delhi. Mr. Bidhuri called the announcements made by the Chief Minister in Punjab “a bundle of lies” and said that while Mr. Kejriwal was asking for votes in Punjab in the name of Delhi, the residents in the Capital were fed up with the AAP Government. Extend session He also said that the Delhi Government does not want to face opposition in the House and was running away from discussing the problems of the people. “The BJP Legislature Party has demanded from the Speaker that the winter session should be held for at least 10 days,” the leader said. A meeting of the Delhi BJP Legislature Party was held on Tuesday under the chairmanship of Mr. Bidhuri in which all the party MLAs, including Vijender Gupta, Mohan Singh Bisht, Omprakash Sharma, Jitendra Mahajan, Anil Bajpai, Ajay Mahawar and Abhay Verma participated. “The MLAs condemned the decision of the Kejriwal Government that the winter session would be only for a day and there would be no question hour,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwals-promises-ahead-of-punjab-polls-a-bundle-of-lies-bjp/article37655763.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. initiative to make Capital roads safer||The Delhi Government on Tuesday threw open ‘Tactical Urbanism’ (TU) trials at Rajghat here aimed at improving road safety in the Capital. TU trials are temporary, quick and relatively low-cost interventions which test urban design, transportation planning and infrastructural changes aimed at improving road safety for all users, especially the most vulnerable among them — pedestrians, cyclists and other non-motorised transport users. For two months The Delhi Government has collaborated with SaveLIFE Foundation to work on road safety to make the city streets safer through such trials which will be conducted for two months. The trials will also involve the DelhiTraffic Police, the Public Works Department (PWD) and SWAYAM charitable trust as important stakeholders. As part of the Zero Fatality Corridor (ZFC) Project with the Delhi Transport Department, SaveLIFE Foundation tests temporary urban design interventions to improve safety for pedestrians, cyclists, and other road users starting this week.“The trials will see road space being redistributed to ensure modal equity, road geometries being modified, traffic being channelised, vehicular speeds being reduced, and pedestrian and cyclist safety infrastructure being added,” the Government said. The Transport Department had earlier signed an MoU for the reduction of crashes at 13 intersections in Delhi. Similar trial Two years ago, a similar urbanism trial was also conducted on Bhalswa Chowk which, the Government said, yielded positive results and reduced crash fatalities. “Through these tactical urbanism trials, earlier at Bhalswa Chowk and now at Rajghat, we aim to develop a comprehensive network of safe roads and junctions across the city,” Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said. Transport Commissioner Ashish Kundra said the objective of these trials is to insert safety elements for all road users. Since 2016, the Rajghat intersection and Rajghat bus depot collectively witnessed 47 crashes, 13 fatalities and 51 injuries, he said. “These trials are aimed at making the intersection safe for all in an inclusive, cheap and quick manner,” he added. Piyush Tewari, SaveLIFE Foundation CEO, said, “Our zero-fatality corridor model extensively uses evidence to determine the best solution to save lives. At Rajghat, we have followed a six-point intervention strategy to redesign the junction.” Minimising conflict According to Mr. Tewari, all elements at Rajghat focus on either reducing the speed, or minimising conflict. “Through these interventions we have managed to reduce the Pedestrian Exposure Distance by about 50% and Pedestrian Exposure Time by 30%,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-initiative-to-make-capital-roads-safer/article37655765.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Cong. to oppose new liquor vends||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday said that it would continue to oppose the city Government’s new liberalised excise policy. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said permission has been given to open liquor vends in residential areas, unauthorised colonies, JJ clusters and unauthorised buildings, without taking the consent of women groups, Residents’ Welfare Associations and religious bodies. “Due to this retrograde policy, there are 18 Assembly constituencies which will have 216 new liquor vends, instead of the previous five. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, on one hand has promised to eradicate the vice of liquor and drug addiction in Punjab in his tours ahead of the election, and on the other hand is turning Delhi into a ‘Nashe Ki Rajdhani’ with a liberalised excise policy,” Mr. Kumar said. Leader of the Congress party in the South Delhi Municipal Corporation Abhishek Dutt said that he will move a resolution in the House meeting on November 25 to oppose any move to open liquor vends in residential areas and unauthorised buildings. “The Kejriwal Government could provide only 440 jobs in the past seven years, but opened 864 liquor vends to make easy availability of liquor across Delhi,” Mr. Dutt said. The Congress said the BJP and the AAP were silent on the excise policy and the BJP-ruled municipal corporations were giving no objection certificates to open liquor vends, which shows that both parties were working together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-cong-to-oppose-new-liquor-vends/article37655760.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||SDMC budget proposes a hike in property tax||Seeking to augment its revenue, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday proposed in its budget to increase the property tax levied on residential and commercial properties, and reduce the number of rate slabs from three to two. In response, the Aam Aadmi Party accused the BJP of increasing residential and commercial property tax by 14%. ‘Budget lacks vision’ “The BJP has presented a budget which completely lacks vision and only includes ways of looting Delhi and its people. Tax on houses in Delhi has been increased from 12% to 14%. Tax on commercial property has been increased to 20%. Tax exemption for senior citizens, differently-abled and women on purchase of property has been reduced from 30% to 20%,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar said it appeared that AAP leaders like Durgesh Pathak either didn’t have knowledge of the municipaladministration’s working or they intentionally ignored it to try and score political points against the BJP-ruled civic bodies. “People of Delhi should remain assured that the BJP leadership of SDMC will not allow a rise in any tax nor will allow [a] reduction in any waivers. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta has already instructed SDMC leadership in this regard,” he said. In another development, the AAP claimed that after the intervention of MLA Vishesh Ravi, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has fined and vacated a school from an acre of land it had illegally encroached in the Karol Bagh area for the past 35 years. “After 35 years of struggle, a sports complex for SC/ST children will be built in this space as promised”, said Mr. Ravi.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sdmc-budget-proposes-a-hike-in-property-tax/article37655770.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC pulls up municipal bodies for failing to control dengue spread||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday expressed its distress over the spread of dengue in the city, saying that the concerns raised by it for the lack of efficient functioning of municipal employees have “fallen on deaf ears”. The court was hearing South Delhi Municipal Corporation's (SDMC) plea against the Delhi Government's decision to seek retrospective recovery of grants-in-aid from municipal bodies. A Bench headed by Justice Vipin Sanghi said that this year witnessed a “big surge” in the number of dengue cases, which resulted in several fatalities, and sought an affidavit from the municipal body on the steps taken by it to control mosquito breeding. The SDMC counsel told the court that he shall communicate with the municipal commissioners of all the three corporations and place before it the steps taken. Questioning if the spread of dengue was “rocket science”, the court asked the civic body to state its action plan to deal with the disease, the number of infections this year, and the reason behind any increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-pulls-up-municipal-bodies-for-failing-to-control-dengue-spread/article37655771.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||3 men held for cheating firms of Rs. 10 crore||Three men were arrested for allegedly cheating companies of more than Rs. 10 crore by selling them properties that were already mortgaged with a bank, the police said on Tuesday. Based on an investigation, accused Rishi Arora, Umesh Azad and Manoj Dwivedi were arrested on Monday by the Economic Offences Wing of the city police in connection with a case registered against them in 2018. The trio cheated the complainant companies by selling the properties already mortgaged with a bank and duping them of over Rs. 10 crore, the police said, adding further investigation is under way. Complainant Vinod Kumar Rajpaul, director of two companies and its sister concern, filed two different complaints against Shri Colonizers and Developers Pvt. Ltd. and its directors alleging that the land sold by the accused was already put as security against a bank loan of Rs. 15 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-men-held-for-cheating-firms-of-rs-10-crore/article37655759.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC concerned over Chandni Chowk project||“The ‘vanvas’ should be over by now” as even the epic Ramayana did not last for over 14 years, the Delhi High Court observed on Tuesday while expressing concern over the pendency of a matter related to redevelopment of the Chandni Chowk here since 2007. “This petition has been going on since 2007… Even the Ramayana did not last for more than 14 years. The ‘vanvas’ should be over by now. What is going on?” a Bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani said. The court made the observation while hearing an application filed in the pending petition by NGO, Manushi Sangathan, on the issue of redevelopment of the Chandni Chowk area and creation of lanes for non-motorised vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-concerned-over-chandni-chowk-project/article37655761.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Favourable winds help improve AQI||The air quality of Delhi improved to the “poor” category on Tuesday and is likely to remain in the upper end of “poor” category to the lower end of the “very poor” category over the next three days, as per authorities. Gufran Beig, founder and project director of SAFAR, said the air quality had improved as the surface level wind speed was high — above 6 km/hr. The transport-level winds, which bring in smoke from stubble burning in the neighbouring States to Delhi, too slowed down. On Tuesday, the contribution of stubble burning in the neighbouring States to PM2.5 in Delhi was only 3% and the effective fire count in the region was down to 770 from 909 a day earlier, as per SAFAR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/favourable-winds-help-improve-aqi/article37655769.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Driverless trains to run on Pink Line from Nov. 25||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has said that its driverless trains will formally start operating on the Pink Line corridor from November 25. Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Puri and Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot will inaugurate the driverless train operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/driverless-trains-to-run-on-pink-line-from-nov-25/article37655773.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 27 new COVID cases, no death||The city reported 27 new COVID-19 cases and no death in 24 hours for the eight consecutive day, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Tuesday. The caseload now stands at 14,40,719 and the death toll at 25,095. So far, 14,15,328 people have recovered and there are 296 active cases. A total of 49,590 tests were done on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-27-new-covid-cases-no-death/article37655774.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi University to put out special cut-off list on Wednesday for UG courses||Delhi University will release a cut-off list under a special drive to fill vacant seats in different colleges on Wednesday, according to officials. The university had sought data of vacant seats from the colleges on Saturday. Some colleges have not yet sent the data, said an official, adding that the institutions can send in the numbers by 1 p.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-university-to-put-out-special-cut-off-list-on-wednesday-for-ug-courses/article37655762.ece
24 November 2021||Taipei,||U.S. warship transits Taiwan Strait after Biden-Xi summit||A U.S. warship sailed through the strait separating Taiwan and China on Tuesday, the Navy said, the first such passage since leaders from the two rival superpowers held a video summit. The passage through the Taiwan Strait by the Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Milius was a routine transit, the U.S. Seventh Fleet said. The voyage, the 11th declared freedom of navigation exercise of the year, “demonstrates the U.S. commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific,” it said in a statement. The latest transit came after U.S. President Joe Biden and China’s Xi Jinping traded strong warnings on the future of Taiwan at a virtual summit earlier this month. Chinese state media reported after the summit that Mr. Xi cautioned Mr. Biden that encouraging Taiwanese independence would be “playing with fire”. U.S. warships periodically conduct freedom of navigation sailings through the strait, often triggering angry responses from Beijing, which claims Taiwan and the surrounding waters as its own territory. The United States and many other countries view the route as international waters open to all. A growing number of U.S. allies have transited the route as Beijing intensifies its military threats towards Taiwan and solidifies its control over the disputed South China Sea. British, Canadian, French and Australian warships have all made passages through the Taiwan Strait in recent years, sparking protests from Beijing. China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian slammed the latest transit as a “deliberate attempt to disrupt and undermine regional peace and stability”. “The U.S. should immediately correct its mistake, stop stirring up trouble, crossing the line and playing with fire,” he warned. Collin Koh, a research fellow at Singapore’s S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, keeps a database of declared U.S. transits through the Taiwan Strait. Mr. Koh said western navies see the transits “as routine passage in the exercise of high seas freedoms and rights through the waterway”. “These days, these transits are routinised and publicised simply to emphasise the above mentioned established facts of how maritime user states exercise such freedoms and rights||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-warship-transits-taiwan-strait-after-biden-xi-summit/article37655373.ece
24 November 2021||Washington,||U.S. to release 50 mn barrels of oil to ease soaring prices||President Joe Biden announced on Tuesday he has ordered the release of 50 million barrels of oil from the U.S. strategic reserves in a coordinated attempt with other countries to tamp down soaring fuel prices. “This release will be taken in parallel with other major energy consuming nations including China, India, Japan, Republic of Korea and the United Kingdom,” the White House said. A senior administration official told reporters this was “the first time we’ve done something like this in parallel with other” countries. As the world emerges from the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns, oil production has not kept pace with rocketing demand, pushing prices up. In the United States, an associated rise in gasoline prices is one of the main culprits in a surge of inflation. Mr. Biden’s announcement comes as Americans prepare for the holiday season, when travel ramps up. Average fuel prices at filling stations are $3.41 a gallon, the highest level since 2014, according to latest figures from the AAA motorists’ association. This represents an increase of $1.29 over gasoline prices a year ago. The U.S. reserves, held in underground depots in Texas and Louisiana, are the largest emergency supply of oil in the world. A senior administration official said the releases would start in mid- to late December, and that further intervention was possible to steady the market, “responding to a once-in-a-century pandemic”. “As the President has said, consumers are facing pain at the pump right now,” the official said. “The President stands ready to take additional action if needed and is prepared to use his full authorities, working in coordination with the rest of the world, to maintain adequate supply as we exit the pandemic.” As output rises, oil prices are already down nearly 10% in the past few weeks. But officials echoed Mr. Biden’s repeatedly stated concerns that despite easing of crude values, prices of gasoline for drivers have only gone up. This has hurt ordinary Americans, while driving a sharp dive in Mr. Biden’s approval ratings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-release-50-mn-barrels-of-oil-to-ease-soaring-prices/article37655363.ece
24 November 2021||geneva,||UN raises $600 mn for Afghanistan aid||The United Nations said on Tuesday that its flash appeal for more than $600 million to support the humanitarian response in Afghanistan until the end of the year was now fully funded. According to the United Nations, Afghanistan is on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe, with more than half of its population at risk of not having enough to eat during the coming winter. Following the Taliban takeover of the country in August, the UN held a ministerial meeting in Geneva in September, asking international donors for urgent support. “We can now report that the flash appeal is 100% funded,” Jens Laerke, a spokesman for the UN humanitarian agency OCHA, told reporters in Geneva. The main donors were the United States, European countries and Japan, who helped reached the total funding goal of $606 million. The funds are directed towards helping the 11 million most deprived people in Afghanistan. Mr. Laerke said that between September 1 and November 15, the UN and its non-governmental organisation partners provided food assistance to 7.2 million people. They also provided healthcare to nearly 9, 00,000 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-raises-600-mn-for-afghanistan-aid/article37655371.ece
24 November 2021||Paris,||Countries must prepare for future food ‘shocks’, says FAO||Countries must prepare for future “shocks” to their agricultural and food systems from droughts, floods or diseases following the fallout from the coronavirus pandemic, a UN agency said on Tuesday. “The COVID-19 pandemic has left the fragilities of national agri-food systems widely exposed,” the Food and Agriculture Organization said in an annual report. “An obvious reason to address these fragilities is, of course, the unwelcome increase in food insecurity and malnutrition,” the FAO said in the document on the state of the agri-food business. Agri-food systems include production, food supply chains, transport networks and consumption. Three billion people around the world already cannot afford a healthy diet to protect themselves against malnutrition, the FAO said. “An additional one billion people are at risk as they would not be able to afford a healthy diet if a shock were to reduce their incomes by one-third,” the report said. In a report in July, the FAO said that between 720 million and 811 million people faced hunger in 2020 — some 161 million more than in 2019, largely due to the pandemic. “Risk management strategies for shocks such as droughts, floods and pests — including multi-risk assessments, timely forecasts, early warning systems and early action plans — are key to help all agri-food systems... prevent and anticipate major disruptions,” the FAO said in Tuesday’s report. The FAO has established “resilience” indicators to help countries identify vulnerabilities in their food systems. The indicators measure the robustness of a country’s primary production, the extent of food availability, and the degree of people’s access to adequate food. Countries can “look for their weaknesses” and fix them through these tools, said FAO economist Andrea Cattaneo, the coordinator of the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/countries-must-prepare-for-future-food-shocks-says-fao/article37655366.ece
24 November 2021||Washington,||Apple sues Israeli spyware maker NSO||Apple sued spyware maker NSO on Tuesday for targeting the users of its devices, saying the Israeli firm at the centre of the Pegasus surveillance scandal needs to be held to account. The suit adds new trouble for NSO, which was engulfed in controversy over reports that tens of thousands of activists, journalists and politicians were listed as potential targets of its Pegasus spyware.  “To prevent further abuse and harm to its users, Apple is also seeking a permanent injunction to ban NSO Group from using any Apple software, services, or devices,” the iPhone maker said in a statement announcing the lawsuit. “NSO Group creates sophisticated, state-sponsored surveillance technology that allows its highly targeted spyware to surveil its victims,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/apple-sues-israeli-spyware-maker-nso/article37655584.ece
24 November 2021||Bosnek,||46 killed in Bulgaria tourist bus crash||Forty-six people, including a dozen minors, were killed after their tourist bus caught fire on a Bulgarian highway early on Tuesday in Europe’s deadliest road accident in the past decade. A cause has yet to be determined but officials believe the bus crashed into the guardrails and caught fire while travelling from Istanbul in Turkey to Skopje in North Macedonia. There were no other vehicles involved in the accident, which occurred around 2 a.m. on a highway about 40 kilometres from Sofia, near the village of Bosnek. Seven people — five men and two women — survived. “Unfortunately, there are many victims, 46, including 12 minors,” North Macedonian Health Minister Venko Filipce told public BNT television after visiting the survivors in a Sofia hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/46-killed-in-bulgaria-tourist-bus-crash/article37655361.ece
24 November 2021||Beijing,||‘Peng case maliciously hyped up’||China on Tuesday said the controversy surrounding Peng Shuai was being “maliciously” hyped up, after the Chinese tennis star made sexual assault claims against one of the nation’s most powerful politicians. Ms. Peng, a Wimbledon and French Open doubles champion, was not seen for more than two weeks after she made the accusations against former Vice-Premier Zhang Gaoli. The 35-year-old Ms. Peng reappeared in public for the first time at the weekend when she was seen attending a Beijing tennis tournament. “I think some people should stop deliberately and maliciously hyping up, let alone politicise this issue,” said Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian in response to a question on whether the case affected China’s international image.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/peng-case-maliciously-hyped-up/article37655364.ece
24 November 2021||Manila,||Manila accuses Beijing of harassment||The Defence Minister of the Philippines on Tuesday accused the Chinese coastguard of “intimidation and harassment” after Philippine Navy personnel were filmed and photographed unloading goods in the disputed South China Sea. Tensions over the resource-rich waters have spiked in the past week after Chinese coastguard ships fired water cannon at Philippine boats delivering supplies to marines at Second Thomas Shoal in the contested Spratly Islands. Manila expressed outrage over the attack which forced the Philippine boats to abort their mission. But Beijing said the vessels had entered its waters without permission. China claims almost all of the waterway, through which trillions of dollars in trade passes annually, with competing claims from Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/manila-accuses-beijing-of-harassment/article37655367.ece
24 November 2021||Seoul,||S. Korean ex-strongman Chun Doo-hwan dies||Former South Korean military strongman Chun Doo-hwan, who took power in a 1979 coup and brutally crushed pro-democracy protests before going to prison for misdeeds in office, died on Tuesday. He was 90. Emergency officials said Chun died at his home. The police earlier said Chun suffered a cardiac arrest and emergency officials rushed to his Seoul residence. Hundreds of pro-democracy protesters were killed and tens of thousands were imprisoned during Chun’s presidency in the 1980s, but he allowed some liberalisation after years of authoritarian rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-korean-ex-strongman-chun-doo-hwan-dies/article37655369.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The road to a Himalayan blunder||The Char Dham road project, inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2016, is an ambitious attempt to widen nearly 900 kilometres of hill roads at the cost of Rs. 12,000 crore. The project, which will be executed by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), aims to provide all-weather connectivity to the four major shrines of Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath. In the enthusiasm for an infrastructural project that will increase pilgrimage tourism from the Indian plains and provide attendant local economic dividends, the government has ignored the facts proven by the many tragic incidents in the hills of Uttarakhand over decades. Rampant construction and its complex interaction with climate change has led to massive landslides and floods in the fragile Himalayan range. Timeline of the case The project began as a road connectivity project for pilgrim tourists. Now the government argues that it is essential to back up troop and arms movement towards the India-China border. The case is in the Supreme Court. The Attorney General argues that wide roads are necessary for the sake of national security in the Garhwal region. The petitioners, residents of the valleys in the Garhwal region, stress on the need for a regulated and narrower intermediate road width with a walking footpath. Let’s look at the timeline of the case. In 2018, the road-expansion project was challenged by an NGO for its potential impact on the Himalayan ecology. The Supreme Court constituted a a high-powered committee (HPC) to examine the issues. In an order in September 2020, the Court said that the carriageway width of the roads cannot exceed 5.5 metres. The Court went by March 2018 guidelines issued by the MoRTH for mountain highways, which set a standard specification of a carriageway width of 5.5m with two-lane structures (7m). In doing so, the Court upheld the minority recommendation of the HPC. In November 2020, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) filed an appeal in which, quoting the MoRTH Affidavit, it asked for “a double-lane road having a carriageway width of 7m (or 7.5m in case there is a raised kerb) with 8-10m formation width” to “meet the requirement of the Army”. On December 15, the MoRTH amended its 2018 circular and raised the 5.5m width limit to 10m. The new circular read: “For roads in hilly and mountainous terrain which act as feeder roads to the Indo-China border or are of strategic importance for national security, the carriageway width should be 7m with 1.5m paved shoulder on either side.” Why did MoRTH amend the circular way beyond the requirement placed by the MoD? These wide roads are being sought to be built in Uttarakhand, which has been a victim of several disasters in the last two decades. It is crucial to note that the terrain of the Himalayas in Uttarakhand is different from the terrain in Ladakh. Valleys in Uttarakhand are narrow and close-ended with steep slopes of 60-70 degrees. On the other hand, the valleys in Ladakh have a slope elevation of 30 degrees. Just this year, we saw how the floods in the Dhauli Ganga, Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers claimed over 200 lives. During the monsoons, owing to the massive hill-cutting for the Char Dham road project, several landslides have occurred in the region. Such is the condition of the State that the national highways of the Char Dham project, including ones leading to the border, were closed repeatedly and sometimes for months this monsoon season. And so, the question is, why did the MoRTH enter such a fragile terrain with this massive, ambitious project without even doing a basic environment impact assessment, as is mandated? Violations of the intermediate road width of 5.5m were said to be happening even after the Supreme Court reprimanded the MoRTH. Then, the MoD was brought in to justify the demand for double-lane paved shoulder roads. When reprimanded, the MoRTH informed the Supreme Court that the project had been taken up under a different category which is why the 2018 circular was not being followed. Such a bizarre submission should be — and was — rejected by many. However, some toed the line of the government and agreed to the double-lane paved shoulder road width. Later, it was revealed that the project proponents intend to install toll booths along the Char Dham roads, and that is feasible only with the double-lane paved shoulder road width. Is it the intent of the government to levy a tax on Char Dham yatris? In its November 2020 appeal, the MoD had requested a 7m carriageway width with 8-10m formation width. This was supported by the MoRTH in its affidavit. The petitioners and the small minority within the Supreme Court-appointed committee recommended an intermediate road width of 5.5m tarred surface which facilitates easy bilateral movement, with a 1.5m walking footpath, which pilgrims and residents of the valley need. The formation width of this design is the same as that proposed by the MoD (8-10 m) with the only difference being a walking footpath. What then is the difficulty? When the judges raised this question, the government had no answer. Several violations of the MoRTH came tumbling out and the fact that the MoD was being used to justify the new road width became clear. .  It is often argued that landslides are a natural consequence of the construction of roads and can be mitigated. Similar arguments were made in court about this project too. However, the rainfall this year showed that the mitigation measures are no match to nature’s fury. Prevention and regulation of activities seem to be the only effective way of mitigation in these fragile mountains. Desecrating the Himalayas Disaster-resilient, safe and stable infrastructure is the only solution for commuting by road in the hills. But double-lane paved shoulder roads are excessively wide and render the slopes vulnerable. The unique Himalayan landscape with steep slopes and sharp gradients is not amenable to human engineering. Any human-induced change beyond the Himalayas’ carrying capacity will have an impact on stream run-offs and erosional or depositional processes. Considering such vulnerabilities, we need to keep the scale of human-induced disturbances to the minimum level possible. The Char Dham project in its current form goes against all environmental safeguards. If the government does not desist from widening the roads under this project, it will be a Himalayan blunder. It will significantly reinforce mass wasting processes and erosion rates given the steepness of the slopes, earthquake activity and erosivity of increased monsoonal precipitation. The Himalayas need to be preserved as a nature reserve for future generations. That is why they are known as the ‘abode of Gods’. So, why desecrate them? Mallika Bhanot is a member of Ganga Ahvaan, a citizen forum working towards conserving the Ganga and the Himalayas; C.P. Rajendran is an adjunct professor at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru and author of a forthcoming book ‘Earthquakes of the Indian Subcontinent’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-road-to-a-himalayan-blunder/article37655358.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Over-valued unicorns in a distressed economy||Early this month, the biggest-ever initial public offering (IPO) in India fell flat on its face on the first day of its listing in the stock exchange, with shares being traded at prices less than 27% of the IPO price. The timing of this IPO is blameless as investors have responded enthusiastically in recent times reaping massive gains in the range of 60% to 100% at the end of the first day’s trade. Naturally then, questions arise on the valuation of the firm and the IPO. This firm, along with an educational technology start-up, is viewed as one of the ‘shining beacons’ among a growing list of unicorns in India. But the muted response towards the giant IPO casts doubts about the valuation of unicorns in India. Are they really worth the expectations? Or are they overhyped? Diverse sectors There has been a unicorn gale in India in recent years, covering diverse sectors from fintech to cloud kitchen. By the end of 2021, India is expected to have produced 40 more unicorns, more than three a month on average. An ecosystem which combines thriving digital payments, a growing smartphone user base and digital-first business models adopted by many start-ups has driven expectations of investors, resulting in large-scale fund flows into new business ventures. Expectations are high as the country has around 640 million Internet users, of which 550 million are smartphone users. Digital payment has seen a growth of 30.19% as of March 31, 2021 and by the end of September 30, the unified payments interface (UPI) registered 3.5 billion transactions amounting to Rs. 6.54 trillion. Fintech leads This growth in digital payment is reflected in the fintech sector that has contributed the most to the unicorn list. For the period 2011, when the first fintech unicorn in India was reported, to 2020, the economy had six fintech unicorns. However, this year has already seen seven fintech firms joining the unicorn list. American investment firms Tiger Global and Sequoia Capital have been the major investors, providing very quick follow-up rounds of funds across all stages and sectors. The bulk of these deals are on the basis of potential market opportunity and the expectation that these firms have the ability to sustain an initial level of hyper growth. Fundamental financial performance of the business is not factored in these decisions which could lead to biased valuations. Ever since Clayton M. Christensen popularised the idea of disruptive technologies in his 1997 book, The Innovator’s Dilemma , it has become a buzzword for characterising start-ups. The idea was that start-ups with limited resources can aim at technology disruption by inventing an entirely new way of getting something done. The firm which came out with the giant IPO was considered by many as a technology disruptor and game changer — which created hype and overvaluation. However, in reality, the firm does nothing that other big players do not do. In fact the spread of UPI has made the firm’s core business of wallets redundant, and it is losing market share as more and more people are opting for UPI-based payments to directly transfer money from their bank accounts. A report says, “Its business model is no different than that of several other fintech and ecommerce businesses”. Still, the firm’s IPO was valued at an outlandish 26 times its estimated price-to-sales ratio for 2022-23, which assumes significance as the global benchmark is 0.3-0.5 times the price-to-sales growth ratio for fintech firms. These valuations have to be seen in light of the shrinking of consolidated revenues by 11% for fiscal year 2020 -2021 and losses of Rs. 1,701 crore. The EdTech parallel To make matters worse, the structure of the group has an inherent weakness emanating from the fact that there are 39 subsidiaries and over half of these put together contribute to a mere 5% of its revenues. These were clear warning signals for the brokerage firm, Macquarie Capital Securities (India) Pvt. Ltd, which calls the firm a “cash guzzler” having funding losses, burning 70% of the money it has raised since its launch. Further, valuation expert Aswath Damodaran, in his own valuation of the firm called the company “India’s premier cash burning machine”. The story is similar in educational technologies (EdTech) as well. In fact the novel coronavirus pandemic has been a blessing in disguise for EdTech firms, as it is this external environment that is pushing the industry, giving it an acceleration by four to five years. Rising Internet penetration is also shaping the fortunes of the sector. Here we have the case of an EdTech firm touted as a shining example of entrepreneurship in the new economy, having 30% rise in valuations every six to nine months without a change in its fundamentals. This firm acquired nine other firms in one year. Too many acquisitions with big ambitions to grow inorganically puts pressure on the balance sheet in the years to come as some of the new acquisitions are likely to fail. Even, EdTech firms with reasonably good business models are highly overvalued due to abundant liquidity. Almost every second advertisement on primetime television is either of a digital payment firm or EdTech platform. This is because one of the things that technology companies typically attempt first is to induce a behavioural change to customers who have lived in a particular style. New firms in services will have to indulge in this process for a longer period than firms in other industries such as transportation as these firms have to bring about a particular kind of change that customers are significantly comfortable using the service. It is only when this journey of behavioural change starts that more and more consumers utilise such services. But inducing such behavioural changes are costly to new firms as they have to incentivise customers. “Firms burn cash to give massive discounts to customers in the hope that people will get so habituated to these platforms that they will remain active even when the prices are hiked”. To some extent this worked in the context of mobile telephone services as Indians have got hooked to mobile phones and reoriented spending to buy more sophisticated smartphones and data. But in other services this does not seem to work so easily. The projections flaw A mistake that firms and valuation experts seem to make is that they overestimate the Indian economy’s ability to consume services as they assume exponential demand growth for longer time horizons. Data by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) points to this flaw of over-optimistic demand projections as there are just about 23 million households which earn more than Rs. 5 lakh per year i.e., less than Rs. 42,000 a month, which is about 7% of all Indian families. It is only this class which can be coaxed to behavioural changes — i.e. people who can afford various kinds of goods and services. If firms want to go beyond this 7% of households they have to offer bigger discounts, burning more cash, with the possibility that once the discounts are reduced, customers drop off. Given the current state of the economy and employment situation, we have “a scenario of consumer-facing tech companies already reaching the saturation point of their real customer-base; people who can afford to consume without discounts”. It is in this milieu that we are witnessing new unicorns emerging every month, which are products of inflated valuations to tap more funds to burn more cash. These valuations are solely on the basis of future earnings, with virtually no profits to show in the present. Ecstasy and euphoria over these unicorns then has to be based on illusions rather than on reality. M. Suresh Babu is Professor of economics at IIT Madras. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/over-valued-unicorns-in-a-distressed-economy/article37655348.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Coups upend West Asia’s nascent democracies||The democratic systems in Tunisia and Sudan constitute the bookends of the Arab Spring uprisings in West Africa and North Africa over the last decade. The uprisings had begun in Tunisia in December 2010 and culminated in the country giving itself a democratic constitution in January 2014. The system worked until July 25 this year when the country’s President, Kais Saied, staged a “constitutional coup” by suspending the Constitution and its democratic institutions. Several Ministers, politicians, media persons and activists have been detained, with some being tried in military courts. Sudan’s nascent democratic order emerged in 2019, in the second wave of the Arab Spring uprisings, when demonstrators across the country demanded the removal of the entrenched President, Omar al-Bashir. This led to a transitional arrangement in which power would be shared for about four years between the armed forces and the civilian administration, to be followed by free elections and civilian rule. At the head of the country would be a “Sovereignty Council” which, in the first instance, would be headed by the Army chief, General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, supported by a civilian Prime Minister. On October 25, a month before handing over the council to a civilian leadership, Gen. Burhan declared a state of emergency, suspended the Constitution and the Sovereignty Council, placed the Prime Minister, Abdalla Hamdok, under house arrest and arrested several Ministers and activists. However, a month later, on November 21, in the face of massive public protests, Gen. Burhan released Mr. Hamdok and agreed to restore the transition process, though there are serious concerns across the country about the military’s sincerity in implementing this agreement. The coup in Tunisia Tunisia’s political order has lurched from crisis to crisis over the last few years due to the parlous state of the economy and the mishandling of the novel coronavirus pandemic. The pandemic has wreaked disaster in the country — Tunisia, with a population of 12 million, has experienced 600,000 infections and 18,600 deaths, giving it the dubious distinction of having the highest pandemic-related infections and deaths per capita in Africa. The pandemic has also wrecked the economy; its GDP fell by 8.6% in 2020, compared to the previous year, unemployment went from 15% to 17.8%, inflation is at 6.2% while poverty increased from 14% to 21%. The country needs $5 billion to finance the estimated budget deficit and repayments (https://bit.ly/2ZgjSaN). President Kais Saied had obtained a landslide victory in 2019, but soon began to express his unhappiness with the paralysed political system and his “disgust” at the pervasive corruption among Assembly members, referring to them as “monsters” and “birds of prey”. On July 25, the President dismissed the Prime Minister, suspended Parliament, and announced he would rule by decree. The next day, he declared a nationwide curfew for a month. On September 22, he issued a presidential order giving himself full legislative and executive authority, and suspending the Constitution and the Assembly indefinitely. Though the President’s coup was initially welcomed, as weeks passed with no initiative to improve economic conditions, the popular mood has turned hostile; opposition parties and trade unions are now organising themselves to take to the streets to restore the revolution and the Constitution. Sudan takeover The military takeover in Sudan on October 25 was preceded by increasing concerns among the armed forces about the imminent handover of power to the civilian leadership in November, particularly on account of the agenda being driven by Prime Minister Hamdok. He had spoken of getting the former President, Omar al-Bashir, tried by the International Criminal Court (ICC), where the generals feared their own role in perpetrating human rights abuses in Darfur and during the 2019 uprisings would also be exposed. But the larger issue that agitated them was Mr. Hamdok’s insistence that the military give up its control over business — it is believed that the armed forces control about 200 companies, valued at $2 billion. Some generals, like Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, who heads the notorious Rapid Support Forces, are said to control gold mines in Darfur. On November 10, Gen. Burhan announced a new Sovereignty Council headed by him, with General Dagalo as his deputy, signalling the end of Sudan’s encounter with a democratic order. However, Gen. Burhan did not anticipate the country-wide popular protests led by civil society organisations whose agitations had brought about the transition arrangements of 2019. These demonstrators braved police bullets, which, over a month, killed 40 of them and injured over 100. Two days after the killing of 15 protesters, Gen. Burhan released Mr. Hamdok from house arrest, on November 21, and, on state television, signed an agreement with him to head a new “technocratic” government. The 14-point deal commits Gen. Burhan to the transition arrangements of 2019 and the release of all political prisoners. Mr. Hamdok has said he had accepted the agreement to end “the bloodbath” of recent weeks, while Gen. Burhan has said it would pave the way towards “a transparent, democratic election [till] total civilian government and total democracy” were realised. Most of the country’s activists are not impressed. Given the low credibility of the armed forces, they are insisting on “no negotiation and no partnership, and no legitimacy” for the armed forces. With Gen. Burhan and Gen. Dagalo still controlling the Sovereignty Council, these fears are well-founded. Role of the Gulf monarchies Several commentators have seen the hand of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Egypt in engineering the overturning of the democratic processes in Tunisia and Sudan, as they view a successful democratic order as an existential threat. Media comment in these three countries has been particularly celebratory: in relation to the Tunisia events, the Saudi paper, Okaz , headlined, “Tunisia revolts against the Brotherhood”, while the Egyptian daily, Al Ahram , said that these events were a “loss for the last Brotherhood stronghold in the region”. In Sudan, both Gen. Burhan and his deputy, Gen. Dagalo, have been close to the UAE and Saudi Arabia for some years. Gen. Burhan provided Sudanese troops as part of the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen and ensured they were not withdrawn later despite Mr. Hamdok’s wishes. Gen. Burhan also backed the UAE’s outreach to Israel last year by secretly meeting Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Uganda in February 2020 and then joining the UAE in normalising diplomatic ties with Israel later that year. In Tunisia, which saw the elevation of the Islamist Ennahda to power, the UAE is believed to have funded social media campaigns to criticise the democratic revolution and back politicians who support the old authoritarian regime. The Saudi and UAE role in undermining the democratic systems in Tunisia and Sudan recalls their similar role in arranging the overthrow of the democratically-elected Morsi government in Egypt in 2013 and the accession of General Abdel Fattah al-Sisi to power. The Egyptian leader now has a more immediate concern as well; one that also agitates his partners in Riyadh and Abu Dhabi — the democratic order in Tunisia and its nascent shape in Sudan have been inspirations for Arab people living under authoritarian rule for several decades. Now, as recent developments in Tunisia and Sudan again entrench autocracy, there are fears that the beacon of reform could be extinguished across the region — for years to come. Talmiz Ahmad is a former diplomat and holds the Ram Sathe Chair for International Studies, Symbiosis International University, Pune||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/coups-upend-west-asias-nascent-democracies/article37655351.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Wanted: an Indian Charlesworth||The recent election of India’s candidate, Bimal Patel, to the United Nation’s International Law Commission (ILC) is noteworthy because this is the first time that India has nominated a professor of international law to the ILC, a body responsible for the codification and progressive development of international law. Mr. Patel’s predecessor, Aniruddha Rajput, was a practitioner. Before Mr. Rajput’s election, for several decades India routinely nominated retired officials from the Legal and Treaties Division (L&T) of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), ignoring the talent that existed in international law in academia. According to Syed Akbaruddin, India’s former permanent representative to the UN, the L&T Division treated the ILC membership “as its preserve”. Before Mr. Patel, the only instance of an Indian academic elected to the ILC was that of Radhabinod Pal in 1958, an iconic judge. The trend in India India’s habit of nominating retired government officials to international forums is not restricted to the ILC; it is evident in other international judicial bodies too. For instance, besides the former Supreme Court judge, Dalveer Bhandari, who is currently on the bench of the International Court of Justice, three other Indians have been appointed to the world court — Nagendra Singh, B.N. Rau, and R.S. Pathak. Singh and Rau were members of the Indian Civil Services in British India. Pathak, the 18th Chief Justice of India, was an unfamiliar name in the world of international law. Mr. Bhandari is an honourable judge, but his scholarly contributions to the field of international law, before joining the ICJ, are largely unknown. Two Indians who have served on the Appellate Body, the highest judicial organ of the World Trade Organization — Ujal Singh Bhatia and A.V. Ganesan — were generalist bureaucrats. Likewise, the two Indians who have been appointed to the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea — P.C. Rao and Neeru Chadha — served in the L&T Division. The point here is not the competence of the candidates mentioned, but how international law proficiency outside the government and judiciary has been ignored. India has produced outstanding international law professors like B.S. Chimni, R.P. Anand, and V.S. Mani. Their body of scholarly work in international law is read, cited and critiqued all over the world. Yet, none of them made it to any of these international law institutions. This is unlike the practice in other liberal democracies where leading academicians of international law are routinely nominated to these bodies. For instance, Australian nominee, Hilary Charlesworth, recently elected to the ICJ, is a professor of international law and is globally known for her path-breaking work on feminist approaches to international law. She replaces the late J.R. Crawford, another illustrious Australian professor of international law. Georg Nolte, from Germany, who now serves on the ICJ and was previously a member of the ILC, is a globally renowned international law professor. Likewise, the U.K. has routinely nominated accomplished international law academicians such as Hersch Lauterpacht, Ian Brownlie, and Dapo Akande to these bodies. No transparency in nominations Moreover, no one knows how the Indian government selects candidates for nominations to these international law bodies. The lack of transparency in the selection process gives rise to speculations of favouritism and nepotism. For instance, when Mr. Rajput, a young practitioner, was nominated to the ILC, it was alleged that India backed his candidacy due to his ideological proximity to the ruling establishment. Such accusations not only undermine the candidate’s legitimacy but also generate misgivings about the fairness of the system. There is an urgent need to establish a transparent mechanism in making these nominations, such as setting up an independent search-cum-selection committee to recommend meritorious candidates. The committee should invite applications from qualified candidates, screen them based on their noticeable expertise and professional reputation in international law, and then make recommendations publicly. Capability in domestic law should not be mistaken as expertise in international law. The MEA could anchor this process. Since India devotes considerable diplomatic energy in getting its candidate elected to these bodies, it is in its national interest to nominate the brightest available talent in international law, rather than letting these bodies be used as post-retirement parking slots for bureaucrats and judges. The appointment of Mr. Patel to the ILC heralds a new era in which the government does not overlook expertise in international law outside the corridors of power. Prabhash Ranjan is a Professor and Vice Dean, Jindal Global Law School, OP Jindal Global University. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/wanted-an-indian-charlesworth/article37655354.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Governance all over the place||In Telangana, people will have to wait some more to get access to the top levels of administration and represent their grievances as the construction of the new secretariat building is unlikely to be completed any time soon. With the current secretariat functioning from a makeshift building, BRKR Bhavan, and the several offices of Ministers and senior bureaucrats situated in different areas of Hyderabad, people have complained that they are unable to represent their grievances to the authorities concerned for timely redress. The restrictions being imposed on entry into the makeshift secretariat are also complicating matters. In the past, the secretariat was where all Ministers and senior bureaucrats would be present at any given point of time. Their availability ensured that at least some grievances were resolved immediately while the others were noted down for further examination. After the departments were shifted to different locations due to lack of space in the makeshift building, this was no longer the case. Reasons for demolition Following the bifurcation of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh in 2014, the secretariat buildings were divided into a ratio of 58:42 for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, respectively, for 10 years, till 2024. But the Andhra government decided to move out and construct its own secretariat building in Amaravati. The K. Chandrasekhar Rao government then decided to demolish and rebuild the one located in Hyderabad. The old complex comprised 10 blocks, including one that was not in use. The government wanted to replace it with a state-of-the-art complex so that it could accommodate all the departments at one place. Before the complex, comprising a building constructed by the Nizams in the 1880s, was demolished, the departments were shifted to the temporary secretariat. A four-member commitee constituted before the old complex was vacated told the Court that one of the main reasons for demolishing the buildings was that files were frequently transferred from one building to another within the complex. This process, the committee contended, exposed the files to the sun and rains and more importantly, left them vulnerable to tampering. Anyone could access these files and so they were not confidential, they said. The committee also said fire safety was inadequate in the old complex. Affecting governance The demolition has not only affected the people but also led to problems of coordination between different departments. The restrictions on entry into the makeshift secretariat have defeated the spirit of people’s governance, says Forum for Good Governance secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy. This brings to mind the time when former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, N. Chandrababu Naidu, started shifting the secretariat to Vijayawada and Guntur following complaints that it was difficult to access government functionaires even after bifurcation.  Questions are now being raised about why the government did not factor in developments like the COVID-19 pandemic while demolishing the old secretariat complex. Retired bureaucrat R.V. Chandravadan says the government should have taken up the process in a phased manner instead of hurriedly destroying the old complex, which included some buildings barely two decades old. Whatever the reasons for the government to do this in a hurry, it is the people of the State who may have to reckon with a loss of governance quality. The lesson here is that any decision to move a secretariat can never be made lightly, and certainly not without a watertight plan and blueprint in place for future arrangements. rajeev.madabhushi@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/governance-all-over-the-place/article37655360.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Breaking the ice||On her maiden visit to Asia, U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai held bilateral meetings with Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and relaunched the U.S.-India Trade Policy Forum (TPF). A lot has transpired in the Indo-U.S. economic partnership in the four years since the TPF was last convened — from machinations towards a free-trade agreement to the failure to even reach a mini-trade deal towards the latter half of the Donald Trump administration days. Instead of progress, there were setbacks, including raised import tariffs and the withdrawal of benefits to Indian exporters under the U.S.’s Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) which triggered retaliatory trade barbs. That marquee American businesses (Harley-Davidson and Ford) have left India has not helped optics, even if their motivations may not have been solely linked to difficult trade norms. With the Joe Biden administration shutting the door on new trade pacts and being cold to restoring the GSP status, India must be ruing the hard stances that scuttled the chances of sealing a deal in the Trump era. Ms. Tai’s visit offers a fresh reset chance. GSP restoration, she has said, could be considered, while nudging India to set targets for tariff reductions and easing market access across sectors. The TPF statement also outlines the sectors and goods and services that need quick attention. Whatever misgivings may have existed at the beginning of the Biden administration, Ms. Tai’s visit, that follows trips by key U.S. Secretaries, indicates U.S. interest in engaging with India in significant spheres. That it looks at India as a key partner in rebuilding critical supply chains in a post-pandemic world seeking to cut its dependence on China, is clear from its desire for integration in areas such as health, medical devices and pharma. India’s pharma exports account for 40% of the U.S.’s generic drugs supply and Ms. Tai has assuaged its concerns about delays in U.S. regulatory inspections of pharma units. Her plain-speaking that Indo-U.S. trade never really lives up to its potential and references to India’s unpredictable regulatory shifts, tariff- and non-tariff barriers as her priorities, suggests these talks have begun from a place more grounded in realism. This should serve as a wake-up call for the Government about its trade posture and spur a more open approach towards a market that will remain the most critical, irrespective of the trade deals it is seeking with other nations. While America’s stance on India’s proposal on IPR waivers for the COVID-19 vaccine and medicines will be watched at the upcoming WTO ministerial, India must seize this fresh initiative with the U.S. to cement its place in the new supply chains being envisaged. For starters, it must pro-actively steer away from the protectionism that is leading the globalised world adrift.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/breaking-the-ice/article37655343.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Transition troubles||Sudanese military chief Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Burhan’s decision to reinstate the ousted Prime Minister, Abdalla Hamdok, is a climbdown from his attempt to consolidate power in his hands. On October 25, Gen. Burhan dissolved the Sovereignty Council, in which the military had shared power with civilian leaders, declared a state of emergency and imprisoned Mr. Hamdok, imperilling the country’s painful transition from dictatorship to democracy. But the generals apparently overplayed their hands. Protesters, who toppled Omar al-Bashir’s military-backed dictatorship in 2019 and then resisted the military’s attempts to seize power, were back on the streets. Despite the military regime’s use of force the demonstrations continued, challenging Gen. Burhan’s power grab. He also came under heavy international pressure, especially from the U.S., which had removed Sudan from the list of terror-sponsoring countries last year. The Biden administration froze aid worth $700 million after the coup and made it clear to the generals that any improvement in ties would be linked to the reinstating of Mr. Hamdok. Gen. Burhan finally decided to reinstate him and release all political prisoners arrested after the coup. He also said the military would support the country’s transition into democracy and elections, scheduled for July 2023. While the deal points to the limits of the military, it does not necessarily mean that the transition will be smooth. Ever since Mr. Bashir was forced out of power, the military has been reluctant to share power with the civilian leadership. It was forced to make some concessions only because the country’s revolutionaries have acquired critical mass support which the generals can no longer ignore. The pro-democracy parties and organisations have already dismissed the deal between the military and Mr. Hamdok, and have vowed to continue the street protests. Mr. Hamdok, a British-educated economist who had worked with the UN, is in an unenviable position. He refused to resign while under house arrest and continued to resist the military coup, which inspired the protests. But his decision to reach a deal with the generals has turned at least sections of the protesters against him. And if street protests continue, it could undermine his government and weaken his negotiating capacity with the generals. To address these challenges, he should first win back the trust of the pro-democracy parties and organisations, and form an independent government with civil society representatives that should put the country’s fraught transition process back on track. The military may have taken a step back, but it could try to usurp power again. To prevent any such scenario, Sudan’s civilian leaders should stay united and take the country to full democracy and a new constitutional order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/transition-troubles/article37655344.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Three Pak. jets shot down by I.A.F.||New Delhi, Nov. 23: Three Pakistani Sabre jets which intruded into Indian territory near Boyra, 48 kilometres north-east of Calcutta, were shot down in an aerial engagement with four Gnats of the Indian Air Force yesterday afternoon. The Minister of State for Defence Production Mr. V.C. Shukla, made this announcement in Parliament to-day amidst thunderous applause an hour after President Yahya Khan had declared a state of emergency in Pakistan. The near-war situation now prevailing in the sub-continent was further aggravated to-day by the proclamation of emergency in Pakistan following the intensification of the fighting in East Bengal and the shooting down of three of the four intruding Pakistani Sabre jets. The hard-pressed military regime in Pakistan has obviously resorted to this stratagem of declaring an emergency to bring the Security Council into the picture and step up the international pressures on India to agree to some sort of U.N. presence on the borders in the name of preventing a wider war in the sub-continent. In a brief statement he made on behalf of the Defence Minister who is away on tour, Mr. Shukla said in Parliament that the four Pakistani Sabre jets which penetrated to a depth of five kilometres into Indian air space were engaged by four I.A.F. Gnats which were sent up to intercept them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/three-pak-jets-shot-down-by-iaf/article37655352.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||India to release 5 mn barrels of oil from reserves to cool prices||India will release 5 million barrels of crude oil from its emergency stockpile in tandem with the U.S., China, Japan, and other major economies to cool oil prices, the Centre said on Tuesday. This is the first time ever that India, which stores 5.33 million tonne or about 38 million barrels of crude oil in underground caverns at three locations on the east and west coast, is releasing stocks for such purposes. “India strongly believes that the pricing of liquid hydrocarbons should be reasonable, responsible and be determined by market forces,” the government said in a statement. “India has repeatedly expressed concern at the supply of oil being artificially adjusted below demand levels by oil-producing countries, leading to rising prices and negative attendant consequences.” While the government specified no date, an official said the stock could be released as early as 7-10 days. Supply to MRPL, HPCL The stocks will be sold to refineries of Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. Ltd. (HPCL), which are connected by pipeline to the strategic reserves. The U.S. had last week made an unusual request to some of the largest oil-consuming nations, including China, India and Japan, to consider releasing crude stocks in a coordinated effort to pare global energy prices. This after the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies rebuffed repeated requests to speed up production increases. India has been the most forceful about flexing its muscles as a major oil consumer, cutting shipments from Saudi Arabia by about a quarter after OPEC+ extended production cuts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-to-release-5-mn-barrels-of-oil-from-reserves-to-cool-prices/article37655333.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Firefox Bikes eyes doubling sales on strong local demand||Buoyed by the demand for bicycles in India, Firefox Bikes, a Hero Cycles group company, is aiming to double sales this year to two lakh cycles, a senior company official said. “It’s been a great time for biking in India as well as across the world,” said CEO Sukanta Das. “The last two years have been phenomenal and we have been among the few businesses that have ended up on the right side of COVID,” he said. “We’ve seen a tremendous growth and adoption of biking as a choice to remain healthy as well as for] transportation,” Mr. Das added. He said last year, the premium bicycle maker sold more than one lakh bikes and was targeting sales of more than two lakh this year. “We have already achieved what we did last year in H1. So, we will surely double,” Mr. Das said, adding that the company was looking at doubling the turnover in 2022 as the strong demand for bikes that started during the lockdown last year was set to continue for the next two years. Overall, the bicycle market in India is estimated at 27 lakh annually. Of this, premium bicycles or bikes that cost above Rs. 10,000 constituted about 7 lakh. Mr. Das said the company had received a large number of export enquiries from across the globe and had recently begun exports to Canada. While last year the company focused on the domestic market owing to strong demand, it now plans to start exports to Africa and West Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/firefox-bikes-eyes-doubling-sales-on-strong-local-demand/article37655325.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Singapore Airlines to resume flights on Nov. 29||The Singapore Airlines Group announced resumption of passenger flights from India from November 29. These will include daily Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) services for quarantine-free entry from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai. The airline group, which includes its low-cost arm Scoot, will also start non-VTL flights from Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Kochi, Amritsar and Tiruchirappalli “progressively” from November 29. The VTL and non-VTL flights will be operated under an “air bubble” pact. Only fully vaccinated passengers are allowed on VTL flights. They are exempt from quarantine but have to take a PCR test two days before departure and on arrival at Changi airport. Unvaccinated or partially vaccinated passengers can travel on non-VTL flights after a PCR test two days before departure, and will have to quarantine at the traveller’s declared place of stay. On completion of quarantine, they will have to undergo another PCR test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/singapore-airlines-to-resume-flights-on-nov-29/article37655312.ece
24 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Vodafone Idea raises tariffs by up to 25%||Vodafone Idea Ltd. (VIL) has raised tariffs by up to 25%. The new tariff plans will be available starting November 25, the company said. This announcement comes a day after Bharti Airtel raised tariff by up to 25%. “The new plans will start the process of ARPU improvement and help address the financial stress faced by the industry,” VIL said in a statement. The basic voice tariff has increased from Rs. 79 to Rs. 99 for the 28-day plan. Similarly, the voice-cum-data tariff for the 365-day plan has increased from Rs. 2,358 to Rs. 2,899. The basic data top-up tariff has risen from Rs. 48 to Rs. 58 for 28 days. For the 56-day data plan, the tariff has increased from Rs. 351 to Rs. 418. “These tariff plans will allow VIL to continue improving India’s Fastest Mobile Network, verified by Ookla, the global leader in fixed broadband and mobile network testing applications. Vi remains committed to play its role in accelerating the realisation of the Digital India vision,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-raises-tariffs-by-up-to-25/article37655318.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||NaBFID to start operations with loans to 190 projects||The National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) is likely to begin lending operations with about 190-200 big infrastructure projects in the railways, roads and energy sector, newly-appointed Chairman K.V. Kamath said. The development finance institution aims to catalyse investment in the fund-starved infrastructure sector in the country. There are 193 projects above Rs. 1,000 crore each under the National Infrastructure Pipeline, Mr. Kamath said in a media interview. “We will start by looking at these projects; it will provide a fairly large slate for the first year or two for us to look at. Then we will deep dive into others — that could be there in the private sector,” he said. He added that the institution would also look into other roles it could play for the government, “say the monetisation pipeline”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nabfid-to-start-operations-with-loans-to-190-projects/article37655329.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||SC irked over bulky filings by Amazon, Future||Irked over “truckload” of bulky documents filed by parties in a batch of petitions arising out of the Amazon-Future Retail case, the Supreme Court Tuesday asked whether the purpose was just to drag on or “harass the judges” and sought a common small compilation of documents. A bench comprising Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hima Kohli asked the counsel for parties to file small volume of documents so that the matter can be disposed of, and fixed the case for hearing on December 8. “I am sorry to say to all of you. What is the fun in filing 22-23 volumes of records? How many documents both sides have filed repeatedly and is it the purpose of just dragging on or otherwise to harass the judges,” said the CJI. “It is completely unnecessary,” senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Future group, said, and suggested both sides could file a common document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-irked-over-bulky-filings-by-amazon-future/article37655335.ece
24 November 2021||Bengaluru,||‘GDP growth to quicken to 9.1% in 2022’||Goldman Sachs on Tuesday forecast India’s GDP would grow by 9.1% in 2022, accelerating from 8% in 2021 and 2020’s contraction of 7% on the back of increased consumption. “We expect consumption to be an important contributor to growth in 2022, as the economy fully reopens, driven by a notable improvement in the virus situation and adequate progress on vaccination,” Andrew Tilton, chief Asia Pacific economist said. Goldman forecast CPI inflation to rise to 5.8% in 2022 from 5.2% in 2021, driven by a rise in core inflation as manufacturers pass on higher input costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-growth-to-quicken-to-91-in-2022/article37655313.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SpiceJet to add 50 Boeing 737 MAX in 2 years||SpiceJet plans to add 50 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft to its fleet over the next 24 months, Chairman and Managing Director Ajay Singh said on Tuesday. “We plan to take 50 deliveries during calendar years 2022 and 2023,” Mr. Singh told journalists at an event. “The first delivery of the new aircraft is on December 10 and from thereon we will expedite inductions. The intent is to replace our existing new generation fleet with MAXs,” he said. Ms. Singh said the company aimed to hive off its cargo and logistics arm into a separate entity by the end of this year in order to raise funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spicejet-to-add-50-boeing-737-max-in-2-years/article37655319.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||States get Rs. 95,082 cr. in tax devolution||The Centre has released two instalments of tax devolution to States, amounting to Rs. 95,082 crore in November, the Finance Ministry said on Tuesday. “The Government of India has released two instalments of tax devolution to State governments amounting to Rs. 95,082 crore on November 22 2021, as against normal monthly devolution of Rs. 47,541 crore,” the ministry said. The increased amount is an advance release and final adjustments will be made in March 2022. “Rs. 95,082 crore of tax devolution to strengthen fiscal space of States,” the ministry added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/states-get-rs-95082-cr-in-tax-devolution/article37655326.ece
24 November 2021||Mumbai,||ICICI Bank unveils Trade Emerge portal for exim trade||ICICI Bank has unveiled Trade Emerge, an online platform to offer digital banking and value-added services to exporters and importers across India. The initiative is aimed at making cross border trade hassle-free, expeditious and convenient, the lender said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/icici-bank-unveils-trade-emerge-portal-for-exim-trade/article37655316.ece
24 November 2021||New Delhi,||Latent View shares make stellar market debut, zoom 148 pc||Shares of LatentView Analytics on Tuesday made a stellar market debut and settled with a premium of 148% against the issue price of Rs. 197. The stock listed at Rs. 530, reflecting a huge gain of 169% from the issue price on BSE. During the day, it jumped 178.6% to Rs. 548.75. It gained 148% to close at Rs. 488.60. On NSE, the shares debuted at Rs. 512.20, a jump of 160%. It zoomed 147.7% to close at Rs. 487.95.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/latent-view-shares-make-stellar-market-debut-zoom-148-pc/article37655327.ece
24 November 2021||Galle,||West Indies manages to avoid follow-on||Rain forced an early end with the West Indies tail still hanging on after avoiding the follow-on for day three of the first Test against Sri Lanka in Galle on Tuesday. The West Indies added nine runs in 30 balls and lost Rahkeem Cornwall in a brief passage of play after lunch before the heavens opened. The forecast for the next two days was more wet weather. With the new ball due, Suranga Lakmal was called up to bowl the 79th over of the West Indies innings from the City End and he dismissed Cornwall. Lakmal bowled a short ball and Cornwall could not resist the pull shot, but got the execution wrong and was caught by Ramesh Mendis running backwards from mid-wicket. Cornwall made 39 off 58 balls with five fours and a six. But the 49-run stand between Cornwall and Joshua da Silva ensured the West Indies avoided the follow-on. After a brief pause in the rain, umpires inspected the field and decided to resume play. Another downpour soon washed out the final session before it began. Play will resume early for the final two days to make up lost time, with 98 overs scheduled for each. Earlier, Sri Lanka had posted 386 after opting to bat. The West Indies collapsed to 113 for six at stumps on day two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-manages-to-avoid-follow-on/article37655615.ece
24 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Goveas eases past Duhan||Aryan Goveas capitalised on his chances to beat Chirag Duhan 6-4, 6-4 in the first round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Tennis Project in Baliawas here on Tuesday. Playing fluently on both flanks, Aryan converted four of the eight breakpoints that he forced to pull through against the talented opponent.  Poor conversion In contrast, Chirag could convert only two of 11 and thus could not stretch the contest to a more dramatic phase. In two other matches featuring foreign players, Zsombor Velcz of Hungary beat the fifth seed Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam for the loss of six games, while Alexis Canter of Britain breezed past Chandril Sood for the loss of three games. In the third and final qualifying round, national junior champion Karan Singh overcame a topsy turvy match and a gritty Prithvi Sekhar [10-5] in the super tie-break.  In the doubles pre-quarterfinals, Lohithaksha Bathrinath and Manish Sureshkumar beat the second seeds, Anirudh Chandrasekar and Niki Poonacha 7-6(5), 7-5.  The results: First round: Alexis Canter (GBr) bt Chandril Sood 6-1, 6-2; Zsombor Velcz (Hun) bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-4, 6-2; Karunuday Singh bt Anirudh Chandrasekar 6-4, 6-2; Aryan Goveas bt Chirag Duhan 6-4, 6-4.   Qualifying singles (third and final round): Fardeen Qamar bt Faisal Qamar 6-4, 3-6, [10-8]; Shahbaaz Khan bt Rishi Reddy 6-1, 7-6(1); Karan Singh bt Prithvi Sekhar 5-7, 6-3, [10-5]; Bharath Kumaran bt Lakshit Sood 6-1, 6-1; Madhwin Kamath bt Sushant Dabas 6-4, 6-3; Lakshya Gupta bt Tushar Madan 6-4, 6-3.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ajay Malik & Karan Singh bt Kunal Anand & Jatin Dahiya 6-3, 6-4; Adil Kalyanpur & Parikshit Somani bt Ankit Chopra & Aaditya Tewari 6-2, 6-4; Paras Dahiya & Madhwin Kamath bt Romain Faucon (Bel) & Dev Javia 6-1, 6-3; S.D. Prajwal Dev & Rishi Reddy bt Nishant Dabas & Chirag Duhan 6-1, 6-4; Rishab Agarwal & Shashank Theertha bt Tarun Anirudh & Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-7(4), 6-1, [10-8]; Lohithaksha Bathrinath & Manish Sureshkumar bt Anirudh Chandrasekar & Niki Poonacha 7-6(5), 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goveas-eases-past-duhan/article37655753.ece
24 November 2021||KANPUR,||Time for Pujara to silence growing criticism||For more than a decade of Test cricket, Cheteshwar Pujara has enjoyed the reputation of being India’s ‘go-to’ man in a crisis. More as a match-saver than as a match-winner, Pujara has often lent stability to the innings and brought in a sense of assurance in the dressing room when things were not exactly going India’s way. His Test record speaks for itself. An average of over 50 against Australia in 20 Tests is the fact that underlines his class. With highest scores of 193 in Australia, 153 in South Africa and 132 not out in England, Pujara has proved himself. Feeling the heat After 90 Tests and an average of 45.41 across 152 innings, Pujara is now beginning to feel the heat from those trying to break into the Indian Test team. Since scoring his last Test century, a masterly 193 against Australia in Sydney in 2019, Pujara has 11 fifties in 38 innings. Some of these knocks were hailed for their value in saving India the blushes. But the pressure is mounting on Pujara to show ‘intent’ to play more strokes. Many ex-players and commentators have voiced their displeasure over Pujara’s sustained, strokeless batting that allows bowlers to dominate him. In the words of Brian Lara, “if I was the coach and if I was one of those who wanted Pujara to improve, I would have prepared a lot of shots and asked him to score runs at a higher strike rate which would help him and the team as well.” Pujara is well aware of what he needs to do. But true to his style he said on Tuesday, “You don’t need to put too much pressure on yourself and just try and go there and enjoy the game rather than worrying too much about what’s going around.” Good preparation He did accept that his last two scores of 50+ — 91 at Leeds and 61 at the Oval this year — were results of his intent to score at a faster pace. Looking ahead, Pujara assured, “So far, preparation has been good and experiences of playing in Indian conditions will help in the next couple of Tests.” With Virat Kohli not around in the first Test, one hopes Pujara shows the way by playing more like the quality batter that he is, and not as a compulsive blocker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/time-for-pujara-to-silence-growing-criticism/article37655577.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Why the Indian cricket team has not been truly representative||Quite the most amusing aspect of the reaction in England to Azeem Rafiq’s calling out racism in English cricket, and the larger society, has been the surprise of those who must have known all along. That it has taken tears on television by a gifted player (who is still only 30) to activate a response is testimony both to its pervasive nature and its casual acceptance both by perpetrators and in many cases the victims too. Rafiq spoke with a lucidity and controlled passion that lent extra weight to his words. The England and Wales Cricket Board apologized, while the Yorkshire whistleblowing hotline had 36 calls in its first week. The problem may be too deeply entrenched in society to keep sport insulated even as administrators try to make amends — if not for honourable reasons, then at least to keep their sponsors from leaving. When one of the MPs on the committee asked Rafiq if he would consider helping Yorkshire attract new sponsors or bring back the ones who had pulled out, he made it clear he was not about to sell out for a few pennies. The question was as much a part of the old thinking as the answer was dignified. Rafiq has got not only the cricket authorities moving, he has also activated the media. According to The Guardian , “Privately educated white British players are 34 times more likely to become professional cricketers than state-educated British South Asians.” The newspaper was quoting from research done by Birmingham City University, which found that white British players are three times more likely to become professionals compared with their British South Asian counterparts, regardless of schooling. Similar statistics are not available for India, and it is believed — conveniently, perhaps — that the cricket is the one area where merit is everything and accidents of birth, parentage, education, and circumstances make no difference. Yet, of the 302 players who have played Test cricket for India, only about five percent have been Muslim (as against 15 percent in the general population) and about eight percent Dalits (as against 25 percent in the general population). One need not build a monument on these figures, but clearly things are a bit skewed. It comes down to lack of opportunity, educational and sporting, as well as the pressures to earn a living and contribute to the family income. A Parliamentary committee like the one in England which questioned Rafiq on live television (Department for Culture, Media and Sport) might do Indian cricket a lot of good too. Gathering information, putting it together and discerning patterns may not require a Parliamentary committee, but such a committee will need to be the one to recommend changes. It would also help if they spoke to the stakeholders, perhaps on national television. It is important to remember that caste discrimination is as vile and as pervasive in India as racism is elsewhere. You cannot set right racism or casteism by attending to it in a small portion of the society. But at least it is a start, especially if the focus is on getting things right at the lower levels. India’s major players, from Vijay Merchant through Sunil Gavaskar and Sachin Tendulkar to Rohit Sharma have been Brahmins who were well-educated and had greater opportunities than those born lower on the caste scale. The percentage of Brahmins in the country is around five, yet they make up more than fifty percent of those who have played for India. This is not unknown or even unusual, but it is uncommented on. The worst of it is seen at the lower levels — in age-group cricket, for instance — and not so much at the highest. You have to perform to play for India, and perform consistently. This is fair. But to perform, a player has to be given the opportunity to do so, and this is where there is an issue at the lower levels. We have no way of telling how many Dalits and Adivasis who might have made a difference were lost to Indian cricket for want of opportunities. Sunil Gavaskar has written in his book about how, as a newborn baby, he was accidentally mixed up with another baby. An uncle noticed that the baby Sunil was not the same one he had visited earlier. A search was initiated and Gavaskar was found in a crib in the hospital beside a fisherwoman. Would Gavaskar have become a great cricketer had he grown up to be a fisherman? Or would the fisherman’s son brought up as a Gavaskar played for India? Especially given that his uncle Madhav Mantri had done so? While we applaud Rafiq and the British establishment, one for speaking out and the other for its official inquiry, let us not lose sight of the issue in our own backyard. Who will be India’s Rafiq?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/why-the-indian-cricket-team-has-not-been-truly-representative/article37655340.ece
24 November 2021||Paris,||City welcomes PSG in heavyweight clash||Ligue 1 leader Paris Saint-Germain will aim to secure a win in its heavyweight meeting at Manchester City on Wednesday in Group A to secure a place in the last 16. PSG will be boosted by the potential debut of defender Sergio Ramos, who has been named in the squad. Ramos, though, is likely to be on the bench with Marquinhos and Presnel Kimpembe starting in central defence. PSG is second in Group A with eight points, one behind leader City with two games remaining. Victory would clinch the French side’s place in the next stage while defeat would end its hopes of finishing top of the group and being seeded for the last-16 draw. Its away form has been concerning, though. In contrast to winning every game at its Parc des Princes home this season, PSG has drawn away to Club Brugge and Leipzig in the Champions League and lost at Rennes in the French league. With Lionel Messi fit, PSG will always have a great chance of victory and the Argentina star will be boosted by scoring his first goal in Ligue 1 in the win over Nantes on Saturday. Messi already has three goals in the Champions League — including one in the home win over City. Borussia Dortmund will be without both Mats Hummels and Erling Haaland when it heads to Portugal for the potential Group C decider against Sporting Lisbon. Level on points, the clash could decide which of them joins group leader Ajax in the knockout stages. Veteran defender Hummels is suspended after he was controversially sent off in Dortmund’s 3-1 defeat to Ajax three weeks ago. The club had said it would appeal the red card, but coach Marco Rose admitted last week that he did not expect the 2014 World Cup winner to be available. Haaland, meanwhile, has been out for the last four weeks with a hip injury. Real Madrid is the Group D leader and can advance to the knockouts with a victory. It will secure first place if it wins and second-placed Inter Milan doesn’t defeat last-placed Shakhtar Donetsk in the other group game.   Wednesday’s fixtures  Besiktas vs Ajax, Inter vs Shaktar Donetsk (11.15 p.m.) Sporting vs Dortmund, Man City vs PSG, Atletico Madrid vs Milan, Liverpool vs Porto, Club Brugge vs RB Leipzig, Sheriff vs Real Madrid (1.30 a.m. Thursday)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-welcomes-psg-in-heavyweight-clash/article37655636.ece
24 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Juniors will look to emulate senior team’s Tokyo glory||Riding the wave of enthusiasm following the senior team’s Tokyo Olympics glory, defending champion India looks forward to giving a memorable performance in the men’s hockey Junior World Cup starting at the iconic Kalinga Stadium here on Wednesday. With the pandemic casting its spell and making it a spectator-free event, the Odisha Government has put in place robust COVID measures — including regular testing and tracking and maintaining a strict bio-bubble for the teams — to deliver a safe JWC. Without adequate knowledge about the opponents due to the lack of exposure, the teams are keen to make the most of the experience. Several players of the Indian under-21 team that won the title in 2016 in Lucknow were part of the successful Tokyo Olympic side. The current bunch must be eager to emulate them. All bases covered India, with all bases covered and having a track record of bagging the 2018 Youth Olympics silver and the 2017 Sultan of Johor Cup bronze, will face 2024 Olympics host France in its opening Pool B encounter on Wednesday. India, which will meet Canada on November 25 and Poland on November 27, has the potential to reach the quarterfinals. The Indian juniors, who played some practice matches with the seniors, are carrying on the theme of ‘keeping the team together’ — a message passed on from senior team captain Manpreet Singh to his fellow Tokyo bronze medallist midfielder Vivek Sagar Prasad, the leader of the colts. Chief coach Graham Reid’s ‘team first’ mantra is completely in sync. Notwithstanding the absence of Australia, New Zealand and England, traditional European nations Germany, Belgium, Netherlands and Spain, Asian powers Pakistan, Korea and Malaysia, representatives of the southern hemisphere Argentina, South Africa and Chile and aspiring countries like USA and Egypt will provide different hues of hockey to make the 16-nation event an interesting affair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/juniors-will-look-to-emulate-senior-teams-tokyo-glory/article37655569.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennaiyin FC scrapes past Hyderabad FC||Chennaiyin FC appeared out of sorts but eked out a 1-0 win over Hyderabad FC — via Vladimir Koman’s penalty — in their inaugural Indian Super League match at the Bambolim Stadium, Goa, on Tuesday. Hitesh Sharma chested a high ball in the box but Chennaiyin captain Anirudh Thapa got to it ahead of him before being fouled. Koman, a 32-year-old veteran, who has played in Asia and Europe, didn’t falter under pressure to net home the resultant spot kick. All credit to Chennaiyin’s four-man defence that stayed strong even as its midfield and forward-line bungled at various stages of the match. Struggling for a shot on target, Chennaiyin almost found the back of the net in the 56th minute when Lalrinzuala Chhangte’s quick run from the right saw his left-foot shot being fingered away by ‘keeper Laxmikant Kattimani. The start of the second half saw Hyderabad press hard like how it did in the first, but after the goal, it was Chennaiyin that fared better. In a desperate bid to equalise, Hyderabad’s head coach Manolo Marquez made four substitutions in a matter of two minutes but nothing went right. Hyderabad had more possession and a clearer sense of purpose in the first session, unlike Chennaiyin which didn’t show any intent and had no proper shots on target. Moreover, ‘keeper Vishal Kaith appeared flustered resulting in some nervous moments. Bartholomew Ogbeche was his own self inside the box while Edu Garcia made some incisive passes but the best chance for Hyderabad came when Nikhil Poojary did a wonderful turn to unleash a shot that zoomed over the crossbar. Chennaiyin head coach Bozidar Bandovic will probably need to rework his combination when it takes on NorthEast United on November 29.   The scores: Chennaiyin FC 1 (Vladimir Koman 66) bt Hyderabad FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennaiyin-fc-scrapes-past-hyderabad-fc/article37655573.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||OFC faces a tough ask against BFC||Bengaluru FC will look to build on a positive start to its Indian Super League campaign when it takes on Odisha FC at the Tilak Maidan Stadium in Goa on Wednesday.    Marco Pezzaiuoli’s side won 4-2 against NorthEast United FC in its season-opener, which was marked by a controlled second-half performance after a wayward first period, made tough by an unrelenting downpour. A fairly successful outing for winger Udanta Singh and debut goals for Jayesh Rane and Prince Ibara would have warmed the hearts of club faithfuls. Cleiton Silva, continued from where he left off last season, scoring his team’s opener in clinical fashion. Shaky defence But BFC’s defence was shaky, with the new centre-back pairing of Alan Costa and Yrondu Musavu-King finding the going tough. Promising winger Leon Augustine looks set for a spell on the sidelines because of an ankle injury he sustained in the game. Up top, skipper Sunil Chhetri didn’t see much of the ball and was often isolated. BFC’s plan should be to involve him more. Odisha, on the other hand, will be playing its first game of the season, with new head coach Kiko Ramirez aiming to banish memories from 2020-21 when the outfit finished rock bottom. Lopsided record  It has a lopsided head-to-head record against BFC to contend with, having lost five and drawn one from eight ISL encounters. It also has a brand-new roster of foreign players, but Ramirez felt that the lengthy pre-season his side had will help forge unity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ofc-faces-a-tough-ask-against-bfc/article37655631.ece
24 November 2021||KOLKATA,||PGTI event returns to Kolkata after a break||Some of the top Indian professional golfers will be seen in action in the second edition of the ICC RCGC Open Golf Championship, which will be held here at the historic Royal Calcutta Golf Club (RCGC) course from November 24 to 28. Leading professionals The tournament, organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce, along with RCGC and the Tata Steel Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI), will be featuring defending champion Mithun Perera along with other leading professionals Manu Gandas, Yuvraj Singh Sandhu, Om Prakash Chouhan, Akshay Sharma, Shamim Khan and Mukesh Kumar among others. The tournament will also mark the return of a PGTI event to the city after a break of two years. The tournament offers a prize purse of Rs. 40 lakh. The international challenge will be led by Sri Lankan Mithun Perera, who will be joined by compatriots Anura Rohana, N. Thangaraja and K. Prabagaran. Big field There is a big field from Bangladesh, including Zamal Hossain Mollah, Badal Hossain, Mohammad Sayum, Mohammad Dulal Hossain and Mohammad Akbar Hossain. The local challenge will be led by Kolkata-based professionals like former PGTI Order of Merit champion Shankar Das and former Indian Open champion Feroz Ali Mollah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pgti-event-returns-to-kolkata-after-a-break/article37656084.ece
24 November 2021||Chennai,||Karthik, Washington boost for Tamil Nadu||Vijay Shankar will continue to lead Tamil Nadu in the Vijay Hazare Trophy to be played in Tiruvananthapuram from December 8. The all-rounder led TN to its second straight Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 triumph on Monday. Importantly, the team will be bolstered by the return of its star cricketers Dinesh Karthik and M.S. Washington Sundar. There are four changes to the T20 squad with Vivek Raj, Adithya Ganesh, B. Aparajith (India-A duty) and T. Natrajan, who misses out due to injury, making way. Apart from Karthik, who has led the white-ball squad for the last two seasons and Washington, B. Indrajith and L. Suryapprakash are the two new additions to the squad while Aparajith might join the side if he is available after his India-A duties. TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy said, “The selectors retained Vijay Shankar as the captain keeping in mind the future and Karthik will mentor the side as the senior-most player.”  The squad: 1. Vijay Shankar (captain), N. Jagadeesan (vice-captain), K. Dinesh Karthik, C. Hari Nishaanth, M. Shahrukh Khan, R. Sai Kishore, M. Ashwin, Sandeep Warrier, M.S. Washington Sundar, M. Siddharth, B. Sai Sudharsan, V. Ganga Sridhar Raju, M. Mohammed, J. Kousik, P. Saravana Kumar, L. Suryapprakash, B. Indrajith, R. Sanjay Yadav, M. Kaushik Gandhi, R. Silambarasan .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karthik-washington-boost-for-tn/article37655683.ece
24 November 2021||Manchester,||Begiristain the key to Guardiola’s longevity at Manchester City||Pep Guardiola said the presence of director of football Txiki Begiristain is the reason he is into his sixth season with the English champions and has extended his deal to 2023. “One of the reason why I extended my contract is because Txiki is here. I am now 50, we met each other when I was 19-years-old,” said Guardiola on Tuesday. “So since then, we’ve been close friends and we work together incredibly well. When we are winning, we try to analyse, why we are winning? When we lose, why are we losing? No one judges the other one for good or bad. I’ve never been judged on a result. Both of you work for the best for this club. Most humble “He is the most humble person I met. He never goes to the media, he’s always behind the scenes. You don’t find many of these types of people in this world when the egos are always there. I put that example for myself. “So he’s an exception. What he has done in Barcelona, creating one of the best teams of all-time, and how he has been working here for these years... “He always gives the credit for the players, of course for the managers, for the chairman, for the CEO, and always is there so that’s why it’s a pleasure. We’re with him because I can do my job.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/begiristain-the-key-to-guardiolas-longevity-at-manchester-city/article37655639.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Carlsen vs Nepomniachtchi: a promising duel||It is worth reminding ourselves just how dominant Magnus Carlsen has been just in the last decade. He has spent 11 years above the 2800-mark and won the World Classical, Rapid and Blitz titles several times and remained No. 1 in all rating lists. Despite such dominance, he has shown the ability to raise his game even higher. In 2019, results of Magnus in the Shamkir Gashimov memorial, Grenke Classic and especially the win in the Zagreb GCT event still leave me awestruck. In Rapid and Blitz chess, he can seem even more dominating. I think his hunger and love for the game hasn’t diminished at all. He finds the time and energy to play all comers in all sorts of online formats like bullet and plays minor events there. During the pandemic, he started his own Online Tour and played every single event. While he looked tired at times, he still won the event, performed consistently at a high level.  There is a caveat, I have observed for a long time that the world championship is the event and format he likes least. My reading is that he thinks it’s a format that neutralises his advantages and allows his opponents to fight on even terms with him. He has alluded to this on several occasions, suggesting that the classical match format may have run its course as a way to determine the best player. In his World title-matches with Fabiano Caruana and Sergey Karjakin, he seemed to be happy to start the tiebreaks. This year, Magnus reduced the time he spent preparing for Dubai and kept a heavy schedule of tournament appearances. I feel he sees diminishing returns in training and wants to keep playing. In his matches with Karjakin and Caruana, he showed a sense of frustration during tough stages and though he pulled through at the end, I feel he is at war with himself during the World Championship. A mild one perhaps, but a war nonetheless. There is a clear difference between the Magnus we see at the World rapid and blitz for example and the one at the World championship. Ian Nepomniachtchi is the same age as Magnus. They played in cadet events together and have remained close friends since. While Ian’s potential has been evident for a long time, he is a newcomer to the top-10, joining the list only in February 2019. Quick play Ian is famous for his confidence and his incredibly quick play (I was once the same and I too had to learn how to moderate it to win the highest title). He is famous for aggressive play but his victories against Wesley So in 2019 and Wang Hao in the Candidates show that he has more depth than he lets on. His talent is unquestionable, but often is accompanied by a certain volatility and unpredictability. He can play wonderful chess and then collapse the next day. Can he beat Magnus? On paper, no. I can’t think of an area of the game where he leads Magnus and every stat points in Magnus’s favour. However, Ian will have trained well (Former challengers Peter Leko and Sergey Karjakin have both worked with him for the match and Ian showed that he lost 10 kilos during his match preparation). If he can stay calm, his enormous talent, his speed skills which will come in handy should they need tiebreaks and his self-confidence give us every right to hope for an exciting match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-vs-nepomniachtchi-a-promising-duel/article37655563.ece
24 November 2021||Chennai,||Shahrukh — finisher par excellence||The eye of a tiger and the calmness of a monk; qualities of a finisher. The finisher is a rare breed. He does not receive too many balls to face, has to strike almost immediately after sauntering in, take the game deeper, and deliver the decisive, sledge-hammer blow. As Shahrukh Khan said to The Hindu , “When they [the bowlers] miss, I hit them out of the park.’ It’s a role that requires nerve and courage; breaking through the small window that the game offers during the climactic stages. Shahrukh has a swagger as he walks to the crease. And then he pulls off heists. When Karnataka seamer Prateek Jain ran in for the final ball of the 20th over, what was going through Shahrukh’s mind? A four for a Super Over and [since a five is improbable] a six for a title triumph in the Syed Mushtaq Ali championship final. The stakes were high. “I kept my mind blank. A finisher has to keep things simple. But I wanted to hit a six for a win,” revealed the 26-year-old Shahrukh. Prateek sent down a leg-stump yorker. “The good thing was I was able to get my right leg out of the way immediately to free my arms.” He added, “Initially I wanted to hit over long on, then I chose to go over square-leg. The moment I connected I knew it was a six.” Euphoric scenes in the Tamil Nadu camp followed. Shahrukh said, “A finisher needs to get into the zone. Have belief in his ability to complete the job. Trust his partner. Target a particular bowler.” He elaborated, “A finisher’s vision has to be confined to within the ground. Anything outside the arena is a distraction.” The Tamil Nadu lad, who grew up watching great finishers such as Michael Bevan, Michael Hussey and M.S. Dhoni, admiring them for both skills and on-field behaviour, practises range hitting to send the ball further and stronger. He was picked last season by Punjab Kings for a whopping Rs. 5.25 crore; he won a game too as a finisher against Kolkata Knight Riders. “I am fortunate that my State team too has given me the role of a finisher,” he acknowledged. Shahrukh imbibed much from his IPL experience and became close to Wasim Jaffer [in the support staff] and West Indian players Fabian Allen and Nicholas Pooran. In the Tamil Nadu team, Shahrukh shares a special bond with assistant coach R. Prasanna. “He has helped me metally and in the technical aspects. He is really close to me.” This game-changing Shahrukh reserves his best for the end with brutal blows. He’s a feared finisher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shahrukh-finisher-par-excellence/article37655682.ece
24 November 2021||Hyderabad:,||Miracle primed to deliver in Golconda 1000 Guineas||Trainer Pesi Shroff’s unbeaten filly Miracle, who maintains her winning form, should win the Golconda 1000 Guineas, the first Classic of the Hyderabad Winter races to be held here on Wednesday (Nov. 24).  DONEGAL PLATE (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.15 pm: 1. AYR (8) Nikhil Naidu 56, 2. Essential (2) Dhanu S. Deora 56, 3. Lafayette (10) Gaurav Singh 56, 4. Alpine Girl (6) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 5. Divine Connection (1) C.P. Bopanna 54.5, 6. Happy Go Lucky (3) Ashad Asbar 54.5, 7. Meridia (9) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 8. N R I Superpower (7) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 9. Selfie Girl (5) Nakhat Singh 54.5 and 10. Silver Lining (4) Md. Ismail 54.5.  1. N R I SUPERPOWER, 2. AYR, 3. LAFAYETTE   HIMAYAT SAGAR PLATE (1,800m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.45: 1. Moringa (7) P.S. Chouhan 60, 2. In Contention (8) C.S. Jodha 59.5, 3. Zamazenta (9) Nikhil Naidu 59.5, 4. Nightmare (6) Abhay Singh 59, 5. Dream Station (11) Gaurav Singh 58, 6. Kimberley (10) S.S. Tanwar 56.5, 7. Georgia Peach (1) Akshay Kumar 56, 8. Forever Bond (5) Surya Prakash 55.5, 9. Greek’s Ace (2) C. Umesh 54.5, 10. Gurbaaz (3) Md. Ismail 53.5 and 11. Sea Of Class (4) Aneel 52.5.  1. IN CONTENTION, 2. DREAM STATION, 3. MORINGA   CABARET PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Castlerock (13) Md. Ismail 61.5, 2. Sandown Park (7) Afroz Khan 59.5, 3. Multimoment (6) C.S. Jodha 59, 4. Rhythm Selection (1) Gaurav Singh 59, 5. Star Dancer (8) Kiran Naidu 58.5, 6. Royal Grace (11) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 7. Star Babe (5) Abhay Singh 55.5, 8. Blazing Jupiter (2) Aneel 53.5, 9. Win Vision (10) Ajit Singh 53, 10. Dead Centre (12) Rafique Sk. 52.5, 11. Flamingo Fame (4) Santosh Raj 52.5, 12. Lorena (9) Kuldeep Singh 52.5, 13. Battle Ready (14) G. Naresh 52 and 14. Soul Empress (3) Surya Prakash 52.  1. MULTIMOMENT, 2. STAR DANCER, 3. LORENA   MEDAK PLATE (Div. I) (1,600m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 3.45: 1. Arrowtown (3) Md. Ismail 62, 2. I Am Superman (9) Ajeeth Kumar 62, 3. Neffereti (12) R. Ajinkya 62, 4. Rivadavia (4) Ashad Asbar 62, 5. Salisbury (10) Nikhil Naidu 62, 6. Lightning Fairy (2) Akshay Kumar 60.5, 7. Dream Jewel (8) Rohit Kumar 60, 8. Team Player (11) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 9. Astronaut (6) Khurshad Alam 57.5, 10. Divine Chakram (5) Santosh Raj 57.5, 11. Inception (7) Ajit Singh 57.5 and 12. Turf Monarch (1) Surya Prakash 50.  1. LIGHTNING FAIRY, 2. SALISBURY, 3. RIVADAVIA   GOLCONDA 1000 GUINEAS (Gr.2) (1,600m) (Terms) Fillies, 3-y-o only, 4.15: 1. Limoncello (8) Dhanu S. Deora 57, 2. Maximum Glamour (3) A.A. Vikrant 57, 3. Miracle (4) P.S. Chouhan 57, 4. New Look (6) C. Umesh 57, 5. Own Voice (7) Ajeeth Kumar 57, 6. Ruling Goddess (1) Akshay Kumar 57, 7. Silver Bells (5) C.S. Jodha 57 and 8. Soloist (2) Ashad Asbar 57.  1. MIRACLE, 2. NEW LOOK, 3. OWN VOICE   MEDAK PLATE (Div. II) (1,600m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 4.45: 1. Queen Blossom (5) Rohit Kumar 62, 2. Royal Pal (10) Abhay Singh 62, 3. Sharp Mind (2) Khurshad Alam 62, 4. Wild Card (7) P.S. Chouhan 62, 5. Ice Berry (6) Gaurav Singh 61.5, 6. Golden Amaris (3) Kuldeep Singh 59.5, 7. Royal Girl (11) Ajit Singh 58.5, 8. Wot’s Up Jay (12) Koushik 58.5, 9. Ahanu (1) S.S. Tanwar 57.5, 10. Epsom (4) Nikhil Naidu 57, 11. Good Tidings (8) Md. Ismail 54.5 and 12. Royal Avenger (9) Afroz Khan 50.  1. ICE BERRY, 2. QUEEN BLOSSOM, 3. ROYAL GIRL  Day’s Best: IN CONTENTION  Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. Mini Jackpot: 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/miracle-primed-to-deliver-in-feature/article37655613.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Harsh’s century goes in vain||Harsh Raj’s century (101) went in vain for Bihar as it lost to Uttarakhand by six wickets in the league phase of the BCCI under-25 one-day cricket championship Elite Group-D match.  The scores:   Himachal Pradesh 244/8 in 50 overs (R.I. Thakur 46, Vaibhav Sharma 33, S.G. Arora 45, Aryavrat Sharma 38) lost to Bengal 245/4 in 47.3 overs (Sudip Kumar Gharami 86, Ankur Paul 65).   Kerala 128 in 34.3 overs (Ananthakrishnan 35, Taizeem Younis Tak 3/42) lost to J&K 129/6 in 37.4 overs (Kanhaiya Wadhawan 31).   Bihar 224 in 49.3 overs (Piyush Kumar Singh 43, Harsh Raj 101, Akash Raj 46, Aditya Sethi 3/41) lost to Uttarakhand 226/4 in 46.2 overs (Kamal 37, Ajit Singh Rawat 71 n.o., Aditya Sethi 42).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harshs-ton-goes-in-vain/article37655616.ece
24 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Karnataka blanks TN||Sudheer Kotikela scored a hat-trick as Karnataka blanked Tamil Nadu 4-0 in the Santosh Trophy South Zone Qualifiers, at the Bangalore Football Stadium here on Tuesday. In the day's second match, Telangana was equally dominant, thrashing Andhra Pradesh 4-0, with Mohammed Imaduddin accounting for a brace.  The results:   Karnataka 4 (P. Kamalesh 11, Sudheer Kotikela 42, 53, 75) bt Tamil Nadu 0.   Telangana 4 (Yousuf Ali 16, Mohammed Imaduddin 71, 90+3, P. Joshua 87) bt Andhra Pradesh 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-blanks-tn/article37655618.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Double for Likhita Srivastava||Second seed Likhita Srivastava pipped Stuti Agrawal 21-17, 12-21, 22-20 in the women’s final of the Delhi State-ranking badminton tournament at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium here on Tuesday. Likhita also won the doubles title in partnership with Navdha Manglam. Eighth seed Arjun Rehan won the men’s title. Arjun led 21-8, 16-6 when his opponent Eshan Duggal retired with an injury. In the girls under-19 final, 12-year-old Ishita Negi beat Ishani Waldia 21-16, 21-11.  The results (finals): Under-19 boys: Abhinav Manglam bt Aakash 21-19, 18-21, 21-19. Doubles: Aryan Sharma & Vaasu Himmatramka bt Rudransh Negi & Shivansh Negi 15-21, 21-19, 21-15.   Men: Arjun Rehan bt Eshan Duggal 21-8, 16-6 (retired). Doubles: Harsh Rana & Nitin Kumar bt Chirag Arora & Manish Rawat 21-14, 21-16.   Over-35: Manish Rawat bt Rishi Sharma 21-11, 21-17. Doubles: Manish Rawat & Tanvir Gill bt Apoorv Vij & Ashish Mishra 21-13, 21-14.   Over-40: Harshdeep Singh Rawat bt Majid Shabbir Khan 16-21, 21-7, 21-13.   Over-45: Jaspreet Singh w.o. Vikram Bhasin. Doubles: Fateh Singh & Jaspreet Singh bt Oinam Sunil Kumar & Sonna Khamthianmung 19-21, 21-10, 21-13.   Over-50: Rajeev Sharma bt Vikram Bhasin 5-1 (retd.). Doubles: Rakesh Bhardwaj & SAtyavrat Bhargava bt Kawaljit Singh & Vikram Bhasin 21-19, 21-18.   Over-55: Dhananjay Bhatnagar bt Ramesh Sharma 20-22, 21-16, 21-9. Doubles: Dhananjay Bhatnagar & Sanjiv Kapoor bt Ashit Avinashi & Ramesh Sharma 21-15, 21-13.   Over-60: Harjeet Singh bt Purushottam Dass Jindal 21-18, 21-7. Doubles: Anil Mittal & Harjeet Singh bt Pradeep Grover & Purushottam Dass Jindal 21-3, 21-9.   Over-65: Anil Mittal bt Ashwani Bhola 21-8, 21-11.   Under-19 girls: Ishita Negi bt Ishani Waldia 21-16, 21-11. Doubles: Ishani Waldia & Navdha Manglam bt Ayushi Dodwal & Hrishita Patra 21-12, 21-10.   Women: Likhita Srivastava bt Stuti Agrawal 21-17, 12-21, 22-20. Doubles: Likhita Srivastava & Navdha Manglam bt Durva Gupta & Meenal Rautela 21-10, 21-16.   Over-35: Sreelakshmi Rao bt Jagriti Kumar 21-6, 23-21. Doubles: Deepika Sarin & Diva Menon bt Pinal Patel & Sreelakshmi Rao 21-14, 10-21, 21-18.   Over-40: Doubles: Davinder Dhillon & Hemant Duggal bt Ajay Kumar & Ramneek Singh 21-14, 21-12.   Over-45: Mukti Srivastava bt Mansi Goel 21-15, 11-21, 21-8. Doubles: Deepika Sarin & Suchitra Misra bt Mansi Goel & Mukti Srivastava 21-13, 21-13.   Over-50: Teenu Babbar w.o. Priya Nalgundwar.   Over-55: Amrit Versha Kohli bt Vijaya Ahluwalia 21-11, 21-13; Doubles: Pratibha Tandon & Vijaya Ahluwalia bt Mridu Avinashi & Neera Pasricha 21-14, 21-15.   Mixed doubles: Eshaan Duggal & Akanshi Baliyan bt Advit Bhargava & Navdha Manglam 21-17, 9-21, 21-19.   Under-19: Sataksh Singh & Vidushi Singh bt Vaasu Himmatramka & Ayushi Dodhwal 13-21, 21-19, 26-24.   Over-35: Om Panwar & Diya Arora bt Shibu Xavier & Sreelakshmi Rao 21-9, 21-15.   Over-40 : Bharat Ranjan & Taranjeet Kaur bt Ramneek Singh & Niti Sudhakar 21-19, 21-18.   Over-45: Rajeev Sharma & Mansi Goel bt Fateh Singh & Suchitra Misra 21-19, 21-16.   Over-50: Vikram Bhasin & Amrit Versha Kohli bt Ravinder Kumar Sharma & Teenu Babbar 21-9, 21-11.   Over-55: Ramesh Sharma & Pratibha Tandon bt Ashit Avinash & Mridu Avinashi 14-21, 21-13, 21-17 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-for-likhita-srivastava/article37655750.ece
24 November 2021||Lausanne,||Lewandowski and Benzema in FIFA Best list||Robert Lewandowski is in the running to retain his Best FIFA Men’s Player award after he was named Monday on an 11-man shortlist alongside Karim Benzema and Jorginho. Perennial candidates Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo feature among the nominees, with Neymar, Mohamed Salah and Kylian Mbappe are also up for a prize first awarded in 2017. Erling Haaland, N’Golo Kante and Kevin De Bruyne complete the list of potential winners. Four Barcelona players are included on the women’s best player shortlist — Alexia Putellas, Jennifer Hermoso, Aitana Bonmati and Caroline Graham Hansen. Chelsea, beaten by Barcelona in last season’s Women’s Champions League final, also has four representatives with Sam Kerr, Ji So-yun, Magdalena Eriksson and Pernille Harder. Lucy Bronze, who took home last year’s award, was nominated with fellow England international Ellen White. Canada’s Olympic gold medallist Christine Sinclair is in contention too, as is Stina Blackstenius of Sweden. Thomas Tuchel is a frontrunner for best men’s coach after leading Chelsea to the Champions League title. He faces competition from Roberto Mancini, the mastermind of Italy’s Euro 2020 triumph. Other nominees are Hansi Flick, Pep Guardiola, Antonio Conte, Diego Simeone and Argentina boss Lionel Scaloni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lewandowski-and-benzema-in-fifa-best-list/article37655617.ece
24 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Aadithyan, Pavithra claim u-19 titles||Third-seeded S.D. Aadithyan of Thiruvananthapuram upset Palakkad’s top-seeded Athul John Mathew in a thriller to win the under-19 boys singles title in the Kerala State junior badminton championships which concluded at the Fr. Joseph Paikada indoor stadium, Devagiri, on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Ernakulam’s Pavithra Naveen, the State women’s champion and the top seed here, defeated Kozhikode’s unseeded Nayana S. Oasis for the girls’ title. Alappuzha’s S. Akshit and Pavithra Jayaraj won the under-17 boys and girls singles titles.  The results (singles):   Boys: Under-19: Final: S.D. Aadithyan (Tvm) bt Athul John Mathew (Pkd) 21-9, 19-21, 21-19; Semifinals: Athul bt Fazim Abdu Anzar (Tsr) 21-19, 19-21, 21-15; Aadithyan bt Bharath Latheesh (Tsr) 21-14, 21-18.   Under-17: Final: S. Akshit (Alp) bt S. Abhishek (Ekm) 21-17, 24-26, 21-13.   Girls: Under-19: Final: Pavithra Naveen (Ekm) bt Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) 21-17, 21-17; Semifinals: Pavithra bt T.R. Gowri Krishna (Pta) 21-11, 21-19; Nayana bt Diya Arun (Ekm) 21-16, 22-20.   Under-17: Final: Pavithra Jayaraj (Alp) bt Aadhya Shine (Tsr) 21-16, 13-21, 27-25.   Doubles (finals): Boys: Under-19: C.H. Chandrajith (Knr) & Uday Prakash (Koz) bt Abrar Muhammed (Ktm) & Adhin K. Ajay (Ekm) 21-18, 21-17. Under-17: T.S. Arjun & S. Athul Krishna (Alp) bt S. Abhishek & Varghese J. Koduppanapolackal (Ekm) 23-21, 21-17   Girls: Under-19: Archana Varghese & Diya Arun (Ekm) bt Gayathri Nambiar (Koz) & T.R. Gowri Krishna (Pta) 21-11, 21-13. Under-17: C.H. Keerthika (Knr) & Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) bt Meenakshi Vinu & Nanda Ghosh (Tvm) 21-17, 21-16.   Mixed: Under-19: Adhin K. Ajay & Diya Arun (Ekm) bt Abrar Muhammed (Ktm) & Archana Varghese (Ekm) 21-12, 21-15. Under-17: S.M. Aman Suresh & Nanda Ghosh (Tvm) bt Joseph Dilraj (Tsr) & C.H. Keerthika (Knr) 21-15, 21-10 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aadithyan-pavithra-claim-u-19-titles/article37656008.ece
24 November 2021||KANPUR,||Suryakumar in for injured Rahul||Just when an in-form K. L. Rahul appeared all set to win back his place as a Test opener in a home series, a muscle strain in the left thigh has ruled him out for the two-match Test series against New Zealand. The National selectors named Suryakumar Yadav, who is yet to play a Test, as Rahul’s replacement. Rahul will undergo rehabilitation at the National Cricket Academy, Bengaluru, to be fit for the Tour of South Africa next month. On Tuesday afternoon, when the Indian team opened its first net session at the Green Park Stadium here, the absence of Rahul was not missed. With Shubman Gill and Mayank Agarwal going through the batting drills on two of the three practice pitches, Rahul missing the first Test did appear a possibility. Before long, the BCCI cleared all doubts following a statement that also mentioned the decision of the National selectors. With Rahul out of the equation, Gill and Mayank could well form India’s new opening pair in the first Test beginning here on Thursday. Rahul last played a Test in India against West Indies at Hyderabad in October 2018. It may be recalled that, once before, Rahul missed the opening Test against Sri Lanka at Galle in 2017 due to fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suryakumar-in-for-injured-rahul/article37655566.ece
24 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||France is a very good team, I imagine: Reid||Without much knowledge about France, India needs to be at its best in its opening Pool B match of the men’s hockey Junior World Cup at the Kalinga Stadium here on Wednesday, said India coach Graham Reid. Reid expected France, which will host the Paris Olympics in 2024, to play European style of hockey. “France is a very good team, I imagine. We saw footage of some matches. They are playing like a European team — holding the ball, moving quickly and attacking from the right. They have a couple of good strikers. We have to be at our best,” said Reid. Reid was happy with the experience his ‘enthusiastic’ boys gathered from the practice matches against Netherlands, Germany and the USA. India captain Vivek Sagar Prasad said his team would play positively against France. “It is the first match. We want to take three points. “It’s a big stage. We have to keep the team together on and off the field. Keeping the team together off the field helps in keeping it together on the field,” said Vivek. France coach Aymeric Bergamo said, “We know it’s a tough match. India is the (defending) world champion, playing at home. It’s a big nation in field hockey. We just have to be ready.” France, which was a surprise runner-up in the 2013 edition in Delhi, qualified for the JWC on the basis of its sixth place finish in the 2019 Junior EuroHockey championship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/france-is-a-very-good-team-i-imagine-reid/article37655567.ece
24 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Ready to chip in as an all-rounder for u-19 team’||For young left-arm spinner Shashank Mehrotra, it was the kind of big break which made him believe he could realise the ultimate goal of playing for India one day. “It was a pleasant surprise when I got selected for the India under-19-B team to play the tri-series featuring India A and B teams and Bangladesh in Kolkata from November 28,” said the 18-year-old who plays for Sporting XI in the HCA Leagues. Mehrotra was picked because of his 14-wicket haul in the Vinoo Mankad Trophy in Ahmedabad and a decent show in the subsequent Challenger Trophy (under-19) where he took five wickets from five matches. “Yes, the spell against Maharashtra [10-4-9-4] in the Vinoo Mankad Trophy semifinal was immensely satisfying. It could have been a better feeling but for the fact that Hyderabad lost that match,” he said in a chat with The Hindu . Coached by Adnan Bafana, who earlier trained another left-arm spinner and Ranji player Tanay Tyagarajan, Mehrotra is focussing on batting too, as he is a genuine all-rounder in the League cricket. “Unfortunately, playing for Hyderabad I didn’t get too many chances to show my ability with the bat. But, given the opportunity I am ready to chip in as an all rounder for the India under-19 team also,” said the confident young cricketer. Bafana said his trainee was genuinely talented and credited the HCA under-19 selection panel headed by Rajesh Yadav and HCA director Etasham Ali Khan for backing Mehrotra’s natural talent. “I am sure if he capitalises on the chances that come his way, Shashank will go places,” said the proud coach.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ready-to-chip-in-as-an-all-rounder-for-u-19-team/article37655884.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaishnav ousts Rushil||Qualifier Jaishnav Shinde beat eighth seed Rushil Khosla 6-3, 7-6(5) in the first round of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex on Tuesday. In the girls section, Tamanna Takoria beat Hetvee Chaudhari 4-6, 6-4, 6-4 in the first round.  The results (first round):   Boys: Aman Dahiya bt Pranav Karthik 6-4, 6-4; Abhay Chhabra bt Lakshya Chugh 5-7, 6-3, 6-0; Jaishnav Shinde bt Rushil Khosla 6-3, 7-6(5); Daksh Agarwal bt Rethin Pranav 6-1, 6-4.   Girls: Tamanna Takoria bt Hetvee Chaudhari 4-6, 6-4, 6-4; Hitakamya Singh Narwal bt Mrithula Mahalakshmi 6-0, 6-0; Kristi Boro bt Radhika Mahajan 6-7(2), 6-1, 6-2; NIyati Kukreti bt Suryanshi 6-3, 6-3; Lakshmi Gowda bt Chahana Budhbhatti 3-6, 6-1, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jaishnav-ousts-rushil/article37655751.ece
24 November 2021||Dubai,||Mithali retains third spot||India captain Mithali Raj retained her number three spot among batters while her veteran compatriot Jhulan Goswami maintained her second position among bowlers in the ICC women’s ODI rankings issued on Tuesday. Mithali who has 738 rating points to her kitty, is behind Lizelle Lee (761) of South Africa and Alyssa Healy (750) of Australia as there was no change in the top-10 batters from the previous rankings. Smriti Mandhana also remained on sixth spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mithali-retains-third-spot/article37656068.ece
24 November 2021||Dubai,||Ankita Raina bows out||Ankita Raina fought hard but missed her chances as top seed Zhang Shuai of China won 6-1, 7-6(6) in the first round of the $100,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament in Dubai.  The results: First round: $52,080 Challenger, Manama, Bahrain: Duje Ajdukovic (Cro) bt Sasikumar Mukund 6-4, 6-4; Yanki Erel (Tur) bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran 6-3, 6-3.   $100,000 ITF women, Dubai, UAE: Zhang Shuai (Chn) bt Ankita Raina 6-1, 7-6(6) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-raina-bows-out/article37655633.ece
24 November 2021||BALI,||Indian shuttlers have a bad day||Lakshya Sen fought hard before going down to top seed Kento Momota of Japan in the opening round of the Indonesia Open Super 1000 event here on Tuesday. P. Kashyap too lost, bowing out to Loh Kean Yew of Singapore.  The results (first round): Men: Kento Momota (Jpn) bt Lakshya Sen 23-21, 21-15; Loh Kean Yew (Sgp) bt P. Kashyap 21-11, 21-14. Doubles: Choi Solgyu & Kim Wonho (Kor) bt M.R. Arjun & Dhruv Kapila 22-20, 21-12.   Mixed doubles: Jones Ralfy Jansen & Linda Efler (Ger) bt Venkat Gaurav Prasad & Juhi Dewangan 21-12, 21-41 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-shuttlers-have-a-bad-day/article37655336.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bailey not to vote in Paine issue||Chief selector George Bailey said on Tuesday he will step aside from voting on whether Tim Paine should remain in the Australian Test cricket side if there is a split decision, given their personal and business relationship. That decision will be made by a three-man selection panel comprising Bailey, coach Justin Langer and the recently appointed Tony Dodemaide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bailey-not-to-vote-in-paine-issue/article37655621.ece
24 November 2021||Bloemfontein,||India-A bowlers toil on opening day||The India-A bowlers had a tough time on the field as Pieter Malan and Tony de Zorzi scored centuries to take South Africa-A to 343 for three at stumps on day one of the opening unofficial Test here on Tuesday. After opting to bowl, the Priyank Panchal-led side got two early wickets before Malan (157 batting off 258 balls) and Zorzi (117 off 186) shared a 217-run stand for the third wicket to put South Africa A in a strong position in the four-day game. The three-match series is being scheduled ahead of the senior team’s tour of South Africa beginning next month. Opener Prithvi Shaw and Hanuma Vihari, who was controversially not picked for the two home Tests against New Zealand, are also part of the squad.  The scores: South Africa-A 343/3 in 90 overs (Pieter Malan 157 batting, Tony de Zorzi 117) vs India-A .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-a-bowlers-toil-on-opening-day/article37655564.ece
24 November 2021||Chennai,||Shreyas and I may not be retained by DC: Ashwin||Ahead of the IPL player retention window that closes at the end of this month, R. Ashwin on his YouTube channel hinted that Shreyas Iyer and he might not be retained by Delhi Capitals. The latter had also led the Delhi side from 2018 till 2020 before Rishabh Pant took over this year. During a discussion on retention rules and who could be retained, Ashwin said, "Shreyas isn't there I think, so someone else would have to come. I am not there. I would have known if I were there." Ashwin was traded in by Capitals for the 2020 season from Kings XI Punjab (now Punjab Kings) with J. Suchith moving the other way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shreyas-and-i-may-not-be-retained-by-dc-ashwin/article37655571.ece
24 November 2021||CHENNAI:,||TVS Eurogrip to be CSK’s principal sponsor||TVS Eurogrip, India’s two and three-wheeler tyre brand, announced on Tuesday that it has joined hands with four-time Indian Premier League (IPL) champion Chennai Super Kings (CSK) as the principal sponsor for the next three years (2022-2024). CSK and TVS Eurogrip will launch a series of initiatives to engage the large fan base of CSK across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tvs-eurogrip-to-be-csks-principal-sponsor/article37655684.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tales aflutter at the Eastern Ghats||Gossamer-winged butterflies conjure up images of flowery fields and sunshine-soaked gardens. Indicators of a healthy environment and ecosystem, butterflies have been widely used by ecologists to study the impact of habitat loss and fragmentation, and climate change. So it is encouraging that 12 new species have been recorded as new to Visakhapatnam district in a research study on butterflies recently published in a scientific journal. It also brought to light interesting facts. The study was conducted between 2016 and 2018 by research director Mantha Ramamurty, STPL Ushasri and Pavani Sagiraju of Dolphin Nature Conservation Society in Visakhapatnam. The research paper titled ‘Butterflies of Visakhapatnam District, Andhra Pradesh, India’, was published in the recent edition of the scientific journal, Zoo’s Print . The 12 species recorded as new to Visakhapatnam district are — Troides helena , Colotis amata, Delias hyparete, Eurema brigitta, E. laeta, Ixias pyrene, Lethe europa, Vanessa cardui, Ypthima baldus, Y. ceylonica, Virachola isocrates, and Freyeria trochylus . The common names are common birdwing, small salmon Arab, painted jezebel, small grass yellow, spotless grass yellow, yellow orange-tip, bamboo treebrown, painted lady, common five-ring, white four-ring, orange-spotted grass jewel and common guava blue. While the study documented the presence of these species in parts of Eastern Ghats of Visakhapatnam district like Chintapalli, G K Veedhi, Ananthagiri, Paderu, Araku and Sileru, a good number of these butterfly species can be seen flitting about within the city limits as well. The researchers recorded many of these species in the urban environments of Kambalakonda, Thotlakonda, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park, Simhachalam Hills and Biodiversity Park. There are 20,000 species of butterflies recorded in the world; of them 1,500 are reported from India. The northern part of the Eastern Ghats is an area with significant biodiversity value. However it remains poorly explored, especially with regard to studies of invertebrate diversity, particularly butterflies. Study and identification The study highlights the presence of a total of 105 species belonging to six families of which, 12 species were recorded as new to Visakhapatnam district. As many as seven species are legally protected in India under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. A total of 11 areas were selected from Visakhapatnam district, of which six areas were from Eastern Ghats forests and five from urban environments. Seven species are legally protected in India under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972— Pachliopta hector under Schedule I, Euploea mulciber and Appias libythea under Schedule IV, and Hypolimnas misippus , Lampides boeticus , Euchrysops cnejus , and Tanaecia lepidea under Schedule II. “Identification of butterflies needs very careful study because of seasonal changes, sexual dimorphism, where females look different and polymorphism, where same species exists in different morphological form because of mimicry,” says Ramamurty. In the study, 12 species were exclusively found in the Eastern Ghats forests of Visakhapatnam district but not in urban environments — Troides helena, Delias hyparete, Ixias pyrene, Ariadne ariadne, Symbrenthia lilaea, Tanaecia lepidea, Ypthima baldus, Ypthima ceylonica, Ypthima huebneri, Caleta decidia, Talicada nyseus, and Sarangesa dasahara . Two species were found only in urban environments of Visakhapatnam — Appias libythea and Abisara bifasciata suffusa . “The observations were made through transects, each of 500 metres length with five metres on either side, with one to three transects at every site. Observations were taken in the morning from 8 a.m. to noon when the butterflies were most active. Abundance of butterflies in different habitats were recorded,” says Ramamurty. The encountered butterflies were identified while they were in flight or in resting. Identification of the species was done mostly through photographic evidence. Species which are difficult to identify were caught by hand net and released after examination. Habitat threats The study also highlighted the butterfly habitats in urban areas that are affected due to pollution, industrialisation and urbanisation. “Vast stretches of plantation of monotypic and exotic species like Bougainvillea spectabilis , Madagascar almond, and Conocarpus lancifolius in traffic islands and road dividers pose a threat to the native species. Landscaping is seen everywhere for beautification purposes, which leaves no native herbal plants for the butterflies and larvae to flourish. Making every possible inch of urban space with concrete, not only depletes the water table but also reduces wild patches that attract butterflies,” says Ramamurty. Creating public awareness by involving students, local people, forest dwellers, and tribals is essential in the conservation of butterflies. “These are an extremely important group of organisms used from centuries to study several areas of biological research, including navigation, pest control, embryology, mimicry, evolution, genetics, population dynamics and biodiversity conservation,” says Ushasri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tales-aflutter-at-the-eastern-ghats/article37655991.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Bunty Aur Babli 2: An overblown reboot||Occasionally funny, largely pretentious, this over-the-top reboot of the lovable con franchise spends more time fussing over its brand value than telling a story. Vimmy Trivedi (Rani Mukerji) and Rakesh Trivedi (Saif Ali Khan in place of Abhishek Bachchan) are forced out of their domestic bliss to take on a new set of con artists (Siddhant Chaturvedi and Sharvari Wagh) who have conducted a series of heists using the title of ‘Bunty Aur Babli’. From giving Ganga river on lease under a public-private partnership scheme to a political leader collecting huge donations on her birthday or for that matter rampant unemployment despite churning out engineers by the minute from private education factories, writer-director Varun Sharma hints at real-life instances in the guise of humour but somehow the screenplay feels more like a PowerPoint presentation to persuade a producer to invest in his brand. Star cast found wanting The con jobs work when the makers are able to sell them to the paying audience, not to the gullible characters on screen. When the accent has not been chewed enough, it irks. Pankaj Tripathi, as the wily police officer who ropes in Vimmy and Rakesh, shows how to do it but the lead players are found wanting. After a point, even the unassuming Tripathi looks at a loss as to how to sail over a script where everything is underlined with a bleeding marker. One misses Jaideep Sahni’s writing in the original that seamlessly integrated the escapism to the restlessness of the unemployed youth in the new millennium. One looks for Gulzar’s lyrics that had put a meaning to the dreams of the small-town youth. In the name of continuity, what we get is Vimmi’s colourful dresses turning garish this time. Siddhant is suitably cocky as he plays a variant of his Gully Boy character. He and Sharvari catch the eye, raise the cool quotient of the franchise, little else. Taking the chirpy Vimmi forward, the reliable Rani is a little too earnest here. In an attempt to be the scene-stealer, she spoils quite a few because the writer doesn’t provide the material to match her high-pitched performance. In the original, Abhishek, with his brooding intensity, proved to be a great foil to her but here Saif, who is usually excellent in portraying tongue-in-cheek humour, seems to have been asked to keep it loud and one-note. Perhaps, it has been done to create a contrast with the youngsters. But in a bid to look dated, you don’t need to act old-school. Vimmi and Rakesh keep telling each other not to be overdramatic but the makers don’t seem to pay any heed. As a result, in the dark theatre, one hand keeps searching for the TV remote!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bunty-aur-babli-2-an-overblown-reboot/article37655993.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||An engaging alternative reality||Like Pablo Larraín’s Jackie (2016), which looks at Jacqueline Kennedy’s life in the week following her husband, President John F. Kennedy’s assassination, Spencer looks at a crucial period in Lady Diana’s life. It is Christmas 1991, which Lady Diana (Kristen Stewart) is spending with the royal family even as her marriage to Prince Charles (Jack Farthing) is unravelling. She seems close to a nervous breakdown with bulimia attacks and episodes of self-harm. From the beginning, where she deliberately arrives late to trying to entering her family home and picking a jacket off a scarecrow, Diana feels like a barely tolerated stranger in Sandringham, where the Royals are celebrating Christmas. Apart from her sons, William (Jack Nielen) and Harry (Freddie Spry), the rest of the royal family, including Queen Elizabeth (Stella Gonet) and Prince Philip (Richard Sammel) are largely indifferent and cold towards her. Only the royal dresser, Maggie (Sally Hawkins) is kind and supportive. The Equerry, Major Alistair Gregory (Timothy Spall) tries to tell Diana that she has to do her duty like the British soldiers who are willing to lay down their life for Queen and country, and by extension her. Diana tries to say that she does not want anyone to die for her. Reading a book on Anne Boleyn, that she finds by her bed, Diana identifies with the doomed queen (Amy Manson) to the extent of having visions of her. Seeing Camilla Parker Bowles (Emma Darwall-Smith) with whom Charles has been having an affair, the famed third person in their marriage, does not help matters. Splendid performance Acting awards should come in droves for Stewart’s performance as she creates a fragile and human Diana that goes beyond the glittering gowns and the blonde bangs. The rest of the cast are uniformly good, including Sean Harris as the Royal Head Chef, directing his troops to create culinary masterpieces. Incidentally, like Jackie , Spencer could well be in the running for awards for the lovely costumes. Written by Steven Knight, Spencer creates an engaging alternative reality for a well-documented story.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/an-engaging-alternative-reality/article37655996.ece
24 November 2021||Mumbai,||Teachers upset over no offline classes for students||The Maharashtra Government’s decision not to begin schools in the offline mode for Class 1 to 4, despite a drop in the number of COVID-19 cases, has come under criticism from teacher groups who are highlighting the need for offline education, especially in rural areas that lack facilities. “Consistency is of extreme importance in primary education. We have already lost almost one-and-a-half years. Physical classes are of extreme importance not only for education but also for a student’s social and mental health. Their happiness index is on the decline. It is necessary that schools reopen at the earliest and run full time,” said Bhausaheb Chaskar, convener, Active Teachers Forum (ATF), a pan-Maharashtra forum of teachers. According to Mr. Chaskar, online education cannot be the alternative to physical classes in a country like India. “The Government is not even letting us know the reasons for not opening primary schools,” he added. Teachers’ organisations, too, have been demanding the reopening of physical classes. In certain rural parts, schools have started in the offline mode for Class 1 in two batches with permission from the parents. “Those who are in Class 2 today cannot identify letters and those in Class 3 cannot read a sentence,” said Vijay Kombe, general secretary, Maharashtra State Primary Teachers’ Committee, which represents over 1.50 lakh members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/teachers-upset-over-no-offline-classes-for-primary-students/article37655781.ece
24 November 2021||November 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Dhamaka: Sound of social implosion||In the week of big public apology, comes a film where a common man seeks repentance from a powerful minister for not being able to do his duty. A gutsy idea that fills you with nervous energy, the film is an official remake of a Korean flick but, closer home, it reminds you of the angry common man ofA Wednesday. In the Neeraj Pandey film, the desperate everyman threatened to bomb Mumbai, here the despairing migrant crosses the line. The film makes you wonder what has changed in the last decade. Perhaps, the trust of the marginalised has been breached. Perhaps, it was reflected during the exodus from cities to villages during the pandemic. It is not that the last man standing in the row was getting attention earlier but he was not being fed hope by a section of rapacious media. His trust was not being played with 24x7. The disturbing thoughts swim in the conscience as one could clearly hear the sound of social implosion in Ram Madhvani’s compelling thriller, lined with commentary on media ethics. Largely set in the newsroom of a private news channel that markets trust to fulfil its insatiable hunger for ratings, it follows a fallen from grace news anchor Arjun Pathak (Karthik Aryan) who seeks to use a ‘breaking’ news story to retrieve his lost position. What seems like a ‘usual’ terror attack/hostage situation to him that he intends to milk, quickly turns personal as his estranged wife (Mrunal Thakur) is reporting from ground zero. Even as the threat lurks into the newsroom, the remnant of journalism left in his system is smoked out by a hard-nosed producer Ankita Malaskar (Amruta Subhash). For her, truth and news are two different things. In the ensuing moral battle, it becomes increasingly clear who is the bigger villain of the piece. But, at the same time, the narrative also becomes increasingly predictable. As the taut thriller starts getting flaccid, you start picking up faults in the plot. When a film takes a high moral ground, the margin to slip also reduces. When a film that seeks to expose the artifice of prime-time news starts looking staged, it pains. Disappointing climax The set design and cinematography are top-notch but the functioning of the newsroom, the motivations of the ‘villain’, and the actions of the officer of the anti-terror unit (Vikas Kumar) leave you unsated. After taking you to the edge of the seat, the climax is a tad disappointing. A few more drafts, a little more sharpness would have helped. No such issue with Amruta who excels in a minutely observed character that exemplifies the state of a section of electronic news media today. Karthik has been astutely cast in the role of the hollow television anchor fattened by opportunism, teleprompter, and TRPs. Like inLove Aaj Kal, he plays the ‘straying’ part well, but when it comes to the transformation, he fumbles. Thankfully, that portion is short here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dhamaka-sound-of-social-implosion/article37656086.ece
24 November 2021||Mumbai,||Sanjay Raut hopeful of MSRTC workers’ strike ending soon||As the indefinite strike by the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees entered its 27th day on Tuesday, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar and later expressed hope of a resolution soon. Talking to the reporters here, Mr. Raut said he held discussion with Mr. Pawar on a range of issues, including politics and the ongoing MSRTC workers strike. “Only serious issues are discussed with Pawar saheb because we both don’t have time to discuss other issues. The MSRTC strike issue is very serious and I am sure that it will be resolved soon,” he said after meeting Mr. Pawar’s at his residence here. The strike by the MSRTC staffers continued for the 27th day on Tuesday. On Monday, Mr. Pawar held a discussion with Transport Minister Anil Parab and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar, Mr. Raut said. “There was a meeting between Mr. Pawar, Finance Minister Ajit Pawar and the Transport Minister (Mr. Parab) and I understand that he has given (them) some positive instructions.” He hit out at the Opposition BJP for adding ‘oil to the fire’ on the MSRTC workers’ issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sanjay-raut-hopeful-of-msrtc-workers-strike-ending-soon/article37656000.ece
24 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Job scam bigger than Vyapam’||Attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Government in Haryana over the alleged “job scam” in the wake of the arrest of senior Haryana Public Service Commission official recently, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Tuesday accused the Chief Minister Manohar Lal of misleading the youth of the State with false claims of transparency in jobs. He also demanded the dismissal of HPSC and Haryana Staff Selection Commission and cancellation of all recruitment examinations conducted during the posting of HPSC Deputy Secretary Anil Nagar. Mr. Nagar was arrested on charges of corruption. Mr. Surjewala said corruption in jobs under the present regime was high and the HPSC had become “Haryana Post Sales Counter” with jobs on sales. “By exposing more than 32 ‘paper leaks and recruitment scams’, we have been raising our voice against the injustice to the youth and all-round corruption prevailing in Haryana job recruitments. After the arrest of Anil Nagar, his associate Ashwini Kumar and others, it has now become clear that recruitment scam in Haryana is bigger than the biggest job scam of the country — the Vyapam scam,” he said. The jobs, he added, were being sold, papers being leaked, blank Optical Mark Recognition Sheets getting filled after exams, roll numbers being arranged one after the other to give benefit to favourite candidates, but Mr. Lal had been claiming transparency in jobs. “From the confessional statement of Nagar to the Vigilance Bureau, it is now clear that the rates for each post were fixed. From Haryana Board to HPSC, he continued to get important postings and this would not have been possible without a ‘big blessing’.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/job-scam-bigger-than-vyapam/article37655783.ece
24 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Law students to help prisoners with bail pleas, appeals: NHRC||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday announced a pilot project for improving access to justice for prisoners of 16 Delhi jails by allowing law students to help them in filing bail applications and appeals. The NHRC signed an MoU with Delhi Prisons, the National Law University, Delhi and the Delhi State Legal Services Authority, it said in a statement. The project would also help in fostering a sense of public service in the students of NLU. “The aim of this collaborative exercise is also to promote and protect the human rights of prisoners besides inculcating professionalism among the law students. The students from NLU Delhi now may assist the prisoners in filing bail applications and appeals,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/law-students-to-help-prisoners-with-bail-pleas-appeals-nhrc/article37655788.ece
24 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha villagers say they will give up ganja farming if MSP is guaranteed||Villagers in Odisha’s Malkangiri district took out a strange protest rally to get their grievance heard. Despite knowing well that they could be penalised under stringent provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, for growing cannabis, villagers came out in the open to put out the conditions that they would stop cultivating the illicit crop if all Government welfare programmes were implemented in their locality. For giving up the cultivation, about 10,000 residents of 35 villages of Ralegada gram panchayats assembled at Dhuliput to put forth their 19-point demand on Monday. “We are not getting actual price for our agricultural produce. Most of the villagers of Ralegada and other neighbouring gram panchayats depend on cannabis cultivation. The money earned from cannabis cultivation helps us send our wards to distant places for education,” Kamulu Hantal, a resident of Ralegada, said. “We are informed that the Government is out to destroy all hemp plants. This will snatch a robust source of income. We urge the Government to facilitate marketing for our agricultural produce. We will not stop growing cannabis cultivation if our demand is not met,” he said. Another villager, Narayan Hantal of Dhuliput, said, “We have been growing cannabis knowing well that it is illegal. We did not have any option as there were no takers for our agricultural produces.” The agitating villagers demanded inclusion of all households under the National Food Security Act and the Prime Minister Awas Yojna, settlement of land under the Forest Right Act and minimum support price for their agricultural produce. These villages are situated inside Swabhiman Anchal, formerly cut-off area, which was until recently bastion of outlawed CPI (Maoist). The area used to be covered by water from three sides and dense forest from another side. Boat was only way of communication to nine panchayats of Swabhiman Anchal. However, after construction of the Gurupriya bridge, the Government has begun laying roads. Now, majority of the villages can be accessed by roads. Block Development Officer of Chitrakonda Rahul Mandol said, “We are aware of cultivation of ganja by villagers in Swabhiman area. However, we have been reaching out to villages with alternative crops. The Horticulture Department is promoting vegetables in a big way.” Mr. Mandol said there was truth in the allegation that subsidised foodgrains were not reaching villagers. “We will make sure that rice reaches every household,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-villagers-say-they-will-give-up-ganja-farming-if-msp-is-guaranteed/article37655785.ece
24 November 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Woman stages her own, nephew’s kidnap over ‘casteist slurs’ by family||Fed up of frequent ‘casteist slurs’ and ‘taunts’ by the family over marrying a lower caste man, a 20-year-old woman allegedly staged her kidnap along with her six-year-old nephew to extort Rs. 10 lakh. Vinayak Singh had registered a case with the Khandeshwar police on Monday evening after his niece, Shalu Singh, went missing with his six-year-old son. According to Mr. Singh, the woman had gone out with his son and after some time the family received a ransom call. “We found that the kidnapping was planned by Ms. Shalu and her husband,” a police officer said. Ms. Shalu and her husband Vipin Agrahari were arrested from a Mumbai local train and the boy rescued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-stages-her-own-nephews-kidnap-over-casteist-slurs-by-family/article37656003.ece
24 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Haryana students to get free tablets||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Tuesday said free tablets will soon be given to students of Class 11 and 12 across the State. The Government has decided to purchase five lakh tablets, which will be given to the students studying in Class 11 and 12 in the upcoming academic session. A total of Rs. 560 crore will be spent to buy these tablets, he said. In future, the Government would plan to give tablets to the students of other classes as well, he said. Besides, 15,000 tubewell connections will be issued to the farmers soon, Mr. Lal said. In this regard, the process of purchasing power equipment worth Rs. 350 crore was completed during the meeting of a high-power purchase committee. These decisions were taken in a meeting held here in which Education Minister Kanwar Pal, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma, Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, and Agriculture Minister J.P. Dalal were among others present, according to an official release. Curbing corruption Later, interacting with reporters, the Chief Minister said curbing corruption is the main goal of his Government. “If any officer or employee is found involved in corruption, strict action will be taken against him,” he said in response to questions on the alleged scam in recruitment for dental surgeons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/class-11-12-students-to-get-tablets-soon-haryana-cm/article37655777.ece
24 November 2021||Indore,||Four Army officers test positive for COVID-19||Four fully-vaccinated Army officers, two of them participating in a course of the Indian Institute of Management, tested positive for COVID-19 in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore district, an official said on Tuesday. “Four Army officers have tested positive for the virus in the last three days in Indore. They had received both doses of the anti-COVID-19 vaccine. They have no symptoms and their condition is fine,” said Dr. Amit Malakar, nodal officer, COVID-19, Indore. He said two of the infected officers are residents of the Army Cantonment located in nearby Mhow town and the two others are enrolled for the IIM Indore’s Certificate Course in Business Management for Defence Officers (CCBMDO). Meanwhile, the IIM administration has decided to stop the offline classes and will conduct them virtually. “As a precautionary measure, we have decided to conduct online classes for a batch of 60 participants of the CCBMDO course after some of them tested positive,” IIM Indore Director Himanshu Rai said. ‘Not staying at IIM’ He, however, said that the participants in the current batch were not staying at the IIM campus. A separate classroom was arranged on the campus for them, he added. In another development, a 69-year-old fully vaccinated woman succumbed to the COVID-19 infection in Indore on Saturday, Dr. Malakar said, adding that she died at Mhow’s Military Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-army-officers-test-positive-for-covid-19/article37656001.ece
24 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||COVID cases reported from Odisha schools||Odisha’s plans to gradually open schools and colleges received a setback after COVID-19 infections were reported from different educational institutes. For the past few days, students of St. Mary’s Girls’ High School in Sundargarh district were showing symptoms of cold and cough. Suspecting COVID-19 infection, the headmistress of the high school organised screening of all students. As many as 53 girls from Class 8, 9 and 10 were found to be infected with COVID-19. “Girls have been kept in isolation. Necessary medicines and food have been provided to them,” said Sister Petrikiya. Similarly, 29 medical college students of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Burla, were found to be infected with COVID-19. Nine boarders of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya at Konark in Odisha’s Puri district were found to have tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-cases-reported-from-odisha-schools/article37655787.ece
24 November 2021||Shimla,||Landslide blocks NH 5 in Shimla||The National Highway-5 has been blocked due to landslip in Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh, a State Disaster Management official said. The landslip occurred near Khachi Mod in Theog late on Monday night, he said. Efforts are on to clear the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/landslide-blocks-nh-5-in-shimla/article37655776.ece
24 November 2021||Thane,||Maha: Jharkhand man wanted for murder nabbed in Thane||A man wanted in a murder case in Jharkhand was arrested by the police in Maharashtra’s Thane city, an officer said on Tuesday. Based on a tip-off, a team from the Crime Unit-1 laid a trap and nabbed Tejnarayan Prasad from Naupada on Monday, the official said. Prasad was presented in court on Tuesday and a transit remand was obtained, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maha-jharkhand-man-wanted-for-murder-nabbed-in-thane/article37655778.ece
