28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Review plan to open up international travel: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday directed a review of the plan to ease international travel restrictions in light of the emerging new COVID-19 virus variant B.1.1.529 (Omicron) found in South Africa that has been designated as a ‘Variant of Concern’ by the World Health Organization (WHO). In a two-hour-long meeting with senior Union Government officials, Mr. Modi highlighted the need for monitoring all international arrivals and testing as per guidelines, with a specific focus on countries identified ‘at risk’. The Prime Minister also asked officials to increase the coverage of the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine at the comprehensive meeting he chaired to review the public health preparedness and vaccination situation. He directed that genome sequencing samples be collected from international travellers and community as per norms and directed these samples be tested through the network of labs established under INSACOG. He spoke about the need to increase the sequencing efforts and make it more broad-based. Mr. Modi also urged officials to identify early warning signals for better COVID-19 management. Central Government officials have been instructed to coordinate with States to ensure that there are adequate buffer stocks of various medicines and work with them to review the functioning of medical infrastructure, including paediatric facilities. Mr. Modi asked officials to coordinate with States to ensure proper functioning of PSA oxygen plants and ventilators. At the meeting, which was attended by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba; V.K. Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog; Home Secretary A.K. Bhalla; Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and others, the Prime Minister was briefed on the global trends on COVID-19 infections and cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/review-plan-to-open-up-international-travel-pm/article37732003.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Lawmakers do not assess impact of laws’||Lawmakers do not care to assess the impact their laws will have on society, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said on Saturday. “Legislature does not conduct studies or assess the impact of the laws that it passes. This sometimes leads to big issues,” the Chief Justice said in his address at the closing ceremony of the Constitution Day celebrations in New Delhi. The Chief Justice said “many people” misunderstand the role of the judiciary. For one, they think courts make the laws, the CJI said. “We need to clear the prevailing misconceptions. For example, many people in this country believe that it is the courts which make the laws... People need to know the scope and limitations of the roles ascribed to the different organs of the State,” the CJI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lawmakers-do-not-assess-impact-of-laws/article37732000.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SKM puts off tractor rally plan||Farm unions have suspended plans for a tractor rally to Parliament when it opens for the winter session on Monday, saying they will first wait for the promised repeal of the three farm laws to be implemented. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, however, insisted that the Centre had already met all farmers’ demands, referring to the committee announced by the Prime Minister on MSP. The Centre had also acceded to the SKM’s demand for decriminalisation of stubble burning by farmers, he added. Urging the protesters to return home, Mr. Tomar told news agency ANI that other demands such as removal of cases against protesters and compensation for those who died during the protest were under the jurisdiction of States. “After the announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws, there is no point in continuing farmers' agitation. I urge farmers to end their agitation and go home,” the Minister said. On the other hand, after its leaders met at the Singhu border site on Saturday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha urged the government to restart the dialogue process and sought a written assurance that its other demands would be met, including a legal guarantee that all farmers will get minimum support prices for their crops. The SKM leadership will meet again on December 4 to decide their next course of action. Addressing a press conference after the SKM meeting, Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal said it had been decided to suspend or postpone the plan to send 500 farmers in tractors from Delhi’s borders to Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/skm-puts-off-tractor-rally-plan/article37732001.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,||State asks ryots not to raise paddy in rabi||A day after the Union government made it clear to the State government that it would not procure parboiled rice from Telangana from this year with an advice against cultivating paddy this rabi season, the government urged the farming community against paddy cultivation in rabi. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar along with DGP M. Mahender Reddy held a video conference on Saturday with all district officials on procurement of paddy pertaining to the recent kharif season and on educating farmers against taking up paddy cultivation this rabi season. Parliamentary party meet today Meanwhile, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will discuss the refusal of Centre to buy paddy from the State in the ongoing rabi at a meeting of the parliamentary party of TRS on Sunday. He will guide the Members of Parliament on the party strategy in the winter session of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-asks-ryots-not-to-raise-paddy-in-rabi/article37732485.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,||RT-PCR must for travellers from Kerala, Maharashtra||In the light of the emerging new COVID-19 variant (Omicron) found in South Africa and emerging clusters in some colleges in Karnataka, the State Government has made RT-PCR negative reports mandatory for people coming to the State from Kerala and Maharashtra. A decision has also been taken for intensive surveillance and testing at inter-State borders of Karnataka-Kerala and Karnataka-Maharashtra. After a two-hour-long meeting chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the Government directed all college students from Kerala and staying in college hostels to mandatorily undergo COVID-19 test again. Students who came to the State from Kerala 16 days ago have to once again undergo RT-PCR test. After seven days of RT-PCR negative reports, college students staying in hostels have to mandatorily undergo another COVID-19 test, the Government said. The Government also directed officials to increase testing for medical and nursing courses students. Advisory for colleges Advisory would be given to educational institutions to stop conducting of seminars/workshops. The school/college managements have been told to postpone cultural programmes. The Health and Family Welfare Department would issue guidelines to schools/colleges separately. The Chief Minister directed police and Revenue department officials to undertake active surveillance on national highways. Deputy commissioners of four border districts — Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar — have been directed to deploy staff in three shifts to monitor movement of passengers and testing. Deputy commissioners have been told to undertake surprise visit to colleges and schools located in border areas to check arrangements made to prevent the pandemic. Vaccination Addressing reporters about the decisions taken at the meeting, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said two doses of COVID-19 vaccination had been made mandatory for employees working in hotels, restaraunts, cinemas, swimming pools, public libraries, zoo, and botanical gardens. Two doses of vaccination had also been made mandatory for employees working in government offices. Arrangements would be made for vaccination drives in government offices and malls. Wearing of masks had been made mandatory for people travelling, attending marriages and public functions. Nearly 95% of the people attending marriages were not wearing masks these days, Mr. Ashok said. Another round of meeting would be convened to impose restrictions for Christmas and New Year celebrations.  Push for booster dose  Bengaluru: The Centre has been urged to grant permission for giving booster doses for frontline health workers in the State, Revenue Minister R. Ashok has said. The Centre is expected to give permission in a week, he added, after a high-level meeting on Saturday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also instructed officials to go on an aggressive campaign to trace those who have not taken the second dose of the vaccine and cover them at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rt-pcr-must-for-travellers-from-kerala-maharashtra/article37732243.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Kovind calls for discretion in courtroom utterances||Delivering the valedictory address at the Constitution Day celebrations, President Ram Nath Kovind said judges must exercise ‘utmost discretion’ in their utterances in courtrooms. “Indiscreet remarks, even if made with good intention, give space for dubious interpretations to run down the judiciary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kovind-calls-for-discretion-in-courtroom-utterances/article37731995.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Enhance surveillance: WHO||Countries must enhance surveillance, sequencing and assess the risk of importation through international travel based on updated information on circulating variants and response capacities, and take measures accordingly, said Dr. Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO Southeast Asia Region on Saturday. The agency added that countries should be vigilant of the new VoC [variant of concern] Omicron. “Though COVID-19 cases have been declining in most countries of our region, the surge in cases elsewhere in the world and confirmation of a new Variant of Concern, is a reminder of the persisting risk and the need for us to continue to do our best to protect against the virus and prevent its spread. At no cost should we let our guards down,” said Dr. Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director,WHO Southeast Asia Region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/enhance-surveillance-who/article37731996.ece
28 November 2021||KADAPA/CHITTOOR,||Central teams visit flood-hit villages||The Central team had inspected the core belt of the rain-devastated areas in Kadapa district on Saturday, the second day of their visit, which included the Annamayya project wall collapse zone, inundated villages of Pulapattur, Eguva, and Diguva Mandapalle villages, and damaged fields along the Cheyyeru river. In Chittoor district, another Central team visited the Gangavaram, Chandragiri and other mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-teams-visit-flood-hit-villages/article37731994.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Haryana job quota impossible to implement’||The Haryana Government’s bid to reserve 75% jobs below a salary threshold of Rs. 30,000 a month for local youth has created discontent among industrialists and trade union leaders. While industry bodies believe the policy militates against ration card portability for migrant workers, activists see it as an election gimmick. The roll-out, scheduled for January 15, was recently challenged in court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-job-quota-impossible-to-implement/article37732365.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Citizens’ groups oppose acquisition of church land||Several citizen groups have opposed BMRCL’s move to acquire 880 sq. m of All Saints’ Church land to build an entry box for the proposed underground Rashtriya Military School station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/citizens-groups-oppose-acquisition-of-church-land/article37732245.ece
28 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh promises caste census in U.P.||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday promised members of the OBC community in U.P. that if voted to power, his Government would carry out a caste census for the Backward Castes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhilesh-promises-caste-census-in-up/article37732367.ece
28 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Kejriwal meets protesting teachers in Mohali||With an eye on the Punjab poll, AAP convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday visited a teachers’ protest site in Mohali and promised to regularise their jobs if his party comes to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-meets-protesting-teachers-in-mohali/article37732564.ece
28 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh promises caste census in U.P.||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday promised members of the OBC community in U.P. that if voted to power, his Government would carry out a caste census for the Backward Castes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/akhilesh-promises-caste-census-in-up/article37732565.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Increase college hours, reduce holidays: VTU||First year engineering students will have to put in longer hours in the classroom. The VTU has instructed affiliated engineering colleges to increase the workday and cut semester holidays for first year students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/increase-college-hours-reduce-holidays-vtu/article37732466.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||NDTF member elected DUTA president||After over two decades, the RSS-affiliated National Democratic Teachers' Front won the president’s post of the Delhi University Teachers’ Association, with A.K. Bhagi defeating Abha Dev Habib of the Left-affiliated Democratic Teachers' Front by a margin of 1,382 votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ndtf-member-elected-duta-president/article37732366.ece
28 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Government Leprosy Officer arrested||The city police on Saturday arrested Dakshina Kannada District Leprosy Officer Rathnakar on charges of sexually harassing some women staff working on contract basis in his office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/government-leprosy-officer-arrested/article37732634.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,||Loco pilots booked for elephant deaths||The Forest Department on Saturday registered a case against the two loco pilots of the Mangaluru-Chennai Express that knocked down three elephants near Walayar in Coimbatore district on Friday night. Main loco pilot M.T. Subair, of Kozhikode, and assistant loco pilot M.C. Akhil, of Thrissur, were booked under Section 9 of the Wildlife Protection Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/loco-pilots-booked-for-elephant-deaths/article37732287.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Socialists, liberals and Greens — all together||Two months after the federal elections of September 26, Germany finally has clarity on the composition the new government. For the first time, a disparate trio — the centre-left Social Democratic Party (SPD), the Greens, and the neo-liberal Free Democratic Party (FDP) — have sealed a coalition agreement. Dubbed the ‘traffic light coalition’ on the basis of the party colours (the SPD’s red, the yellow of the FDP, and the Greens), the new dispensation will see the SPD’s Olaf Scholz — Finance Minister in the outgoing Cabinet — succeed Angela Merkel as Germany’s new Chancellor. The three parties are not natural allies. Until the election results came out, it was believed that the SPD’s preferred partners would be the Greens and the communist Die Linke (The Left), as all of them are left-leaning in varying degrees. But the Left posted its worst performance ever, winning just 39 seats. The SPD emerged as the largest party with 206 seats, just ahead of the 197 secured by the centre-right Christian Democratic Union’s (CDU), while the Greens came third with 118 seats. The FDP and the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) finished with 92 and 83 seats, respectively. In the 736-seat Bundestag, 369 seats are needed for a majority. The SPD and the Greens together had 324, and were 35 short. Had the Left even matched its performance in the last elections (69 seats), they might have been in the government. But their dismal show meant the SPD — which was not interested in another ‘grand coalition’ with the CDU — had no option but to get in bed with the business-friendly Free Democrats, and convince the Greens to do so as well. Starting from October 21, 300 negotiators from the three parties, split into 22 working groups, got down to work behind closed doors hammering out policy positions. After five weeks of intense negotiations, on November 24, the freshly minted allies announced at a joint press conference in Berlin that a deal has been finalised. The coalition agreement, which runs into 177 pages, outlines a common minimum programme and indicates how the ministries will be divided. All three parties have to get the pact internally ratified before government formation, which is expected to happen in the second week of December. The main thrust of the coalition agreement is climate protection, with a pronounced focus on making German industry climate-neutral and on digitalisation, and fiscal discipline. The agreement, however, is widely perceived as less of an actual manual of governance and more a marketing brochure that would help sell the ideologically discordant alliance to the rank and file of the respective parties. Therefore, the deal, erected on hard compromises, offers each party something concrete to take back to their core constituency. The SPD has managed to get two of its campaign promises — raising the minimum wage to €12 and build 400,000 houses to resolve a housing crisis — into the coalition agreement. While these measures would be anathema to the laissez faire FDP, it has, in turn, had its say on the taxation front, forcing the SPD to drop the idea of a wealth tax, and agree that there would be neither an increase in tax rates nor a relaxation of the curbs on borrowing. The Greens, on the other hand, have gained a policy commitment that by 2030 (brought forward from 2038), Germany will phase out coal and have 80% of its energy demand met through renewables. Division of Ministries As for the division of Ministries, the SPD, in addition to the chancellorship, will get six portfolios, including Defence and the Interior Ministry. The FDP will get four — the all-important Finance Ministry, Education and Research, Justice, and the Ministry of Transport and Digital Affairs. The Greens will get charge of Foreign Affairs, an expanded economic affairs portfolio that also includes energy and climate protection, family affairs, environment, and agriculture. It’s clear that FDP leader Christian Lindner will be the new Finance Minister, while Green Party honchos Annalena Baerbock and Robert Habeck will be in charge of foreign affairs and economic affairs, respectively. In general, with the ideological proclivities of the coalition partners cancelling each other out, the new regime is expected to continue Ms. Merkel’s legacy of incremental change, with bold policy departures unlikely. For instance, Ms. Baerbock as Foreign Minister is likely to continue the Merkel line, which means the trans-Atlantic partnerships with the U.S., NATO and the U.K. will get top billing. Germany will also continue to press for greater EU integration, while remaining open to dialogue with Russia and protecting trade ties with China. However, one could expect Ms. Baerbock to up the ante on human rights issues, which could have implications for Russia and China. On the economic front, the southern European economies such as Italy and Spain may not be happy about a fiscal hawk such as Mr. Lindner becoming Finance Minister. While these countries want greater flexibility in the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP) — which lays down the outer limits for government debt and deficit for EU member-states — Mr. Lindner has made it clear that the SGP already has more than enough flexibility in its current form. Immigration laws Among the sections of the coalition agreement that have attracted a lot of attention are those proposing radical changes to immigration and citizenship laws. The new government will aim to offer dual citizenship to migrants (at present, available only for EU and Swiss citizens), and make it easier for refugees and asylum-seekers to bring their relatives to Germany. They will also make it easier for long-term residents to become naturalised citizens. The other highlights of the coalition deal include lowering the voting age to 16 and legalising the sale of cannabis. While these measures may go down well with the parties’ vote base, there is an elephant in the room: the Bundesrat, or the upper chamber of German Parliament that represents the 16 States. Here, the traffic light coalition doesn’t have a majority, while the CDU and its sister party CSU (Christian Social Union) are a part of the government in 10 out of the 16 States. In other words, the new government will find it tough to push through major legislation without getting the opposition CDU also on board. Interestingly, the most pressing issues facing Mr. Scholz as he takes charge don’t even figure in the coalition agreement: a resurgent COVID-19 crisis, rising tensions between Belarus and Poland, and Russia making aggressive military moves in Ukraine. What Mr. Scholz has going for him is a track record of being able to navigate conflicting interests to further his own political agenda — starting off as a labour lawyer, he successfully positioned himself as someone on the rightwing of the centre-left SPD; after the federal elections, he could convince both the Greens and the Free Democrats to join hands and back him (the Free Democrats had infamously walked out of coalition talks with Ms. Merkel after the 2017 elections), and now he has to do more of the same for the next four years. As head of a traffic light coalition, his likely approach to policy decisions would be to start slowly, pause until the signal turns a clear green, and proceed with abundant caution, keeping well under the speed limit.  In focus The SPD has managed to get two of its campaign promises — raising the minimum wage to €12 and building 400,000 houses to resolve a housing crisis — into the coalition agreement The FDP has its say on the taxation front, forcing the SPD to drop the idea of a wealth tax, and agree that there would not be an increase in tax rates The Greens, on the other hand, have gained a policy commitment that by 2030 (brought forward from 2038), Germany will phase out coal   The main thrust of the coalition agreement is climate protection, with a pronounced focus on making German industry climate- neutral, digitalisation, and fiscal discipline||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/socialists-liberals-and-greens-all-together/article37731938.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||1,000 held in 20 countries in financial crime crackdown||In an operation coordinated by the Interpol, enforcement agencies in more than 20 countries have arrested over 1,000 individuals and intercepted about $27 million of illicit funds as part of a crackdown on cyber-enabled financial crime. India was one of the participants. The operation codenamed ‘HAECHI-II’ was conducted over four months from June to September. Specialised police units from 20 countries, including Hong Kong and Macau, took part in the exercise to target specific types of online fraud, such as “romance” scams, investment fraud and money laundering linked to illegal online gambling, said the Interpol. The operation resulted in the arrest of 1,003 individuals and helped investigators close 1,660 cases. “In addition, 2,350 bank accounts linked to the illicit proceeds of online financial crime were blocked. More than 50 Interpol notices were published based on information relating to Operation HAECHI-II and 10 new criminal modus operandi were identified,” it said. It is the second such operation in a three-year project launched to tackle cyber-enabled financial crime, in participation with the Interpol member countries in every continent. “The operation also saw Interpol officials pilot-test a new global stop-payment mechanism – the Anti-Money Laundering Rapid Response Protocol (ARRP) – which proved critical to successfully intercepting illicit funds in several HAECHI-II cases,” said the Interpol. The results showed that the surge in offences generated by the COVID-19 pandemic had not waned. “Only through this level of global cooperation and coordination can national law enforcement effectively tackle what is a parallel cybercrime pandemic,” said Interpol Secretary-General Jürgen Stock. The Interpol plans to officially launch the ARRP next year. Its financial crime unit is currently working with member countries to integrate the system into the existing communication channels. Quoting a case detected during the operation, the Interpol said a prominent textiles company in Colombia was cheated of more than $8 million through a sophisticated business email compromise scam. Impersonating as the legal company’s legal representative, the perpetrators gave an order to transfer over $16 million to two Chinese bank accounts. Half of the money was transferred before the company detected the fraud and alerted the local judicial authorities, which contacted the Interpol’s financial crime unit via their National Central Bureau (NCB). “Leveraging the new ARRP network, international police cooperation channels were activated among Interpol bureaus in Beijing, Bogota and Hong Kong to freeze the transferred funds...over 94% of the money was intercepted in record time...,” the organisation said. Based on the findings during the operation, the Interpol published multiple Purple Notices – police alerts that seek or provide information on modus operandi , objects, devices and concealment methods used by criminals. The notices are shared with the member countries to enable exchange of information on emerging criminal methods and establish links between cases. One such notice, requested by Colombia, detailed a malware-laden mobile application using the name and brand of Netflix show ‘Squid Game.’ The app was in fact a Trojan horse virus that, once downloaded, could hack into the user’s billing information and subscribe to paid “premium” services without the user’s explicit approval, said the Interpol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1000-held-in-20-countries-in-financial-crime-crackdown/article37731913.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Judges should maintain discretion’||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said judges must exercise “utmost discretion” while making utterances in courtrooms, and quoted an American judge to argue that “courts are not representative bodies and are not designed to be a good reflex of a democratic society”. The President made these remarks while delivering the valedictory address at the Constitution Day celebrations, organised by the Supreme Court, in the presence of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana. Chief Justice Ramana, while addressing the inaugural session of the event on Friday, said that courts intervened not to usurp the role of the Government, but to nudge it to take care of “unresolved” grievances. Speaking at the concluding session of the two-day event, the President wondered if “there can be better way to appoint judges to the higher judiciary without diluting the independence of the judiciary even to the slightest degree”. The President noted that in Indian tradition, judges were imagined as a model of rectitude and detachment more akin to sthitpragya [a person of steady wisdom] and the country had had “a rich history of legions of such judges known for their utterances full of sagacity and conduct beyond reproach, which have become hallmarks for the future generations”. “I am happy to note that the Indian judiciary has been adhering to those highest standards. There is no doubt that you have set for yourself a high bar. Hence, it is also incumbent upon the judges to exercise utmost discretion in the utterances in courtrooms. Indiscreet remarks, even if made with good intention, give space for dubious interpretations to run down the judiciary,” President Kovind said. The President quoted Justice Frankfurter of the U.S. Supreme Court in the Dennis vs United States case of 1951, in which the judge had observed, “Courts are not representative bodies. They are not designed to be a good reflex of a democratic society. Their essential quality is detachment, founded on independence.” Appointment of judges Reflecting upon the appointment process in the higher judiciary, he said, “Without diluting it to the slightest degree, can a better way be found to select judges for the higher judiciary?” The President also touched upon the recent phenomenon of the judiciary being attacked on social media platforms. “It pains me to no end, therefore, to note that of late, there have been cases of some disparaging remarks against the judiciary made on social media platforms. These platforms have worked wonderfully to democratise information, yet they have a dark side too. The anonymity granted by them is exploited by some miscreants. I hope this is an aberration, and it will be short-lived,” he said. Mr. Kovind dwelt upon the pendency of cases, the need for stakeholders to find a solution to reduce them and increasing access to justice “as only a very small section of the citizens can afford to knock on the doors of the court of justice”. He said that justice was the “critical fulcrum” around which democracy revolved and it got further strengthened if the three pillars of democracy — the judiciary, the legislature and the executive — maintained a harmonious existence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judges-should-maintain-discretion/article37731921.ece
28 November 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai to quarantine S. African flyers||In the wake of a new variant of the coronavirus, the Maharashtra Government on Saturday issued a fresh set of guidelines, making it mandatory for all domestic passengers arriving in the State to either carry a certificate showing that they are fully vaccinated or a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours. Earlier, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said all passengers coming to the city from South Africa, where the new variant, Omicron, is currently circulating, will be quarantined. The samples of these passengers would be sent for genome sequencing, she said. She added that similar restrictions might come into force for passengers coming from other countries affected by the new variant. The Government, in its order on Saturday, said all economic, cultural, social, sports and entertainment activities would now be allowed as per the normal timings decided by the various local or other competent authorities before the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic. Elaborating on the restrictions and guidelines, the order said that all persons connected with the organisation of any programme, event or show, ticketed or non-ticketed, as well as service providers and participants such as players and actors, visitors, guests, and customers should be fully vaccinated. All public transport should be used by fully vaccinated persons. The universal pass created by the State Government would be a valid proof of reference of full vaccination, it said. In cases of programmes, events, or activities being held in enclosed/closed spaces, people up to 50% capacity of that space would be allowed, while in case of open spaces, people up to 25% of the space capacity would be allowed. However, the local administration would hold the final word in deciding the occupancy of any given event, the order said. In case of total attendees exceeding 1,000 even after following the norms, the local disaster management authority will have to be informed and they can send their representatives to supervise the event. The Government, while detailing the definition of being fully vaccinated, said it covered any person who has received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine and 14 days have lapsed since the administration of the second dose, or any person having medical condition that does not allow him or her to take the vaccine, or a person who is less than 18 years of age. The Government also appealed to citizens to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Anyone found violating the norms will be fined Rs. 500, while establishments can be fined up to Rs. 10,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mumbai-to-quarantine-s-african-flyers/article37731926.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Maoist movement on its last legs’||Maoists have been trying to get more women and girls into their ranks as the entire organisation is “lacking in recruitment”, but they have not been successful, K. Vijay Kumar, senior security adviser in the Union Home Ministry, says. The retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, who has been monitoring the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) scenario over more than a decade, told The Hindu that 80% of the killing of security forces is being reported from just two districts in Chhattisgarh — Sukma and Bijapur. He said more than geography, demography was the problem in Chhattisgarh, and the Maoists got to know even the stealthiest operations planned by the security forces. However, Mr. Kumar said, with the death, killing and arrest of several senior Maoist leaders in the past couple of years, the movement is tottering and was on its last legs. He said the recent arrest of Prashant Bose alias Kishan Da and his wife Sheela Marandi, both central committee members of the banned CPI (Maoist) group was an important development. “Both were arrested due to years of hard work of the intelligence agencies and the local police. Both Prashant Bose and Sheela Marandi were under watch, due to old age they moved in palanquins. It is after more than decade that CC members have been arrested in a well planned operation,” Mr. Kumar said. He said the Maoists active in Odisha, Maharashtra, Telengana were mostly from Chhattisgarh. On November 13, the Maharashtra Police gunned down 26 Maoist cadres which included top fugitive Milind Baburao Teltumbde. Known by his aliases ‘Jeeva’ and ‘Deepak’, Teltumbde was also the central committee member of the CPI (Maoist) and in charge of the newly formed Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh confluence (MMC). “Milind Teltumbde got a powerful network in Chandrapur, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Nagpur and Yavatmal districts of Maharashtra. He was moving smoothly from jungle to urban areas; his departure is a big blow to the MMC, they wanted to create a corridor till Jharkhand but that plan has been dented,” Mr Vijay Kumar said. The other big setback was the death of another central committee member Akkiraju Hargopal, alias Ramakrishna, alias RK, in the forests of South Bastar in Chhattisgarh on October 14, the officer said. “RK was a very important character in the southern belt of Chhattisgarh; he continued to operate even after his son was killed (Prithviraj killed in 2016 at the Andhra-Odisha border) in an exchange of fire,” he said. In 2017, Basavaraju who carries a reward of over Rs. 2 crore on his arrest replaced Muppala Lakshman Rao, alias Ganapathi, as the chief of the CPI (Maoist). Mr. Vijay Kumar said Ganapathi had become more of a mentor and a guide but Basavaraju, a B.Tech. degree holder from Warangal in Telangana, was dangerous and believes in achieving ends through violence. He added that their location was not known. He said the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) Battalion 1 of the Maoists, led by Hidma, in southern Chhattisgarh, had inflicted huge damage in the past few years. “A myth has been created around Hidma; the battalion is largely successful due to a combination of factors which includes local informers, who support them out of fear. Every movement at the security camps is watched. They use Improvised Explosive Devices, spikes, couriers and a very tactical fighting group,” Mr. Kumar added. In June, Haribhushan, the party’s Telangana State committee secretary died from COVID in Chhattisgarh. “Haribhushan was assisting Hidma in preparing IEDs,” Mr. Kumar said. He said most of the top Maoist leaders were ailing as they did not have access to medical facilities in the jungles where most of them were hiding.  Milind Teltumbde’s departure is big blow; they wanted to create a corridor till Jharkhand K. Vijay KumarSenior security adviser, Union Home Ministry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maoist-movement-on-its-last-legs/article37731924.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Enhance virus surveillance: WHO||Countries must enhance surveillance, sequencing and assess the risk of importation through international travel based on updated information on circulating variants and response capacities, and take measures accordingly, the Southeast Asia Region office of the World Health Organization said on Saturday. It added that countries in the region should be vigilant of the new variant of the coronavirus, dubbed as Omicron. “Though COVID-19 cases have been declining in most countries of our region, the surge in cases elsewhere in the world and confirmation of a new variant of concern, is a reminder of the persisting risk and the need for us to continue to do our best to protect against the virus and prevent its spread. At no cost should we let our guards down,” said Dr. Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director,WHO Southeast Asia Region. She added that comprehensive and tailored public health and social measures to prevent transmission must continue. “The earlier the protective measures are implemented, the less restrictive they would need to be in order to be effective. The more COVID-19 circulates, the more opportunities the virus will have to change and mutate, and the pandemic will last longer,” Dr. Singh warned. “As of today 31% of the region’s population is fully vaccinated, 21% partially vaccinated while nearly 48%, or about a billion people are yet to receive even a single dose of the COVID-19 vaccine,” she said, adding that they continue to be at risk of contracting severe disease due to the virus and spreading it further. Even after getting vaccinated, everyone must continue to take precautions to prevent becoming infected and to infect someone else who may get severely affected by the virus. “We must not forget that the pandemic is far from over. As societies open up, we should not get complacent.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-asks-countries-to-step-up-surveillance-to-check-omicron/article37731931.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Haryana job quota impossible to implement’||Activists and industrialists have both raised concern over the planned roll-out of Haryana’s 75% reservation for local people in private sector jobs that pay below Rs. 30,000 a month, with the former saying it would be impossible to implement and the latter cautioning against the move backfiring. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, scheduled to come into effect from January 15, was challenged in court by a Gurugram-based industry body this week. While the case is yet to be decided, for trade union leaders, the decision raises a range of concerns. “It is an impossible proposition. It will never be implemented. It is nothing but an election gimmick. The Government is not paying locals their wages under the MGNREGA on time, not giving reservations to socially disadvantaged groups in the private sector, so reserving 75% of jobs in private sector seems impossible,” said A.R. Sindhu, national secretary of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions. Amarjeet Kaur, general secretary of the All-India Trade Union Congress, said the decision was a “gimmick” and a “well-designed strategy to divide people”. “They want to create a discourse that locals are not getting jobs because of outsiders. But where are the jobs? The employment situation in the industrial areas of Gurugram is bad. Workers are being removed every day. On the other hand, the Government is not doing any recruitment to boost employment,” Ms. Kaur said. Activist Chandan Kumar, of Working Peoples’ Charter, doubted if the move would be implemented. “We need to unite India,” he said, adding that migrant workers employed in different States were a strength. The national industry organisations, too, have raised their concern about the law and similar moves being made in other States. Pradeep Multani, president of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said the industry body had set up a committee to come up with recommendations regarding the law. “The Prime Minister says there should be One Nation, One Ration Card,” Mr. Multani said, referring to the Centre’s decision that would allow migrant workers to use their ration cards across the country. “This law is contrary to what the Union Government has been saying, including on ease of doing business…It could boomerang,” he said. He said the PHDCCI, which had about 350 to 400 members with units in Haryana, had proposed a portal for jobseekers to register on as well as an incentive for industry to hire locals. As an example, Mr. Multani said hospitals like Fortis and the IT industry in Haryana had workers from Kerala and the northeast. “Will they be able to get enough nurses,” Mr. Multani asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-job-quota-impossible-to-implement/article37731902.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Return of the militants||An obscure extremist outfit called the Manipur Naga People’s Front made news when it claimed joint responsibility for an ambush on an Assam Rifles convoy on November 13 in Churachandpur district of Manipur, killing seven, including a Colonel, his wife and minor son. But the spotlight was on its older and more lethal partner-in-arms, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of Manipur, which had been in hibernation for more than half a decade. Ethnic militancy in Manipur, with its roots going to the Naga-inhabited hills, reached the Imphal Valley, dominated by the non-tribal Meitei community, in November 1964 with the birth of the United National Liberation Front (UNLF). A faction of the UNLF led by N. Bisheswar Singh broke away from the mothership to form the PLA on September 25, 1978. A year later, the PLA floated a political wing called the Revolutionary People’s Front. The PLA claimed to be a trans-tribal organisation and aimed at uniting the Meiteis, Nagas and Kukis — three main ethnic groups of Manipur — for the common goal of “independence”, but it remained essentially a Meitei group, one of the many that are referred to as valley-based insurgent groups (VBIGs). While the groups catering to Naga and Kuki-Zomi sentiments have been engaged in peace talks with the Government, the valley-based groups are yet to declare a truce. The PLA, the UNLF and three others — the Kangleipak Communist Party, the Kanglei Yawol Kanna Lup and the People’s Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak — formed a platform called the Coordination Committee (CorCom). This conglomerate carried out some subversive activities, besides helping another umbrella organisation, the United National Liberation Front of Western South East Asia, kill 18 soldiers in an ambush on the Dogra Rifles in Manipur in 2015. Among the Imphal Valley-based outfits, which, according to intelligence officials have about 300 members, the PLA is believed to be the strongest in terms of manpower and firepower. However, sustained operations by the armed forces had forced the PLA and other anti-talks extremist groups into the jungles of Myanmar by the mid-2000s. These outfits tried to regroup by forming the CorCom in July 2011 but had limited success beyond odd strikes at armed personnel. The Myanmar factor The military coup in Myanmar on February 1 appears to have given them a fresh lease of life. The Myanmar Army, said to have let the Manipur-based groups stay on for payment in cash and kind, began demanding their services in combating the People’s Defence Force (PDF), the armed wing of the National Unity Government that claims to be the legitimate government of Myanmar. About 40 members of the valley groups, including of PLA, are reported to have died in the Myanmar civil war. The November 13 attack by the PLA has raised alarms about the group’s changing tactics and growing capabilities. One narrative is that the PLA is keen on emerging from the shadow of the CorCom and re-establish itself as one of the strongest insurgent outfits n Manipur, capable of taking on the armed forces without help from other groups. Another one says the outfit wants its “homesick” cadres not to be disillusioned by or pressured into fighting someone else’s war and has turned its focus on its home turf. Some others argue that the PDF, which is fighting the Myanmar Army, could have pushed the PLA towards the Indian border. Most of the operations of the PLA in the past had been in Chandel and Tengnoupal districts along the Myanmar border. The turmoil in Myanmar is believed to have pushed the PLA further south to Chin State of Myanmar, inhabited by the Chin people related to the Kuki-Zomi people. The Chin people have been the most affected by the conflict in Myanmar and at least 16,000 of them have taken refuge in Mizoram and Manipur. Churachandpur district, close to Manipur’s border with China State, where the November 13 ambush happened, has been a stronghold of the Kuki-Zomi outfits. That the PLA struck in the area without “clearance” from the Kuki-Zomi groups could point to its desperate attempt to be counted again in a State where it began losing ground a few years ago, armed forces officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/return-of-the-militants/article37731940.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Double fault||For years, Zhang Gaoli was known for his image as a quintessential Communist Party bureaucrat. So careful was Mr. Zhang that he spent decades rising through the ranks of China’s ruling party, including to its innermost sanctum of power, the Politburo Standing Committee, and to the post of Vice Premier, with next to nothing known about him. Indeed, many Chinese citizens would be hard pressed to even identify Mr. Zhang from a photograph. The state media portrayed him as an efficient administrator, while his public speeches, littered with the long phrases of party-speak, cemented his reputation as a bland apparatchik. As far as its officials are concerned, the party likes it that way. The blander the better (except, of course, for the man occupying the top most) and lesser the scope for the public to snuff out anything that may dent the image of the party. Mr. Zhang, three years into his retirement, has now found himself in the spotlight in unexpected circumstances, while the party is scrambling to answer searching questions about the behaviour of one of its most senior former officials. On November 2, leading Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai posted an emotional message on Sina Weibo, a Twitter equivalent used in China, detailing how she had been sexually assaulted by Mr. Zhang and subsequently began a years-long affair. The first time he forced himself on her, she wrote, was 10 years ago when she was 25 and he was 65. Ms. Peng wrote that Mr. Zhang abruptly cut off all contact when he ascended to the party’s top body in 2012. He resumed the affair a year into his retirement in 2018, she said, when he contacted her, through the head of a tennis academy, to play a game of tennis with him. After that game, he again invited her home and forced her to have sex, while his wife was guarding the door. In the post, Ms. Peng wrote she had complicated feelings about Mr. Zhang and their relationship. After the attack in 2018, she said, “I couldn't describe how disgusted I was, and how many times I asked myself am I still a human? I feel like a walking corpse.” When Mr. Zhang first met Ms. Peng, he was already a senior CPC official and the party boss of Tianjin, a municipality near Beijing. He was little known prior to the Tianjin job. Born in 1946, Mr. Zhang rose through the party ranks from his native Fujian province. In 2002, he became the Governor of the eastern province of Shandong, his first high profile position. Mr. Zhang entered the national spotlight in 2012 at the Party Congress that elevated Xi Jinping to the top post, when he was named to the seven-member Politburo Standing Committee. Image shattered If the party media liked to describe him as a low-key administrator, the recent allegations have shattered that image. This is one reason for the massive censorship effort within China. “It allows people to see the real life of China’s top leaders as never before, behind the power-wrapped morality,” Chinese feminist writer Lu Pin said on Twitter. Ms. Peng’s original post was deleted within 34 minutes, yet screenshots have been shared on Chinese social media and sparked discussion on the case, even if the official media has stayed silent and censors have worked overtime to scrub all references. But so far, there has been no attempt by the authorities to deal with Ms. Peng’s allegations, let alone acknowledge them. Instead, the preoccupation now is to address the widespread global concerns about Ms. Peng’s safety. Signs are Ms. Peng is already being pressured into retracting her allegations. China’s state broadcaster China Global Television Network tweeted a statement purported to be from Ms. Peng, saying that “the news in that [WTA] release, including the allegation of sexual assault, is not true”. Mr. Zhang, meanwhile, has maintained a complete silence. Incidentally, among his responsibilities prior to retirement was working with the International Olympic Committee and preparing Beijing for the coming Winter Olympics, which begin on February 4. Chinese authorities are going all out to ensure no “negative” news will detract from the games. Mr. Zhang, in one of his last public appearances, called for the games to be “open” and “clean”. The authorities’ handling of Ms. Peng's allegations, on the other hand, have been anything but that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/double-fault/article37731942.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||From the field to across the table||After starting courses in Tibetology for officers posted along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, the Army is now looking to introduce courses in negotiating tactics to better orient them during bilateral military-level negotiations. The move comes against the backdrop of military-to-military interactions on the ground since the stand-off in eastern Ladakh in May last year. “Negotiation technique courses are in conceptual stage,” a defence source said stating that the finer modalities are being worked out. Referring to Chinese negotiating tactics, a second source said that they try to drag on and wear out the other side during talks, a common observation by several officers in the know. “There is now greater effort to sensitise the rank and file on the ground on negotiation tactics,” the source stated. Concurrently, the number of Chinese language interpreters in the Army has also gone up on the ground with interpreters now increasingly part of patrols where needed, according to officials on the ground. Since May 2020, the two sides have been holding regular military-to-military talks on the ground in addition to the 13 rounds of Corps Commander-level talks to resolve the stand-off in eastern Ladakh. For instance, since May 2020 and up to the 12th round of Corps Commander talks on July 31 this year, the two sides have held 10 Major General-level talks, 55 Brigadier-level talks and around 1,450 calls over the established two hotlines. India and China have two hotlines for communication at Chushul and Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) in Eastern Ladakh. Similarly in the eastern sector, there are four hotlines as part of measures to maintain peace and tranquillity on the LAC. There are nine Border Personnel Meetings (BPM) held between the countries every year at Bumla on ceremonial occasions. Five of these are held on the Indian side and four on the Chinese side, said Maj Lovish Gupta during a recent visit to Bumla. On the Indian side they are held on January 26, Republic Day, April 14, Baisakhi, and May 30 to mark the day when the BPMs began at Bumla in 1990, August 15, Independence Day and on Deepavali. On Chinese side, they are held on January 1 new year, August 1 which is the raising day of People’s Liberation Army (PLA), October 1 coinciding with the day China declared Independence in 1949, and October 30 when the BPMs started on Chinese side in 1991. “Flag meetings are held as and when required between the two sides,” Maj Gupta added. There have been 51 BPMs on the Indian side at Bumla since 1990 and 49 BPMs on the Chinese side since the point was set up on their side since July 16, 1991, another officer on the ground said. At Bumla, the last BPM was held on January 2020 before the COVID pandemic. This year, three flag meetings were held till October-end, he added. As reported by The Hindu recently, the Army, with a view to orient its officers and men posted along the LAC in Tibetan culture and also prepare them to better understand information warfare, has begun a course in Tibetology and the first batch with 15 participants was held from March to June. Around 150 officers have been trained so far across the country. In eastern Ladakh, the two sides have completed disengagement at Galwan, Pangong Tso and Gogra areas, and Hot Springs, Demchok and Depsang are yet to be resolved. The 13th round of Corps Commander talks remained inconclusive with the two sides releasing sharp statements on the outcome. The two sides are now preparing to hold the 14th round of Corps Commander level talks soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/from-the-field-to-across-the-table/article37731904.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India-U.K. FTA talks could be delayed to January 2022||Negotiations between India and the U.K. on a comprehensive free trade agreement (FTA) could be delayed to January 2022, with a Cabinet change in the U.K. and the need for more “pre-negotiation” talks being the main reasons for the talks not taking off in November as expected, officials said. The two sides have also had to shelve a plan for a meeting between Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and British Secretary of State for International Trade Anne-Marie Trevelyan on the sidelines of the WTO Ministerial Conference (MC 12) due to begin in Geneva on Tuesday. Early on Saturday, the WTO meet was put off indefinitely due to concerns over the spread of the new “Omicron” variant of COVID-19. Early harvest pact The timelines on the FTA negotiation, which included the announcement of an “Early Harvest Agreement” by March 2022, had been decided during a meeting between Mr. Goyal and then U.K. Minister for International Trade Liz Truss on September 14. However, Ms. Truss was appointed Foreign Secretary and was replaced by Ms. Trevelyan just a day later. In a speech last week, Ms. Trevelyan reaffirmed that the two sides were committed to launching trade talks “soon”, but did not announce a new date. “We are aiming to complete pre-negotiation scoping for a free trade agreement (FTA) with India this year and to launch negotiations as soon as possible,” the British High Commission spokesperson said to questions from The Hindu , indicating a delay in the timeline. The preparatory talks for the FTA, to be held by a number of bilateral working groups (BWGs) that began in September, were due to lead to “joint scoping” discussions in October, that would outline top priorities including the U.K. desire for lower tariffs and market access for British legal firms, and the Indian push for a full services agreement. The BWGs were due to have set the terms of reference for the launch of negotiations by November 1, according to discussions between the two Governments after Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Boris Johnson announced an Enhanced Trade Partnership plan during their virtual summit in May. The British HC spokesperson said the U.K. expects to release further details on its “negotiating priorities”, and a full economic assessment of the potential U.K.-India FTA, but would not comment on reports that suggested that an “early harvest agreement” may be put off. Another official, who preferred not to be named, indicated that the two sides are now looking for possible dates in January for the launch of talks. Asked about the status of the negotiations, the Commerce Ministry termed the query “speculative”, and said “negotiations are continuing”. Pointing to the change of guard in the U.K., the Ministry said Mr. Goyal had met Ms. Trevelyan at the G-20 summit where bilateral trade matters were discussed. After the October 12 discussions on the sidelines of a G-20 Trade Ministers meeting in Sorrento, Italy, Mr. Goyal stressed that “speedy FTA negotiations” would enable the economic partnership to spur economic prosperity in both countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-uk-fta-talks-could-be-delayed-to-january-2022/article37731916.ece
28 November 2021||KASAULI,||CDSCO for infra upgrade to be pandemic-ready||The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) is in the process of finalising its pandemic-readiness report which is expected to be submitted to the Central Government in 30 days, S. Eswara Reddy, Joint Drugs Controller, CDSCO, said. The proposal includes scaling up the laboratory infrastructure and adding staff strength to the organisation. “This is essential to ensure that India is prepared for any more waves and even pandemics/ health emergencies in the future. This pandemic has been taken as a learning curve,” Dr. Reddy said. Dr. Reddy was interacting with the media at the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL), Kasauli, which has been the centre of India’s COVID-19 vaccination campaign, and has tested and cleared for market release over 1,000 batches of COVID-19 vaccines till November. Avoiding delays Speaking about the role of Government testing laboratories, Dr. Reddy said even at the peak of the pandemic, work did not stop and efforts were put in to ensure that no delay happenned in vaccine delivery while ensuring quality and timely market access to the public. “We are looking at enhancing our permanent and contractual staff strength and have also singed MoUs with various countries, including Argentina and Brazil, where we are looking at sharing knowledge, best practices and also training. Collaboration is the way forward. This pandemic has taught us that we have to be prepared for any such incidents in the future and even COVID surges,” he said. Dr. Arun Bhardwaj, Director, CDL, Kasauli, said that till November 23, a total of 1,049 batches of COVID-19 vaccine had been released, comprising approximately 1,521 million doses.  Quality control “The concept of parallel, fast track testing was used for COVID vaccines and no samples were rejected on account of not meeting quality standards so far. This is also an assurance to the general public that the vaccines available in India are world class and must be taken in full dose. These have been allowed into the market after the strictest quality control. Any vaccine hesitancy on account of quality is totally unfounded,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cdsco-for-infra-upgrade-to-be-pandemic-ready/article37731930.ece
28 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh promises caste census in U.P.||In his most aggressive pitch for a caste census for the Backward Classes yet, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday promised members of the community in Uttar Pradesh that if voted to power, his Government would carry out such an exercise and provide them “rights, honour and representation” according to their share in the population. The formula of providing communities reservation as a share of their population was “an old fight”, Mr. Yadav said, sprinkling the flavour and rhetoric of “Bahujan” politics through terms such as haq , abadi ke hisaab se , hissedari and bhagidhari to his campaign, something that he shied away from in the last election, when he solely relied on a development-centric model of governance. Discrimination within Tasked with the challenge of bridging the political gap between the Yadav and non-Yadav OBCs, Mr. Yadav, without naming any community, said the BJP in the last election had propagated that Yadavs would take all jobs and employment opportunities. “These people make castes fight each other. If you remember in the last election, they had said if any job or employment opportunity comes up, then these people [Yadavs] get it. They created discrimination within castes,” he said. He was addressing a public meeting in Hardoi to mark the 15th foundation day of Arkvanshi icon Maharaja Salhiya Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-promises-caste-census-in-up/article37731919.ece
28 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Leprosy-free’ Odisha now sees a worrying rise in cases||The district administration of Sambalpur in Odisha recently turned to women self help groups for an unlikely assignment — nursing care and assistance for leprosy patients. The desperate intervention was necessitated as the State lacks requisite paramedical workers to nurse infected persons. Odisha declared itself leprosy-free in 2006-07, with cases dropping below 10,000 and the prevalence rate below 1%. The State then dismantled infrastructure and did away with skilled manpower dealing with leprosy patients. However, re-emergence of the disease, with cases crossing the 10,000-mark annually in the past few years has sent the health and civil administration into a tizzy. The National Leprosy Eradication Prgramme (NLEP) began to be implemented in Odisha since 1981. In 1997-98, the State recorded the highest ever detection of leprosy cases at 1,03,416. Due to the NLEP intervention, the prevalence rate per 10,000 population came down from 123.2 in 1983-84 to below 1 in 2006-07. In the same year, only 5,088 persons were found to be suffering from the leprosy. However, the annual number of cases breached the 10,000 mark in 2013-14. Since then there has been regular detection of over 10,000 cases or more every year. In 2020-21, cases could not be properly detected due to COVID-19 restrictions — 6,156 cases were recorded. Under the NLEP, 2,137 persons were engaged of whom 1,251 were paramedical workers. Subsequently, however, the posts were abolished. Only 404 leprosy workers remained in their positions. Gradually, only 45 of them were left as Government reportedly avoided fresh recruitments. In 2018, the State Government engaged multipurpose health workers as block level nodal workers by giving them three days of training. Activists however, pointed out that these workers were not skilled enough to handle leprosy cases.  ‘ASHAs ill-equipped’ “Odisha Government has been detecting leprosy patients with help of Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA). The ASHA workers have not received proper training to trace symptoms. In village areas, ASHA workers cannot even check men minutely. If a survey is done properly, the cases will be much higher than the present figure,” said Duryodhan Sahoo, President State Leprosy Welfare Federation. As early as 2013-14, the Centre had warned Odisha of a relapse of leprosy cases. “In 2014, former Director General of Health Services wrote to the State Government to recruit 22 district leprosy consultants and 184 paramedical workers for high endemic blocks and urban areas. The Centre also placed funds for the purpose. The positions were never created,” alleged Mr. Sahoo.   Hearing a public interest litigation that highlighted pathetic condition of leprosy patients in the State, a division bench led by Orissa High Court Chief Justice Dr. S. Muralidhar had appointed a three-member advocate committee to assess the living condition of leprosy patients in different colonies.  “In Odisha, there are 87 leprosy colonies and 8,032 inmates in those colonies. About 10,000 cases are reported in a year and about 10,000 patients are also discharged every year. However, the post of doctors and paramedical staffs deployed in leprosy colonies were abolished over the years. At present there are no dressers in these colonies,” admitted Basant Kumar Pradhan, Joint Director (Leprosy).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leprosy-free-odisha-sees-worrying-rise-in-cases/article37731928.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, South Africa discuss plans for TRIPS waiver push||Hours before the World Trade Organization (WTO) called off its upcoming ministerial meeting, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal spoke with his South African counterpart, Ebrahim Patel, over contingency plans to pilot their joint proposal for a waiver in the TRIPS agreement to counter the pandemic. Mr. Goyal and Mr. Patel, Minister for Trade, Industry and Competition, spoke over the phone after it had become apparent late on Friday that the latter would not be able to travel to Geneva for the WTO ministerial council meeting due to travel restrictions triggered by the latest variant of the virus. “As you know, the meeting has also been postponed and rightly so, I am glad. Even late last [Friday] night, at about 1. 30, I was talking to my South African counterpart who is now not able to travel to Geneva because of the travel restrictions,” Mr. Goyal said, in his first statement on the deferral of the critical talks that were to begin on November 30. “We were wondering how we are going to negotiate the TRIPS waiver to provide the WTO response to the pandemic. Both of us agreed that we will pitch for a cancellation or a postponement of this MC-12. Not that I made any calls, but he was going to be talking to the WTO Director General [Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala] after our chat. I am delighted that within an hour and a half of that, we heard that the MC-12 has been cancelled,” Mr. Goyal said at an interaction with the CII. While the Indian economy’s key indicators were showing healthy growth, the Minister said there were concerns around “what’s happening in Europe, and also in South Africa”, referring to the fresh lockdowns and the emergence of the new variant. India, South Africa and Indonesia are jointly seeking a waiver to certain provisions of the WTO agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) to enable more affordable access to vaccines and medicines for coping with the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-south-africa-discuss-plans-for-trips-waiver-push/article37732226.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘One in two deliveries in private hospitals through C-section’||One in two women who go to a private hospital undergoes a Caesarean section (C-section), according to the latestNational Family Health Survey (NFHS) data. The increasing trend in private medical facilities, which have seen a rise in such operations from 40.9% to 47.4%, has led to a jump in pan-India numbers — from 17.2% in 2014-2015 to 21.5% in 2019-2020, according to NFHS-5. This means that one in five women who go to any medical facility, private or public, undergoes a C-section. When medically justified, a C-section can effectively prevent maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity. According to the World Health Organization, the ideal rate is between 10% and 15%. When the rates rise towards 10% across a population, the number of maternal and newborn deaths decreases. When the rate goes above 10%, there is no evidence that mortality rates improve. There are many States and Union Territories where private hospitals conduct seven or eight out of 10 deliveries through C-section. These include West Bengal (82.7%), Jammu and Kashmir (82.1%), Tamil Nadu (81.5%), Andaman and Nicobar (79.2%) and Assam (70.6%). While many of these States have had a poor record in the past too, there are many others that have seen a big jump in such surgeries. These include Assam (17.3 percentage points increase to 70.6%), Odisha (17 percentage points 70.7%), Punjab (15.8 percentage points to 55.5%), Tamil Nadu (12.5 percentage points to 63.8%) and Karnataka (12.2 percentage points to 52.5%). As many as 26 States and Union Territories have shown a rise in private hospitals. The deliveries have also increased in public hospitals but this could partly be due to an increase in institutional deliveries in such facilities from 52.1% in 2014-2015 to 61.9% in 2019-2020. States with the biggest surge across public health facilities are Sikkim (12.3 percentage points to 30.4%), Punjab (12.1 percentage points to 29.9%), Goa (11.6 percentage points to 31.5%), Chandigarh (10.9 percentage points to 30.4%) and Tamil Nadu (9.7 percentage points to 36%). The rates rose from 11.9% to 14.3% for public health facilities across the country. At the other end of the spectrum is Bihar, which has only 3.5% C-sections in public health facilities, indicating inability to provide critical care to prevent maternal and infant deaths. There are different factors at play for the rise in the operations, say experts. Women having babies at a later age, increase in in-vitro fertility and sedentary lifestyle of mothers are some of the reasons. “There are also caregiver and hospital factors. Doctors doing solo-practice and delivering 20-25 babies in a month can’t stay awake in the night so they prefer to schedule an operation. As far as corporate hospitals are concerned, there is an emphasis on more numbers and doctors spending 20-30 days on 10 deliveries is frowned upon,” says Dr. Rinku Sengupta Dhar, consultant and head, Maternity Programs, Sitaram Bhartia Hospital.  Different interventions are needed for public and private hospitals as well as for different parts of the country, says Subhasri Balakrishnan, member, Common Health — a coalition for maternal health and safe abortions. “C- section audits must be strictly enforced in public hospitals, whereas in private sector there is a need to check widespread commercialisation by regulating medical practices and costs. But there are also States with an unmet need for C- sections where they are needed to prevent maternal deaths and poor foetal outcomes. Such States need an overall improvement in the health system such as more number of anaesthetists, specialists and blood banks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-in-two-deliveries-in-private-hospitals-through-c-section/article37731936.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||With curbs gone, Indian tourists may fill flights to South East Asia||Easing of restrictions on international flights from next month is likely to result in a massive demand for countries such as Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and Vietnam which have not had flight connectivity from India for the past 20 months but are favourite holiday destinations for Indian tourists. Such was the demand for Phuket, for instance, that MakeMyTrip announced charter flights in collaboration with GoAir and IndiGo earlier this month in the absence of commercial passenger flights. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has said all countries with which it has a bilateral air service agreement will be allowed 50%, 75% and 100% pre-COVID capacity from December 15 depending on their health risk status. The U.S., Canada, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Australia, Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia are allowed 100% flights. Europe and countries like Singapore will be allowed 75% of pre-COVID flights, while China and Hong Kong will be allowed 50% of flights. “This decision gives more options to travellers who are planning their Christmas and New Year vacations to opt for leisure destinations like Thailand,” said Aloke Bajpai, Group CEO & Co-Founder, Ixigo. “While Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia are certainly of high interest among Indian travellers, South East Asia will take longer to return to normalcy. Both Indonesia and Malaysia have had a recent surge and Thailand today imposed restrictions on multiple African countries after the discovery of a new coronavirus variant named Omicron,” cautions Binu Phillip, a travel marketing consultant. Destinations like Dubai which have seen a surge in airfares because of a huge travel demand due to the ongoing Dubai Expo 2021 will now see airlines mount more capacity. “We have seen a massive surge in bookings for Dubai. It is already more than 100% of pre-pandemic level. The U.K. is another destination where there is a significant jump in bookings, followed by Nepal,” said Nishant Pitti, CEO and Co-Founder, EaseMyTrip. Domestic airlines, which mostly fly to short-haul international destinations, are likely to make the first move, while big international carriers might take up to four to eight weeks to add flights from Europe as they will have to redeploy planes and crew allocated for other destinations as well as rework their schedules, airlines executives say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-tourists-may-fill-flights-to-se-asia/article37731933.ece
28 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Anti-CAA stir gets an Assam agitation touch||The anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in Assam is set to be relaunched with a touch of the agitation against “illegal migrants” 40 years ago. The Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), a year-old regional party with its roots in the anti-CAA protests, has announced a 10-day agitation coinciding with Swahid Divas, or Martyrs’ Day, on December 10. The day is marked in honour of Khargeswar Talukdar, the first of 855 people who were killed during the anti-foreigner Assam Agitation from 1979-85. The agitation will be organised centrally at Chhaygaon, west of Guwahati. “We will organise it on a larger scale on the days the citizenship Bill was tabled and passed in Parliament. We will also stage the satyagraha on the days five people were killed in police firing during the anti-CAA protests in December 2019,” AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi said. He said the relevance of the CAA was re-established after the repeal of the farm laws. “The farmers showed what we can achieve by agitating and made sacrifices. They did not compromise. We have taken inspiration from them,” he added. Mr. Gogoi said unlike the spontaneous stir in 2019, the AJP and other groups would “educate the common people” against the CAA this time for a more sustained agitation. “We have seen the consequences of the imposition of the CAA. We are against this kind of communal move. The demography of Assam has already changed due to the influx of foreigners, and we cannot allow the State to be a dumping ground anymore,” he said. Deben Tamuli, chief coordinator of the Coordination Committee Against CAA — an umbrella committee of various organisations, including the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Liberal Democratic Party — also said that a rally is being planned on December 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anti-caa-stir-gets-an-assam-agitation-touch/article37731906.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Congress demands condolence resolution for farmers who died||Ahead of the winter session of Parliament that gets under way on Monday, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Speaker Om Birla on Saturday urging him to pass a condolence resolution for the farmers who had lost their lives during their agitation against the farm reform laws. In a separate letter, Mr. Chowdhury urged the Speaker to initiate the process of appointing a Deputy Speaker. “I would sincerely request you that as a mark of respect towards our Annadata (food providers), the House may unanimously pass a condolence resolution for farmers who lost their lives during the agitation. The passing of the resolution in the House will convey our gratitude for the sacrifice that our farmer brethren have given to the nation,” Mr. Chowdhury said in his letter while wishing the Speaker for the smooth conduct of the session. In another letter, the Congress leader reminded the Speaker of Article 93 that calls for the selection of the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker as early as possible after the positions become vacant. The post has been lying vacant for over two years since the 2019 election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-demands-condolence-resolution-for-farmers-who-died/article37732222.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Muslim body opposes law against blasphemy, calls it unlawful||The Indian Muslims for Secular Democracy (IMSD) has opposed the demand of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) and some other organisations for an anti-blasphemy law in India, terming it unconstitutional. The IMSD statement has been endorsed by nearly 400 citizens, a large majority of whom are Muslims. “We condemn the constant attempts by certain hate factories of Hindutva which are working overtime to demonise Islam and Muslims. However, IMSD fully supports the principle that in a secular State there can be no place for a law criminalising blasphemy. Muslims demanding such a law should instead take recourse to the already existing law against hate speech in our country. Also, such a law promotes fanaticism,” the statement said. The IMSD said Muslims had the right to invoke Section 295 (A) of the Indian Penal Code (punishment for deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) against every attempt to target the community with hate speech.  Muslims demanding such a law should instead take recourse to the already existing law against hate speech The Indian Muslims for Secular Democracy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muslim-body-opposes-law-against-blasphemy-calls-it-unlawful/article37731917.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Lawmakers do not assess impact of laws’||The CJI had clarified on Friday, at the opening ceremony of the celebrations, that courts intervene not to usurp the role of the Government, but to nudge it towards the right path. The CJI’s words come at the end of a year which saw the Supreme Court intervene on issues as varied as vaccination programme for COVID-19, distribution of oxygen to Delhi’s dying citizens to setting up the Justice R.V. Raveendran expert committee to enquire into Pegasus spyware allegations and appointing a retired High Court judge to monitor the Lakhimpur Kheri killing of farmers and civilians in which a prime accused is the son of a Union Minister. On Saturday, Chief Justice Ramana said the Government should give thought to Attorney General K.K. Venugopal’s view that the judicial hierarchy needs to be restructured to include four National Courts of Appeals across the country. These appellate courts would act as a buffer between the State High Courts and the Supreme Court. They would absorb ordinary appeals from the High Courts, not involving constitutional questions of law, and decide them finally. These courts, manned by 15 judges each, would stem the flow of all and sundry cases to the apex court and reduce pendency to a great extent. Mr. Venugopal wanted both the Government and the judiciary to put their heads together and make National Courts of Appeals come true. “The Attorney General’s suggestions yesterday were enlightening. While highlighting the issue of judicial pendency, he proposed the restructuring of the judicial system and altering the hierarchy of the Courts. This is something that merits consideration by the Government,” the country’s top judge acknowledged. He said the hierarchy has remained stagnant since the country won freedom from the British rule. “Since Independence, I do not think there has been a serious study to consider what exactly should be the structural hierarchy of judiciary in India,” the CJI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lawmakers-do-not-assess-impact-of-laws/article37731907.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers’ body puts off tractor rally plan||“After the announcement of the repeal of the three farm laws, there is no point in continuing farmers’ agitation. I urge farmers to end their agitation and go home,” the Minister said. ‘Resume dialogue’ On the other hand, after its leaders met at the Singhu border site on Saturday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha urged the Government to restart the dialogue process and sought a written assurance that its other demands would be met, including a legal guarantee that all farmers will get minimum support prices for their crops. The SKM leadership will meet again on December 4 to decide their next course of action. Addressing a press conference after the SKM meeting, Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal said it had been decided to suspend or postpone the plan to send 500 farmers in tractors from Delhi’s borders to Parliament. He said the farmers were staying put and awaiting a formal reply to their letter sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi with six demands including the dismissal and arrest of Home Minister for State Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ for his alleged role in recent deaths of farmers at Lakhimpur, and the withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill. The other four demands are related to MSP, stubble burning, compensation and a memorial for the dead, and withdrawal of cases filed against farmers. “In today’s meeting, the demand for MSP was identified as most important. Until this issue is resolved, we will not go home,” insisted Rajveer Jadaun, a leader in the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Tikait group which is prominent in western Uttar Pradesh. ‘Restart dialogue’  “It is time for the Government to restart a dialogue with us in a respectful way,” he added. “In a democracy, it is the duty of the elected government to consult the protesting farmers and resolve the disputes amicably,” said an SKM statement. Talks between the unions and the Cabinet Ministers had broken down in January after 11 rounds with both sides holding on to their positions. However, last week, days before the one year anniversary of the protests, Mr. Modi gave in to the farmers’ demands to repeal the three farm laws.  The SKM leadership will meet again on December 4 to decide their next course of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/skm-puts-off-tractor-rally-plan/article37731908.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Review plan to open up international travel: PM||He spoke about the need to increase the sequencing efforts and make it more broad-based. Mr. Modi also urged officials to identify early warning signals for better COVID-19 management. Central Government officials have been instructed to coordinate with States to ensure that there are adequate buffer stocks of various medicines and work with them to review the functioning of medical infrastructure, including paediatric facilities. Mr. Modi asked officials to coordinate with States to ensure proper functioning of PSA oxygen plants and ventilators. At the meeting, which was attended by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba; V.K. Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog; Home Secretary A.K. Bhalla; Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and others, the Prime Minister was briefed on the global trends on COVID-19 infections and cases. Officials highlighted that countries across the world had experienced multiple COVID-19 surges since the onset of the pandemic. Mr. Modi also reviewed the national situation relating to cases and test positivity rates. The Prime Minister was apprised of the progress in vaccination and the efforts being made under the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign and briefed on Omicron, along with its characteristics and the impact seen in various countries. “Its [the new variant’s] implications for India were also discussed,” said a release issued by the PMO. At the meeting, the Prime Minister spoke about the need to be proactive in light of the new variant and said that people needed to be more cautious and follow precautions such as masking and social distancing. At the meeting, officials were asked to work closely with State Governments to ensure that there is proper awareness at the State and district level. Mr. Modi said that intensive containment and active surveillance should continue in clusters reporting higher cases and required technical support be provided to States that are reporting higher cases. He added that awareness needed to be created on ventilation and air-borne behaviour of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/review-plan-to-open-up-international-travel-pm/article37731911.ece
28 November 2021||Agartala,||Mentally ill man kills six persons||In a horrific incident, a mentally sick person hacked to death six people including two of his children in Khowai district of west Tripura. A police inspector also died at the spot while trying to capture the killer. Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb expressed grief over the deaths of innocent people. Police said Pradip Debroy, who was suffering from mental illness for long, started hitting his family members with a digging bar. He first chose to beat his two children with it till they died. He then turned to hit his wife, leaving her critically wounded. Reports said the killer’s brother also suffered similar fate. Later, he mowed down a person on road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mentally-ill-man-kills-six-persons/article37731909.ece
28 November 2021||Mumbai,||Bail granted to man who sent rape threats||A magistrate court has recently granted bail to a man accused of sending rape threats to a minor on social media and said, “Merely because the matter is connected with some respectable Indian cricket team member, bail cannot be rejected.” The case was filed at the Cyber Police Station, West division, under Sections 354-A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment), 500 (punishment for defamation) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC along with Sections of the Information Technology Act. It is alleged that the accused through his social media accounts used language causing threats to assault a minor girl by publishing or transmitting material depicting a child. He was remanded in police custody and then magisterial custody on November 16. The prosecutor opposed the bail mainly on the grounds that he is from Hyderabad, is an expert in concealing his identity and may not turn up to face trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bail-granted-to-man-who-sent-rape-threats/article37731910.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||After 37 years, British official honoured||For the first time, 37 years after his assassination, British Deputy High Commissioner Percy Norris was honoured at a memorial event in Mumbai on Saturday. Norris was assassinated on the morning of November 27, 1984, by two unknown assailants, who shot him near Flora Fountain of the city on his way to his office. The British Deputy High Commission, Mumbai, in a statement, saidd that several diplomats posted in the city attended the memorial service. “It is with deep sadness that we mark the 37th anniversary of the assassination of British Deputy High Commissioner Percy Norris. Percy, and his family paid the ultimate sacrifice in service of the U.K. and the U.K.-India relationship. Diplomats from nations across the world have been killed in service and we are grateful to the Consular Corps in Mumbai for joining us to mark Percy’s life,” said Deputy High Commissioner Alan Gemmell in an event that was attended by veteran cricketer Dilip Vengsarkar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-37-years-british-official-honoured/article37731914.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||I-T Dept. finds Rs. 2 cr. worth of black money||The Income-Tax Department has conducted searches on two major Ludhiana-based real estate developers that allegedly received unaccounted-for cash pertaining to property transactions. The searches were carried out on about 40 premises linked to the two groups. The agency claims to have seized documentary evidence in the sale deed for properties. The search is said to have led to the seizure of Rs. 2 crore in cash, foreign exchange and jewellery worth Rs. 2.30 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-finds-rs-2-cr-worth-of-black-money/article37731915.ece
28 November 2021||Kolkata,||Trinamool list includes kin of MP, MLAs||At a time when the Trinamool Congress is at an all-time high, the party has fielded a Lok Sabha MP, six MLAs and several family members of key leaders including the sister-in-law of party chairperson Mamata Banerjee for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) election. Political observers say inclusion of the South Kolkata MP and the MLAs is a deviation from the party’s recently announced stand of “one person, one post”. Kajari Banerjee, sister-in-law of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, is contesting from ward number 73. The Chief Minister’s residence 30 B Harish Chatterjee Street falls in the ward. The other relatives of prominent Trinamool leaders include Puja Panja, daughter of Women and Child Development Minister Sashi Panja from ward number 8. The list of 142 names has a clear imprint of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and indicates that the party has favoured loyalists. The Calcutta High Court will hear a petition by the BJP on November 29 on holding the polls to all 112 civic bodies on a single day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-list-includes-kin-of-mp-mlas/article37731922.ece
28 November 2021||AHMEDABAD,||2 cargo vessels collide in Gulf of Kutch||In a freak accident, two merchant vessels collided in the Gulf of Kutch off the Gujarat coast. No casualty or oil spill has been reported. The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) is continuously monitoring the area of collision for an oil spill. As per a statement issued by the ICG, the collision between oil/ chemical tanker MV Atlantic Grace and bulk carrier MV Aviator occurred around 9.30 p.m. on November 26 . MV Atlantic Grace is registered in Hong Kong and has 22 Indian crew members on board, while MV Aviator is registered in the Marshall Islands and has a 22-member crew from the Philippines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-cargo-vessels-collide-in-gulf-of-kutch/article37731934.ece
28 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Rise in cases in Odisha institutions||The Odisha Government on Saturday directed all District Collectors to undertake constant and close surveillance of educational institutes following a spurt in COVID-19 infections in schools and colleges. As many as 26 girls in Chamakpur Residential School in Mayurbhanj district have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Similarly, 56 students of Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Burla tested positive for coronavirus. Prior to this, COVID-19 infections were also reported from a high school in Sundargarh district and Navadoya School in Puri district. District collectors have also been asked to carry out stringent monitoring of all international travellers, especially those from at risk countries. They have been advised to adopt proven strategy of testing, tracking and treatment to prevent COVID-19. Besides, emphasis has been given on vaccination and enforcement of COVID-19-appropriate behavior. As part of early detection of variants dominating infections in the State, Collectors have been advised to send adequate RT-PCR positive samples to designated genome sequencing laboratories, especially from clusters or high risk areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rise-in-cases-in-odisha-institutions/article37731927.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel discusses flood-mitigation measures||The head of the advisory committee for mitigation and management of flood risk in Chennai metropolitan area, V. Thiruppugazh, held a meeting with civic officials in Ripon Buildings on Saturday to assess the situation in more than 700 localities. Mr. Thiruppugazh has started an assessment of civic issues reported by residents in localities such as Pulianthope, T. Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Kolathur, West Mambalam, Perungudi and Anna Nagar. The meeting discussed temporary solutions to prevent flooding and the challenges in implementing long-term measures. In Jawahar Nagar, in division 66 of zone 6, collapse of the drain on Siva Elango Salai was identified as the cause of flooding. Fifteen streets in the area were flooded by water flowing from Villivakkam to Captain Cotton Canal. As a temporary step, the drain had been broken at 10 locations to remove silt and bale out water using 16 pumps. About Pulianthope, the civic officials said blocks in Gandhi Canal should be removed and new drains built along Pulianthope High Road. Stressing on the need to develop a new drain along Anna Main Road in Ashok Nagar and a bigger drain along Jawaharlal Nehru Salai, the officials said many parts of the existing drains had to be broken to let the flow of water. As a long-term solution to the problem of flooding in West Mambalam, a new network of drains had been proposed from Railway Border Road through Arcot Road towards Trustpuram Canal. T. Nagar is expected to get permanent cross drainage structures to control flooding. Private land had been proposed to be acquired in Perungudi zone for draining water from Chettinad Enclave in ward 190 to Narayanapuram Lake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-discusses-flood-mitigation-measures/article37732316.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘IT sector will help industries to become globally competitive’||At the valedictory session of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Connect 2021, Information and Technology Minister T. Mano Thangaraj said the Information Technology sector will enable other industries to become globally competitive. Therefore, the Tamil Nadu government is taking many steps towards bridging the gap in information and communications technology (ICT) skills and training people to become technologically savvy. IT Secretary Neeraj Mittal said this edition of the CII Connect 2021 mainly focused on start-ups and the need for the government to help them in the creation of jobs for the unemployed youth. He emphasised the need for innovation in all types of technologies, and commented that deep tech is altogether a different technology with so many challenges that are to be addressed by entrepreneurs. Critical thinking Kalyan Kumar B., global chief technology officer and head, ecosystems, HCL Technologies, advised academic bodies to help increase critical thinking and allow the talent gap to be bridged eventually. R. Narayanan, national leader – education and skill development, KPMG International Ltd., while sharing the key takeaways from the summit, said implementation of BharatNet in the State would cover all village panchayats by this year, and added that the Tamil Nadu Data Centre Policy announced by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would go a long way in making digital technology available to all sections of people and also various government departments in the State. S Chandrakumar, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu, said that 1,500 participated in the event physically while 5,000 took part digitally.  Implementation of BharatNet in the State will cover all village panchayats by this year, and the Tamil Nadu Data Centre Policy will go a long way in making digital technology available to all sections of people R. Narayanan National leader – education and skill development, KPMG International Ltd||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-sector-will-help-industries-to-become-globally-competitive/article37732321.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rainfall for November may cross 100 cm in Chennai||Chennai may be on the verge of recording wettest Novembers in 100 years and may set a new record. With the city receiving 10 cm rain on Saturday morning, Chennai’s rainfall for the month stood at 98 cm. According to India Meteorological Department’s data, November 1918 holds the all-time record with 108.8 cm of rain. The department has forecast that north coastal districts and Puducherry may receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on Sunday. With three more days left in November and more rain predicted, 2015 November’s record rainfall of 105 cm may be broken. On an average, Chennai receives 40 cm rain in November. On Friday night, it was the turn of north coastal districts to be pounded by heavy rain. With many areas in Kancheepuram district recording more than 10 cm rain on Saturday morning, the water release from Chembarambakkam reservoir was stepped up to 3,000 cusecs. Intense rains lashed several parts of the coastal belt around Chennai. Avadi bore the brunt with 20 cm rain till Saturday morning. Nearly 15 places, including Mahabalipuram (18 cm) and Parangipettai in Cuddalore district (15 cm), recorded more than 10 cm rain. Other rain gauges in the city that reported heavy rain were Ambattur (12 cm), Perambur and Anna University (10 cm) and Meenambakkam (9 cm). Red alert The IMD has issued red alert for north coastal districts on Sunday. Heavy rains are possible over nine districts, including Salem, Ariyalur and the Nilgiris, under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over Comorin area and Sri Lanka coast. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the slow-moving system may impact north coastal belt till Sunday and rain may decrease from Monday as it is likely to move northwestwards. Rain had slowed down after Saturday morning and several areas that were battered by overnight downpour hardly received one or two cm till 7.30 p.m.. “Such long breaks in rainfall during the day is possible during monsoon. The influence of diurnal variations may be more over such weak weather systems. Rain may continue between late night and early morning hours, which is typical of northeast monsoon,” he said. The State has received 60 cm rain, which is 74% excess than its seasonal average till Saturday. What was special about this monsoon is a bulk of the rain was triggered by less intense weather systems such as low-pressure area or upper air circulation, he said. In his social media post, weather blogger Pradeep John said it was a rare year when November rainfall crossed 100 cm and this was the third time since 1918. It was the fourth time for any month of the year. In October 2005, Chennai had recorded 107.8 cm. “We have recorded such intense rains within a short span after 2015,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/november-rain-may-hit-a-record-in-city/article37732292.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 740 fresh cases, 11 deaths||On a day when 740 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, 24 districts clocked cases in single digits. Twenty-eight districts, including Coimbatore, did not report any death due to the infection. Coimbatore continued to account for the most number of cases at 112, followed by Chennai with 105. Sixty-eight people tested positive in Erode and 56 in Chengalpattu. There were 54 cases in Tiruppur, 53 in Salem and 47 in Namakkal. Ariyalur, Perambalur, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet and Tenkasi logged a single case each. The State’s tally touched 27,24,731. Eleven more people succumbed to the infection — four in private hospitals and seven in government facilities. The toll reached 36,454. The fatalities were reported in 10 districts. Of them, Vellore recorded two deaths, while Chennai saw one. Recoveries in State With 765 more people being discharged after treatment, the total recoveries touched 26,79,895. The active caseload dropped to 8,382. Twenty districts have under 100 active cases each. Another 1,01,030 samples were tested, and the total count touched 5,39,68,345. A total of 2,31,366 people, including 1,40,383 in the 18-44 age group, 59,399 aged 45 to 59 and 31,454 aged over 60, were vaccinated. The coverage in government centres stood at 6,64,08,251.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-740-fresh-cases-11-deaths/article37732304.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||16-day campaign against gender violence kicks off||The annual “16 days campaign against Gender Violence”, initiated by the Prajnya Trust, a Chennai-based non-profit organisation working on issues related to peace, justice and security, began with the release of the Gender Violence in India 2021 report, on Thursday. The report indicated the impact of the pandemic on many forms of gender-based violence over the last year. Kausumi Saha, author and curator of the report, said cases of child marriage and forced marriage had been steadily rising during the pandemic owing to higher economic instability. “Children from lower socio-economic groups could not stay enrolled in schools and while more boys were pushed towards child labour, more girls were married off early. Early marriage is a huge contributor towards the negative mental health of adolescents,” Ms. Saha said. The report indicated an alarming surge in the cases of domestic violence, with the National Commission for Women reporting nearly 2,300 complaints of domestic abuse filed between January and May 2021, which is the highest since 2000. “The increased cases of domestic violence was referred to as a “Shadow Pandemic,” she said. With an increase in the use of technology — right from work shifting online, and online classes in schools and colleges, cyber harassment and violence too saw an upsurge. “When online platforms were used to put the word out about hospital beds and oxygen cylinders needed during the second wave of the pandemic, we saw instances of numbers being misused,” Ms. Saha recalled. The report notably shed light on the increasing number of killings committed in the name of honour. Looking at how much more intersectional the report can be made in its approach, Prajnya included a new chapter on gender-based violence against Dalit and Adivasi communities. Ms. Saha said the findings indicated low conviction rates as well as ineffective implementation of the SC/ST Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-day-campaign-against-gender-violence-kicks-off/article37732319.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 64 crore sanctioned for air quality monitoring stations||The State government has sanctioned Rs. 64 crore to set up a state-of-the-art Integrated Environment Monitoring Studio that will provide real-time information from the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS). The studio will provide information to regulatory bodies to take immediate preventive and corrective measures. The data will be in public domain to alert people about air pollution. Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) would establish 28 stations in the district headquarters and major cities with a population of one lakh and above. Of these, 17 stations would be commissioned in the first phase. This would help strengthen the real-time monitoring and give a comprehensive picture of air quality in the State. Minister for Finance and Human Resource Management Palanivel Thiaga Rajan had made an announcement to this effect. A Government Order has been passed now. Drive against plastics In another order, Environment, Forests and Climate Change Secretary Supriya Sahu said that the ban on single-use plastics would be implemented with public participation. Under a pilot project, the Koyambedu market would be made free of single-use plastics. The TNPCB shall steer the project jointly with the Greater Chennai Corporation. The other measures include close monitoring of extended producers’ responsibility, devising and implementing a green protocol to enable significant reduction in plastics waste that are banned in government buildings and offices. Steps will be taken to tackle marine debris (fishing gears and nets that are lost, abandoned or discarded at harbours or beaches responsible for trapping and killing marine animals), the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-64-crore-sanctioned-for-air-quality-monitoring-stations/article37732313.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation helpline gets 1,482 complaints||With the city receiving 100 mm rain between 6 a.m. Friday and Saturday noon, the helpline of the Greater Chennai Corporation received 1,482 calls on Saturday. Meanwhile, water flow from Andhra Pradesh has been worsening the flood situation in the northern parts of the city. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi held a meeting on Saturday and instructed officers to continue the flood-mitigation efforts in residential areas. Teams of officers visited flood-affected areas to monitor the work to resolve issues reported by residents on 384 streets in 105 areas. “As of now, we are monitoring both on the field as well as from the control room. The 1913 helpline has 50 telephone connections. Of course, the number of messages is less than what we got during rain on November 10. At the control room, we are monitoring the number of motors working: 820 motors are working at present. We are monitoring the subways. Water is receding and we are keeping a watch as in case of heavy rain the water level should not rise again,” said Mr. Bedi. The Commissioner inspected G.N. Chetty Road, which tends to become non-motorable after a spell of heavy rain. On Saturday, the road was motorable as civic officials drained rainwater from Bazullah Road to Dr. Nair Road to Mambalam canal. Of the 1,482 complaints received on the helpline, 1,433 pertained to water stagnation. Nineteen subways are open to traffic. Rangarajapuram, Madley and Ganesapuram subways have been flooded. Work is on to bale out stagnant water. Debris of all the 11 trees that had crashed had been removed and traffic restored on those roads. In six of the 91 relief centres, 653 persons have been housed. Over 16,000 residents participated in 557 medical camps in the vicinity of flood-affected areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-helpline-gets-1482-complaints/article37732289.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only half of the elderly have taken first jab||Only a little over 50% of the targetted 60-plus population have received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in Tamil Nadu. With the elderly accounting for the lowest coverage among all age-wise categories, the Health Department is pushing for better coverage through door-to-door vaccination. Of the 1,04,19,000 people aged above 60, 54,16,543 have received the first dose, accounting for 52% of the total in the group. About 31% of the elderly — 32,34,393 — are fully vaccinated. This coverage — both the first and second doses — is lower than that among other age groups. About 71% of those aged 18-44 and 85% of those aged 45-59 have received at least one dose (as on November 24). According to the data released by the Health Department this week, about 50 lakh people are yet to take the first dose in the 45-plus category, and a majority of them were aged above 60. Doctors, based on interactions with the elderly, especially those visiting government hospitals, said initially, there were issues like lack of accessibility to the vaccination centres. “Now, the Government has organised camps locally, and is holding door-to-door campaigns too. The remaining unvaccinated population is probably resistant. It is very difficult to convince many of them as they come up with excuses such as co-morbidities or want opinions from their physicians or specialists,” a government doctor said. G.S. Shanthi, head of the department, Geriatric Medicine, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, said senior citizens should come forward to get vaccinated so that they will not fall sick or transmit infection to the unvaccinated. “To improve vaccination among the elderly, the dean had set up an exclusive vaccination centre at the geriatrics outpatient department,” she said. T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, said house-to-house vaccination was one strategy to reach senior citizens with limited mobility. “The government can create sufficient facilities and organise vaccination camps close to their community, but the responsibility is also on the citizens to come forward and take the vaccine. Considering the high mortality among senior citizens, we are requesting family members who have senior citizens at home to persuade them to take the shot at the earliest,” he said. With only 31% of them getting the second dose, Dr. Selvavinayagam said the second jab was important for the elderly. The second dose was delayed not only among the elderly but also among all other categories. “As of now, around 75 lakh people are due for the second dose, and soon, the number will cross one crore, with the coverage of mega camps,” he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the elderly had a higher risk due to co-morbidities. Dr. Shanthi said the Greater Chennai Corporation could prepare a list of the unvaccinated elderly and call them up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-half-of-the-elderly-have-taken-first-jab/article37732300.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials to monitor screening, testing at international airports||An assistant programme manager has been appointed on behalf of the Health Department at each international airport in the State to monitor the screening and testing of travellers, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. Shortly after inspecting the screening of passengers at the Chennai international airport on Saturday, he said assistant project managers had been appointed at the international airports in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchi. They will coordinate with the staff involved in the screening and testing of passengers and supervise works, in the light of the new COVID-19 variant, first detected in South Africa. The variant, Omicron, has been reported in five countries so far. “At the Chennai international airport, RT-PCR tests are being carried out continuously. There are two thermal scanners to check for fever among travellers... We will monitor passengers transiting through and coming directly from South Africa,” he told reporters. He said monitoring of passengers from South Africa, Brazil, China, Hong Kong and Israel would be intensified in Chennai. “We have pushed for intensive monitoring, with 100% home quarantine and repeat of testing after eight days. We are also checking for the full vaccination status of travellers from any country,” he said. Since October 21, as many as 55,090 tests were performed among passengers at the Chennai international airport. Of these, three tested positive for COVID-19, he said. Samples from eight kinds of clusters, such as international airports, schools and markets, were sent for genomic sequencing, he said, adding: “So far, 6,714 samples were sequenced. We have the results of 4,019. Around 86% of the samples are of the Delta variant,” Mr. Subramanian said. The Minister said the 12th mega vaccination camp would be held at 50,000 places on Sunday. He said some 78 lakh people were due for the second dose. He said the Union Government was supplying sufficient doses of vaccines. The State, at present, has a stock of 1.12 crore doses, and another 12 lakh would be supplied.  At the Chennai international airport, RT-PCR tests are being carried out continuously Ma. Subramanian Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-to-monitor-screening-testing-at-international-airports/article37732302.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sing ‘Tamil thai vazhthu’ at all functions, Ponmudi tells IIT-M||Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi has asked the Indian Institute of Technology Madras to ensure that ‘Tamil thai vazhthu’, the State’s invocation song, is sung at all functions in the institution. In a letter to Institute director Bhaskar Ramamurthi, the Minister said: “It is disheartening to learn that in the recently concluded convocation, the State invocation song ‘Tamil thai vazhthu’ was not sung.” This was a deviation from “well-established protocol”. The Institute held its 58th convocation on Nov. 20. The Minister pointed out that it was established in 250 hectares of land provided by the State government. Since then the government had been contributing “through various means for the growth and development of the institution and the present government is also very keen in continuing the same support”, he said. Mr. Ponmudi pointed out that the director had written to the Higher Education secretary seeking Rs. 1 crore from the State government to establish a national facility for cryo-electron microscopy, and the request was under examination. The Minister said, “I would like to point out that the invocation song is sung in all State and Central government functions in Tamil Nadu, including functions where higher dignitaries, like the President of lndia and Prime Minister participate. I, therefore, request you to ensure that the ‘Tamil thai vazhthu’ invocation is sung in all the functions of the institution including convocation in future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sing-tamil-thai-vazhthu-at-all-functions-ponmudi-tells-iit-m/article37732328.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Annual audit of temples brought under Finance Department||The annual audit of temples will henceforth be under the purview of the Finance Department. All these years, it had been under the control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department. Transparency The move, according to a recent Government Order, was based on a request from the HR and CE Commissioner who sought the change to make auditing more transparent and independent. Till March 31, 2021, 15.60 lakh audit objections pertaining to transactions of Rs. 1,302 crore remained unresolved, said the order. Temple income In the last three Fasli years, temples with an income of above Rs. 60,000 a year, had spent Rs. 92.14 crore, Rs. 87.57 crore, and Rs. 70.49 crore towards auditing expenses. So far, the norm had been to submit auditing of income and expenses of temples to the auditing wing of the HR and CE and temples would pay auditing charges.T.R. Ramesh of the Temple Worshippers Society said that in a case filed in the Madras High Court he had sought an independent auditing system for temples. “Shifting the audit wing to the Finance Department will not help in any manner and cannot be called independent. The audit wing does not even have chartered accountants. The audit does not cover jewellery owned by temples. Land alienation is not questioned,” he said. “There are many violations in temple fund transfers. But HR and CE auditors seem to tide over them if the Commissioner approves them. There is a section that says concurrent audit must be done if temples have an income of over Rs. 5 lakh, but it is not done,” he said.  There is a section in the HR and CE Act that says concurrent audit must be done if temples have an income of over Rs. 5 lakh but it is not done T.R. Ramesh Temple Worshippers Society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/annual-audit-of-temples-brought-under-finance-department/article37732323.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure PDS continues without segregation of beneficiaries’||AIADMK co-ordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin must ensure that the universal public distribution system (PDS) is continued in the State. The process of segregating beneficiaries based on income levels must be stopped, he said. He said the DMK Government had sought information from the Income Tax (I-T) Department on the income levels and Aadhaar details of ration cardholders in the State, and this could endanger PDS. There were news reports about officials saying that the purpose of seeking information from the I-T Department was to request the affluent, availing ration from fair price shops, to give up the benefits, on the lines of the subsidy for cooking gas cylinders that was voluntarily given up by a large number of people. This was to prevent malpractices at the shops, he said. When people surrendered their subsidies for cooking gas, the Union Government had only put out a request to the affluent people. It did not make the request based on information from the I-T Department. “If required, you can make a request to the people, but you cannot use their Income Tax details to ask them to forego rations,” the AIADMK leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-pds-continues-without-segregation-of-beneficiaries/article37732325.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister visits flood-hit areas in city||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday inspected the rain-affected areas in various parts of the city and instructed officials to take steps on a war-footing to drain the water. Mr. Stalin visited Thiru. Vi. Ka Nagar zone, Pulianthope and Pattalam in the morning. In the evening, he visited Vijayaraghava Road, G.N. Chetty Road, Bazullah Road, and Thirumalai Pillai Road in T. Nagar, according to an official release. In a series of tweets at night, he said the weathermen had said this was the fourth time in 200 years that the city had recorded such heavy rainfall in November. Despite such heavy rain, the damages had been minimised due to the untiring effort of the officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation, the Public Works Department, Tangedco, Revenue and police along with the other departments who had been spending sleepless nights to save lives and keep the situation under control. Assurance to people As heavy rain had been predicted for a few more days, the elected representatives and officials should continue to be on the field doing flood relief work, he said and promised to stand with them. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu, Minister for Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, Thiru.Vi.Ka. Nagar MLA Thayagam Kavi, Egmore MLA I. Paranthamen, T. Nagar MLA J. Karunanidhi and Thousand Lights MLA Dr. N. Ezhilan, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-visits-flood-hit-areas-in-city/article37732295.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fewer COVID-19 in-patients at Chennai govt. hospitals now||COVID-19 in-patient numbers are down to fewer than 50 in each of the major government hospitals in the city. From a time when hospitals ran short of beds for patients in need of oxygen during the peak of the second COVID-19 wave, the number of patients admitted for treatment of COVID-19 has dropped drastically with the gradual fall in fresh cases over the past few months. Now, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has a total of 30 patients, who tested positive for COVID-19, and eight with suspected symptoms, who tested negative during admission. In fact, the hospital’s maximum COVID-19 in-patient census was 1,912 during the peak of the second wave of COVID-19. “Our in-patient numbers for COVID-19 has been below 100 for nearly two months. Of the 30 in-patients, 17 are under room air and 13 on oxygen support,” said E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH. He added that of the in-patients, majority were unvaccinated. “We rarely see fully vaccinated persons admitted for treatment,” he said. The Government Stanley Medical College Hospital has 26 patients with COVID-19. R. Jayanthi, dean of the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital, said there were 26 patients with COVID-19, apart from 15 who had tested negative and seven patients with severe acute respiratory infection at the hospital. ‘No surge in two months’ “There has been no increase in COVID-19 admissions in the last two months. We are having five to eight admissions per day. It is now observed that those who have received two doses of vaccines have a benign course even if hospitalised, while 95% of intensive care unit (ICU) admissions and those requiring ventilator are persons who have not received even a single dose,” she said. Nine patients admitted in the ICU were unvaccinated, she pointed out. “Of the 48 in hospital now, 30 are unvaccinated, and three have received a single dose,” Dr. Jayanthi said. At the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital, there were 12 patients with COVID-19 and 20 persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19. “Our COVID-19 in-patient census has been below 100 since September 1. Most of them have mild to moderate symptoms, while we see some coming in at late stages of the disease. Most of the persons with moderate to severe disease are unvaccinated and have co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension,” said R. Shanthimalar, KMC dean. Only the stand-alone 750-bedded COVID-19 hospital, the Government Corona Hospital in Guindy, has 130 patients. K. Narayanasamy, hospital director, said most of the admissions were referrals from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fewer-covid-19-in-patients-at-chennai-govt-hospitals-now/article37732771.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Look at non-medico legal deaths for organ transplant’||With a steep drop in road traffic deaths due to consecutive lockdowns induced by COVID-19, the need to look at non-medico-legal deaths for organ donation has arisen, say organ transplant specialists. R. Kanthimathi, member secretary, Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu, who participated in an event organised by MGM Healthcare to commemorate the 12th Indian Organ Donation Day on Friday, lauded the hospital’s effort in performing transplants even during the pandemic. November 27 is celebrated as Organ Donation Day. 54% fall Dr. Kanthimathi said deaths due to road traffic accidents (RTA)’ had fallen by 54% and this has resulted a drop in transplants. Currently, non-medico legal deaths account for less than 2% of the transplants, she said, calling for more awareness programmes. In its first year of functioning, the hospital had performed six kidney transplants, 10 liver transplants and 45 heart and lung transplants each. “In the second year, we have successfully achieved 29 kidney transplants, 29 liver transplants, 53 heart and lung transplants each. We are also looking to kick-start corneal transplants at the earliest,” said J. Amalorpavanathan, head, transplant process and senior consultant at department of vascular surgery. K.R. Balakrishnan, director of Cardiac Sciences, said the successful transplant on a patient having COVID-19, was published in the international medical journal Lancet .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/look-at-non-medico-legal-deaths-for-organ-transplant/article37732772.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCB arrests five persons for usurping property||Five persons, who had impersonated a property owner and used forged documents for selling a plot located at Puthur near Avadi, were arrested on Saturday. All the five were produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to Puzhal prison. The police said R. Valaiyapathi, 58, a resident of Menambedu, lodged a complaint alleging that some persons had occupied his plot measuring 2,400 sq. ft. using forged documents. Based on the complaint, the Central Crime Branch took up investigation and found that the plot had been divided into smaller units of 800 sq. ft. and sold. The CCB found were five persons involved in this crime. They had transferred the ownership of the plot using forged documents. The property was then divided into four smaller plots of 800 sq. ft. each and sold. The names of the arrested were given as S. Meganathan of Puthur, V. Bose of Ambattur, B. Nandakumar of Thirumullaivoyal, E. Suresh of Ambattur and J. Mohammed Sharif of Porur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ccb-arrests-five-persons-for-usurping-property/article37732317.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Parts of Thiruvanmiyur, Besant Nagar flooded||Some parts of Besant Nagar and Thiruvanmiyur that are usually not prone to waterlogging have been under sheets of water since the start of this northeast monsoon. Residents complained that speed-breakers in some of the junctions of roads had led to waterlogging in their areas. Beach Road, Kalakshetra Colony, Besant Avenue, Jeevarathinam Nagar, Adyar and seaward roads in Thiruvanmiyur were covered with rainwater. M.Srikrishna, a resident of Fifth Avenue, Besant Nagar, said the speed-breakers on Besant Nagar Third Avenue and Tiger Varadhachari Road-Beach Road junction were more of an obstacle for rainwater.  Water had been stagnating for many days now and had entered many houses in the adjoining roads after spells of heavy rain. Residents said as these areas had sandy soil, rainwater drained quickly even during 2015 floods. Every time the roads are laid, their height rises causing inundation of houses. Sekar Raghavan, director, Rain Centre and Besant Nagar resident, said water stagnated inside some apartments because of groundwater saturation as the city had been getting good rains for many months now. Indiscriminate paving was another reason for such waterlogging on the roads, he said. Officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation said work was on to clear the water and a survey would be taken up to ascertain the cause of water stagnation in these localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parts-of-thiruvanmiyur-besant-nagar-flooded/article37732293.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two women knocked down by truck in Kancheepuram||Two women riding a two-wheeler on Chennai-Bengaluru Highway were killed on the spot when a truck hit them on Saturday morning. They were not wearing helmets. The police said B. Sangeetha, 26, and her friend Nilaveni, 33, both of Nagalathumedu, were returning home on a two-wheeler after visiting a new house that the former had rented, when a commercial truck carrying household goods hit them from behind near Karapettai. Driver of the truck fled the spot. Members of the public alerted the Kancheepuram taluk police police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-knocked-down-by-truck-in-kancheepuram/article37732314.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||17 arrested for gambling in Little Mount||Seventeen persons were arrested on charge of gambling in Little Mount on Friday night in Guindy police station limits. The police seized more than Rs. 55,000 cash from them. The police said they received a tip-off about a group gambling every week in a car shed of a house on Velachery Main Road, Little Mount. A special team of police officials raided the place on Friday night and 17 persons were playing cards in separate groups. The organisers were identified as J. Kannan of Ice House, R. Umapathy of Kodambakkam, M. Dilipkumar of Nanganallur, R. Balasubramanian of Thiruverkadu and M. Arul of Velachery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-arrested-for-gambling-in-little-mount/article37732324.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Initiative for women’s safety launched||To mark the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, the ‘Niruthuda Women’s movement’ was formally launched by Karunalaya Social Service Society on Thursday. The members of the Nirthuda movement met police officials last year and urged them to look into complaints of violence against women and take action immediately. In a statement of objectives prepared by them, the members said they would work towards raising awareness about women’s rights and instil confidence and courage in women to fight violence. R. Geetha, women’s rights activist, who was the chief guest, appreciated their efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-for-womens-safety-launched/article37732322.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An ode to PSBB founder||The Bala Bhavan Educational Trust and Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan group of schools launched a song as an ode to their founder Mrs. Y.G.P. on Saturday. G. Balasubramanian, former Director (Academics) of CBSE, launched the song. He delivered the lecture for Dr Y.G. Rajalakshmi Parthasarathy Sashtiabdhapoorthi Endowment Lecture 2021 titled “Kurukshetra: The Royal Conflict Within.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-ode-to-psbb-founder/article37732294.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Complex heart surgery performed||A 33-year-old private bank employee recently underwent a procedure to repair his aortic valve. The man complained of breathlessness and evaluation revealed that he had a weak heart whose function had fallen to less than 25%. His left ventricle, the main chamber of the heart, had swollen to 80 mm, against the normal 55 mm. His aortic valve was also leaking. The patient was refused treatment at some centres as the procedure could be risky. At Medway Heart Institute he was evaluated by a team led by Anbarasu Mohanraj. “We evaluated the patient and decided to do a valve repair instead of replacement. The patient benefited from the complex valve repair,” a hospital authority said. He was discharged in a healthy state, a hospital release said. Hospital chairman T. Palaniappan said the institution, a standalone tertiary cardiac unit, was geared to treat all complicated heart conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complex-heart-surgery-performed/article37732306.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement POCSO Act stringently’||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday directed officials to implement the POCSO Act stringently to curb sexual offences against children completely. At a meeting with officials, he directed the police to file FIRs in the cases of sexual offences against children, investigate them quickly and ensure that those found guilty were brought to book. He also asked the officials to ensure that the affected children were given adequate relief and the Departments concerned to work cohesively to provide such children with counselling, medical help and legal help. The meeting came after cases of sexual offences against school children coming to light. The Chief Minister directed officials to ensure that priority was given to affected children in medical aid and treatment. He also asked officials to make sure that Childline helpline 1098 and its details were displayed in each classroom and published in all school textbooks from the coming academic year. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can seek help and counselling by calling the State’s helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. Childline helpline number is 1098 ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/implement-pocso-act-stringently/article37732312.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexually harassing girl||The Egmore All Women Police have arrested a 41-year-old man for sexually harassing a 13-year-old girl. The accused was identified as K. Settu of Bethel Nagar in Injambakkam. A police officer said a complaint was lodged by the parents of the girl. In their complaint, the parents accused the man of sexually harassing their daughter when he visited his friend’s house. The accused was arrested under the POCSO Act. He was later produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison.  (ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress - 1098)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-harassing-teenaged-girl/article37732318.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation yet to fill gap in solid waste management||Notwithstanding the Rs. 11 crore the State government would give the Coimbatore Corporation to improve solid waste management in the city as told by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, there exists a gap that the civic body is yet to fill. Of the 1,100 to 1,200 tonnes waste the city generates a day, the waste management contractor, Coimbatore Integrated Waste Management Company Pvt. Ltd., handled 600 tonnes and the Corporation another 100 to 150 tonnes by turning them into compost. This left the Corporation with around 400 tonnes waste, which it was not processing but dumping in the open in Vellalore, said the Corporation sources, adding it had been the gap that the Corporation had not addressed as yet. The problem started within a year or so of the Corporation implementing the solid waste management project in 2009-10 under the then Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission at around Rs. 100 crore. At the time of implementing the project, the Corporation had estimated the waste to be processed at around 600 tonnes a day. But soon thereafter, the city limits expanded as 11 local bodies merged with the Corporation, increasing the waste to be processed every day to around 900 tonnes. Over the years, the quantity of waste generated increased to around 1,100 to 1,200 tonnes a day. In the last 10 years, the Corporation had been dumping in Vellalore the waste generated over and above the quantity processed at the contractor’s processing plant. This dumped waste had piled up so much that the Corporation had to recently spend Rs. 60 crore to process around nine lakh cubic metre, spread over 60 acre in Vellalore. The Corporation, using the Smart Cities Mission fund, had started bio-mining the accumulated waste. However, it continued to dump the additional waste, the sources said and added it was to process this additional quantity that the civic body needed to plan a project. And, if the Corporation were to plan such a project, it should do so for not just the current additional waste, but twice or thrice the quantity keeping in mind the future needs and the possibility that the city area could once again increase, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-yet-to-fill-gap-in-solid-waste-management/article37732333.ece
28 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Railway track turned fatal for 25 elephants in over 40 years||A total of 25 elephants that have been killed since 1978 on the two rail lines that connect Kerala and Tamil Nadu through the Walayar and Madukkarai forest ranges had their fatal encounter with moving trains late at night and early morning, according to the details provided by the Palakkad Division of Southern Railway. As many as 23 elephants were knocked down on the stretch from 1978 to March 15 this year. Three elephants were killed on Friday, at 9 p.m. This took the toll to 26. As many as 25 elephants were killed between 9 p.m. and 7.10 a.m., the data show. The time of the death of one elephant was unknown. While 17 elephants were killed on the B line, nine were killed on the A line. The A line runs through the reserve forest for 17 km between Chullimada and Madukkarai and the B line passes through the reserve forest for 23 km between Madukkarai and Kanjikode. R. Pandiyaraja, a Tenkasi-based activist who accesses details of elephant deaths on the two lines under the Right to Information Act, said the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the Railways should take proactive steps to prevent further fatalities. A team of experts of the Project Elephant Division of the Ministry had inspected the lines in September this year after the National Green Tribunal took suo motu cognizance of the elephant deaths based on a report in The Hindu. The report highlighted that night and early morning trains caused most deaths. “Immediate efforts should be made by the MoEFCC, the Railways and Tamil Nadu’s Forest Department to save the lives of elephants,” Mr. Pandiyaraja said. K. Kalidasan, of Osai, an environmental organisation, said the speed restriction should be followed strictly on the stretch as such collisions could also lead to derailment. Official sources in the Palakkad Division said the loco pilots who operate on the stretch strictly follow the speed limits — 45 kmph from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m and 65 kmph at other times — on the vulnerable stretch. The widening of space on either side of the track, installation of signage boards to warn loco pilots, clearance of vegetation on the sides of the track and construction of elephant ramps on high embankment were among the measures taken by the Palakkad Division to avoid trains hitting elephants, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-track-turned-fatal-for-25-elephants-in-over-40-years/article37732309.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four teachers get hill allowance||The Department of School Education recently approved the provision of ‘hill allowance’ for four government school teachers in Karamadai block in Coimbatore district upon reviewing their appeal. According to Karamadai Block Educational Officer M.R. Desingh, the teachers were working in two government primary schools at Barali and Pilloor within Nellithurai village in Karamadai. They had appealed to the Coimbatore district administration earlier this year regarding payment of hill allowance, which is provided for State government employees in hilly regions. Govt. order As per a government order issued in 2003, which designated Nellithurai as one of the hilly regions in the State, the four teachers were found to be qualified by the Department to receive hill allowances of Rs. 6,000 per month each. The teachers were paid their respective allowances for November and they would continue to receive the hill allowance every month from now, Mr. Desingh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-teachers-get-hill-allowance/article37732340.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Awareness events mark National Organ Donation Day in city||Various awareness events marked the National Organ Donation Day observance in Coimbatore on Saturday. Ganga Hospital observed the day by organising a skin donation awareness exhibition, inaugurated by the hospital’s founders Kanakavalli Shanmuganathan and J.G. Shanmuganathan. S. Raja Sabapathy, the hospital’s director and chairman of the Division of Plastic Surgery, Hand Surgery, Reconstructive Microsurgery and Burns, and Dr. R. Raja Shanmuga Krishnan explained visitors about the importance of skin donation. While superficial burns healed in two to three weeks, deep burns could not heal by themselves and needed skin grafting. When the total surface area of the burns involved more than 30 to 40 per cent of total body surface, patients would not have enough skin to spare to cover the burnt areas. The burn wounds would get infected and there was high chance of death in these people. This could be prevented by using skin from donors, said a release. Skin donation could be done like eye donation after death of an individual. Skin of people who died due to old age, or any cause other than serious infection and communicable diseases could be donated, it said the release from the hospital which has a skin bank. The multi-organ transplant team of PSG Hospital conducted an organ donation awareness programme at the hospital on Saturday. Senior doctors spoke at the event. Royal Care Super Speciality Hospital chairman K. Madeswaran launched a signature campaign at the hospital and released awareness pamphlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-events-mark-national-organ-donation-day-in-city/article37732343.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Villagers lament death of elephants||People from the village near Navakkarai where the elephants were killed after being hit by train thronged in large numbers to pay respects. While a woman lit camphors before the carcasses and prayed, many others left the place in tears. ‘Tragic’ “Unfortunate and tragic,” said Y. Yuvaprabha from the village whose 200-odd banana trees were damaged by the same elephants the previous night. Another woman said that she was shocked hearing the sound of the collision while watching TV. “The cow elephant and calf used to frequent the fields,” she said. Villagers as well as the Forest Department staff were equally sad after coming to know that the adult female elephant was pregnant. District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar said the elephant was in very early stage of pregnancy. Forest Veterinary Officer A. Sukumar said the foetus was three-and-a-half months-old. A few villagers raised voice against the Forest Department staff, accusing them of not conducting proper night patrols on A line that could have saved the lives of the elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-lament-death-of-elephants/article37732449.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Property fair by LIC Housing Finance in city||LIC Housing Finance is conducting Ungal Illam 2021, a property fair and home loan expo, in association with VG Event Management at Suguna Kalyana Mandapam here. 100 projects According to a release, over 40 builders and property promoters are taking part in the fair and exhibiting details of almost 100 projects. These include apartments, villas, and luxury bungalows. LIC Housing Finance has set up a special loan processing counter to guide consumers and provide spot sanctions for housing loans. Govindaraju, Regional Manager of LIC Housing Finance for Southern Region, inaugurated the fair. It will be held on Sunday also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/property-fair-by-lic-housing-finance-in-city/article37732338.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||GHCL to set up units in Tiruchi, Madurai||GHCL will invest Rs. 500 crore in Tamil Nadu to set up textile units in Tiruchi and Madurai districts. A release from the company said it signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the State government recently to set up 40,000 ring spindles at Manaparai in Tiruchi district to produce synthetic and blended yarn. It would install another 40,000 ring spindles with 24 knitting machines at Paravai in Madurai district to produce 100 % cotton yarn and knitted fabrics. GHCL also proposed a 20 MW solar energy park near Musiri in Tiruchi district. At present, 52 % of energy requirements of its yarn business was met through renewable energy sources. When the solar park was commissioned, almost 70 % of GHCL’s spinning division requirements would come from renewable energy. GHCL, which already had textile manufacturing facilities in Tamil Nadu, planned to commission the plant to come up at Manaparai by the first quarter of next financial year. It would invest in phases and would have commissioned all the proposed plants by the third quarter of 2024-25. According to the release, R.S. Jalan, Managing Director of GHCL, said that going forward, the company will enhance its energy portfolio to fulfil almost 90 % of its energy requirements from renewable energy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ghcl-to-invest-rs-500-cr-in-tn/article37732336.ece
28 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||EFI revives six water bodies||Environmentalist Foundation of India (EFI) has revived six water bodies in the city, said a release from the non-government organisation. Based on permission from the Corporation, it took up for development Kalam kuttai, Kaliyaperumal kuttai, Kalapatti tank, Thottipalayam tank, Periyakuttai and Kathira kuttai in August this year. It started with a pre-restoration study followed by field work, which the District Collector inaugurated. In three months, the EFI cleaned waste and removed invasive weeds in Kalam kuttai, dug recharge well, strengthened embankments and carried out other work to increase storage capacity to 68% of the tank area, spread over three acre. In other tanks too, it removed waste including debris to restore the water holding capacity, the release said and added in a few tanks it also took up planting of saplings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efi-revives-six-water-bodies/article37732335.ece
28 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Train ran within speed limit’||The train that mowed down three elephants near Walayar in Coimbatore district was running within the permissible speed limit, the Palakkad Division of Southern Railway has said. It said speed restrictions had been in place on the stretch. The loco pilot told officials that the train was running at 42 kmph, said a source at the Palakkad Division. The Division said that according to a document accessed through the RTI Act earlier this year, a permanent speed restriction of 45 kmph is imposed on 13.9 km of a vulnerable section of the A line, and on 19.41 km of a vulnerable section of the B line from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. It is 65 kmph during the day. The lines A and B connect Kanjikode in Kerala and Ettimadai in Tamil Nadu. While trains bound for Palakkad are run on the A line, those bound for Coimbatore are run on the B line. The train that hit the elephants was, however, operated on the A line because of the movement of another train on the B line. The train knocked down a ‘makna’ (a tuskless male elephant), an adult female and a female calf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-ran-within-speed-limit/article37732305.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NIA searches mobile phone store||A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday searched a mobile phone store in Coimbatore in connection with an investigation into a training camp conducted by CPI (Maoist) in the Nilambur forests in Kerala in 2016. Police sources said an NIA team from Kochi searched a shop in Edayarpalayam near Vellalore. NIA officials questioned the shop’s owner and an employee. Sources said the search was conducted in connection with SIM cards used by people allegedly involved in the Maoist training camp case. In October, NIA teams had carried out searches at the houses of S. Danish alias Krishna and Dinesh in Coimbatore city, and A. Santhosh Kumar in Angalakurichi near Anamalai, in connection with the same case. Meeting Danish and Santhosh Kumar are among the 19 accused in an FIR registered by the NIA, relating to the meeting-cum-training organised by CPI (Maoist) in a forest near Nilambur in Malappuram district, from August 23 to 30, 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nia-searches-phone-store-for-maoist-link/article37732331.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||1.25 lakh eligible persons without first dose vaccine targeted||Coimbatore Corporation that will conduct a mega vaccination camp on Sunday will target those eligible persons who have not had their first dose. A release from the Corporation said 94% of city’s residents had received their first dose and the remaining 6% or 1.25 lakh persons would do well to use the opportunity on Sunday to take their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine. It would hold the vaccination camp at 205 places, starting 7 a.m. Likewise, 2.34 lakh persons were eligible to receive their second dose. In the release, the Corporation had appealed to the management of malls, cinemas and other public places to allow only those persons who had taken their first dose and were within the window period for second dose, and those who had taken both the doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/125-lakh-eligible-persons-without-first-dose-vaccine-targeted/article37732334.ece
28 November 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||PLP for Dharmapuri released||The Potential Linked Credit Plan for Dharmapuri envisions a credit outlay of Rs. 6,475.09 crore for 2022-23. The Plan was released by NABARD here under the aegis of Collector S. Dhivyadarhini recently. NABARD’s credit outlay for the upcoming fiscal is higher than the credit outlay of Rs. 5,735 crore laid out for the current fiscal of 2021-22. The Plan envisions Rs. 4,928.97 crore as credit potential for agriculture, which includes Rs. 3,541.73 crore towards short term lending and Rs. 1,387.24 crore as long term lending for agriculture infrastructure and ancillary activities. The credit potential for Micro, Small and Medium enterprises is estimated at Rs. 855.75 crore. According to NABARD, as per the revised priority sector guidelines of the RBI, credit potential for export and social infrastructure through bank credit is estimated at Rs. 5.77 crore and Rs. 7.01 crore respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plp-for-dharmapuri-released/article37732457.ece
28 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Low turnout at Karungalpalayam cattle shandy||Less than 50% of the cattle brought to the weekly shandy at Karungalpalayam were sold out as traders from other States did not turn up on Thursday. Against the average of 900 cattle that were brought to the shandy by farmers, 500 cattle arrived in the market on Thursday. Farmers from across and nearby districts brought their cattle to the market. However, due to rain, traders from Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and from few other States did not turn up. Farmers said that since monsoon has intensified in the State, less cattle was brought to the shandy by the farmers. Also, traders are yet to arrive to the shandy due to rain in their respective States. “Business continues to be less than 50%”, farmers said. They said that since traders are not visiting the shandy, many farmers are reluctant to bring cattle as they have to bear transport costs. “The situation will be like this until the rainy season gets over”, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-turnout-at-karungalpalayam-cattle-shandy/article37732454.ece
28 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for theft of two-wheelers||The Erode police on Saturday arrested a man involved in a series of motorcycle thefts in the district. According to police, during vehicle checks here on Friday night, a youth was found moving in a suspicious manner on a two-wheeler. On inquiry, police identified the person as Murugeshan from Kapilarmalai in Namakkal. It was found that he was involved in various two-wheeler theft cases. Police said that Murugeshan worked as an auto driver and stole a two-wheeler parked in lonely places at night. The accused had so far stolen 25 vehicles and measures are on to recover them. Erode Town police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-theft-of-two-wheelers/article37732461.ece
28 November 2021||Erode/ Salem,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced to 20,000 cusecs||The outflow from Mettur dam was reduced to 20,000 cusecs on Saturday. According to officials from Public Works Department, at 8 a.m, the water level at the dam remained at 120.10 ft and the stored capacity of water in the dam was 93,630 Mcft. The dam received an inflow of 22,500 cusecs. 22,000 cusecs was released into River Cauvery river and 500 cusecs through East-West canal. The outflow from the dam was reduced to 20,000 cusecs by 12.30 p.m.. According to officials, the dam received an inflow of 20,500 cusecs. While 20,000 cusecs of was released into River Cauvery river, 17,000 cusecs through power houses and 3,000 cusecs through Ellis Saddle surplus gates. The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 500 cusecs. At Bhavanisagar dam, the water level was 104 ft against a total scale of 105ft at 8 a.m. The stored capacity of water in the dam was 31.95 tmc. The dam received an inflow of 7,815 cusecs and total surplus of 7,800 cusecs was released from the dam. An average rainfall of 1.3 mm was recorded in Erode on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article37732433.ece
28 November 2021||KADAPA/CHITTOOR,TAMIL NADU||Central team visits flood-hit areas in A.P.||The Inter-Ministerial Central Team had inspected the core belt of the rain-devastated areas in Kadapa district on Saturday, the second day of their visit, which included the Annamayya project wall collapse zone, inundated villages of Pulapattur, Eguva, and Diguva Mandapalle villages, and damaged fields along the Cheyyeru river in Rajampeta division. Kadapa Collector V. Vijayarama Raju and senior officials of the Roads and Buildings, Irrigation, Agriculture, and Panchayat Raj Departments apprised the Central team of the heavy damage caused to roads, causeways, houses, and crops; and the relief measures launched in the area on a war-footing. The team members had watched a photo exhibition depicting the flood fury at Pulaputtur village. Farmers poured out their woes before the team while showing them their completely submerged and sand-covered fields along the Cheyyeru. Residents narrated their harrowing experience of how their houses were submerged under eight feet of water, forcing them to take shelter on treetops and rooftops to save their lives. Explaining the reasons for the Annamayya project damage, the Collector said that over 3 lakh cusecs of floodwaters of the Bahuda river had gushed into the reservoir in a few hours, leading to the wall collapse and devastation. The breach of the Annamayya reservoir resulted in the death of 20 persons in Rajampeta division. In Chittoor district, another Central team visited the Gangavaram, Chandragiri, Chowdepalle, Somala, and Ramachandrapuram mandals. Villagers at Mamadugu village of Gangavaram mandal informed the team that their standing crops of paddy, groundnut, and vegetables under the ayacut of Kanikalla tank were washed away in the floods. The Central team, during its visit to Veerapalle village of Peddapanjani mandal, assessed damage of paddy crop in 138 acres, and inundation of floriculture, horticulture plantations in Chowdepalle mandal. The team, which visited Somala mandal, was informed that close to 2,000 acres of paddy, groundnut, and sugarcane crops were damaged at Irikipenta and Chennapatnam villages under Kurakapalle tank ayacut. The team also assessed damage at Moravapalle village of Chandragiri mandal. Meanwhile, a Central team on Saturday paid a visit to the Rayalacheruvu tank in Ramachandrapuram mandal near Tirupati and took stock of the ongoing works to strengthen the bund where a leak was reported days ago. Magnitude of damage Principal Secretary (Revenue and Disaster Management) V. Usha Rani on Saturday said that the rains between November 13 and 20 had caused unprecedented damage in Chittoor, Kadapa, Anantapur, and Nellore districts, besides the death of 44 persons and missing of 15. After a meeting with the Inter-Ministerial Central team members in Tirupati, Ms. Usha Rani said that the floods in the Rayalaseema region were unprecedented, with heavy rainfall on November 19 in Chittoor, Anantapur, and Nellore districts. The flood had impacted the Rayala Cheruvu tank near Tirupati, besides damaging the linked-tanks network in Chittoor district. The floods left a trail of fury in 199 mandals of the Rayalaseema and Nellore districts, while heavy property and crop loss were reported in 1,990 mandals, including 211 villages and 23 towns. “A population of 2.31 lakh was affected by the floods. As many as 5,740 houses were damaged, and 98,514 houses inundated,” the Principal Secretary said. She added that 25 teams, including 260 NDRF and 300 SDRF personnel and 54 Fire Service personnel, were deployed to steer the relief and rescue operations in the region, with the help of 22 boats and two helicopters. “As many as 319 relief camps were set up to provide food and shelter to 79,590 people. An amount of Rs. 3.20 crore was spent to ground 747 medical camps,” she said. Ms. Usha Rani said that crop damage was reported in 2.86 lakh hectares, mostly paddy. She said that the crop loss was maximum in Kadapa district with 56,139 hectares affected, followed by 28,000 hectares in Anantapur and 12,744 hectares in Chittoor district, affecting 4.78 lakh farmers. Ms. Usha Rani said that 3,129 panchayat roads and 20 buildings of the department were damaged. Huge property loss was reported by the Roads and Buildings, Water Resources and Electricity Departments. Central team members Kunal Satyardhi (Adviser, Ministry of Home Affairs), Abhay Kumar (Director, Ministry of Finance), K. Manoharan (Director of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare), Srinivasu Baidi, (Superintending Engineer, Ministry of Water Resources), Sivani Sharma (Director, Ministry of Power), Sravan Kumar Singh (Regional Officer, Ministry of Roads, Highways), Anil Kumar Singh (Union Secretary, Ministry of Rural Development), Kanna Babu (Commissioner, Disaster Management), Arun Kumar (Commissioner, Agriculture) and Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-visits-flood-hit-areas-in-ap/article37731966.ece
28 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Governments have done very little for protection of Dalits’||“My son Nirupan Chakravarthi, who was fast asleep in his house with his two little children and his young wife, was attacked with deadly weapons by an armed gang at midnight in July 2019, and he died on the spot. The family is yet to come out of shock,” said a tired looking woman, mother of Chakravarthi, at a public hearing organised here by Evidence, an NGO, on Saturday. She went on to say that the murderers warned the family members about a similar fate if they talked about it. It is said that Chakravarthi’s father shared information with Madurai Rural Police about robbers, ganja and arrack sellers in the locality, which irked them. Hence, a gang murdered Chakravarthi and warned that it would behead his father next, the woman in tears told the panelists. About 25 cases of heinous crimes against Dalits, taken up by Evidence, were discussed, following which the panelists, including senior advocate Jayna Kothari, ‘Comrade’ Gopi Nainar, writer Jayarani, Ann Nirmala Carr and advocate B.B. Mohan, recommended certain measures to the government for implementation. Evidence executive director A. Kathir said atrocities against Dalits had risen in Tamil Nadu over the last 10 years. Most of the law-enforcing officials were interested in “compromise” and only after persuasion they registered cases, he said. Though the Supreme Court had set a time-frame for trial courts to dispose of such cases, a large number of cases were pending in courts. In Tamil Nadu, the conviction rate in special courts (SC/ST Act) was less than 3%. ‘No response’ Repeated appeals to law-enforcers stressing the need to register cases under the SC/ST Act had not been heeded. The crimes, especially against Dalit women, committed by caste Hindus went unchecked. Though the civil society had been demanding a special law to punish the offenders in honour killings, the Central and State governments remained silent. In several cases, the accused walked out freely using loopholes in laws. In many districts in the State, Special Public Prosecutors had not been appointed, which delayed trials. Filing of charge-sheets dragged for several months and adjournments resulted in courts granting bail to the accused, the panel observed. Ms. Jayna Kothari said local Dalit rights movements should be sensitised. Awareness of women’s rights, gender sensitisation and child abuse were discussed at educational institutions, but there was little discussion on Dalit rights. A strong network of Dalit women should be aware of laws. Mr. Gopi Nainar said a people’s front at all the districts would help prevent crimes. Ms. Jeyarani said community engagement would bring down crimes against women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governments-have-done-very-little-for-protection-of-dalits/article37732443.ece
28 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No ante mortem injuries on the body of fisherman, High Court Bench told||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court was on Friday informed that the body of the Pudukkottai fisherman who died at sea following a collision with a Sri Lankan naval vessel had no ante mortem injuries. Justice G.R. Swaminathan was told that the re-post mortem was conducted on the body of Raj Kiran pursuant to the court’s direction. However, advocate Henri Tiphagne representing the petitioner, R. Brundha, wife of Raj Kiran, submitted that the body of the fisherman was left unstitched after the first autopsy that was conducted at Jaffna Medical College Hospital in Sri Lanka. The body was covered in an old bedsheet. It was placed in a plastic cover and then placed in the coffin. The body was in a distorted condition. The Standard International Protocol and Procedures were not followed, he said. Taking note of the submission, the court suo motu impleaded the Consulate General of India, Jaffna, and the Ministry of External Affairs and adjourned the hearing in the case. The court was hearing the petition filed by Brundha, the wife of Raj Kiran. She sought a probe into the death of her husband. On October 18, Raj Kiran, along with S. Suganthan and A. Xavier, ventured into the sea in a boat owned by Suresh Kumar. They were intercepted by a Sri Lankan naval vessel and were told they had crossed the International Maritime Boundary Line and were in Sri Lankan waters. The fishermen tried to escape from the authorities. It was said that the Sri Lankan vessel collided with the boat accidentally and Raj Kiran fell into the sea and drowned. However, Brundha said a few fishermen who were only two nautical miles away on other boats said that Raj Kiran was shot by the Sri Lankan authorities. The body of Raj Kiran was recovered and a postmortem was conducted at the Jaffna Medical College Hospital in Sri Lanka. Later, the body was handed over to the Indian authorities. The body was brought to Kottaipattinam port by the Indian authorities and handed over to the family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-ante-mortem-injuries-on-the-body-of-fisherman-high-court-bench-told/article37732410.ece
28 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Right to Maternity Protection cannot be infringed at all’||The Right to Maternity Protection could not be infringed at all, observed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court while directing the authorities to reinstate an anganwadi worker from Sivaganga district. The court was hearing two petitions filed in 2014 by K.R. Kanimozhi, who sought the order to terminate her services quashed. She was appointed as an anganwadi worker in 2011. She was serving at the anganwadi centre in Vadavanpatti near Singampunari. She was married to Thennavan in 2003 and the couple were childless for 11 years. Through invitro fertilisation (IVF) procedure, she conceived and delivered twins in 2014. When she was pregnant, she had submitted a letter seeking leave and subsequently sought extension of leave. But, the authorities issued a show-cause notice asking why she was absent beyond six months. Later, she was terminated from service, as per a government order. Justice S. Srimathy said the government order had not taken into consideration the concept of maternity protection, recognised in 1919 by the International Labour Organisation. The Maternity Protection Convention of 1919 called for 12 weeks of paid maternity leave, free medical care during and after pregnancy, job guarantees upon return to work and periodic breaks to nurse the infant. In India, the Bombay Maternity Benefit Bill was introduced in 1929. Thereafter, Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, a Central Act was enacted. It provided 12 weeks leave before and after child birth. Under the Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, 2017, the period was extended to 26 weeks. When the Central Act provided 12 weeks and after amendment 26 weeks protection to the pregnant women, the G.O should be in consonance with the statutory provision. The court observed that the 12-week period could not be taken into account while calculating the six months period as stated in the G.O.. The court took note of the fact that the petitioner had taken leave for seven months and 11 days leave. After deduction of the 12-week period, the petitioner had taken leave for four months and 11 days and had not exceeded the six months period stated in the G.O. The termination order ought to be quashed, the judge said. The court also took note of the fact that the petitioner was not granted any opportunity to be heard. Further, the court said, as per Rule 18 (1) of the Tamil Nadu Government Fundamental Rules, the employee was entitled to take leave exceeding six months on production of the medical certificate. The court directed the authorities to reinstate her and pay the monetary benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/right-to-maternity-protection-cannot-be-infringed-at-all-hc/article37732431.ece
28 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Around 8,000 cusecs of water released in Vaigai’||The heavy rain in Madurai city and peripheries for the last two days had steadily increased water storage and all the tanks had water up to 75-90% of their capacity, said Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said PWD authorities had released 7,000 to 8,000 cusecs of water into the Vaigai and hence people should stay away from the river course. Despite the heavy rains, the district largely remained safe as it recorded below average rainfall, he said, adding water entered houses in low-lying places in Melur area. 450 people shifted Around 450 people in Katchirayanpatti were moved to nearby relief centres on Friday. Drinking water, food and dresses were provided to them at the centres where all basic facilities were made available. He said many places, including Madurai city, Melur and peripheries recorded above 100 mm rainfall. Thirty-three teams of officials from PWD, Revenue, Disaster Management and Rural Development departments, were coordinating the operations in the district, Dr. Aneesh Sekhar said. The vigil would continue for the next three to five days, he added. Voters’ enrolment The Collector said special camps to enrol voters were held on Saturday and they would be held on Sunday as well. As many as 1,200 places had been designated for enrolment and eligible persons who had completed 18 years could make use of these camps, he said. Similarly, COVID-19 vaccination camps would be held at 900 places across the district from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday. He urged the people, especially those who had not taken the first dose, to visit the nearest camps and get vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/around-8000-cusecs-of-water-released-in-vaigai/article37732632.ece
28 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Police treat us like criminals’||Hariharan, who was running a salon in Karur, was murdered by an armed gang after the parents of the girl with whom he was in love came to know of the affair. Hariharan’s father, who appeared before the panel members at a public hearing on crimes against Dalits, organised by Evidence, an NGO, here on Saturday, said the girl’s parents were sending feelers for an out-of-court settlement. “They offered me Rs. 60 lakh. I asked them whether they can give back my son, who was killed in broad daylight. Today, the accused were roaming freely while police treated us like criminals for organising demonstrations seeking justice,” he said. When a couple from Cuddalore district narrated the ordeal underwent by them at the hands of the police in connection with the murder of their 18-year-old daughter, total silence wrapped the hall. The girl’s mother said, “We even ran away from our house to Bengaluru and we were working as daily wagers. However, the boy (who belonged to an intermediate caste predominant in north Tamil Nadu), forcibly kidnapped their daughter and murdered her when we insisted on marriage. The police registered a case of unnatural death and after repeated insistence, registered a case under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The case of a Dalit girl from Erawarpatti village near Usilampatti in Madurai district was one among the many cases discussed at the public hearing. The girl was raped by a 55-year old man, and she became pregnant. But she was not aware of it. When her parents came to know of it, they attempted to abort the foetus, but the villagers told them that the police would register a female infanticide case. Now, the girl, who delivered a baby, is at an adoption home, and the accused continue to threaten the family against exposing the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-treat-us-like-criminals/article37732441.ece
28 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Conduct trial on day-to-day basis: HC||Taking note of the fact that charges were framed in Sudalai Mada Swamy Temple priest murder case, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the trial court in Tirunelveli to conduct the trial on a day-to-day basis. Justice G.R. Swaminathan also sought response from the State with regard to payment of compensation to the family members of the priest. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Subramanian, the younger brother of the priest. An armed gang murdered the priest, Chidambaram Durai, at Seevalaperi near Palayamkottai on April 18. The petitioner said the members of the priest’s community had been using the temple land for several years. But, the members of a dominant caste had been trying to encroach upon the land, which was not surveyed by authorities despite repeated representations. He sought a thorough probe into the murder, appropriate compensation for the family and a government job to a member of the family. Earlier, the court was informed that the accused were secured and a proposal was sent to the government with regard to the compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conduct-day-to-day-trial-in-priest-murder-case/article37732629.ece
28 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID to probe sand quarrying cases||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has transferred the investigation into a case pertaining to illegal sand quarrying in Tamirabharani river to the CB-CID. Taking note of the fact that the region was rich in atomic minerals, the court directed the Atomic Minerals Directorate to conduct a detailed analysis and exploration there and submit a report. The court was hearing a petition filed in 2020 by K. Balakrishnan of Thoothukudi district, seeking a direction to authorities to prevent one D. Shanmugavel from illegally quarrying sand from the river. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and B. Pugalendhi directed the CB-CID to probe the extent of sand excavated and whether it was transported and sold illegally. The court took note of the fact that the contract for the construction of a check dam across the river was awarded to the private party in 2019. It was said that the contractor was permitted to use the sand available near the river to construct the check dam. The petitioner said the special condition was not there in the original agreement, but was inserted after he had lodged a complaint in this regard. Earlier, the court, which was satisfied that a case was made out by the petitioner, appointed an expert to conduct a detailed survey of the sand excavated from the check dam site and nearby areas. It was submitted that the sand contained a substantial amount of heavy minerals like garnet, ilmenite, rutile, zircon, leucoxene, sillimanite, kyanite and monazite. The Atomic Minerals Directorate submitted that a detailed analysis of the area and the preparation of a report would take about eight to ten months. The presence of heavy minerals there was ascertained. It was said that five cases were conducted and concluded in a hurried manner with regard to the illegal quarrying of sand and that the private party had offered to construct mandapams for two temples in the village. The private party had taken sand from the Tamirabharani against rules and regulations, the court said. The court directed the CB-CID to probe the manner and circumstances under which the special condition was incorporated in the contract without any authority after the criminal case was registered. The court also ordered police protection for the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-to-investigate-sand-quarrying-cases/article37732327.ece
28 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC imposes cost of Rs. 1 lakh on petitioner for misusing habeas corpus petition||Dismissing a habeas corpus petition, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court imposed a cost of Rs. 1 lakh on a petitioner and her husband after it was brought to light that the petition was filed to hide from a money dispute. The court was hearing a petition filed in 2020 by J. Sowkiyadevi from Thoothukudi district. She said that her husband K. Jeyavelan, an advocate, had borrowed money from his friend Abdul Rahman and was regularly paying the interest. Under these circumstances, she said that a group of police personnel had barged into their house and threatened them to return the money that was borrowed. They were told that the police were from Tenkasi district. Later, the woman complained that her husband was threatened again and he did not return home. Therefore, she filed the habeas corpus petition. It was said that Abdul Rahman had lodged a complaint with the Tenkasi police as Jeyavelan was avoiding payment. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and B. Pugalendhi had sought a status report in the case and the Superintendent of Police, Tenkasi submitted that a special team would be formed to trace the whereabouts of the detenu. Later, video footage was recovered by the special team that found Jeyavelan purchasing some fruits from a fruit stall in Usilampatti. He was roaming freely and was not under any illegal detention.  The court took cognisance of the materials submitted and said that the detenu hid himself. The detenu went underground to intimidate his friend. In the hide and seek game, the court and police were both made parties, the court said. The court directed the petitioner and her husband to pay a cost of Rs. 1 lakh to the Superintendent of Police, Tenkasi, who shall distribute the amount to the special team as honorarium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-imposes-cost-of-rs-1-lakh-on-petitioner-for-misusing-habeas-corpus-petition/article37732432.ece
28 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP minority wing opposes Simbu-starrer Maanaadu||The recently released Tamil movie Maanaadu, starring Simbu showed the Muslim community in bad light as if its members were law violators and indulged in illegal activities, said M. Syed Ibrahim, national secretary of BJP’s Minority Morcha, here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said cinema, which was considered as a powerful medium, should disseminate good and positive messages to society. By portraying a minority community members as fundamentalists, this kind of movies only made Muslims live in an insecure environment. The movie also described the 1998 serial blasts in Coimbatore, wherein a few scenes created a rift between Hindus and Muslims. The characters wearing caps and interacting with persons clad in saffron dhotis were bound to create differences, Mr. Ibrahim claimed and wanted Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to immediately intervene in the issue. The message threatened the secular fabric of society. “In 1998, the DMK was in power, and portraying the Coimbatore serial blasts now in a movie required to be censured properly,” he said. Mr. Ibrahim also came down heavily on Surya’s movie Jai Bhim, which had “pained a downtrodden segment in society”. Appealing to the Tamil film industry to use the medium for conveying good messages that would take the State to a better position in development, he said there were many success stories in many spheres, which could be brought out by films rather than criticising the minority communities, which only caused pain and mental agony to them. The Chief Minister should either direct the authorities to censor the film properly or ban it in Tamil Nadu in larger public interest, Mr. Ibrahim stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-minority-wing-opposes-maanaadu/article37732413.ece
28 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital bags award for organ transplants||Velammal Multi-Speciality Hospital in Madurai has been selected as the best hospital for organ transplants in India by the Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The award was presented at an event organised in New Delhi to celebrate the 12th Indian Organ Donation Day, held annually on November 27 to recognise the contribution made by deceased donors to healthcare. Velammal Medical College and Hospital Dean Thirunavukarasu and Transplant Coordinator Mukesh received the ‘Best Hospital Award (Deceased Organ Donation) in the field of Cadaveric Organ Donation’, presented by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Bharati Pravin Pawar. Since 2017, the hospital has performed more than 130 transplants, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-bags-award-for-organ-transplants/article37732627.ece
28 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||FoHS to launch Madurai chapter||In order to preserve and generate interest in the rich cultural heritage of Tamil Nadu, Friends of Heritage Sites (FoHS), a Chennai-based non-profit society, has planned to open its first regional chapter in Madurai. The regional chapter, to be named ‘FoHS Pandyas’, would be launched at Triveni School on December 4. To commemorate the launch, the FoHS is organising a series of seminars on folk deities and Tamil cultural traditions. The first in the series will be a seminar on ‘Aiyanar Tradition in Tamizhagam’ to be held on December 4. Experts from across the State will take part in the seminar. Those interested can register their names till November 30 athttps://forms.gle/GfjyT4- Kid1Go83aG8. Entry is free for postgraduate students and they should bring their ID cards. For further details 919943558681 or email:fohs.society@gmail. comcan be contacted, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fohs-to-launch-madurai-chapter/article37732440.ece
28 November 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||18 fishers held by SL Navy repatriated||Eighteen of the 23 fishermen from Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts, arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy on October 13, returned home on Saturday. Fisheries Department sources said 17 fishermen from the coastal villages of Nagapattinam district and six from Mayiladuthurai district had set sail on two mechanised boats, and were arrested on charges of straying into Sri Lankan waters. The arrested were reportedly taken to the Karainagar Fishing Harbour, before being remanded in judicial custody. Upon completion of the judicial formalities, 18 of the arrested fishermen were repatriated, and they arrived in Chennai by flight on Saturday morning, Fisheries Department sources said. The fishermen reached their homes by road, later in the evening, and were accorded an emotional welcome by their respective families and other fishermen. The sources said the other five fishermen had reportedly tested positive for COVID-19, and were expected to be repatriated after their quarantine ends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-fishermen-held-by-sri-lanka-navy-repatriated/article37732330.ece
28 November 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Onion farmers flag under-utilisation of processing centre at Chettikulam||Onion farmers in Perambalur district have sought efficient utilisation of the Common Food Processing Incubation Centre (CFPIC) launched during 2017 at Chettikulam for producing value-added products of shallots such as onion powder, onion paste, vacuum-packed peeled onion and onion flakes, with extended shelf life ranging from one to six months. The machinery installed at the centre by Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT), Thanjavur, has been grossly under-utilised due to issues such as gaps in round-the-clock power supply and shortcomings in marketing of the processed products, according to Shanmugam, an onion cultivator. The processing centre was attuned to ‘Mission Onion Programme,’ a concept to double farmers’ income by 2022, by the IIFPT, which functions under the Ministry of Food Processing Industries. With the Small Onion Stem and Root Cutter, Small Onion Peeler, and Solar Assisted Curing cum Storage Unit for Onions, a small quantity of shallots were initially processed every day into peeled onions, flakes and powder, for supply to a leading restaurant for its soup channel, and a Chennai-based entity supplying peeled onions to residents in apartments. After grading, the large-sized onions are peeled for vacuum packing and the smaller ones are converted into flakes and powder. Since the start of the centre, 44 tonnes of shallots and 15 tonnes of garlic have been processed. The centre has a capacity to process 300 kg shallots per hour, and there were possibilities for scaling up the production multifold with the available machinery, according to official sources. During September, Collector P. Sri Venkada Priya discussed with officials of Horticulture Department and Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agricultural Business the ways to optimise the utility of the processing centre. Shelf-life Every year, 70,000 tonnes of small onion is produced in over 8,000 hectares of land area. “At times when the procurement price falls below Rs. 20 per kg, farmers in the region suffer huge losses due to lack of post-harvest handling facilities. The peeled onion will last for one month under refrigeration, and shelf life of onion powder and onion flakes is six months. Onion paste lasts for five months. “We have secured three-phase power supply for the processing centre and are in a position to scale up the output of processed shallots to about four to five tonnes a day. Having organised a few buyer-seller meets, we have also identified traders for procuring and marketing the processed products,” Singaram, Deputy Director, Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, said. “The tenders for operating the centre lapsed last month. We have called for a fresh tender,” Mr. Singaram said.  Can serve better It was set up to produce onion powder, paste, vacuum-packed peeled onion and flakes It has a capacity to process 300 kg shallots per hour, and it can be scaled up Only 44 tonnes of shallots and 15 tonnes of garlic have been processed till date||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/onion-farmers-flag-under-utilisation-of-processing-centre-at-chettikulam/article37732419.ece
28 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. govt. working for inclusive development: Home Minister||Home Minister A. Namassivayam said the government was working towards realising an inclusive development of the Union Territory. Participating in the second edition of the (CII) Puducherry Start Up Summit 2021, the Home Minister, who also holds the Industries portfolio, said the government was working for industrial growth and generation of more employment opportunities. Urging parents and teachers to encourage young minds to independently think to scale more heights, he said, “Individuals should grow by adopting new technologies to reap the real time scenarios.” The government was committed towards setting up single window clearance as part of ease of doing business. Steps would be taken in the next budget to clear the pending subsidies to the tune of Rs. 25 crore to industries, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said in a release. Industries Secretary T. Arun complimented the students and innovators who made oxygen concentrators and ventilators during the pandemic. “But many lacked the consistency in scaling up or making the product into a marketable commodity. Ideas are in abundance and materialising it into a profitable product is the need of the hour. The incubators, institutions and industries should work in tandem,” he added. Convenor of the Start Up Summit, CII, M. Kalaichelvan said the organisation was actively engaged with the stakeholders of the start-up ecosystem to nurture and mentor aspiring entrepreneurs. There were around 200 entries for the CII Innovation Contest 2021 this year. The winners from various colleges in Puducherry were felicitated at the summit, the release said. The entries selected for support by the Atal Incubation Centre - Pondicherry Engineering College Foundation were by S.M. Thanikaivel and M. Thanushraj (Gravity Driven Wall Painting Bot); A. Nijandan, Sanjay Michael, S. Prakash and R. Karan (Design and Fabrication of Patient Transfer Wheelchair); R. Kishan, G. Balaji and C. Karthikesavan (Smart Jack); R. Ajay and P.K. Siva Sidharth (Be free Band); and Megavaruman and Ahamed Hussain Parvees (Autonomous Solar Panel Cleaning Robot with Waterless Dry-cleaning Technology). At the valedictory function, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar gave away cash prizes of Rs. 10,000 each to the five winners of the CII Innovation Contest 2021. Vice-chairman, CII Puducherry, S. Sureender, spoke on the occasion, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-govt-working-for-inclusive-development-home-minister/article37732723.ece
28 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre trying to destabilise govt., says Narayanasamy||Former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said the Centre is trying to destabilise the government headed by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy through the Chief Secretary and other officials. The same tactics that had been adopted by the Centre against the previous Congress government were being followed, the former Chief Minister said in a virtual message held late on Friday. The Centre tried to destabilise the Congress government through the then Lt. Governor. Now, it was trying to disturb Mr. Rangasamy through the Chief Secretary. The recent meeting of legislators with the Chief Secretary to launch their protest against Mr. Ranagasamy’s style of functioning was proof that officials were not extending their support to him, he said. The Chief Secretary had taken a different line on the rain relief assistance sought from the Centre, he said. Mr. Narayanasamy said the information he received was that the Chief Minister had written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking the removal of the Chief Secretary for “not allowing the government to implement” schemes. “When we were in government, the Centre tried to block all schemes through the then Lt. Governor. The same attitude continues towards Mr. Rangasamy. We launched an agitation against the Centre for stifling the democratic rights of an elected government at that time. But the present Chief Minister, who was the Opposition leader then, did not support our stand. Now, he has started paying the price for his silence,” the former Chief Minister said. Mr. Rangasamy had, in the past, maintained that being a Union Territory, the government in power should work in unison with the Centre. He had also, during his election campaign, stated that it would be good for the Union Territory to have a friendly government at the Centre. Now, the Chief Minister should explain to the people whether he was getting the support of Centre, the senior Congress leader said. “Is the Centre not friendly to your government?” he asked. The situation, he said, would have been different now had Mr. Rangasamy supported the agitation. The AINRC-led government had failed to implement any of the announcements made during the Budget session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-trying-to-destabilise-govt-says-narayanasamy/article37732720.ece
28 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory records 35 fresh COVID-19 cases, zero deaths||The Union Territory recorded 35 new COVID-19 cases from 2,540 tests. No death related to the novel coronavirus has been reported during the last 24 hours, ending Saturday 10 a.m. Of the total cases reported, 18 were from Puducherry region, eight each from Karaikal and Mahe and one from Yanam, data released by the Health Department said. Currently, there are 326 active cases, including 269 under home isolation. The test positivity not stood at 1.38% and case fatality 1.45%. The pandemic has so far affected 1,288,60 persons in the Union Territory. The number of vaccinations has reached the 12 lakh mark. As so on Saturday, 12,076,78 persons got the jab against the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-35-fresh-covid-19-cases-zero-deaths/article37732721.ece
28 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||3 injured in explosion at Muthialpet||Three women sustained burn injuries in an explosion at their house on Angalamman Street at Muthialpet on Saturday. The condition of one of the victims is stated to be serious while the other two are stable, said a doctor at the government hospital. The injured are Jothi, 55, Ezhilarasi, 34, and Srinithi, 12. The Fire Service personnel rescued three persons from the house without causing any injury. According to doctors at the government hospital, Ms. Ezhilarasi sustained 70% burns and has been admitted in the intensive care unit. As per the statement one of the injured persons gave to the police, the fire broke out in the house with a sudden explosion after they switched on the fridge. “The house got damaged completely. We are trying to enter the house after removing the debris. Only after forensic analysis and physical examination of the interior, the exact cause of the explosion could be ascertained,” a Fire Service personnel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-injured-in-explosion-at-muthialpet/article37732329.ece
28 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Take steps to protect Ambal lake from pollution’||Residents of colonies in the vicinity of Ambal lake staged a road roko in Selanaikenpatti on Saturday demanding steps to prevent pollution of lake due to release of sewage water and industrial effluents. Over 50 residents gathered on National Highway near Seelanaikenpatti demanding authorities concerned to take necessary measures to prevent pollution in Ambal lake as it is causing health hazards to the public living in the area. They complained despite submitting petition to authorities concerned, no action has been taken so far. The petitioners charged that sewage from residences in the area are being discharged into the lake. They also said that industrial effluents from a unit is being released through storm water drains into the lake. The protesters said that effluents are being released during late hours and it continues till early hours of next day. Shobhana, one of the residents, said that children are falling sick often due to pollution in the lake and it has become a serious health hazard. Despite complaints, authorities have not taken any action to prevent release of sewage into the lake, she said. Authorities and police pacified the protesters following which they dispersed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-protect-ambal-lake-from-pollution/article37732463.ece
28 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||CSR contribution made to Government PHC||Paragon Polymer Products Private Limited contributed various medical equipment as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative to Karipatti Government Upgraded Primary Healthcare Centre recently, a release said. According to a release, medical equipment worth Rs. 7.98 lakh were donated to the PHC, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/csr-contribution-made-to-government-phc/article37732460.ece
28 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Passenger services committee inspects railway stations||Members of the passenger services committee, constituted by the Railway Board, inspected the facilities provided to passengers recently. The five-member committee visited Erode, Karur, Namakkal, Salem, Coimbatore, Mettupalayam, Coonoor and Udagamandalam railway stations along with E. Harikrishnan, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Salem Division, a release said. The committee inspected the catering stalls, eateries, drinking water facilities, toilets, waiting rooms, security system and facilities for differently abled at the stations. They checked facilities made available especially for women passengers and interacted with cleaning staff at stations. They also inspected functioning of CCTV cameras. A release from the Division said that the passenger amenities being provided to passengers at railway stations in Salem Division were exceptionally good. The Salem Division has set high standards in providing passenger facilities, the panel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passenger-services-committee-inspects-railway-stations/article37732455.ece
28 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||People living in low-lying areas advised to move to camps||The Salem district administration has advised the public living in low-lying areas to contact the district administration and move to safe places identified by the administration. In a release, District Collector S. Karmegham said that several water bodies in the district have filled up due to the recent rain as surplus water is getting released. He advised the public to exercise caution as inflow continues to increase to water bodies in the district. The Collector advised the public to use only bridges while crossing waterbodies. Public were advised not to venture near waterbodies and those residing in low-lying areas, houses with cracks were advised to move to camps set up the district administration. They were also advised not to touch electric wires, transformers and were asked to handle electronic goods at houses safely. Public were asked to inform the district administration on snapped wires and not to ties livestock animals to electric lamp posts. They were advised to contact the district administration helpline no. 1077, 0427 - 2452202, 2450498, 2417341 or 1912, electricity department’s helpline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-living-in-low-lying-areas-advised-to-move-to-camps/article37732458.ece
28 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Correspondent, teacher held under POCSO Act||The correspondent and martial arts teacher of a private school here were arrested by the police on Saturday following sexual harassment complaint. According to the police, a Class XII student studying in a private school at Karumandurai attempted to kill herself recently. On inquiry, police found that an incident of sexual assault faced by the student had forced her to take the extreme step. Based on the complaint of the victim’s father, Karumandurai police registered a case. Police said that the victim was sexually assaulted by Raja (49), the martial arts teacher at the school, four years ago. Though the victim had reported this to the school correspondent Deepan Devaraj (49), he had allegedly asked her to remain silent, police said. DSP R. Muthusamy said that based on the complaint, the accused have been arrested under POCSO Act and remanded in judicial custody.   (Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correspondent-teacher-held-under-pocso-act/article37732450.ece
28 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Erode logs 68 new cases of COVID-19||Erode district on Saturday reported 68 COVID-19 positive cases. As of Saturday, the district reported 829 active cases. In Salem, 53 cases and one death were reported. According to health officials, 47 cases were indigenous and 22 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 47 COVID-19 positive cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-logs-68-new-cases-of-covid-19/article37732459.ece
28 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||World Diabetes Day celebrated||World Diabetes Day was celebrated at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here recently. District Collector S. Karmegham inaugurated the event. Mr. Karmegham said that regular insulin intake is required for Type -I diabetes and medicines for type-II diabetes. He said that no side effects would occur due to administration of insulin. The Collector also released an awareness booklet on diabetes. Mr. Karmegham also made a contribution of Rs. 50,000 from his salary to the Hospital for procuring necessary equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-diabetes-day-celebrated/article37732456.ece
28 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 houses damaged||A total of 300 dwelling units in Thanjavur district suffered damages in the heavy rain that lashed across the district during the last three days. According to the Revenue Department, the district received a downpour of 2086 mm of rain during the period starting from 6 a.m. on November 24 to 6 a.m. on November 27. While the first 24-hour rain recording stood 170.80 mm, the district was pounded with heavy rain of 1251.40 mm during the 24 hour period starting from Thursday morning 6 a.m. to Friday morning 6 a.m. The downpour receded during the next 24 hours starting from Friday morning to Saturday wherein the district received 664.20 mm rain. Though the rainfall receded on Friday, a total of 160 dwelling units that were soaked in the heavy rainfall of over 1000 mm on Thursday suffered damages on November 26. While 121 huts were partially damaged, 3 others were fully damaged and 36 titled houses suffered damages such as wall or roof collapse on Thursday. On Thursday, a total of 90 dwelling units suffered damages and another 59 houses on the previous day taking the total tally to 309, sources added. Narrow escape Meanwhile, a family of six persons had a miraculous escape from the wall collapse that took place at the house of Yesudoss of Keezh Thirupoonthuruthi near Thiruvaiyaru on Friday as a portion of a wall of their house collapsed and the debris fell outside the house. The heavy downpour led to the inundation of ‘samba’ and ‘thaladi’ crop on about 500 acres in Mela Thirupoonthuruthi, Naducavuery, Kuzhimathur and nearby areas and on another 500 acres each in Ammapettai and Reddypalayam area on the outskirts of Thanjavur town, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-300-houses-damaged/article37732414.ece
28 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||No rains, but waterlogging continues in Thoothukudi||With the dry spell on Saturday coming as a big relief, the authorities swung into action by pumping out stagnating water in several residential locations. Giant size motors, pumps and earth movers had been deployed both in the district and within the Corporation limits. “Works are going on round-the-clock. Most of the senior officers and their supervising teams were on the roads. The rain was very heavy that not only the Tamirabarani river had heavy discharge, but tanks too had heavy overflow during the last 36 hours,” officials said. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi visited many low-lying areas and supervised the arrangements being done at the relief centres. In a brief interaction with reporters, she said that 16 relief centres were opened in the city. A community kitchen has been functioning. Food was being served to all the needy. A medical health camp was also available at the relief centres. The fire and rescue service personnel moved in aged people and sick persons from many dwellings, which were inundated. They were ferried in rubber boats safely to the relief centres. The officials said that 30,000 cusecs of water had to be let off into the sea and the PWD engineers said that after the Kadambakulam tank near Kurumbur breached, the Thoothukudi-Tiruchendur road was almost under two-feet water. As a result, vehicle movement from Tiruchendur was diverted at Arumuganeri for the second day. Similarly, there were traffic diversions at Eral.  Meanwhile, Collector K Senthil Raj appealed to the residents to be safe and not to venture out as the IMD predicted another spell of heavy rain over the next two to three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-rain-but-waterlogging-continues-in-thoothukudi/article37732428.ece
28 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Lorry with cashew worth Rs. 1.10 cr. hijacked||Seven persons, including the son of former AIADMK Minister C.T. Chellapandian, were arrested on charges of hijacking a container truck transporting cashew worth Rs. 1.10 crore meant for export and kidnapping the driver here on Saturday. Following a complaint from Muthukumar, an employee of the lorry booking office, Thoothukudi, Superintendent of Police Jeyakumar directed the police to register a case. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the container truck was transporting cashew, weighing 16 tonnes, from an export firm in Killiyur in Kanniyakumari district towards VOC Port in Thoothukudi two days ago. It is said that truck driver, Hari, 40, of Alangulam in Tenkasi spotted a car following him. Sensing trouble, Mr. Hari reportedly shared this information with another lorry driver and also shared the registration number of the car. As the truck was approaching KTC Nagar in Tirunelveli district, the car overtook it and forced Mr. Hari to stop the truck at Pottaloorani. Within a few minutes, the seven occupants of the car pulled Mr. Hari out of the truck. Two of the seven persons got into the truck and drove it away even as the others followed it. Mr. Hari was pushed into their car. The SP formed a special team, comprising ASP Sandeesh and Inspector Ramesh. After alerting major checkposts and toll fee plazas, the team tracked the vehicle to Kakaneri in Rasipuram in Namakkal district. After detaining the suspects and seizing the truck, the police team registered a case. Based on the confession of the accused, the SP said two among the seven-member gang, Pandi and Vishnuperumal, had got into the truck and driven it. The gang tried to kidnap the driver and sell the cashew through their network in Karur district. The role played by the former Minister’s son was not yet clear, and a senior officer said they would conduct a discreet probe soon. The police gave the names of the arrested as Gnanaraj Jebasingh, 39, son of Mr. Chellapandian of Annai Teresa Nagar, S. Vishnuperumal, 26, of Bryant Nagar, G. Marimuthu, 30, of MGR Nagar, S. Manoharan, 36, of Mattakadai, M. Pandi, 21, of Nesamoni Nagar, Mullakadu, V. Senthil Murugan, 35, of Murapanadu and D. Rajkumar, 26, of Palayamkottai. The police said they had recovered 16 tonnes of cashew worth Rs. 1.10 crore and the truck valued at Rs. 10 lakh. The car used by the gang was also seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-with-cashew-worth-rs-110-cr-hijacked/article37732434.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers need not panic, say officials||In the event of the current spell of rainfall getting intense, there was a possibility for submergence of paddy fields to the extent of about 10,000 hectares in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts but there was no cause for panic since the crop has the capacity to withstand the inundation for four to five days, according to official sources. As per reports submitted by the two district administrations to the Central team that inspected the fields to assess the damages caused by north east monsoon rainfall, 5,917.28 hectares in Nagapattinam and 5,423 hectares in Mayiladuthurai had been inundated. The fields where the crop damage was beyond 33 % were accounted for in the enumeration exercise, a senior official said. After the water recedes, the crop in fields where the extent of damage was below 30 % could be salvaged with specified methods of utilisation of micronutrients and fertilizers, Joint Director of Agriculture Paneerselvam, Nagapattinam, Paneerselvam said. Last year, the problem was indeed acute since 70 % of the cultivated area had been affected by the unprecedented rainfall and most of the affected fields could be covered by insurance compensation, he said. This time around, a high scale of damage to the crop was unlikely. This time, the target of food grain production has been set at 2.4 lakh tonnes in Nagapattinam district and 4.5 lakh tonnes in Mayiladuthurai. In Nagapattinam district, the farmers have so far been provided with paddy seeds to the tune of 598 tonnes, with 50 % subsidy component. The Agriculture Department has informed that it has stocks of 1,370 tonnes of urea, 69.48 tonnes of DAP, 84.38 tonnes of potash, and 880 tonnes of complex. Farmers have been advised to use higher quantities of complex when urea availability was less.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-need-not-panic-officials/article37732412.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy flow in Koraiyar and Ariyar inundates residential colonies||Heavy rain flows in the Koraiyar and Ariyar have inundated several low-lying residential areas in Tiruchi and its suburbs. Normal life was disrupted in low-lying residential areas off Dindigul Road, Vayalur Road and Kuzhumani Road on Saturday due to the flooding. Fathima Nagar, Beschi Nagar, AUT Colony and some of colonies off the Kuzhumani Road were completely inundated with water from the Kudamuritti canal, through which the Koraiyar and the Ariyar water drains into the Cauvery near Tiruchi. Heavy rain in the catchment areas and overflowing tanks in Viralimalai and Keeranur (in Pudukottai district) and Manapparai area brought heavy discharges into the Koraiyar and the Ariyar. The Kudamuritti water had reached right up to the entry point of Fathima Nagar and Beschi Nagar close to the Vekkaliamman Temple in the city. Water from the canal headed up through a drainage sluice near the Karalamman Temple. Many residents in the Fathima Nagar were caught unawares as they were expecting the situation to ease as the rain had subsided on Friday night and Saturday morning. “There was some water flow on Friday evening from the sluice, but the water level rose quickly through the night and Saturday morning inundating the entire colony,” said Vishnu, a resident. “The official did not even bother to warn us (about the rising water level in the Kudamuritti). I remember that earlier, when I was young, the authorities used to tom tom flood warning whenever the water level rose in the canal,” said Ayyappan, another resident. Members of the Fathima Nagar Welfare Association were busy organising food supply to the affected residents. Fire and Rescue Service personnel rescued some persons from heavily inundated residential colonies off Kuzhumani Road, another flood prone area in the city. “The water level rose rapidly. Selva Nagar, Akilandeswari Nagar, Mangal Nagar and SBI Colony were badly affected. In some places, the water entered the houses. Some parts of Linga Nagar were also inundated,” observed V. Thirugnanasambandam, secretary, Lingam Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Several residential areas such as Iniyanur, Inamkulathur and others in the city suburbs along the Dindigul Highway suffered due to heavy flood in the Ariyar. Houses in Dheeran Nagar and a few other colonies closer to the city were also inundated. Sources in the Public Works Department said about 5,000 to 7,000 cusecs of the water from the Koraiyar and Ariyar was flowing in the Kudamuritti on Saturday and hoped that the flow would come down as there was a let up in rain during the day. “We have cut down the discharge of water into the Cauvery at Upper Anicut to enable the rain flows from Kudamurutti and other canals to drain quickly in the river,” an official said. Of the 39,551 cusecs of water realised at Upper Anicut, 37,321 cusecs was being diverted into the Kollidam and only 2,220 cusecs was being let into the Cauvery. Collector S.Sivarasu, accompanied by Corporation officials, inspected the reinforcement of the bund of the Koraiyar near Edamalaipattipudur and visited some of the affected areas. Early in the day, traffic on the Tiruchi-Karur highway was disrupted for about an hour after a huge roadside tamarind tree was uprooted near Allur. Highways and police personnel rushed to the spot to remove the tree and restore traffic after about an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-flow-in-koraiyar-and-ariyar-inundates-residential-colonies/article37732423.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Water enters college, homes in Karumandapam||Residential areas and education institutions on Dindigul Road were inundated with overflowing water from Kollankulam near Edamalaipattipudur since Friday . The water inundated the National College and its nearby areas. The water overflow clogged the Dindigul Highway near Karumandapam affecting traffic. The water flowed into several nearby residential areas including Gandhi Nagar and IOB Nagar. A resident who was busy pouring out water from inside his compound walls said that the situation was not new as the locality was a low-lying area. Had the civic body made proper arrangements for the flow of rainwater, the situation could have been avoided, he said. The civic body, in an attempt to clear the water from the road reportedly broke the compound walls of National College, leading to the heavy inundation of the college campus. As on Saturday morning, classrooms were inundated, with water up to three feet in some parts. The college has been closed till December 5. Expensive equipment in laboratories was shifted to top floors, while in some classrooms, books and registers could not be saved, a professor said. Officials of the civic body said efforts were on to drain the water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-enters-college-homes-in-karumandapam/article37732425.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Initiative launched for safety of girls||‘ Nimirndhu Nil- Thunindhu Sol’ (Stand tall - speak bold), an initiative to create awareness among girl students on sexual abuse was launched in Karur. Collector T. Prabhushankar launched the initiative which was meant to create a safe space for girl students to discuss safety and report harassment. He met students of Government Higher Secondary School, Ayyarmalai; Government Secondary School, Kazhugur; and Government High School, Thogaimalai, on Saturday and briefed them on the various available remedies if they feel the need to seek help. He told the students the importance of self-awareness and good and bad touch. If any student needed to report incidents of sexual harassment, they must inform Childline - 1098. The students’ helpline- 14417 and the district administration's WhatsApp number 8903331098 are available. The information provided by the student would be kept confidential and immediate legal action would be taken against the complainant, he said asking the students to stand tall and speak boldly as they were not at fault. He provided information on the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and said that if found guilty, the accused would be severely punished. Further, he told the students about the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and that the parents of the child, the attendees of the wedding ceremony would be punished by law if a girl below 18 years of age is forced to marry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-launched-for-safety-of-girls/article37732436.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||How home baker Devaki Vijayaraman found her inner master chef||Prepping, as every chef is fond of saying, is everything when it comes to the culinary world. But for Tiruchi-based home baker Devaki Vijayaraman, the winner of the first season of MasterChef India-Tamil, preparation has been often overtaken by her passion to try new things. Despite being interested in cookery from an early age, Ms. Devaki was not encouraged to make it a profession by her family. “So I graduated in Commerce, and then did my MBA, and worked in an IT company for a few years. After marriage, my husband and I were based in Chennai, but we decided to return to Tiruchi when we were expecting our first child,” she said. A few months after her son Dhruv was born, she attended a baking course and started posting pictures of her cakes on her WhatsApp and Instagram accounts. What started out as a hobby became a business idea during lockdown. With commercial bakeries in the city downing shutters last year, she found herself flooded with orders from friends and neighbours. As her venture took off, so did her dreams. “I am an ardent fan of cookery shows on TV. When I watched (Singaporean) Sasi Cheliah win the MasterChef Australia title in 2018, I became passionate about contesting in the show,” she says. Filmed in Bengaluru and telecast by Sun TV, MasterChef India - Tamil was hosted by actor Vijay Sethupathi. Professional chefs Harish Rao, Aarthi Sampath and Koushik S. were the judges. Besides winning the title and trophy, she got the coveted MasterChef gold-trimmed coat, and a cash prize of Rs. 25 lakh. After clearing two audition rounds in Madurai, she was among the 12 shortlisted contestants who headed to Bengaluru, where a further 12 people joined the competition. She was one among the 14 finalists who eventually progressed to the advanced stages of the show. Interacting with the charismatic host was a major highlight. “Vijay Sethupathi is so down-to-earth; when we were waiting for the chefs to evaluate our work with knots in our stomachs, he would ease the tension with light-hearted banter,” she recalls. By contrast, she says, the judges were strict. “We could talk only about the food we had cooked, and listen to their technical assessment of our skills.” She presented recipes that capitalised on a continental flavour with a southern Indian twist. Whether arancini (fried Italian rice balls stuffed with cheese) made with karuvepillai sadam (curry leaf rice), or dianthus poothrekelu, a floral take on the papery Andhra rice batter dessert served up with white chocolate, her yen for fusion cuisine stood out. In the finale, Mayajalam, an iced lemon cream quennelle with a paruthi paal (cottonseed extract) mousse filling won over the judges, with its sweet and tart flavours. She hopes to secure a portion of her prize money for her son’s future, and also expand her bakery business. “Winning the MasterChef India — Tamil title has given me a new identity and self-confidence. My customers in Tiruchi have been very supportive and proud to have bought a cake from the season’s winner,” she laughs. “Their trust and love are the best prize.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-home-baker-devaki-vijayaraman-found-her-inner-master-chef/article37732438.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Library for alumni and parents at a school||The Corporation Elementary School in Puthur will now feature an open library for alumni and parents of students studying at the institution. The initiative was meant to provide free access to quality reading material for students who may not be able to afford it. Headmistress P. Amsavalli began work to collect books for the library nearly six months ago. While reaching out to donors for books, she received funding for the shelves, painting and decoration costs from a tech company’s Corporate Social Responsibility funds. A total of 3,000 books, consisting of a wide variety of categories and reading levels including children’s books, cookery and recipes, leisure reads and material to prepare for competitive examinations was available. Many students who had graduated from the school and were preparing for such examinations would be able to take advantage of it, she said. The teachers would insist on parents borrowing books from the library, she said. A librarian, appointed by the school was trained on maintenance and upkeep of the library from staff at the district library.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/library-for-alumni-parents-at-a-school/article37732415.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage road roko||The residents of Gandhi Nagar Colony near Keerambur staged a road roko demanding drainage facility in their locality, which was inundated due to the rains on Friday. Water entered at least half of the 300 houses in the locality, however, no official had paid any heed to them, they said. At least 20 residents gathered on Keerambur road, where the Collector was to go after inspecting the Thuraiyur Big Tank. They planned to stop the Collector and express their woes directly to him but his vehicle did not stop, they said. R. Manimekalai, a resident, said that the inundation was not new to them. Every time it rains, water stagnates but during heavy rains like the ones witnessed over the last few nights, water has entered homes, ruining furniture, kitchens and other personal belongings. The people had submitted several petitions to the Collector, District Revenue Officer seeking the construction of drainage channels, and stormwater drains so that the water can flow into it. However, no response or action has been taken so far, they said. ‘This is why we wanted to stop the Collector and show him our area, but they ignored us,’ Manimekalai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-stage-road-roko/article37732420.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports less COVID cases||The central region reported 77 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. Three died of the viral infection - one each hailing from Karur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi. For the first time, the nine districts in the central region have registered less than 20 cases in a day. Karur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts reported 18 cases each. The remaining six districts registered less than 10 cases each. Eight fresh cases were reported in Tiruvarur, six in Nagapattinam, five in Pudukottai and two in Mayiladuthurai. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts reported one COVID-19 case each - the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-less-covid-cases/article37732439.ece
28 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temple gets credit for hygiene||The Arulmigu Mariamman Temple at Samayapuram near here has received the Blissful Hygienic Offering God (BHOG) certification from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. The certificate was handed over to the temple Joint Commissioner Kalyani by Collector S. Sivarasu at the Collectorate here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-gets-credit-for-hygiene/article37732446.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Temple gets BHOG certificate||Samayapuram Mariamman Temple near here has received Blissful Hygienic Offering God (BHOG) certificate from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-gets-bhog-certificate/article37732631.ece
28 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||TVL_water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 138.75 feet (143 ft max level) with an inflow of 6,668.92 cusecs and discharge of 6,818.45 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 102.20 ft (max level 118 ft) with an inflow of 7,194 cusecs and nil discharge.  The rainfall (in mm) during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday was as follows: Papanasam: 53, Servalaru: 22, Manimuthar: 29, Nambiar: 10, Kodumudiyar: 35, Ambasamudram: 16, Cheranmahadevi: 8.8, Radhapuram: 16.2, Kalakkad: 12.2, Palayamkottai: 3 and Nellai recorded 4 mm rainfall, PWD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvlwater-level/article37732769.ece
28 November 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Attempt to burgle ATM in Ambur fails||An attempt to break open an ATM in Periyakuppam in Ambur on the Bengaluru Highway in the early hours of Saturday failed as the burglers were unable to open the machine. The police said the ATM, which belongs to India One bank, did not have security personnel. The CCTV cameras in the ATM booth were damaged. Preliminary investigation revealed that the burglars tried to open the locker after breaking the outer steel frame of the machine. However, they were unable to open the locker and fled the spot. Around 7 a.m. people who had gone to the ATM to withdraw cash, noticed that the outer steel frame was damaged. Immediately they alerted the Ambur rural police, who are investigating the case. The bank staff had uploaded a sum of Rs. 2.5 lakh at the ATM on Friday. “Though the CCTV cameras are damaged, we can still retrieve footage from it. We will narrow down the culprits,” K. Saravanan, DSP (Ambur), told The Hindu . Meanwhile, Tirupattur police have arrested three persons for trying to smuggle three tonnes of PDS rice to Andhra Pradesh via Ambur and Chittor. Train service hit Train service on the Chennai-Bengaluru route via Katpadi were affected after the Danapur-Bangalore City Junction Express train stopped near Gudiyattam railway station around 1.30 p.m on Saturday due to engine snag. As most of the long-distance trains on the route are operated on the lone BG line, many trains, especially those bound for Chennai, got stuck for hours before a spare engine was fitted at 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attempt-to-burgle-atm-in-ambur-fails/article37732718.ece
28 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Constable suspended for alleged involvement in robbery attempt||Superintendent of Police, Tiruppur district, G. Shashank Sai has placed a police constable under suspension for his alleged involvement in a recent robbery attempt at Sub-Treasury Office in Palladam near Tiruppur. According to police sources, an official from the Sub-Treasury Office reported to the Palladam police station on November 8 that miscreants broke open the lock of main door and attempted to break the lock of the strong room in the office. Teams formed Following this, the police registered a case and formed special teams. The teams arrested Boobalan (35) and Senthilkumar (37) in Salem district on November 21 and November 23 respectively. Investigations revealed that Ravichandran, who was a Grade-I constable at the Mangalam police station, was the elder brother of Boobalan and had planned the break-in, the sources said. The accused broke into the Sub-Treasury Office and left the premises after they were unable to break the lock of the strong room. The Palladam police included the constable as the third accused in the case. Absconding The constable had not reported for duty since November 20 and had absconded, police sources said. On Friday, Mr. Sai ordered his suspension. Efforts are on to nab him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-suspended-for-alleged-involvement-in-robbery-attempt/article37732339.ece
28 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Transfer of Nilgiris Collector condemned||Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman on Saturday condemned the recent transfer of the District Collector of the Nilgiris by the State government. He alleged that the previous Collector J. Innocent Divya was transferred following her actions against those who encroached upon elephant corridors in the district. Such encroachments led to the death of three elephants near Madukkarai in Coimbatore district after being hit by a train, Mr. Seeman claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/transfer-of-nilgiris-collector-condemned/article37732346.ece
28 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Rain keeps Vellore, nearby districts on high alert||The district administrations in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur are on high alert as most of the waterbodies in these districts are reaching their full capacity. A round-the-clock special desk with helpline numbers (1077; 04175-232377) was set up at the Collectorate in Tiruvannamalai on Saturday to receive rain related complaints. Most of the 1,886 waterbodies, including 600 PWD-maintained irrigation tanks in Tiruvannamalai district, are nearing full capacity. Key agricultural areas in the district including Polur, Arani, Cheyyar and Chengam have been receiving good rain for the past few days. Several other areas including Vellore town, Katpadi, Gudiyatham, Anaicut in Vellore, Arakkonam, Arcot, Walajah and Sholinghur in Ranipet, Vanniyambadi, Ambur and Natrampalli in Tirupatur also witnessed continuous rain. A complete ban on crossing Palar river, check dams, low level bridges, has been imposed in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts. In Vellore, decades-old concrete houses in Virinjipuram village along the Palar were demolished by the Public Works Department as they could collapse any time. Demolition of houses along the river was ordered by Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian after he inspected the causeway which was built across the river connecting Virinjipuram village with Gudiyatham. So far, 19 houses have been washed away by the river in Vellore since November 1. Another causeway, built across the river in Ulli village in Vellore district, was also damaged due to the rain. These two causeways enabled people to reach Gudiyatham from Anaicut region quickly. Mr. Pandian said new causeways would be built in these villages. Heavy rain in recent weeks also brought cheer to the water-starved Vellore City Corporation area as Otteri lake, a key water source for the local body, reached its full capacity. Most of the waterbodies, including 369 irrigation tanks in Ranipet district, have reached their full capacity. Areas closer to Chennai such as Arakkonam, Nemeli and Sholinghur (which together have 677 water bodies) have more than one third of waterbodies reaching their total capacity, with another 20% reaching over 75% of their total capacity. Medical camps Special medical camps for cattle were also organised on Saturday in Arcot taluk with 240 cattle, mainly milch cows, being treated for various ailments. More than 20 such camps were being conducted in Ranipet district covering areas like Thimiri, Arakkonam, Kaveripakkam and Arcot since November 1. The farmers' grievances meeting will be held on November 30 at 3 p.m in Ranipet Collectorate. With the release of excess rainwater from Kalavagunta dam in Chittoor district and inflows from tributaries of Ponnai and Palar rivers, 4,948 cusecs and 8,695 cusecs of water were released from Poonai and Palar anaicut respectively as of 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-keeps-vellore-nearby-districts-on-high-alert/article37732448.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,TAMIL NADU||Goods train with ore derails in Chhattisgarh||A goods train carrying iron ore, from Bacheli to Visakhapatnam, derailed between Kamlur and Bhansi in Chhattisgarh, under the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway, due to suspected sabotage, on Friday night. The CPI (Maoists) had given a bandh call in the area on November 27. A banner on the bandh was found on the loco. Some pamphlets about the bandh were also found at the spot. Three locomotives of the goods train and 17 wagons derailed. It’s a single line electrified territory, full of curves and ghats. Operations will remain paralysed and loading at the Bacheli-Kirandul points will be suspended till restoration was over, said Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy.   Due to the derailment, passenger trains were affected. Train No.18514 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul night express leaving Visakha- patnam on November 27 will be short terminated at Jagdalpur and will return as 18515 from Jagdalpur to Visakhapatnam. There will be no service of this train between Jagdalpur and Kirandul on November 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goods-train-with-ore-derails-in-chhattisgarh/article37731958.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||It was a high octave evening||With live concerts back after a COVID-19-induced hiatus, it was a more meaningful experience for music lovers as Ragapriya began its concert series from November 26. On the first day, S. Saketharaman enthralled the audience with his high pitch emotive singing. He started off with varnam ‘Angayarkanni’ on the presiding deity of Madurai. It is a composition by his Guru Lalgudi Jayaraman, in which he uses nine distinct ragas (Navarasa Pada Varnam), (Bilahari, Huseni, Valaj, Saaranga, Sucharitra, Atana, Rasikapriya, Sahana and Nadanamakriya) to bring out the Devi’s navarasas (nine emotions). With necessary kalpana swaras, he brought to the forefront ‘Sarojadalnetri’, in raagam Sankarabharanam. The recitation of caranam ‘saamagaana vinodini’ was well received by the audience with applause. Violinist S. Varadarajan brought out the entire nuances of the raga to make the song more melodious to the audience. Neyveli Venkatesh, on the mrudhangam, and K.V. Gopalakrishnan, on the ghatam, created an aura of soft and sound touches in the elaborated tani avartanam. Saketharaman rounded off his concert with ‘thiraadha vilaiyaattu pillai’ by Mahakavi Bharathiar, in raagamaalika, Ullam Uruguthaiyaa made famous by singer T.M. Soundararajan, GNB’s favourite ‘Shonnadai sheidida sahasama kiliye’ in Ragamalika and among other numbers. He concluded with a Thillana by Lalgudi. The rasikas enjoyed every moment of the concert that was charged with energy. S. Padmanabhan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-was-a-high-octave-evening/article37732626.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stalin meets Governor over NEET||In September this year, the Assembly passed the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021, to provide admission to undergraduate medical courses on the basis of the marks obtained in Class XII through ‘normalisation methods’ as was done before 2017. The Bill was tabled after a committee, headed by the retired High Court judge, A.K. Rajan, concluded that NEET “clearly undermined” the diverse social representation in MBBS and higher medical studies, favouring mainly the affluent sections, and that if it continued for a few more years, the State’s healthcare system would be badly affected. Two similar pieces of legislation, passed by the Assembly during the AIADMK government, did not get the President’s assent. Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Principal Secretary in the Chief Minister’s Office T. Udhayachandran and Officer on Special Duty in the Health Department P. Senthil Kumar accompanied the Chief Minister. A release from the the Raj Bhavan said Mr. Stalin met the Governor to discuss the steps taken by the Government after the incessant rain and the status of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-meets-governor-over-neet/article37732311.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 112 new cases||Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 112 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that 115 persons recovered from the disease on Saturday and the district had 1,253 active cases. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.4 % on Friday. Tiruppur district reported 54 new cases on Saturday. The district had 598 active cases and 53 persons recovered. No new deaths were reported on Saturday and the toll remained at 997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-112-new-cases/article37732345.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Completely impassable||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/completely-impassable/article37732465.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||A total of 310 candidates who took part in a job camp organised by the district administration here on Friday received orders from private companies. Over 4,000 candidates applied for jobs in the camp that saw the participation of 72 private companies. A mega job camp will be held in January and works have commenced for it, said Minister V. Senthil Balaji.   Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India Coimbatore welcomed the decision of the State government to establish the Coimbatore Urban Development Authority. A release said property promoters here now travel to Chennai to get approval for buildings above 2500 sq.m. The works to revise the Master Plan for Coimbatore, plans for a Metrol Rail project, and constitution of the Coimbatore Urban Development Authority are all welcome measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-reports/article37732337.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Rotary Club of Coimbatore East and Sankara Eye Hospital: Free Medical Eye Care Camp, Athipalayam, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37732341.ece
28 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Set up e- office systems at Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi’||L.K. Atheeq, District in-charge Secretary, held a meeting in Belagavi to review the progress of the preparation for the winter session of the State Legislature from December 13. He asked officers to set up complete e- office systems at the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi, on the lines of the e-office system at the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru. “To ensure seamless network connectivity, we need to provide and update K-SWAN, high-quality broadband connections, computers, uninterrupted power supply, and other facilities,” he said. He asked officers to distribute responsibilities for lodging and boarding, transport, and others among teams of officers. Strict COVID-19 protocol should be followed at every stage, he said. He gave specific instructions about cleaning and maintenance of the Suvarna Soudha, providing drinking water, fixing and testing CCTV cameras, and tightening security arrangements. He directed officers to discuss with the police, about ways of reducing protests involving blocking of national highway. All officers should follow the instructions about allowing students and others to the spectators’ gallery. R. Venkatesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, said a public grievance redress cell is being set up to help the participants and the public. P.V. Sneha, Deputy Commissioner of Police, said a temporary township is being built near the Suvarna Soudha to house the over 5,000 police officers and personnel who will arrive from other places. This is apart from the 14 places where security and other staff will be housed. Suresh Itnal, special officer for the winter session, said all the dignitaries would be provided with all facilities as per the State Government protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/set-up-e-office-systems-at-suvarna-soudha-in-belagavi/article37732472.ece
28 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vigil on border increased||Officers increased vigil at the Maharashtra – Karnataka border in Belagavi and Vijayapura districts following reports of the outbreak of Omicron variant of COVID-19. Apart from the COVID-19 check posts put up by the Health Department, the district administration had put up some additional ones in view of the winter session of the Legislative Assembly. “These are being strictly monitored,” officers said. “Check posts on Kolhapur road near Yamakanamaradi, Nippani, Kuganoli, and Chikkodi are being manned by the Health Department and the police. They are seeking copies of the RT-PCR results from all travellers. The Government has withdrawn the order relaxing RT-PCR certificate for short-duration travellers. We are mandating that all travellers from Maharashtra carry the RT-PCR certificates tested before 72 hours,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vigil-on-border-increased/article37732478.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Increase college hours, reduce holidays: VTU to institutions||First year engineering students who are yet to begin the 2021–22 academic year, which has been delayed by more than three months, will have to put in longer hours in the classroom. Teaching and non-teaching staff, too, will have to brace themselves up for extended workdays. The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has instructed affiliated engineering colleges to increase the workday and cut semester holidays for first year students. Over and above this, Saturdays will be made working days as well. No change for others There will be no change for students in the second, third, and fourth year as their classes have already commenced. The academic year for first year students is likely to begin on December 13 and the first round of counselling for engineering seats by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) is under way. The delay has been attributed to the counselling process for engineering seats, which was deferred this academic year. Karisiddappa, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said that students would have to attend classes for 10 hours a day, when earlier it was eight. “So that students will not get burnt out, theory classes will be around five hours and the remaining will be devoted to practical examinations,” he said. Besides this, they are planning to cut at least one week from their semester holidays and ask college managements to ensure that they work the entire day on Saturdays. “Despite these measures, we will not be able to make up and complete the first semester syllabus. In professional courses, there is no question of cutting the syllabus. So we will compensate for the portions over the next four semesters,” he said. As many as 212 colleges in the State are affiliated to the VTU. The move has received a mixed response from college managements and students. A professor at one of the engineering colleges in the city said: “We have no choice but to take such drastic measures this year. Next year onwards, the Government should be careful and ensure that the admissions are done on time,” he said. ‘Geared to work hard’ Shylaja S., an engineering seat aspirant, said she was anxious about which college she would get admission. “We have had more than six months break and we are all geared up to work hard this academic year,” she said. K.S. Badrinarayan, principal, M.S. College of Engineering, said it was possible to complete the portions with the measures suggested by the university. “The delay in the announcement of II PU syllabus and the entrance exam owing to COVID-19 have had a domino effect on the counselling process and also on the admission process. Colleges have to follow the university's advice so that students do not suffer,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-college-hours-reduce-holidays-vtu-to-institutions/article37732686.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New variant, clusters: Next 3 months crucial, say experts||Following growing concern about a new variant of SARS-CoV-2 and reporting of cluster infections in the State, COVID-19 experts here have cautioned that the next three months are crucial. The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) that met on Friday to discuss the clusters has now recommended a revision in the testing strategy. Following this, the State has now revised the overall daily tests to 80,000 from 60,000 with focus on the districts where clusters have been reported. No need to panic Pointing out that there is no need to panic as of now, V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka and TAC member, said following COVID appropriate behaviour is the only protection now. “As the new variant has the ability to escape from vaccine induced immunity, even those vaccinated should be careful. The rise in cluster infections in the State is an indication that we may be closer to a third wave of COVID in the State. The next three months are crucial and if people do not behave responsibly in the coming months, we may be inviting the third wave earlier than expected,” he said. “We should immediately step up testing in the districts where clusters are being reported. While screening apart from stringent and rigorous testing at airports should be done, positive samples should be genome sequenced,” he said. U.S. Vishal Rao, member of the State’s Genomic Surveillance Committee, said the detection of another new variant reiterates the fact that the SARS-CoV-2 virus is not at rest. It is continuously transforming itself to attain more transmissibility, virulence and vaccine-escape mutations,” he said. Asserting that there should be absolute vigilance for the next three months, Dr. Rao said: “It is prudent at this juncture to further strengthen the vaccination drive. I would also strongly recommend a booster shot, at least for healthcare and frontline workers now.” ‘Reimpose restrictions’ Haleema Yezdani, a general physician, who has been regularly tele-triaging and tele-treating COVID-19 patients through the Emergency Response Team and Project StepOne groups that offer free service to people in getting beds and treatment, said the government should re-impose restrictions on all congregations and get-togethers now. “The detection of the new variant is a reminder that we should not let our guard down and continue to follow COVID appropriate behaviour,” she said. Second doses C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s Covid-19 task force, said all those who are due for the second dose should be vaccinated on priority. “Although the new variant has the ability to escape vaccine induced immunity, that is only partial. Vaccination will still reduce hospitalisations and disease severity,” he said. No Omicron case in State Following panic over reports of two South African nationals testing positive for COVID-19 at Bengaluru airport, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said there is no need to panic as no case of ‘Omicron’ has been detected in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-variant-clusters-next-3-months-crucial-say-experts/article37732259.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Citizens’ groups oppose acquisition of All Saints’ Church land||The controversy over the acquisition of a portion of land belonging to All Saints’ Church for the construction of the underground Rashtriya Military School station (formerly Vellara Junction) has come to the forefront again. Several citizen groups have opposed Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation’s move to acquire 880 square meters of the land to build an entry box for the proposed station. A notice has already been served to the management of the church. However, several citizens’ groups, including the Environment Support Group, have started an online petition to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The land is a “beautiful and serene sacred grove of this architecturally distinctive 150-year-old church,” said petitioners. When contacted, Managing Director of BMRCL Anjum Parwez said that metro work at the Vellara Junction has reached an advanced stage. The BMRCL is acquiring the land in the interest of the public, he said. To build the entry box of the station, BMRCL has to remove 60 to 70 trees inside the church. The officials said that identified trees will be translocated within the premises. Opposing the acquisition of the land, Environment Support Group, in the online campaign has sought the State Government's intervention in the matter and appealed to the BMRCL to look for alternative designs. Apart from its importance to the church, the petitioners stated that the suite has extraordinary biodiversity with studies revealing over 100 species of trees, some over 150 years old, forming an intricate and complex microecosystem. ‘No impact on the church structure’ Mr Parwez said that in the beginning the BMRCL had plans to acquire 3,500 square meters of the land for the project, but after receiving objections from the church, it conducted multiple consultations to change the design and reduce the extent of land required. “After a lot of technical consultations, the BMRCL has decided to acquire 880 square meters of land. Of the 880 square meters of the land, permanent structures will come up in 250 odd square meters of the land. The remaining land is required to facilitate the construction work. I would also clarify that we are ready to give back the remaining 630 square metres of the land to the church management after completion of the project,” the official said. When asked about concerns raised about the metro work would harm the heritage structure. “I understand the sentiments expressed by the people. I would like to clarify that tunnel work will not be affected. We are doing the acquisition in the public interest. Not acquiring the land would result in further delay in the project otherwise we will not be in opposition to complete the work. We will not be in a position to complete the project.” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-groups-oppose-acquisition-of-all-saints-church-land/article37732253.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vulnerable groups to be tested fornightly||To augment and strengthen COVID-19 surveillance in view of clusters being reported in a few districts, the State Health Department has revised the daily testing targets from the existing 60,000 to 80,000. According to a circular late on Saturday, targeted testing of ILI and SARI cases, contacts of positive cases and high-risk groups will continue. Besides, fortnightly random testing of selected groups has been mandatory. “Students and teachers in colleges and high schools, staff of hotels and restaurants, shop-keepers in malls/ markets, catering staff and door delivery personnel, factory personnel, office goers, service staff in pubs and bars, attendants in cinema halls and multiplexes and others in crowds by vocation will be tested fortnightly,” the circular stated. As per the revised target, a daily increase of 5,000 tests in BBMP area and 15,000 in the remaining districts is mandated. Of the total daily target, up to 50% of the samples should be from the district headquarters and the rest from the rural areas ensuring that 10% of the samples are taken from children. At least 5% of children in the schools should be tested every week to assess the safety of children in the schools. Repeat RT-PCR Considering the high number of mutations of the Omicron variant reported from Botswana, South Africaand Hong Kong and its implications, the Health Department has said all those who arrived from these three countries in the last 15 days (from November 12 to November 27, 2021) will be tracked and subjected to repeat RT-PCR testing. The department had made mandatory RT-PCR testing of all arrivals originating from these countries at the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vulnerable-groups-to-be-tested-fornightly/article37732264.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seven suspended for Rs. 15.2 crore bill scam in KNN||A bill scam through which about Rs. 15.28 crore was siphoned off by contractors in connivance with accounts officials on deputation to the Water Resources Department has come to light in Karnataka Neeravari Nigam (KNN), resulting in suspension of seven officials. As many as eight fake bills were raised between February 2019 and November 2020 amounting to Rs. 16.61 crore by officials looking after accounts, and about Rs. 15.28 crore had been drawn by two contractors from Letter of Credit (LoC) savings using fake bills and fake documents, preliminary investigations a couple of weeks ago has revealed. The incident has been reported from the Hipparagi Barrage Canal Division, Athani, Belagavi district. The vouchers that have been raised to create fake bills do not match with the works taken up by the KNN, and two contractors A.Y. Mulla and R.B. Shekh of Bagalkot have been identified as beneficiaries of the scam. Tenders were never called and works were not executed, but payments were made using fake documents, the investigation report states. “As per the prevailing guidelines, the bills are raised by the Assistant Engineer and the Junior Engineer at the subdivision level, which will reach the Chief Engineer’s office after due diligence over work implemented and quality, among others, at various levels. It is then forwarded to the Chief Accounts Officer, who after accounting diligence releases the money to the contractors,” department sources explained. “However, in this case, the bill was raised in the accounts section without the knowledge of field officials and directly paid to contractors.” Chief Accounts Officers M.M. Mirza and S.N. Varadaraju, Accounts Superintendents D.C. Sheela and Vinayaka Arkashali, Accounts Officer Deepak A. Moodalagi, and First Grade Accounts Assistants Anil Jadhav and Sharanappa have been kept under suspension. Sources said that while the KNN had decided to divest the powers of clearing the bills from the Chief Accounts Officer and handed it over to the Executive Engineers’ office, the same should be implemented in the other three water corporations where similar scams could emerge. Documents not in office The internal investigation team could not lay its hands on several documents that are to be built as part of payment procedures since they were not in any office files, and the contractors did not cooperate in the investigations, the official document states. Following the unearthing of the scam in October, the State Government on November 20 ordered seizure of all bank accounts of the accused while the Department of Stamps and Registration has been directed to stall any sale of immovable properties registered in their or in the names of family members. Criminal cases have been filed against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-suspended-for-rs-152-crore-bill-scam-in-knn/article37732674.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New book focuses on caste system among Muslims||Muzaffar Assadi, professor of political science in the University of Mysore, has brought out a new book on caste among Muslims, a relatively unexplored area. In the book Alpasankyakaru Mattu Jati Vyavaste: Asmite, Vasahatushahi Mattu Meesalati (Minorities and Caste System: Identity, Colonialism and Reservation), the author argues that Islam, one of the semitic religions known for its established rules and framework, is now tested against the remnants of caste practices. Multiple factors The book, which runs into 264 pages and is published by Bengaluru-based Bahuroopi, explores practices of caste that are not just the result of conversion but inherent in the logic of trade, the class interest of retaining property, social mobility from Central Asia, social identity, and political expansionism. The author says that colonialism, while documenting various castes, did make a distinction between Hindu social order and Muslim social order. In the latter case, social space for internal mobility, spaces for enlisting as ‘Ashrafs’ (Sheikh, Sayyed), and for continuing traditional occupation was available. And social hierarchy and social distancing continued to perpetuate. Noting that colonialism created new castes, Prof. Assadi pointed out that the larger agenda of documenting, enlisting caste was ultimately meant to hegemonise, control, and dominate. The book focuses significantly on the way Muslims became subaltern classes during the colonial rule. “With the experience derived from colonial encounters, Indian Muslims were castigated and condemned again and again for their social backwardness. This was backed by enlisting hundreds of castes among Muslims, although enlisting remained incomplete,” the author argues. Post-Independence The legacy continued after the Independencewith reports on backward classes/ethnographic studies identifying and enlisting social groups, known for practising caste. “This culminated in identity politics, demand for affirmative action and reservation policy,” Prof. Assadi notes. The author painstakingly unearths issues of caste among Muslims by referring to material fromhistory, including the colonial census reports, gazetteer, travelogues, missionary works, police records and writings of Muslim scholars. The book comes at a time when there is a demand to re-enumerate castes and a growing urge for enhanced reservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-book-focuses-on-caste-system-among-muslims/article37732680.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Planters’ body flags issue of basic amenities||Planters’ apex body Karnataka Planters’ Association (KPA) has repeatedly requested the State Government to provide uninterrupted three-phase power supply, broadband, good roads, and well-equipped hospitals to improve the living conditions in plantation areas of Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, and Kodagu. The planters’ body has also asked the Government to exempt electricity tax for captive generators as power supply to the plantation areas is intermittent and not dependable. An improvement in electricity supply would also help in operating irrigation pumpsets, coffee pulpers, and machinery and various equipment and instruments at tea factories in the region, it said. The Government also has to allocate sufficient funds towards repairing and maintenance of roads passing through the plantation districts, planters demanded. The apex body further asked for upgrading district hospitals in the plantation districts to superspeciality hospitals equippedto handle serious illness, injuries, and emergencies instead of patients sending patients away to hospitals in Bengaluru, Manipal, Mangaluru, or Mysuru. According to the KPA, the cost of inputs such as fertilizer and chemicals, labour wages, social and statutory benefits, and power have shot up over many years. “The cost of coffee production has been going up in the range of 10 to 15% every year. Labour wages alone constituted 60 to 70% of the total cost of plantation expenditure,” said KPA chairman S. Appadurai. Alongwith other demands, the KPA also sought subsidies for plantation owners bordering forests to put up solar fences to protect plantations and people from wildlife conflicts.The KPA comprises plantation owners and growers of coffee, tea, pepper, cardamom, and rubber.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/planters-body-flags-issue-of-basic-amenities/article37732271.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Auto drivers held for theft, burglary||The Upparpet police on Saturday arrested an autorickshaw driver, who along with his associates, targeted lone passengers and robbed them of their valuables. Based on a complaint filed by one of the victims, who was robbed on November 8, the police identified the driver, Manoj Kumar, and arrested him. They recovered stolen goods valued at Rs. 7 lakh from him. “We are tracking down five of his associates who are on the run,” said a police officer. According to the police, Kumar would move around the Majestic area identifying potential victims, and offer them a ride. Once the lone passenger entered the auto, he would drive to the destination choosing isolated routes. His associates would follow them and intercept the auto when it was in an area with no witnesses. They would leave after divesting the passenger of all his valuable items. The police suspect that the accused are habitual offenders involved in several criminal cases. In a similar incident, the Rajajinagar police arrested a habitual offender who moved around in an autorickshaw to identify locked houses that he could break into. “The accused, Vanaraj, is involved in robbery cases,” said the police who recovered gold items worth Rs. 25 lakh. “He was arrested earlier, but came out on bail a few months ago,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-drivers-held-for-theft-burglary/article37732256.ece
28 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Presidency varsity convocation held||As many as 2,300 candidates from undergraduate, postgraduate and doctorate class were conferred with degrees, and 10 gold medallists were felicitated at the fourth convocation of Presidency University Bengaluru, held on its campus here on Saturday, Nov. 27. According to a release from the Presidency University, 1,642 graduates of the School of Engineering, 607 graduates of the School of Management, and 51 graduates of the School of Law were awarded their degrees. The gold medallists, who were felicitated, are: Ashritha G.S - Masters in Business Administration, Minakshi Gautam - M. Tech Data Science, Ramnwesh Kumar - LLM, Sai Hasitha - BBA LLB (Hons), K.A. Chetan - B. Tech, Civil Engineering, N. Sai Siva Teja - B. Tech, Computer Science Engineering, Shaik Mohammad Farooq - B. Tech, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Mohmad Afzal Mohmad Sidik - B. Tech,. Petroleum Engineering, Shrihari M - B. Tech, Mechanical Engineering and Patan Ismail Alli Khan - B. Tech, Electrical and Electronics Engineering. Dr. S.C. Sharma, Director, NAAC, who was the chief guest, called upon the students to have a holistic approach, faith in the country and remain rooted in the ethical values.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/presidency-varsity-convocation-held/article37732249.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gangs break into homes, rob residents||Armed burglars broke into the houses of citizens and robbed them of gold and other valuables in two separate incidents on Friday. In the first one, the victim, Chitra, 56, was alone on the ground floor of her family’s two-storeyed house in Chandra Nagar, K.S. Layout, when two men armed with lethal weapons broke into the premises. They threatened her and forced her to part with the gold jewellery that she was wearing. According to the police, the unidentified attackers also stole money from the pooja room and escaped. After they left, Chitra alerted her daughter who lived on the first floor. The K.S. Layout police have taken up a case of robbery and are analyzing CCTV footage to identify the accused. The second incident took place at Krishnamurthy Layout in Sadduguntepalya. In this case, too, a pair of armed men gained entry into the house and made off with Rs. 15,000 and 95 grams of gold jewellery. The victim, Satish, 65, was at home with his wife when he heard the doorbell ring at around 9.15 p.m. As the couple was expecting some relatives to drop by, Satish answered the door. According to the police, the armed duo forced themselves in, threatened the couple and warned them to remain silent. They raided the house of valuable items and left. The moment they left, the couple alerted their neighbours and the police. “Patrolling in both areas has been stepped up following these attacks, and we are tracking the accused,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gangs-break-into-homes-rob-residents/article37732252.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||61,000 seats allotted for engineering courses||The Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) on Saturday announced the first round of seat allotment for engineering courses through the Common Entrance Test (CET 2021) route. As many as 61,000 seats of the total available 67,000 were allotted. Students who opt for Choice 1 in the allotment will have to download the admission order between November 30 and December 2, 11 a.m. Students will have to report to the colleges on or before December 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/61000-seats-allotted-for-engineering-courses/article37732684.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No Omicron case detected in State||Following panic over reports of two South African nationals testing positive for COVID-19 at Bengaluru airport, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said there is no need to panic as no case of ‘Omicron’ has been detected in Karnataka. K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health) said the two travellers from South Africa had arrived two weeks ago. “One of them landed on November 11 and another on November 20. The genome sequencing of their samples has shown that were infected with the Delta variant. There is no need to panic,” he said. The two travellers are among 94 who arrived in the city from South Africa between November 1 and November 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-omicron-case-detected-in-state/article37732258.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Imposing travel restrictions will not help’||TAC member Giridhar R. Babu, who also heads Lifecourse Epidemiology at Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, has said that restricting entry from a few countries is not going to help either prevent or control the spread of the new variant. “It is akin to closing a stable door after a horse has bolted. Instead, identify clusters of recent origin and do genomic sequencing. Since the day of first case of ‘Omicron’, establish travel history and identify secondary transmission throughout the world. If the primary case was in early November, it would not be difficult to miss areas of circulation,” he said in a series of tweets.  “Botswana, South Africa and Hong Kong cannot be the only areas where ‘Omicron’ has travelled. These areas are the ones that have probably better surveillance and genomic sequencing and hence have reported in a timely manner. Absence of reporting is not absence of circulation,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/imposing-restrictions-on-travel-will-not-help/article37732262.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||322 new cases, three deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 322 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,95,285. Bengaluru Urban reported 149 cases and zero deaths. With three deaths, the toll rose to 38,196. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/322-new-cases-three-deaths/article37732260.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Screening teams at bus stops, railway stations||In wake of the State Government deciding to screen people coming from Kerala and Maharashtra, the BBMP on Saturday said it would deploy screening teams at bus stops and railways stations. Screening points will be set up on the city outskirts too. Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said on an average 160 COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the city daily, however on Friday a total of 224 cases were reported. A majority of them in the Anekal area. Officials have been asked to keep a vigil on 63 containment zones in the city. Instructions have been given to intensify vaccination drives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/screening-teams-at-bus-stops-railway-stations/article37732266.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Presentation made on design district project||A delegation led by Tom Joseph, director, International Skill Development Council (ISDC), made a presentation on the intended Bengaluru Design District for providing a space for the world of design, art, and technology for young designers, artists, creators, freelancers, and creative startups. The project is estimated to create 63,500 economic opportunities, including 12,500 direct and 25,000 indirect jobs. Completion of the project would take five years. The ISDC made presentation to Minister for IT, Biotechnology, and Science and Technology C.N. Ashwath Narayan, said a release. A delegation of Ministers of the State had visited Dubai Design District (D3) during the Dubai Expo held in October. Taking a cue from D3, Jain Deemed to be University, ISDC, and World Design Council have come forward to set up Bengaluru Design District. The delegation has sought 150 acres in Bengaluru city limits or near the airport for developing the project. The delegation sought the Government’s support and sponsorship for executing the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/presentation-made-on-design-district-project/article37732677.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Booklet on Constitution in Kannada||The Alternative Law Forum (ALF) and Janaprakashana are bringing out an introductory handbook on the Indian Constitution in Kannada, ‘Samvidhana Peetike: Ondu Putta Munnadi’. Key principles The booklet explores how the freedom movement, Supreme Courtjudgments, and people’s movements have strengthened the spirit of the Indian Constitution and have breathed life into the fundamental principles enshrined there, said a release from ALF.  The release added that the book aimed to help cultivate constitutional awareness among the people. Launch The book is set to be launched on Monday at 4 p.m. at the Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Samudaya Bhavan at Rajendranagar, opposite the Regional Passport Office. The book will be released by H.N. Nagmohan Das, retired judge of the Karnataka High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/booklet-on-constitution-in-kannada/article37732678.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman who went missing was murdered in property row||The Subramanya Nagar police have cracked a murder case and arrested a realtor and his associate for allegedly killing a 47-year-old woman who was reported missing nearly eight months ago. According to the police, she was killed over a piece of property she owned. The arrested have been identified as Noor Ahemed, the realtor, and his associate Sathyanarayana from Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh. The probe is ongoing and more arrests are likely. The victim, Seetha Achar, went missing under mysterious circumstances on March 26. Her brother Venkatesh Achar, a temple priest, filed the missing person’s complaint. At the time, the police thought it was a straightforward case, but deeper into the investigation they realised that it was not as cut and dried as it seemed. According to police sources, they learned that the accused had roped in a relative of Seetha’s to take her shopping and killed her by giving her a cyanide pill when she complained of a headache and asked for a painkiller while travelling in a car. Ahmed and Sathyanarayana dumped the body in a canal in Hosapete to destroy the evidence. According to the police, Seetha was residing in Rajajinagar alone after husband passed away. She was one of four siblings who shared four acres of ancestral property. The family wanted to sell the property, but she was opposed to it. Police suspect the involvement of a family member, and investigations are on. “A few more accused are involved in the murder. They had paid Rs. 4.5 lakh cash as supari to kill Seetha. We are gathering more details about the suspects,” said a police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-who-went-missing-was-murdered-in-property-row/article37732257.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No truck with BJP, reiterates Kumaraswamy||In the light of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s repeated statements that the Janata Dal (Secular) should support the BJP in constituencies where it is contesting in the Legislative Council polls, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has reiterated that there is no such proposal before him. In a series of tweets on Saturday, he reiterated that a few of his utterances of praise for Mr. Yediyurappa “outside of the realm of politics considering his seniority” had been misunderstood by some. “Nowhere have I said that JDS will support BJP,” he said. He accused the Congress of spreading rumours on the issue “out of fear of losing elections”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-truck-with-bjp-reiterates-kumaraswamy/article37732676.ece
28 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Untimely downpour rains losses on coffee growers in State||Untimely rain in the last few days has left coffee planters in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu districts in distress. The Karnataka Growers’ Federation (KGF), an umbrella organisation of coffee growers in the three districts, has estimated the loss at a whopping Rs. 900 crore. Assessing loss The KGF has 23 hobli-level organisations in the three coffee-growing districts. The federation collected data through them and assessed the loss. H.T. Mohan Kumar, KGF president, said the overall loss in crops owing to the untimely rain was around 40%. “The growers in the three districts were expecting an yield of 81,000 tonnes. However, the rain has taken away over 32,500 tonnes of coffee. The value of the crop lost is around Rs. 900 crore,” he said. Unable to harvest As per the KGF reports, the quantity of crop lost in Hassan district is about 8,000 tonnes, in Chikkamagaluru it is 15,000 tonnes, and in Kodagu 9,500 tonnes. The growers could not harvest the yield owing to incessant rain. The Coffee Board of India is also conducting a survey to assess the loss. A.N. Nagarajiah, a coffee grower with four acres of the plantation at Arehalli in Belur taluk, said he had spent about Rs. 4 lakh this year with an expectation of 45 bags of yield. “If there is no rain in the coming days, I may get hardly 20 bags of coffee. I can earn only about Rs. 2 lakh. The situation of all small growers is similar,” said Mr. Nagarajaiah, who is also organising secretary of the KGF. On an average, a grower spends up to Rs. 2.5 lakh per hectare of coffee in a year. The input cost has gone up in recent years owing to the non-availability of labour and other factors. However, the Government has fixed the compensation at Rs. 18,000 per hectare. “A grower can get compensation for up to two hectares, which is Rs. 36,000. Considering the amount spent by coffee growers, the relief amount is negligible. We have appealed to the Government to provide at least Rs. 50,000 per hectare and compensation should be paid up to 10 hectares,” said Mr. Mohan Kumar. Meanwhile, Coffee Board CEO and secretary K.G. Jagadeesha admitted that unseasonal heavy rain in the last one month had devastated standing crops, especially Arabica. However, he added, it was heartening to see that despite setbacks in production on account of vagaries of nature, coffee exports from the country were on the rise mainly owing to the increased contribution of re-exports in terms of value-added coffee exports. Elephants too Besides the untimely rain, the coffee growers are constantly affected by the movement of wild elephants. Last week, a herd of over 35 elephants was spotted at a farm near Ballupete in Sakaleshpur taluk. “Nowadays, we growers have stopped demanding compensation for crop loss owing to elephants. We demand all elephants be captured and relocated,” said K.B. Krishnappa, secretary of the KGF. The growers are angry with Forest Minister Umesh Katti, who had not visited the elephant-affected area, though he promised he would do so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/untimely-downpour-rains-losses-on-coffee-growers-in-state/article37732270.ece
28 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Police promoting installation of CCTV cameras at busy spots||Chikkamagaluru district police are pushing for CCTV cameras at traffic junctions, temples, business complexes and other busy localities to stop theft and other crimes. Responding to the appeal by the police, many have come forward to contribute to the surveillance system. So far 263 cameras have been installed at 48 locations in the district. Chikkamagaluru SP Akshay M. Hakay told The Hindu that the CCTV cameras worked as a deterrent against crimes. “We have been encouraging business establishments and temples to have cameras installed. There has been a good response from the public”, he said. With an investment of Rs. 25,000, an entire complex could be covered with cameras. It would not be a big investment, considering the loss the businessmen suffer if they become victims of thefts. “We are also installing 40 high-resolution cameras in the city with the help of Chikkamagaluru Development Authority. A camera at a traffic junction can collect many details, including the registration number of vehicles, which the staff members on the field may miss to record”, he said. Burglar alarm Along with the cameras, the police are insisting that temples install burglar alarms. The SP recalled a two-month old incident at Bolarameshwara Temple in the city. “A couple of people attempted to take away cash from the hundi at night. Because of the burglar alarm, the local people gathered within no time and the thieves had to flee the place, leaving their vehicle and bag.” This incident has motivated many committees that maintain temples across the district. The officer said burglar alarms were available at Rs. 10,000. Whenever an outsider tries to open the lock, the alarm starts sounding, which could be heard in a 200 metre radius. Besides that, at least 10 members of the committee will get alert messages on their phones. “The alarm does not stop unless an authorised person puts in the key. This is a simple tool which can help businessmen protect their valuables”, the SP said. Residential areas The police are also planning to extend the surveillance system to residential localities in future. If residents’ welfare associations take the initiative to install CCTV cameras at strategic points in the locality it would be useful. The associations could execute this idea with contributions from their members, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-promoting-installation-of-cctv-cameras-at-busy-spots/article37732662.ece
28 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Stolen items returned to owners in Hassan||Hassan district police, on Saturday, returned stolen items worth over Rs. 2.8 crore recovered in 71 cases to the complainants. They included three kg of gold jewellery worth Rs. 1.72 crore, silver items worth Rs. 4.74 lakh, Rs. 16.83 lakh in cash, and vehicles. Praveen Madhukar Pawar, IGP (Southern Range), handed over the valuables to the complainants in presence of SP R.Srinivasa Gowda, Additional SP B.N.Nandini and other senior police officers. In a majority of the theft cases, the complainants received only half or less than half of the valuables they lost. Some of them told the media that they were expecting the police to recover the remaining valuables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stolen-items-returned-to-owners-in-hassan/article37732664.ece
28 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Revanna seeks probe||Former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D.Revanna has demanded an investigation into alleged corruption in awarding contracts, as complained by the association of contractors. He said here that the president of the association had alleged that officers and elected representatives had been taking 40% of the project cost as a bribe. The association president had written to the Prime Minister on the issue. The Congress had also complained to the Governor. The government should probe the issue and bring out the truth, he said. Many contractors had not been able to get their dues after completing their works. They would not get the money unless they paid bribes in advance. “They have to pay up to 40% of the project cost as a bribe to get their bills cleared”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revanna-seeks-probe/article37732660.ece
28 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||MLC polls: BSY appeal to party workers||Former Chief Minister B.S.Yediyurappa has appealed to BJP workers to make use of the MLC polls as an occasion to strengthen the party for the coming Taluk Panchayat and Zilla Panchayat polls. He was addressing a campaign meeting in Shivamogga on Saturday. “We have nine MLAs and two MPs in the Shivamogga Local Authorities Constituency. Our candidate should win with a thumping margin”, he said. Earlier, he said, there was an assumption that whoever contested on the Congress ticket would win. The situation had changed over the years. The Congress had been losing its ground across the country. Lok Sabha member B.Y.Raghavendra, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, legislators Ayanur Manjunath, Rudre Gowda, BJP candidate D.S.Arun and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlc-polls-bsy-appeal-to-party-workers/article37732661.ece
28 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Karnatak Vidyavardhak Sangha elections to be held today||The representative body of Kannada and Kannadigas, the Karnatak Vidyavardhak Sangha (KVS), is all set for polls on Sunday in which 15 office-bearers will be elected by 7,598 voters. Veteran journalist and Gandhian Patil Puttappa held the president’s post for almost five decades and the sangha is having elections without him. Although efforts were made by like-minded persons to get the office-bearers elected unopposed, they didnot yield the required results leading to polls, in which members of three different groups have formed panels and are contesting. While one group is led by former MLA Chandrakanth Bellad, who is contesting the President’s post, the other group is led by former general secretary of the sangha Shankar Halagatti. Interestingly this group has not fielded anyone for the president’s post. Another group is that of former councillor Subhash Shinde. Apart from Mr. Chandrakanth Bellad, there are three other candidates for the president’s post, namely B.S. Shirol, Hanumakshi Gogi, and Sanjiv Dhumaknal. Incumbent general secretary Prakash Udakeri is being challenged by Shankar Halagatti and Mahadev Dodmani. In all 15 members have to be elected to the new body which includes the posts of president, vice-president, working president, general secretary, joint secretary, treasurer, and nine executive committee members including two reserved posts: for women and Scheduled Castes and Tribes. In addition to the three groups, there are other candidates who are contesting independently. In all 53 candidates are in the fray for the nine posts of executive committee members. Senior counsel C.S. Neginhal has been appointed as the Election Officer. The polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. and the counting of votes is on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnatak-vidyavardhak-sangha-elections-to-be-held-today/article37732477.ece
28 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Company not paying farmers requisite crop insurance, says former MLA||Alleging that the private insurance company from which farmers bought the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana had cheated them by not paying the requisite crop insurance, former MLA N.H. Konaraddi of the Janata Dal (Secular) and others have filed a police complaint. Mr. Konaraddi, accompanied by other members of JD(S) and a few farmers, filed the complaint at Gokul Road Police Station in Hubballi on Saturday. Speaking to presspersons afterwards, Mr. Konaraddi said that under the Central insurance scheme earlier Bharti Axa Life Insurance had bagged the contract, and subsequently ICICI Lombard General Insurance had bagged the contract. However the insurance company was cheating farmers by not paying the crop loss compensation as per the policy norms, he alleged. He claimed that as per a Government order, although November 30 had been declared the deadline for paying the crop insurance premium, the private insurance company representatives were saying that they would give compensation only upto November 20. This apart, in Dharwad district alone the private insurance companies had collected crores of rupees as crop insurance premium during 2018-19 to 2021. However they had not paid compensation to the farmers of the district, he alleged. Mr. Konaraddi said that the insurance company representatives were also tell lies and shunning their responsibility. “The company had given advertisement in newspapers giving its representative’s telephone number for any clarification or details. However the person whose phone number was given in the advertisement avoids taking calls and says he is not in Hubballi. When the office is contacted, the representatives do not respond,” he said. He even alleged that only five out of 100 farmers who had paid the premium were being given compensation and several of them had not been given acknowledgement. Considering all these issues, the complaint had been filed seeking investigation into the whole issue and justice for the farmers, he said. JD(S) office-bearers B.B. Gangadharmath, Shivanna Hubballi, Sadiq Haqim, Siddu Teji, and others accompanied him while filing the complaint. Inspector Jakeer Kalimirchi received the complaint and said further action would be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/company-not-paying-farmers-requisite-crop-insurance-says-former-mla/article37732475.ece
28 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Farmers block highway||Condemning the reluctance on the part of those concerned to issue acknowledgements for crop insurance applications and demanding crop loss compensation, scores of farmers led by former MLA from Navalgund N.H. Konaraddi staged a roadblock and demonstration in Navalgund recently. The farmers were upset as personnel in the Department of Agriculture are reluctant to issue acknowledgements for applications received for crop insurance under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. They said that there is still time till November 30 to pay crop insurance premium. And, there is a provision for submitting applications within three days after it stopped raining. However, the officials are reluctant to issue acknowledgements for applications received, they said. Led by Mr. Konaraddi, the farmers demanded that senior officials of the Agriculture Department hear their grievances and blocked the Navalgund-Vijayapura Highway for some time amid rain. Then, they also staged a dharna in front of the office of the Assistant Director of Agriculture in Navalgund and demanded that the deadline be extended by a week. The farmers withdrew their protest after Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil told Mr. Konaraddi over telephone that steps would be taken to receive the applications and issue acknowledgements. Following a direction from the Deputy Commissioner, tahsildar M.J. Hokrani, Additional Joint Director of Agriculture Vittal Rao, Agriculture officials Srinath Chimmalagi, Mohan Dandagi, Shivakumar Birannavar and others rushed to the spot and assured the farmers that their demand for extension of deadline would be placed before senior officials. Addressing the protesters, Mr. Konaraddi also said that the Janata Dal(S) will launch an agitation to ensure that the farmers received crop loss compensation for the period 2018-19 and 2020-21. Janata Dal(S) office-bearers and local leaders too took part in the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-block-highway/article37732470.ece
28 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Woman accuses Kalaburagi Corporation Commissioner of cheating her||Kalaburagi Corporation Commissioner Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande landed in a controversy after a Delhi-based woman, on Twitter, demanded action against him for cheating girls using his IAS status. She tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Kalaburagi in-charge Minister Murugesh Nirani, and others in the post. Letter attached She attached her letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, dated June 14, 2021, and a few screenshots of the purported WhatsApp conversation between her and the officer to support her allegation. In her letter to the Chief Minister, the woman said in detail how she came into contact with the officer on Facebook when she was preparing for her UPSC examinations and got close to him subsequently. She alleged that Mr. Lokhande had developed a physical relationship with her on the promise of marriage and then reneged on his promise after he was posted at Indi. Details provided She also provided the details of the hotel room where both of them stayed during Mr. Lokhande’s second phase of UPSC training at Mussoorie in 2019. The woman also alleged that the officer had cheated another woman earlier in a similar way. “He attracts girls through his post and prestige and takes undue advantage. After being in a relationship for two years, he is doing the same thing with me [as he had done to the girl earlier]. The person who plays with the feeling of another, emotionally, physically, and mentally should be severely punished. He should be behind bars, otherwise in future he will repeat such things. He should be in jail for such kind of an offence,” she wrote in the complaint to the Chief Minister. It is learnt that the woman had met Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna and City Police Commissioner Y.N. Ravikumar a week ago and orally complained of Mr. Lokhande’s “cheating”. However, no written complaint was lodged. Meanwhile, Mr. Lokhande lodged a complaint with the Kalaburagi police accusing the woman of tarnishing his image on social media. “The woman had met me a few days ago and narrated her story of what she said cheating. No written complaint is lodged. Mr. Lokhande has filed a complaint at the cyber wing of the Kalaburagi police,” Mr. Ravikumar told The Hindu . Charge dismissed Mr. Lokhande, however, dismissed the allegation by terming it as an effort to destroy his reputation. “I came to know about the allegation on Friday and immediately filed a complaint with the police. The allegations are completely baseless aimed to tarnish my reputation,” Mr. Lokhande told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-accuses-kalaburagi-corporation-commissioner-of-cheating-her/article37732473.ece
28 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Eight persons arrested on charge of defiling nagabanas||The city police have arrested eight persons on the charge of desecrating two places of worship in the city recently. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar gave the names of the accused as Safwan, 25, Mohammed Suhaib, 23, Praveen Anil Monterio, 27, Nikilesh, 22, Jayanth Kumar, 30, Prateek, 24, Manjunath, 30, and Naushad Arehalli, 30. A group of miscreants entered nagabanas in Kuloor between October 20 and October 23 and had thrown six idols of the snake god to a nearby slushy place. Similarly, another idol was thrown outside the sanctum santorum of the nagabana in Kodical on November 12. Protesting against the desecration, the Bajarang Dal and the VHP activists had called for a Kodical bandh and demanded the arrest of those responsible by December 6. They had also called for a district bandh if police failed to do so. A team comprising Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar and B.P. Dinesh Kumar and Assistant Commissioners of Police Mahesh Kumar and P.A. Hedge was formed. Mr. Kumar told reporters that following a month-long investigation, the police traced two persons. Then they secured the other accused. The questioning of the accused, he said, revealed that Safwan had recently met one Shakir, who was arrested two months ago by the Bajpe police in connection with a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He said that Shakir then asked Safwan to carry out any activity which could create communal tension. Safwan and Suhaib were also reportedly upset over the recent patrolling of police following chain-snatching incidents, in which two of their friends had been arrested. They wanted to carry out an emotionally disturbing activity and divert the attention of the police away from chain-snatching, he said. On October 18, Safwan and the other accused persons reportedly had a discussion in a bar in Panjimogaru and it was decided to desecrate some nagabanas. Monterio reportedly agreed to pay Rs. 10,000, and Rs. 5,000 was paid soon after the desecration of the nagabana in Kuloor. On November 12 night, the accused threw out the idol and ran away and then took shelter in the house of Arehalli in Beluru of Hassan District, the Police Commissioner said. Safwan was an accused in two cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substaces Act, while Suhaib was an accused in a case under the NDPS Act. Monterio was accused in theft, dacoity, and preparation to commit dacoity cases. Jayant Kumar was an accused in a NDPS and a theft case. Mr. Kumar said the search is on to trace other persons associated with the arrested persons. Mr. Kumar said the city police have started a special beat under which surprise visits are made at regular intervals to places of worship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-persons-arrested-on-charge-of-defiling-nagabanas/article37732646.ece
28 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru City North MLA calls for a deeper probe||While lauding the city police for arresting persons allegedly involved in desecration of two nagabanas in the city, Y. Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru City North MLA, said on Saturday that police should trace the persons who hatched a conspiracy to create communal trouble in the city by prompting the persons arrested to descecrate the places of worship. Talking to reporters, Mr. Shetty said it is difficult to believe that the eight arrested persons went ahead with the desecration of the nagabanas to divert the attention of the police from probing into recent incidents of chain-snatching. “Nagabanas are highly revered sacred groves and its desecration hurts sentiments of devotees. We cannot believe that these accused alone planned and executed this desecration. There is definitely some political parties, who are desparately trying to show us (the present BJP government) in a poor light. The police should find out who they are.” This suspicion, he said, gains ground because a relative of one of the accused, who was directly involved in the desecrations, is an activist of a political party. “Soon after the incident in Kodical, some political leaders posted messages on Twitter and other social media to show the ruling party in a poor manner.” Mr. Shetty said he has prevailed upon Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Home Minister Araga Jnanendra to order for a deeper probe into the desecrations and arrest the conspirators. The MLA said that following voting for Legislative Council elections on December 10, action will be taken to strengthen security systems at nagabanas and other places of worship in his Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangaluru-city-north-mla-calls-for-a-deeper-probe/article37732644.ece
28 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Youth must help make Udupi free of COVID-19’||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Saturday asked the youth to convince those who have not been vaccinated to do so, to ensure that Udupi district is free from the pandemic. Speaking after inaugurating the Udupi District Yuvajanotsava, the Deputy Commissioner said that 93% and 68% of the target population in the district have been administered the first and second doses of vaccination, respectively. The youth should join hands with the district administration to achieve 100% vaccination by convincing their unvaccinated family members and neighbours to get the jab. He asked students to draw paintings on the compound walls of schools and colleges to spread awareness on maintaining cleanliness. The youth should use their talent and energy for the betterment of society, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that the youth have been cooperating with the district administration in the implementation of various development projects and programmes, such as Fit India and Clean India. The district administration recently organised free training to youth for the civil service examinations. Chief Executive Officer of Udupi Zilla Panchayat Y. Naveen Bhat said that the country had immense youth power which should be used for building the nation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-must-help-make-udupi-free-of-covid-19/article37732636.ece
28 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||18 new COVID-19 cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 13 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. After discharging seven patients after treatment, the active cases stood at 128. The test positivity rate was at 0.30 %. Udupi reported five new cases. Following the discharge of four patients, the active cases in the district stood at 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/18-new-covid-19-cases-in-dk-udupi/article37732640.ece
28 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Shakespeare captured the reality of life well ’||Writer and theatre director S. Raghunandana said on Saturday that William Shakespeare’s greatness lies in capturing life and varied characters in all their nuances. He was speaking on ‘contrasting Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet and Macbeth’ at a webinar organised by the Gandhian Centre for Philosophical Arts and Sciences (GCPAS), Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal. Shakespeare could create hundreds of contrasting characters such as rough and tender, cruel and polished, carnal and saintly, lowly and high – and yoked them together, capturing the ‘reality’ of life. “We can also see such a contrast in and between Romeo and Juliet and Macbeth ,” he added. Describing Romeo and Juliet as archetypal lovers and immortal characters, Mr. Raghunandana said this archetype has manifested in hundreds of plays and films across countries and languages. Macbeth deals with ‘evil’ in all its rawness, he said. Speaking earlier, GCPAS director Varadesh Hiregange said despite criticisms, Shakespeare remains the most contemporary writer of our times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shakespeare-captured-the-reality-of-life-well/article37732642.ece
28 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Government Leprosy Officer arrested||The city police on Saturday arrested Dakshina Kannada District Leprosy Officer Rathnakar on charges of sexually harassing some women staff working on contract basis in his office. The Women Police on Friday registered the complaint by a woman activist against Dr. Rathnakar under Section 354 of IPC and questioned him. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said on Saturday that Women Police took statements of three women employees who worked in his office. They told the police that the official took victims to places namely Kundapur, Murudeshwar, Madikeri and Periyapatna and sexually harassed them. In addition to to the three victims, the police on Saturday also took the statement of one of the member of the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Dakshina Kannada, that had inquired into allegation against Dr. Rathnakar. Dr. Rathnakar was produced before the jurisdictional court, which allowed the police to keep him in their custody till Monday, Mr. Kumar said. Following the order by the National Commission for Women a few days ago, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Central) P.A. Hegde inquired into an anonymous letter containing allegations against Dr. Rathnakar. Mr. Kumar said the victims then had refused to give statements against the official fearing loss of their job. In the report to the Commission, Mr. Hegde stated about the need to transfer the official out of the district for victims to make their statements freely. Background After the receipt of information by the Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra, the ICC inquired and submitted its report on August 25. Principal Secretary to Health and Family Welfare Department, passed an order on November 8 to place Dr. Rathnakar under suspension and transfer him as Medical Officer of Community Health Centre, Gurmitkal of Yadgir district. Dr. Rathnakar questioned the inquiry report before the single Judge bench of the Karnataka HC, which passed an order on November 18 to stay the report for 8 weeks. He later approached Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal that on November 24 stayed the suspension until further hearing on December 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-leprosy-officer-arrested/article37732649.ece
28 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Chittani memorial Yakshagana performances||The Chittani Memorial Yakshagana Sapthaha - 2021 will be held at Udupi Sri Krishna Mutt’s Rajangana from November 28 to December 4.  Organised by Chittani Abhimani Balaga and Paryaya Admar Mutt in association with Yakshagana Kalaranga, seven performances will be held daily on those days at 6.30 p.m. The junior seer of Admar Mutt and paryaya seer of Sri Krishna Mutt Eshapriya Tirtha will inaugurate the sapthaha at 6.30 p.m. on Sunday. This year’s Chittani Ramachandra Hegde Award will be presented to senior Yakshagana artist Argodu Mohandas Shenoy on December 4 at 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chittani-memorial-yakshagana-performances/article37732637.ece
28 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Power supply to some areas in Udupi will be stopped on November 30 from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. The areas are Tenkapete, Harishchandra Road, Saralebettu, Hiriyadkka, Baje, Arbi, Pragathinagara, Santhekatte, Kodi Bengre, Bada Nidiyoor, Gopalapura, Shanthivana, Brahmavara, Lakshminagara, Ammunje, Varamballi, Kolalagiri, Heruru, Havanje, and Nayampalli.    Vaccination against COVID-19 will be administered in Udupi on Sunday at AYUSH Hospital, Urban Primary Health Centres at Manipal and near Alankar cinema thetare, BRS Hospital, FPAI Centre, Kukkikatte, Primary Health Centre at Malpe, government taluk hospital at Kundapur and Manjunath Pai Hall at Karkala. Both the doses are available, an official release said.    Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao will inaugurate the renovated hall at Bannanje Mahalingeshwara Temple in Udupi on November 29 at 12.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37732639.ece
28 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rail terminal project in limbo||The Naganahalli Railway Terminus which is critical to handling additional trains to and from Mysuru is set for a derailment due to delay in the land acquisition process. Though the project was envisaged to be completed by 2024 and included as a priority project by the Railway Board, the work is yet to get started. The project was mooted to increase the capacity of the Mysuru station to handle additional trains and in its absence the full benefits of track doubling and electrification by way of running additional trains on the Mysuru-Bengaluru section will not materialise. In the interim, the Railway Board has sanctioned the yard remodelling of the Ashokapuram Railway Station to create additional stabling lines so as to overcome capacity constraints of Mysuru station. It will be taken up at a cost of Rs. 15.71 crore. There is also a proposal for additional stabling line at Belagola on the outskirts of the city where some of the long distance trains can be shunted once their primary or secondary maintenance have been completed at the pit lines in Mysuru. However, Naganahalli Terminus is critical for the long-term growth and development of the railways and the local economy. Though Mysuru MP Pratap Simha has sought funds to get the projected started, the key issue is land acquisition which is entirely in the domain of the State Government. The railway authorities have sent reminders to the State Government on the imperatives of expediting the land acquisition exercise, but there reminders have been greeted by silence. Sources said the project could be frozen and put in the backburner in case the uncertainty prolonged. Railway officials in their letter to the State Government have stated that apart from introduction of new trains and improving connectivity to and from Mysuru, the project will also help in the socio-economic development of the region. The project will cost Rs. 494.79 crore in the first phase and the Railway Board on its part had sanctioned Rs. 19.99 crore for the financial year 2021-22 in anticipation of cost sharing by the State Government. The project requires 165 acres of land in the first phase during which four platforms, four pit lines and 8 stabling lines is envisaged. The second phase was expected to see the construction of another two platforms all of which would complement the existing six platforms in Mysuru city. Timeline The project was originally mooted in 2007-08 and received administrative nod in 2018 with the timeline for completion set for 2024. But the onset of the pandemic and the financial constraints of the State Government may not see the project materialising in the near future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rail-terminal-project-in-limbo/article37732671.ece
28 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||A. Manju is unwelcome, declares Siddaramaiah||BJP leader and former Minister A. Manju is not joining the Congress, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has said. Fielding reporters queries here on Saturday, he said Mr. Manju had neither sought to join the Congress nor was the party admitting him. It may be mentioned here that Mr. Manju’s son Mantar Gowda had been chosen as the Congress’ candidate for the ensuing Legislative Council elections from the local bodies’ constituency in Kodagu, fuelling speculations about Mr. Manju’s re-entry into the Congress. Mr. Manju was the BJP candidate from the Hassan Lok Sabha constituency in the 2019 polls. Soon after Mr. Manju’s son was fielded as the Congress candidate, the BJP divested Mr. Manju of all his responsibilities in the party, including his position as the party’s Mandya district in-charge. Responding to a query on former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking JD (S) support in the elections to the Legislative Council from the local authorities’ constituencies, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the BJP and JD (S) always had a “hidden understanding” in all elections, including the recent byelections. Pointing out that the JD (S) had fielded its candidates only in six constituencies, Mr. Siddaramaiah said Mr. Yediyurappa had publicly sought JD (S) support. On JD(S) move To a question if the Congress would benefit from the withdrawal of nomination by the JD(S) candidate in Kodagu, Mr. Siddaramaiah made it clear that his party would not seek JD(S) support. “We have enough strength,” he said before adding that the party would try its best to win even in Kodagu, which was not an easy constituency for the Congress to win. “Kodagu is not easy for us, but there is a fight. We lost narrowly last time. We will try our best this time,” he said. Referring to his meeting with party leaders in Mysuru over the elections to the Legislative Council, Mr. Siddaramaiah said party leaders had asked their supporters or the members of the gram panchayats identified with Congress to cast only a single vote in favour of the party candidate. Though preferential voting pattern was followed in the elections, Congress supporters had been advised to cast a single vote in favour of the party candidate, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-manju-is-unwelcome-declares-siddaramaiah/article37732683.ece
28 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Gang of five nabbed, four dacoity cases solved||The Udayagiri police have nabbed five persons involved in dacoity and robbing pigmy saving collectors and have recovered more than Rs. 45,000 from them. The police said that between November 23 and November 25, there were complaints of pigmy saving collectors being robbed by a gang. A special squad was constituted which zeroed in on five persons near the Outer Ring Road close to Rajiv Nagar on Friday and nabbed them. The five have admitted to committing the crime. Waylaid The police said with their arrest 4 cases of dacoity have been solved which includes 2 cases reported from Narasimharaja police station limits and 2 cases from the Udayagiri police station limits. The pigmy collectors used to be waylaid by the gang and looted of their daily collections while returning after their rounds late in the evening. Commissioner of Police Chandrgupta has lauded the police for solving the crime within days of the incident being reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gang-of-five-nabbed-four-dacoity-cases-solved/article37732668.ece
28 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Property parade held, valuables returned||The Chamarajanagar district police on Saturday conducted a property parade and returned stolen valuables worth Rs. 1.46 crore to their respective owners. These properties pertained to 64 cases which were solved out of 175 cases that were reported in the district during 2020 and till October 2021. The recovered items included gold jewellery, cash, motor cycles, and mobile phones. Chamarajanagar SP Divyasara Thomas said lot of hard work and sincere efforts went into cracking the cases and identification of the rightful owners before returning them. Out of the 64 cases that were cracked, solving 47 cases alone yielded properties valued at Rs. 69.88 lakh. Senior officialsl said though it has not been possible to recover all the stolen materials, efforts to return whatever has been seized will help send a positive signal to the society at large. Senior police officials at the property parade said they have increased the number of beats in rural areas to curb cases of dacoity and theft. Certificates of merit were distributed to the police staff who had cracked the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-parade-held-valuables-returned/article37732669.ece
28 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||IRCTC’s tourism package to Gujarat||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced the launch of a tourism package covering important tourist destinations in Gujarat. The ‘Hari Hara Darshan with Statue of Unity’ train will commence its journey from Madurai on December 10 and in order to benefit the passengers from the region, the tour has boarding points at Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Arsikere, Davangere, Hubballi, and Belagavi. An IRCTC release said Central/State Government employees can get LTC for this tour and booking has commenced at the IRCTC counters while online booking is provided through the website www.irctctourism.com. People in Mysuru region interested in the tour may also contact the IRCTC at the Mysuru Railway Station on 8595931294. People may also contact the Hubballi Railway Station on 8595931293 and the regional office, Rajajinagar, Bengaluru, on 8595931291/8595931292. Cost The 10-day 11-night package will cover the major pilgrim/tourism destinations of Ahmedabad–Akshardham–Nishkalank Mahadev sea temple–Dwarka–Bet Dwarka–Nageshwar–Somnath–Omkareshwar–Mahakaleshwar, and the Statue of Unity. The package cost is Rs. 11,435 per person. The package includes train journey by sleeper class; night stay/fresh-up at dharmashalas/hall/dormitories on multi-sharing basis, morning tea/coffee, breakfast, lunch, dinner and 1 litre of drinking water per day, non-AC road transfers, tour escort and security, and travel insurance, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/irctcs-tourism-package-to-gujarat/article37732675.ece
28 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Free ambulance service by Apollo BGS||Apollo BGS Hospitals has announced the launch of free ambulance services for emergencies within the city limits of Mysuru. “Theservice would ensure that the family or friends do not waste time looking for an ambulance in case of any emergency and simply dial 1066 to access Apollo Hospitals Dedicated Emergency Response System (ERS)”, said a statement issued by the hospital authorities. An advanced GPRS-enabled ambulance would be immediately dispatched along with trained paramedics equipped with the necessary critical care equipment. “With this, patients can be assured of rapid transport to Apollo Hospitals emergency for definite care, in most cases within the golden hour”, the statement said. During the transfer to the hospital, the patient’s vitals will be monitored and a two-way communication between the ambulance and the hospital would help to ensure update on the patient’s condition. This method will help the hospital staff prepare to receive the patient and begin treatment with no delays. The GPRS-enabled tracking system will also give Apollo Emergency team an accurate time of arrival of the patient, according to the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-ambulance-service-by-apollo-bgs/article37732665.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Strong urban transport policies will help mitigate climate change||The global climate is transforming due to increased greenhouse gas emissions. Globally, the response to climate change has been through mitigation to reduce these emissions. Urban transportation is the second leading source of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions due to its dependency on fossil fuels. The growing number of vehicles and road infrastructure-based supply in Indian cities is viewed as the essential driver of climate change and relevant consequences affecting cities’ sustainability. Under the 2015 Paris agreement, India had declared its Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC). INDC aims to curtail the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 33-35% by 2030 from the 2005 level. Despite the mitigation measures being taken, some climate-change effects are inevitable due to the constant feeding of emissions into the atmosphere. In the Climatrans study done by IISc Sustainable Transportation Lab (IST Lab), sustainable transport measures for Bengaluru were analysed to understand the urban transport sector's emission mitigation potential for the pollutants CO, HC, NOx, CO2, and PM2.5. Suitable policies were identified under the planning, regulatory, economic and technological instruments grouped under four policy bundles. The policy bundles’ mitigation potential is quantitatively evaluated in terms of Vehicle Kilometres Travelled, exhaust emissions, and greenhouse gas emissions. The study also estimated the carbon emission intensity and consumer surplus for different mode users associated with the policy bundles. The findings from sustainable transport scenarios for the design years 2030 and 2050 are compared with business as usual scenarios of the respective design years. Policy bundle 4, which is a mixture of policies from all the instruments, including technological improvements such as electrification of all buses and cars in the city - demonstrated a critical decrease in VKT and emissions when compared with the other policy bundles. It calls for levying an extra tax on vehicle purchase; implementing no car roads; pricing for causing congestion; provisions for parking and riding; providing infrastructure for active transport; providing separate lanes for high-occupancy vehicles and promoting carpooling; mixed building with high density along the main corridors and ensuring that all cars and buses on electricity. Each of the four policy packages is also evaluated concerning the four energy mix scenarios for electricity generation. Emissions results revealed that scenario with bundle 4 policies and 100% electricity from renewable sources showed a significant reduction in emissions. The decline in CO2 emissions is as high as 80% and 94% for 2030 and 2050, respectively. Next, a methodological approach to formulate the adaptation strategies for Bengaluru from urban transport to urban flooding was done. The adaptation strategies were evaluated based on various parameters to reduce the impact of flooding. The policies are specifically aimed to enhance the transportation system's resilience, specifically against urban flooding, which is a likely consequence of climate change, reduce its impacts, and strengthen the system's adaptive capacity. The study showed that a proper combination of land use and infrastructure policies can help improve urban transportation's resiliency. One of the climate change effects is the severe and extreme precipitation resulting in flooding. The uncontrolled expansion of human-made structures is creating more impervious urban areas. These changes, coupled with intense rainfalls and inadequate flood channelling infrastructure, lead to urban flooding. Adaptation is seen as the necessary tool to address these climate change effects. The impact of flooding, rapid urbanization and vehicular growth has become a threat. These factors affect developing economies disproportionately. There is an urgent need for the transport infrastructure to adapt to these climate change effects to reduce human and economic losses.  Dr Ashish Verma is professor, Transportation Systems Engg. (TSE) and Convenor, Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Sustainable Transportation Lab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strong-urban-transport-policies-will-help-mitigate-climate-change/article37732255.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For unity and health||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/for-unity-and-health/article37732251.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Book release||book||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-release/article37732667.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||RT-PCR test must for travellers from Kerala, Maharashtra||After seven days of RT-PCR negative reports, college students staying in hostels have to mandatorily undergo another COVID-19 test, the Government said. The Government also directed officials to increase testing for medical and nursing courses students. Advisory for colleges Advisory would be given to educational institutions to stop conducting of seminars/workshops. The school/college managements have been told to postpone cultural programmes. The Health and Family Welfare Department would issue guidelines to schools/colleges separately. The Chief Minister directed police and Revenue department officials to undertake active surveillance on national highways. Deputy commissioners of four border districts — Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar — have been directed to deploy staff in three shifts to monitor movement of passengers and testing. Deputy commissioners have been told to undertake surprise visit to colleges and schools located in border areas to check arrangements made to prevent the pandemic. Vaccination Addressing reporters about the decisions taken at the meeting, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said two doses of COVID-19 vaccination had been made mandatory for employees working in hotels, restaraunts, cinemas, swimming pools, public libraries, zoo, and botanical gardens. Two doses of vaccination had also been made mandatory for employees working in government offices. Arrangements would be made for vaccination drives in government offices and malls. Wearing of masks had been made mandatory for people travelling, attending marriages and public functions. Nearly 95% of the people attending marriages were not wearing masks these days, Mr. Ashok said. Another round of meeting would be convened to impose restrictions for Christmas and New Year celebrations. Push for booster dose The Centre has been urged to grant permission for giving booster doses for frontline health workers in the State, Revenue Minister R. Ashok has said. The Centre is expected to give permission in a week, he added, after a high-level meeting on Saturday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai also instructed officials to go on an aggressive campaign to trace those who have not taken the second dose of the vaccine and cover them at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rt-pcr-test-must-for-travellers-from-kerala-maharashtra/article37732267.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Honour for swami||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honour-for-swami/article37732648.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Sangeetha Parishath: Vidushi Saroja Mohandas Rao memorial carnatic vocal concert by students of Nadasaraswathi Sangeetha Vidyalaya, Sharada Vidyalaya, 3.45 p.m.; by Madurai N Sivaganesh of Chennai, 5 p.m.  Samskara Bharathi: Yakshagana Kranthi Soorya Bhagatha Simha, town hall, 9 a.m.  Bhandary Foundation: Former Chief Minister M. Veerappa Moily releases a Kannada book ‘Panchayati Rajya Grama Swarajya’ written by Wilfred D’Souza, Hotel Ocean Pearl, 1 p.m. Udupi  Yakshagana Kalaranga: Yakshagana Sayujya Sangrama by students of Alva’s College, Sri Krishna Mutt Rajangana, 1.30 p.m.; presenting Yakshagana Kalaranga award, benediction by Eshapriya Tirtha, paryaya seer of Sri Krishna Mutt, 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37732641.ece
28 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Crude bomb blast: two held||The police have arrested two persons in connection with a crude bomb explosion at Chathanad in Alappuzha on November 18 that left one person dead. The arrested have been identified as Jolly, 39, of Vettukad in Thiruvananthapuram and his aide Jinoy, 24, of Pathirappally in Alappuzha. They were nabbed from Pathirappally. According to the police, Le Kannan (Arunkumar), 30, of Thondankulangara died when the bomb in his possession exploded. The police said the bomb that killed Kannan was made by Jolly. Jinoy was arrested for helping Jolly to go into hiding. “Jolly is an accused in 20 criminal cases registered at various police stations. A week before Kannan died in the bomb explosion, Jolly, after being implicated in the rape of a minor girl, went into hiding in a resort at Omanapuzha in Alappuzha. There, he was provided with all help by Kannan and his associates. Kannan’s friendship with Jolly dates back to their time spent together in jail. Jolly made the bomb as instructed by Kannan to eliminate his enemies,” said a statement issued by the police. Following the death of Kannan, the police last week seized a country-made bomb from the house of Rahul Radhakrishan, a friend turned foe of Kannan. The police arrested Radhakrishnan and Shijo Antony in connection with the seizure. Like Kannan, Radhakrishnan too knows Jolly. Kannan’s relatives had earlier alleged that he died when members of the rival gang hurled a bomb at him.  Kannan’s relatives had earlier alleged that he died when members of the rival gang hurled a bomb at him||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crude-bomb-blast-two-held/article37732602.ece
28 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Mata Amritanandamayi releases musical tribute to Vellappally||Mata Amritanandamayi has released ‘Sanganathanjali,’ a musical tribute to Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary and SN Trust secretary Vellappally Natesan, featuring various artists at Amritapuri in Kollam. Mata Amritanandamayi released the CD by handing over a copy to SNDP Yogam vice president Thushar Vellappally on Friday. The musical tribute was released on the occasion of the 25th anniversary celebrations of Mr. Natesan’s ascension to leadership roles in the SNDP Yogam and SN Trust. Mata Amritanandamayi said Mr. Natesan’s leadership skills and services to society were exemplary. Mata Amritanandamayi Math vice chairman Swami Amritaswarupananda Puri, SNDP Yogam Devaswom secretary Arayakandy Santhosh and others attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mata-amritanandamayi-releases-musical-tribute-to-vellappally/article37732604.ece
28 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||‘Mangaladevi belongs to Kerala’||The Mangaladevi Trust has claimed that the Mangaladevi temple inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve on the border with Tamil Nadu belongs to Kerala. In a release here on Saturday, it said the presiding deity Kannagi is important to the Hindu Cheramar community and its festival is important to the latter. It said the temple was constructed by ruler Chenkutavan and it would move the Supreme Court to get sanction for conducting the annual festival there. The Mangaladevi temple is opened once a year during the Chitrapournami day. A large number of devotees from Tamil Nadu and Kerala visit the temple on that day. The Forest Department allows entry to the temple with strict monitoring. The Theni and Idukki district administrations jointly make elaborate arrangements for the annual festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mangaladevi-belongs-to-kerala-trust/article37732348.ece
28 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Storage at 97.28% in Idukki dam||With a fall in power generation at Moolamattom for the past three days, the water level in the Idukki dam reached 97.28% of the storage level on Saturday. The water level at 3 p.m. was 2,400.72 ft. As per the new rule curve, the blue alert level is 2,395 ft, orange alert 2,401 ft, and red alert 2,402 ft. The upper rule level is 2,403 ft. The power generation at Moolamattam on Friday was 14.544 million units. A dam safety official said the catchment area received nominal rainfall and there was a decline in inflow through the Periyar on Saturday. If there was no heavy rainfall, the water level would start declining in a day or two at the present level of power generation, he said. Mullaperiyar The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam was slowly decreasing and was 141.55 ft at 3 p.m. on Saturday. Tamil Nadu closed all spillway shutters except one, which was kept open by 8 cm on Saturday. There was an average inflow of 1,765 cusecs while the tunnel discharge was 1,200 cusecs and the water released to the Periyar was 139 cusecs. The maximum storage level is 142 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/storage-at-9728-in-idukki-dam/article37732611.ece
28 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rehabilitation package proposed for former Maoist leader||A district-level rehabilitation committee meeting, chaired by District Collector A. Geetha, here on Saturday recommended that the State Government provide a house, job opportunity, and stipend to a Maoist leader who surrendered recently. A senior leader of the proscribed Communist Party of India (Maoist), Lijesh alias Ramu, had surrendered before the Wayanad District Police Chief on October 25. Lijesh was the deputy commander of Kabanidalam of the Western Ghats Special Zone Committee of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). Govt. scheme The recommendation was made as per the Surrender and Rehabilitation scheme of Naxalites announced by the Government in 2018. Lijesh is the first from the outfit to surrender under the scheme. According to the package, a liberal approach will be made by the authorities in cases involving Maoists who return to the mainstream giving up their armed struggle, District Police Chief Aravind Sukumar said. He urged Maoists to abandon armed resistance and return to the mainstream. Interested members of banned outfits can contact the District Police Chief, any Government office, or local body for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rehabilitation-package-proposed-for-former-maoist-leader/article37732516.ece
28 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||231 trainees pass out from INA||In a spectacular parade held at the Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala, near here, on Saturday, 231 trainees comprising Midshipmen of 101 INAC, cadets of 31 Naval Orientation Course (Extended) and 33 Naval Orientation Course (Regular and Coast Guard) passed out with flying colours, marking the culmination of their ab-initio training. The parade was reviewed by Mariya Ahmed Didi, Defence Minister of Maldives, who awarded medals to meritorious Midshipmen and Cadets. Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, was the conducting officer. The successful trainees marched with their gleaming swords and rifles held in salute, past the academy’s quarterdeck in slow march to the traditional notes of Auld Lang Syne, the poignant farewell tune played by armed forces around the world when bidding adieu to colleagues and comrades, for their “Antim Pag” or final step. Ms. Didi congratulated the trainees on their impeccable turnout. She said that India was the best friend of the Maldives and had always assisted it in all times of crises. She recalled the assistance provided by India in the time of COVID, during the tsunami and the terrorist attacks on the Maldives. Later, the Reviewing Officer emphasised the core values of duty, honour, and courage. The Reviewing Officer and other dignitaries shipped the stripes of passing out trainees and congratulated them on their successful completion of the rigorous training. These officers will proceed to various Naval ships and establishments to further consolidate their training in specialised fields. During the event, the President’s Gold Medal for the Indian Naval Academy B.Tech course was awarded to Midshipman Ranjan Kumar Singh. While Midshipman Kavish Kankran received CNS Silver Medal for INAC B.Tech course; Midshipman Swapnil Shivam received FOC-in-C South Bronze Medal for INAC B.Tech course; Cadet Varad S. Shinde received CNS Gold Medal for NOC (Extended); Chintan Chhatbar got the FOC-in-C South Silver Medal for NOC (Extended); and Cadet Rahul Rana got the Commandant, INA Bronze Medal for NOC (Extended). The CNS Gold Medal for NOC (Regular) went to Cadet Aavriti Bhatt; Commandant, INA Silver Medal for NOC (Regular) to Cadet Simran P. Kaur; and Zamorin Trophy for Best All-Round Woman Cadet to Cadet Aavriti Bhatt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/231-trainees-pass-out-from-ina/article37732523.ece
28 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Halal row is Sangh Parivar agenda: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the halal controversy is part of an agenda of the Sangh Parivar to attack minorities. Addressing a Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] area committee meeting at Pinarayi on Saturday, the Chief Minister said that it was part of large-scale controversies being raised in Kerala as well. The Sangh Parivar was trying to create a vicious circle by making a lot of allegations against a section of the community. It was being done nationwide. Steps were being taken in Kerala as part of it, he added. Mr. Vijayan said minorities were being attacked and democratic people were being hunted down on a large scale. In this way, the Sangh Parivar deviated from the modern democratic outlook and sought to propagate and spread Hindutva politics throughout the country. He further said the Congress and the BJP had the same policy. The aim was to come to power. The governance was according to the interests of corporates. A clear stand was needed to eradicate communalism. The Left could do this and they should move forward together with other democratic forces, he said. Mr. Vijayan said the Centre was destroying federalism in the country. With the dissolution of the Planning Commission, the States could say nothing. It was also encroaching on the jurisdiction of the State. Agriculture and cooperative sectors were examples of this invasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/halal-row-is-sangh-parivar-agenda-cm/article37732534.ece
28 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Project to identify high-yielding native jackfruit trees||The Haritha Keralam Mission, in collaboration with the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), has launched a drive to identify and promote the cultivation of high-yielding native jackfruit species in Kannur district. According to E.K. Somasekharan, coordinator of Haritha Keralam Mission, the project is aimed at identifying the best native jackfruit species and propagating their seedlings. Under the project, high-yielding indigenous species that flower in October-November will be identified after studying their flowering and fruiting, the taste and productivity. Geo-tagging In order to achieve this, jackfruit trees in all the panchayats in the district will be studied to select them with the help of the KVK. Such trees will be geo-tagged and efforts will be made to produce and propagate their seedlings. The owners of such trees will be honoured. The mission also aims at marketing the produce so as to generate more income for the people. As the quality of fruit trees depends on the agro-climatic conditions of a place, the data collection and follow-up activities will focus on this aspect, according to Mr. Somasekharan. All farmers interested in joining the initiative can participate in the survey as can members of the public who have any valuable information to share. In order to identify and mark the best native trees, the help of Haritha Karma Sena, Kudumbashree, local libraries, environmental groups, clubs and farmers’ organisations will be sought. The Biodiversity Board functioning in grama panchayats will also be requested to help the programme. Farmers can send details of jackfruit trees that flower in October-November to the WhatsApp numbers 8129218246 and 9747245615 in order to join the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-to-identify-high-yielding-native-jackfruit-trees/article37732519.ece
28 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Senior accountant of treasury arrested||A senior accountant of the Kannur district treasury was arrested on Saturday on the charge of pilfering money from the treasury. Nithin Raj Chellattan from Kottali, who was arrested, had allegedly stolen Rs. 3.5 lakh in six transactions. The financial fraud came to light during a Vigilance inspection conducted at the treasury recently. Vigilance allegedly found that the senior accountant was behind the irregularity and had been carrying on with his illegal activity from 2016. The money received by beneficiaries under government schemes such as farm labour benefits, animal welfare funds and pay revision arrears of retired police officers were diverted to the accountant’s own accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-accountant-of-treasury-arrested/article37732521.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Tourists throng locales in Kochi suburbs||The break in heavy rain during the past weekend has resulted in guests returning to popular beach and other tourist destinations in the district. Sources in Kerala Tourism and Ernakulam DTPC attributed this to rain taking a break and relaxation of curbs in beaches. The Fort Kochi, Cherai and Munambam (which also hosts water sports) beaches are recording an increase in footfall. Other than beaches, tourist locales in the suburbs such as Ezhattumukom, Bhoothathankettu, and Thattekad are slowly becoming crowd pullers, they said. But near-normalcy is yet to return to water theme parks in the suburbs. “There was an increase in the number of visitors in September-October, when people began venturing out in large numbers. This trend halted in November when there was rain almost every other day,” said K. Ramachandran, general manager of a water theme park at Athirapilly. The demand for popular resorts and other accommodation units in the suburbs is slowly increasing, with many of them recording full room occupancy during weekends. The Ernakulam DTPC had tasked a Fort Kochi-based cultural arts centre with managing the infrastructure that it had readied in Bhoothathankettu, which includes a pair of cottages and tree-top houses. “The locale also has pedal boats, kayaking and forest trekking, for those on the lookout for activity. A vegetable garden there is maintained by members of Kudumbashree, while women from the locality ensure cleanliness of the locale,” said Sarita Babu, MD of the arts centre. With the conventional peak tourism season from December to January kicking in, stakeholders in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry are reasserting their demand that tourism and civic agencies roll out a master plan to develop the two popular heritage sites that attract a sizeable number of tourists.  The demand for popular resorts and other accommodation units in the suburbs is slowly increasing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourists-throng-locales-in-kochi-suburbs/article37732539.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,000 mangrove saplings planted in Njarakkal||About 50 students of the NSS unit of Cusat, the university’s Chemical Oceanographic department, Njarakkal panchayat and the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) planted about 1,000 mangrove saplings in Njarakkal panchayat on Saturday. Under KVK It was planted along a lake in an area under the Krishi Vigyan Kendra. The event was inaugurated by Njarakkal panchayat presdient P.T. Francis. G.D. Martin of Cusat’s Chemical Oceanographic department led the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1000-mangrove-saplings-planted-in-njarakkal/article37732545.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Concern over mediation attempts by police going wrong||The allegations against an inspector, who has since been suspended, in connection with the death of the young law student, Mofia Parveen, has yet again thrown light on the effectiveness, or rather the lack of it, of informal dispute resolution talks involving the parties concerned being regularly held at police stations across the State. The woman in her alleged suicide note had sought action against the inspector along with her husband and in-laws almost as a “death wish”, citing his rude behaviour after being summoned to the station in connection with a domestic violence petition she had filed. This is not the first attempted mediation role of the police going wrong. Earlier this year, the police had attempted something similar and declared as “settled” an issue of stalking, only for the alleged stalker to gun down a young dental student near her campus at Nellikuzhi near Kothamangalam before killing himself. “Such conciliatory talks should follow a proper protocol since policing demands the application of certain psychological principles, especially in cases related to dowry, domestic violence, and POCSO [Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act]. It is essential not to be judgemental and provide reassurance. Since it is not the forte of all, it is critical to handpick cops from every police station with the aptitude for mediation and counselling and give them training,” said noted psychiatrist C.J. John. He said that in domestic violence cases, where probable mental health issues were involved, police officers should have the good sense to seek professional help rather than trying something beyond their expertise, which could backfire. Conflict resolution The police have been successfully running a Domestic Conflict Resolution Centre since the surge in domestic violence cases after the onset of the pandemic. The centre works in all 14 districts under the Vanitha cell. “The centre has amicably settled 15,000 domestic violence cases of less severe nature. Police personnel with a high level of listening, empathising, and problem-solving skills are functioning in association with trained psychologists at these centres,” said P. Vijayan, Inspector General and Director of Social Policing. He said it would be ideal to have a social policing unit managed by officers with requisite skills in every police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-mediation-attempts-by-police-going-wrong/article37732764.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kudumbashree help desk logs over 600 domestic violence cases in three years||In what could be construed as a disturbing trend, Snehitha, the Kudumbashree’s round-the-clock gender help desk at Kakkanad, has logged over 200 domestic violence cases each in three successive financial years since 2018-19. This assumes significance in the wake of the recent death of a young law student who allegedly took her life citing, among other things, domestic violence. The number stood at 230 during 2018-19 before dropping to 202 in the year thereafter and then rose to 221 in 2020-21. Other avenues Though the number had dropped to 96 till October this year, Kudumbashree officials reminded that neither the rise nor drop in the number was a true reflection of the social evil, since it does not take into account cases reported through other avenues, including the District Women Protection Officer and the police. “A rise in cases is usually noticed whenever we conduct mass campaigns. While lack of awareness does hamper the cases reaching us, the general reluctance of victims to hanker after the proceedings may also be prompting them to suffer in silence rather than report,” said Shine T. Money, District Programme Manager (Gender), Kudumbashree. While the alleged apathy of the police in handling domestic violence cases has come into sharp focus, with the recent incident in which an Inspector stands suspended, the Kudumbashree authorities vouched that the police had been usually cooperative. “The police seem to have obvious limitations in taking into custody a man accused of domestic violence while under the influence of alcohol, especially during nights. The complainant may also backtrack in the morning once he is sober,” said Mr. Money. Temporary shelters Besides, victims of domestic violence are also found reluctant to lodge police complaints against their husbands. In many cases, Snehitha offers them temporary shelters even with their little children and influence them to lodge petitions. “We also get orders from the Women Protection Officer for the safe living of victims in their households and then get men violating those orders arrested,” said Mr. Money. Snehitha has two counsellors and five service providers who arrange for mediation, counselling, or legal aid in association with the District Legal Services Authority where the victims opt for divorce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-help-desk-logs-over-600-domestic-violence-cases-in-three-years/article37732559.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Headload workers hold self-respect meet||Trade union veteran and CITU leader Elamaram Kareem said here on Saturday that headload workers as a whole should not be blamed for isolated instances of wrong doing by some members. He said the workers did not support the practice of imposing “nokku kooli” or monetary compensation for notional works and that the workers should not be portrayed as anti-social elements. All trade unions had vowed that they would not impose “nokku kooli”, he said. He was speaking at a meeting to reiterate the self respect of the headload workers here on Saturday. He said the headload workers once belonged to the lowest strata of society. However, educated young people with great enthusiasm had taken up these jobs and the rights of the workers should be protected. It was in the background of their rights being questioned that trade unions had come together to reiterate their rights, said a communication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/headload-workers-hold-self-respect-meet/article37732541.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat plans research park to boost industry tie-ups||The Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) is planning to set up a state-of-the-art research park at an estimated cost of Rs. 43.5 crore.  Innovation hub The proposed facility aims to establish an innovation hub by building a strong industry-academia collaboration and promoting entrepreneurship. It will facilitate interactions between students and faculty members. It will also initiate engagements involving industry, national research and development organisations, and start-ups, according to the proposal drafted by the varsity authorities. The park will enable companies with research focus to set up base by leveraging the expertise of the varsity in various areas. It will promote research and development by offering a range of collaborative partnership models and extending help for new ventures. The park will offer a collaborative environment between industry and academia through joint research projects, consulting, and student internships. The facility is proposed as a 50,000 sq.ft. building constructed in 50 cents on the main campus of the varsity. It will have five floors of 10,000 sq.ft. each. The ground floor will have office space, conference halls, auditorium, and canteen. The first floor will have cubicles and meet-up space, fabrication laboratory, and research and development labs. The second floor will house the technology business incubator (TBI), and it will be reserved for new start-ups. The fourth and fifth floors will be earmarked for prominent companies to start their units or research and development labs. Of the total project outlay of Rs. 43.56 crore, Rs. 28.08 crore will be the capital cost, while the recurring cost will be Rs. 15.48 crore (for five years). The varsity has sought financial assistance from the Government, while it will provide the land. The project proposal said that a new or existing company looking for a built-up rental space to set up its unit collaborating with the varsity could utilise its facilities and qualified manpower. The TBI will provide a range of assistance, including technical guidance, prototype development, and business assistance for start-ups. A new or existing company can take up the technology developed by the varsity for commercialisation. The park will be managed by CUSATECH Foundation, an independent company formed under Section 8 of the Companies Act 1956.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-plans-research-park-to-boost-industry-tie-ups/article37732550.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Technical glitches continue to plague Kochi-1 card usage||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) and Axis Bank are facing flak for problems associated with Kochi-1 travel card usage, even as efforts are on to increase the footfall in the transport system. Much of the problems are associated with the uploading of KYC (Know Your Customer) documents to validate the card and mobile app, using which regular commuters get 20% discount and those who have availed monthly pass get 33% discount. Card renewal The problems have been compounded by hassles associated with the renewal of cards after their validity lapsed following the pandemic-induced lockdown, it is learnt. This has, over time, given impetus to the demand that the metro agency rope in yet another bank in the transaction process. “This will provide commuters an alternative to bank on. KMRL must also do away with paper tickets and issue tokens as is done in other metros,” said Ebenser Chullikkat, an RTI activist. Metro sources said the main complaint from card and app users was problem in uploading KYC documents, with the system rejecting applications where there were minor changes in signatures or photographs. “We have directed the bank to redress such technical issues within a specific time frame. Submission of KYC documents as per RBI norms is all the more important since commuters can also use the card as a debit card for commercial transactions,” they said. “We have noted the feedback from customers. We have simplified process for converting to full KYC account through e-KYC and paper-based KYC through Axis Bank branches and metro stations... We are working on further simplification within the regulations. We are working on the next version which will address the feedback noted. Both of these will be done by Q4 of financial year 2022,” said Sanjeev Moghe, executive vice president and head, Cards and Payments, Axis Bank. Over a lakh Kochi-1 cards have been distributed since 2017 when the metro’s Aluva-Palarivattom stretch was commissioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technical-glitches-continue-to-plague-kochi-1-card-usage/article37732552.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mofia’s death: prosecution opposes bail plea of accused||The bail plea filed by the accused in the death of law student Mofia Parveen was strongly opposed by the prosecution in the Aluva Judicial First Class Magistrate Court on Saturday. The police custody of the accused was necessary as the investigation team had to examine the house and surroundings of the accused in their presence while their mobile phones and documents regarding the marriage between the first accused and the victim also need to be recovered, the prosecution stated in objection of their bail. Mohammed Suhail, 27, the victim’s husband, Rukhiya Yousuf, 55, his mother, and Yousuf, 63, his father, were remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. They were arrested for charges under Sections 304B (dowry death), 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The report submitted by the investigation officer, DySP of the district Crime Branch, paints a damning indictment of the accused. It said that the accused had physically and mentally harassed the victim, demanding more dowry, following which she filed a petition at Aluva East police station. A reconciliation meeting at the police station to resolve the dispute proved a failure. The couple who got married in April this year in the presence of their families lived together for four months, during the course of which the victim was allegedly harassed with demand to get her parents to deliver more gold ornaments and purchase a plot, the report said. A demand was also made for Rs. 40 lakh for business purposes. The first accused then mentally harassed the victim by sending a registered notice pronouncing the first talaq on October 28. The husband’s mother allegedly treated her like a maid while the father accused her of being mentally unstable and filed a letter for divorce in the mosque, the report said. Filled with despair and dejected, the victim ended her life by hanging at her house at Edayapuram some time between 12 noon and 6 p.m. on November 22, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mofias-death-prosecution-opposes-bail-plea-of-accused/article37732554.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Military photo exhibition in city||The latest edition of the military photo exhibition jointly organised by the Ernakulam Press Club and the Southern Naval Command got under way at LuLu Mall at Edappally on Saturday. The exhibition was inaugurated by Hibi Eden, MP, and Rear Admiral Rajesh Dhankhar, Flag Officer Sea Training (FOST). Film director Major Ravi was the chief guest. A total of 97 photos taken by 39 photojournalists are on display at the exhibition. The naval band performed at the venue. The exhibition is set to end on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/military-photo-exhibition-in-city/article37732542.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy week: INS Dronacharya hosts senior citizens and children||The INS Dronacharya in Fort Kochi hosted residents from Good Hope Old Age Home and children from Ashwas Bhawan Orphanage on Saturday as part of Navy Week activities. A cultural programme was presented before them. A continuity drill display by trainees was widely appreciated. The programme was part of Navy’s community outreach activities, in which personnel of INS Dronacharya and members of Naval Wives’ Welfare Association took part. The activities included repair and cleaning of common areas, painting of periphery wall, and other maintenance work towards the upkeep of buildings. Both institutions were provided ration and other utility items as required by the residents. The guests were given a tour of the Naval Base and gunnery weapons at INS Dronacharya. Commodore V.Z. Job, Commanding Officer, INS Dronacharya, and officers and sailors interacted with them. A blood donation camp too was organised at INS Dronacharya in coordination with the Indian Medical Association on Friday. About 150 volunteers, including service personnel, defence civilians and families, donated blood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-week-ins-dronacharya-hosts-senior-citizens-and-children/article37732537.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police to blame for law student’s death: Satheesan||The denial of justice by the police, who were supposed to dispense it and their use of foul language against law student Mofia Parveen and her father left her hopeless, leading her to take the extreme step, said Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Saturday. He was talking to reporters after visiting the victim’s house at Edayapuram in Aluva on Saturday. The Congress’ relentless protests were not for the suspension of an inspector alone but to ensure that no girl would have to go through a similar ordeal. Mr. Satheesan alleged that though the inspector was said to have been removed from the charge of the station immediately after the incident, he had turned up the very next day as if nothing had happened. It was then that Anwar Sadat, MLA, launched the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-to-blame-for-law-students-death-satheesan/article37732556.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on charge of pawning spurious gold||The Thadiyittaparambu police on Saturday arrested a man on the charge of pawning spurious gold. The arrested was identified as Safeer, 40, of Marampilli. He had absconded after taking Rs. 1.65 lakh from a financial institution in South Vazhakkulam by allegedly pawning fake gold ornaments weighing 54 grams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-pawning-spurious-gold/article37732557.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One held for murder bid||The Maradu police on Saturday arrested a man on the charge of attempt to murder. The arrested was identified as Anilkumar, 38, of Panangad. He is accused of stabbing one Sunil, 44, of Chottanikkara, following a row within a private bus headed to Thripunithura from Ernkaulam on Friday afternoon. The accused allegedly harassed a woman inside the bus. The victim saw this and brought it to the notice of the conductor. This didn’t go down well with the accused, who picked a fight with the victim. Following this, the conductor evicted both from the bus. Then the accused followed the victim and then stabbed him multiple times on his neck and chest near the Vyttila metro station. His attempt to flee the scene was foiled by autorickshaw drivers in the area, who restrained him and handed him over to the Maradu police. The accused has multiple cases for drug peddling, assault, and attack at police station at Kadavanthra, Central, and Panangad. He was produced in court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-murder-bid/article37732555.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ensure ease of doing business, says T.N. Minister||Governments have to show their role, intention and administrative skill in ensuring a level-playing field for entrepreneurship, Palanivel Thiagarajan, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister, has said. He was speaking at the valedictory meet of the entrepreneurship meet TiEcon Kerala 2021. “The government has the definite role in developing basic hard infrastructure that facilitates and accelerates economic growth, including overseeing the development of soft infrastructure to improve quality of life. This is still a job simple to describe but hard to do and the administrative skill lies in doing it,” he said. “In so far as entrepreneurship is concerned, we should bear in mind that the role of government is limited to building the right ecosystem for excellence and encourage professionalism, ensure ease of doing business — reduce complexity and unnecessary regulations, without compromising standards and environmental benchmarks, and then get out of the way. We also have to provide safety net... for those entrepreneurs who go through difficulties,” he said. Ajit Moopan, president, TiE Kerala, said people needed to develop a friendly mindset towards entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-ease-of-doing-business-says-tn-minister/article37732546.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Transwoman found dead||A transwoman died after being hit by a train at Pulinchuvadu near Aluva in the early hours of Saturday. The deceased was identified as Thahira Ayees, 24, activist and model who also ran a start-up. The police suspect it to be a case of suicide. Sources said she had been upset since her partner died recently. She had reportedly left home around 7 p.m. on Friday after telling her parents that she was going to her workplace at Infopark in Kakkanad. The police said the cause of death could be confirmed only after receiving the autopsy report. If it turns out to be a suicide, then it would be fifth transperson to do so in the district this year. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on State’s health helpline 104, Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal - 0495-2760000 and DISHA – 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/transwoman-found-dead/article37732549.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Crime Branch gets custody of tailing car’s driver||The City Crime Branch probing the Chakkaraparambu car accident on Saturday received three days’ custody of Syju Thankachan, who was arrested on Friday in connection with the case. Three persons, including two models, lost their lives in the accident that occurred on November 1. Overspeeding Thankachan was arrested for allegedly stalking the victims of the ill-fated car in another car and thus abetting culpable homicide caused by overspeeding. He was taken to Hotel No 18 at Fort Kochi where he and the victims had attended a late night party, and along the route through which he had allegedly tailed the victims’ car. The police are also learnt to have seized Thankachan’s mobile phone. His bail petition is likely to be heard on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-branch-gets-custody-of-tailing-cars-driver/article37732553.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||BPCL privatisation move flayed||The proposed privatisation of Bharat Petroleum Corporation’s Kochi refinery would have long-term consequences for other industries in the State, said Elamaram Kareem, veteran CITU leader, here on Saturday. The refinery, which was running in profit, was being privatised at a time when other public sector companies were in financial trouble and faced serious problems. The move to privatise the refinery was against the interest of the nation, he said Mr. Kareem, addressing a public meeting organised at the Layam Ground in Thripunithura under the aegis of the Refinery Samrakshana Samithi, a combine of trade unions cutting across political differences, said that protests would be organised at the district and State levels under the aegis of political parties against the move. The divestment would also result in massive job losses, he said. He said voices had been raised in Parliament against the privatisation. Even permanent employees of the refinery were not getting their dues, he said. He expressed optimism that the protest by the workers would meet with success like the protest by farmers across India. A district-level hartal would be organised on March 23 next to protest against the privatisation. A Raj Bhavan march was among the protest actions planned during February, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bpcl-privatisation-move-flayed/article37732548.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala to move SC against RBI||The State Government will approach the Supreme Court against the regulations imposed on cooperative bodies by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan has said. The Government had opposed the recent circular issued by the RBI cautioning the public against cooperative societies that use the words ‘bank’, ‘banker’ or ‘banking’ as part of their names. The central bank had also noted that some cooperative societies are accepting deposits from non-members/nominal members/associate members, which is tantamount to conducting banking business in violation of the Banking Regulation Act. Mr. Vasavan said here on Saturday that the Government would write to the RBI explaining the special role and relevance of cooperative societies in the State. “The RBI's guidelines will adversely affect the interests of the State,” he said. The Minister said the Government would seek the support of other States that would be affected owing to the guidelines on cooperative societies issued by the RBI. “We will hold consultations with the Ministers of Cooperation in these States, besides sharing the State’s concerns with the Centre,” he said. The Government raised its opposition against the central bank after it issued an advisory to the members of the public stating that cooperative societies had neither been issued any licence under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, nor were they authorised for doing banking business. Further, insurance cover was also not available for deposits placed with these societies, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-to-move-sc-against-rbi/article37732560.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||SilverLine opposed||The SilverLine Virudha Janakeeya Samithi has said in a memorandum submitted to Chief Secretary V.P. Joy that Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) must stop laying boundary stones for the Thiruvananthapuram-Kasaragod semi-high speed railway corridor project till its social and environmental impact assessment reports are ready and the it obtained the Centre’s approval. On private land This was important since workers were entering private lands with police protection, measuring them and laying boundary/survey stones bearing the name KRDCL, without the permission of land owners. Those who protested were being intimidated, said S. Rajeevan, general convenor of the samithi. The Government Orders passed under the Kerala Survey and Boundaries Act did not empower the State to acquire land. The KRDCL was already in possession of SilverLine’s DPR which had not been published, and the project’s feasibility report. Alignment Moreover, the project’s alignment could change when more topographical and hydrological surveys were done. That would make the present boundary-stone laying process a futile exercise. Thus, entering private lands for measuring and laying boundary stones must be treated as an illegal act, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-halt-stone-laying-for-silverline-project/article37732543.ece
28 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Meet on percussion at MGU||Renowned musician Alleppey Ranganath will be accorded a felicitation at a national conference on ‘The Science of Percussion’ organised by the Inter University Center for Studies in Music (IUCSSM) under Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, on December 16 and 17. Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomnas will inaugurate the event on December 16. State Planning Board member B. Ekbal will be the special guest. Parasala Ravi (mridangam), Chandrasekhara Sharma (ghatam), Vijay Nadesan, Manoj Kurur and Ratnasree Iyer will speak on various topics. Various sessions The sessions will be followed by a concert from 6.30 p.m. to 8 p.m. The sessions on December 17 will be led by Thripunithura Krishnadas (intermediate), Vijay Nadesan, V.K.K. Hariharan (mizhav), Kottayam Muraleedharan (morshang), and Alappuzha Vijayakumar (thakil). Eminent musician Thiruvizha Jayashankar will be honoured at the valedictory session. For registration and more details, visit www.mgu.ac.in or contact jayachandrank@mgu.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-on-percussion-at-mgu/article37732594.ece
28 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||At home on the field, ensuring gender equity||The days are gone when women labourers, armed with sickles and spirited by an ageless array of folk songs, used to swarm the polders of North and Upper Kuttanad during harvest seasons. Over the years, machines began replacing them as the face of paddy farming across the region. The constraints in adapting to the farming equipment have driven the women away from these fields, limiting their roles mostly to homestead cultivation. Amidst this diminishing role of women in modern-day farming, 41-year-old Shini Vinod stands tall as a farmworker. The first and arguably the only woman who operates a paddy harvest machine, she has been the cynosure of all eyes ever since harvesting of ‘the punja crop’ took off across the polder networks of Kottayam in the second half of November. Demonstrator A native of North Paravur, near Ernakulam, Ms. Vinod has been to fields on harvesting machines for four years now. An active Kudumbasree worker, Ms. Vinod underwent training in the operation of farm equipment along with six other women in 2013 and has also worked as a demonstrator of these equipment on behalf of the State Agricultural Department. Ms. Vinod was drafted to the farming operations here in view of an acute shortage of machines and workers. “I usually enter the field once the sun goes up and the moisture content on the paddy evaporates, and work until 7 p.m.. The department has fixed my wage as Rs. 300 per hour while the polder collectives have offered me accommodation,” she said. But with the intermittent showers playing a spoilsport, this mother of two has chosen not to stay back here after work for the time being. Gender bias According to Ms. Vinod, the biggest hurdle women faces in engaging with the farm machines is the gender bias in their design. “Operating these machines requires upper body strength. My body gets fully exhausted. The advent of Japanese machines, however, has made things much easier,” noted Ms. Vinod. Beena George, principal agriculture officer, Kottayam, said the entry of Ms. Vinod into farm equipment operation augured well. “Let there be more women who follow in her footsteps,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-home-on-the-field-ensuring-gender-equity/article37732614.ece
28 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Agriculture Minister assures farmers of support||Agriculture Minister P. Prasad here on Saturday sought to assure farmers that the Government was committed to standing by them in times of climate-related eventualities. Inaugurating a workshop on farming restoration organised by the Meenachillar-Meenantharayar-Kodurar river relinking programme, Mr. Prasad said the Government would explore all possibilities including provisions of the Disaster Management Act to render assistance to farmers in the State. Lauding the river-relinking programme for successfully turning 5,000 acres of fallow land cultivable, the Minister said the Government would always back those farmers who were willing to cultivate the land for agricultural crops and not with those farmers intent on leaving the land fallow. Kottayam district panchayat president Nirmala Jimmy presided over the meeting. River relinking programme coordinator K. Anil Kumar presented the project document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/agriculture-minister-assures-farmers-of-support/article37732606.ece
28 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Police chatbot to help public make complaints hands-free||The Kozhikode unit of the Kerala Police Cyerdome has introduced a user-friendly chatbot service, Kerala Police Assistant, to help the public submit complaints hands-free using Google Assistant. On Saturday, Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas launched the innovative chatbot service, which can be explored using the wake-up command, ‘talk to Kerala Police’, after enabling the voice assistant feature on the mobile phone. Inspector General of Police (North Zone) Ashok Yadav, District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George, and Deputy Commissioner of Police Swapnil M. Mahajan were present at the inaugural demonstration. Officials at the Police Cyberdome said the chatbot would help anyone access the services of the Kerala Police without installing any special purpose apps or browsers. By pronouncing ‘talk to Kerala Police’ in Google Assistant, one can access services hands-free in the most convenient and quickest way, they said. According to the technical team behind the initiative, the chatbot service helps users locate nearby police stations and file complaints on noticing crimes like chain snatching, child abuse, sexual harassment, and rash driving. Besides, it will be a convenient tool for the differently abled who depend on voice-assisted search for information gathering, they said. Senior police officers said it was a proud moment for the Kozhikode Police Cyberdome. Cyberdome officers S. Niyas, S. Nighil, O. Sujith, T. Ashwin, K. Abhilash, P. Sivakumar, and K.S. Srikhil were among those who teamed up with IT experts to implement the project. Cyberdome volunteers Shabeeh Bin Shakkir and Sree Lal extended technical support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-chatbot-to-help-public-make-complaints-hands-free/article37732533.ece
28 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML panel to meet next month||The working committee of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) will meet next month to endorse the decisions of a high-level council of the party that has recommended action against some leaders for the poor performance in the Assembly polls. The council which met in Kozhikode on Saturday recommended strong action in segments where serious campaign flaws and shoddy coordination at the grassroots had been reported during the run-up to the polls. Versions to be heard Party State general secretary P.M.A. Salam told mediapersons that the working committee would meet in Kozhikode on December 20. However, deliberations would be held with the local leadership in the areas where differences of opinion had cropped up within the party. The versions of those facing action would also be heard, he said. The council felt that serious problems had been detected in constituencies where party candidates were routed. At some places, the campaign machinery was weakened. Faulty electioneering Earlier, several candidates had apprised the party leadership of the faulty electioneering work. The leadership meeting examined in detail the report of the national leaders who had suggested to strengthen the party in all the districts. Facing the Assembly elections without resolving the disputes in the three-tier local body polls had also backfired in many places, the leadership felt. Mr. Salam attributed the defeat of the candidates of the United Democratic Front (UDF) to the communal polarisation created by the Left parties. This had led to the defeat of IUML nominees in Kalamassery, Azhikode, Kuttiyadi and Kozhikode South segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-panel-to-meet-next-month/article37732520.ece
28 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Cyberpark start-up gets Malta funding||The Government Cyberpark-based IT start-up Intpurple, which developed an Artificial Intelligence-driven healthcare software, has received funding from the Government of Malta in Europe. Malta’s economic development agency Malta Enterprise will invest an undisclosed amount in the company for further research and development of its product Felixacare. It will also support Intpurple to set up an office and research centre at Gozo Innovation Hub in Malta, a press release said here. The funds provided by the Maltese Government will be used for research, purchase of equipment and payment of staff, said Sahir Kungancheri, founder and chief executive officer of Intpurple. Felixacare is a state-of-the-art technology that facilitates follow-up care of permanent patients, treatment at home, and constant monitoring. “With this, doctors can make the right decision quickly and significantly reduce unnecessary costs for patients,” Mr. Sahir said. The healthcare software developed by Intpurple will also be used at a Government-run hospital in Malta, he added. At present, many palliative care units in Kerala are using this software to provide services to bedridden patients at home. Sahir started Intpurple in February 2020 at Mukkom in Kozhikode along with his friends Fasalurahman Ambalangadan and Haroon Elayidath. The company has 12 employees. Felixacare was born out of the idea of how to ensure the best healthcare for patients with the help AI during emergency situations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyberpark-start-up-gets-malta-funding/article37732526.ece
28 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mothers join hands to help special children break barriers||As the mother of a five-year-old, Rahmath Nazeer was fed up with the standard answer from even experienced doctors when asked about her daughter’s condition. They said the child with Down Syndrome and heart ailments may not survive for long. But the mother in Rahmath believed that proper therapy and attention could help her child lead a normal life. Thus she joined hands with others with similar experience, and Angels Group was formed. Having launched a physical training programme for children with conditions like cerebral palsy, autism, and Down Syndrome in Kozhikode on Friday, Rahmath feels her dream is not so far-fetched after all. “I had been in contact with parents of many children with similar conditions, and they were unanimous in their view that hospitals and doctors generally did not offer hope when it came to such children. I felt the need to do something in my capacity and thus decided to organise physical training sessions to start with,” Rahmath told The Hindu . Learning about the way such children are trained in many foreign countries, including the UAE, was a turning point for her. “These conditions take a greater toll on mothers, who often shrink into their own shells. They cannot take their children to social events, and hence, they choose to stay away from them. This is a wrong attitude,” Rahmath said. According to her, children with special needs should be allowed to mingle with others and join activities to improve their mental capacity. She cited the example of her daughter who likes to dance and learn lyrics. “It requires patience. These kids may be hyper-active. But we need to understand them and tolerate their behaviour,” she said, adding that being forced to coop up in their homes during the pandemic had an adverse impact on them. On Friday, a group of 18 children and their parents assembled on a football turf at Kolathara where a coach was ready to train them. They had some warm-up exercises and minor sessions in running and long jump, which they actively took part in. The event was inaugurated by specially abled children who overcame their problems. “Our greatest worry is that there is no facility in the State to take care of children like ours, once they turn mature. That is when they should be given vocational training,” Rahmath said. She urged the State Government to set up therapy centres in all panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mothers-join-hands-to-help-special-children-break-barriers/article37732527.ece
28 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||High-level probe sought into unnatural deaths||A family in the city has sought a high-level investigation into the unnatural death of two women, including an elderly one, with the claim that they were planned murders. The complainant is a woman from the coastal Puthiyappa, whose daughter Cheriyapurayil Saranya, died of severe burns recently. The woman filed the complaint with the Vellayil police following the suspicious death of her daughter’s relative, Janaki as well, whose body was recovered from a well. Both the incidents took place within a span of nine days, the complainant said. The mother and her family members also claimed that Janaki was aware of the reasons behind Saranya’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-level-probe-sought-into-unnatural-deaths/article37732531.ece
28 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man booked on charge of assaulting wife||The Nadakkavu police on Saturday arrested a man who allegedly assaulted his wife after an argument with her on the road near Ashokapuram. Nidheesh, the suspect in the incident, was charged under Section 307 (punishment for attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The woman was attacked while she was working at her fish stall in the area. According to the police, the man turned aggressive after she declined to give him Rs. 2,000 as demanded by him. He allegedly threw stones at her and made an attempt to strangle her. He also threatened to throw acid on her face, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-booked-on-charge-of-assaulting-wife/article37732525.ece
28 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Call to start work on Ammathottil||The Kozhikode District Development Council has suggested that work on ‘Ammathottil’, the electronic cradle of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare, begin at the earliest. At a meeting here on Saturday, it was pointed out that the superintending engineer of the Kozhikode Corporation had sanctioned Rs. 202.3 lakh for the work. A fresh proposal will be submitted soon, the District Women and Child Development Officer said. V.R. Rajendran, Principal, Government Medical College, Kozhikode, said work had begun on a second oxygen generator plant at the hospital. A revised proposal for the master plan for the development of the Government General Hospital, Kozhikode, has been given to the Health Department and the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy said all local bodies should participate in the LIFE Mission survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-start-work-on-ammathottil/article37732528.ece
28 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Training for hygiene protocol||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation has kick-started the implementation of its hygiene protocol through a two-day training programme for the councillors as well as heads of various departments. The training session began at the Regional Science Centre in the city on Saturday. Mayor Beena Philip inaugurated the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-for-hygiene-protocol/article37732530.ece
28 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Recurrence of POCSO cases against teacher exposes systemic failure||The booking of a physically challenged Government primary school teacher for the third time on the charge of sexually abusing his children in different schools in the district has exposed the State’s systemic failure in protecting the rights of the children. Experts who handle children’s issues in the State, including Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights member Nazeer Chaliyam, chorused that if the State had a strong policy or guideline, many primary children could have been saved from being abused by the same predator. Mr. Nazeer told The Hindu that he had insisted on keeping aside the accused for longer periods from interacting with children in several cases of sexual abuse. “But what we seriously lack is a policy in this matter. As is practised elsewhere, including several Western countries, the accused person in such cases should not be allowed to interact with children any further,” he said. Policy rethink must Mr. Nazeer said the Government, especially the Education Department, should have a serious rethink its policy of reinstating teachers and other employees accused of sexually exploiting children. Arun B. Nair, associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry at Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, said studies had indicated that sexual abuse of boys in the State was much more than what had been reported, and that many cases were going undetected and unreported. Dr. Arun, who had done several studies among children, said boys were becoming increasingly soft targets for sexual abuse. “In 80% of cases, we are having accidental discoveries. And sadly, in most cases, parents refuse to report fearing social stigma,” he said. Although the State’s law enforcement system is good enough to handle recurrence of sexual abuse, some flaws in the existing system have been found to be leading to its recurrence. Dr. Arun said the teacher arrested under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for the third time was a classic example. “In most other countries, he would not have been allowed to interact with the children again. Such abusers should be kept away from children,” said Dr. Arun. Childline officials said even if exonerated once, a teacher booked under POCSO for aggravated sexual offence should not be allowed to teach again. Instead, they can be accommodated in some other posts in offices where they do not get to interact with children.  Government should rethink reinstating teachers accused of sexually exploiting children||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pocso-cases-against-teacher-exposes-systemic-failure/article37732524.ece
28 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Showdown over elephant deaths||The tragic death of three elephants on the railway track in the Tamil Nadu forest region on Friday night led to a dramatic showdown between the officials of Railways and the Tamil Nadu Forest Department on Saturday. When the Tamil Nadu Forest officials detained the two loco pilots of the Mangalore-Chennai Mail which had hit the elephant herd, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) here rounded up a Tamil Nadu Forest Department team that had reached Palakkad Junction Railway Station to investigate the elephant deaths. A four-member Tamil Nadu Forest team led by senior officer Ramasubramaniam had reached the accident spot near Walayar and taken possession of the loco engine’s electronic chip that could help find the speed of the train when it mowed down the elephants. ‘High speed’ of train The forest officials had accused the Railways of high speed as a reason for the tragedy. In a tit-for-tat action, the RPF detained the forest officials at the Palakkad Junction railway station when the team reached there for decoding the loco engine’s electronic chip. The Railway officials found that the forest team had illegally taken possession of the loco chip. The face-off led to discussions between higher officials of the Railway and the Tamil Nadu Forest Department. The forest officials were forced to surrender the loco engine chip they illegally collected and also to let go of the two loco pilots they detained in Tamil Nadu before the RPF released them. Railway officials, meanwhile, denied the claim of the Tamil Nadu Forest Department that the train was going at a high speed at the time of the accident. They said the train was going below 45 km per hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/showdown-over-elephant-deaths/article37732716.ece
28 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Restoration of rooms begins at Sannidhanam||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has started the repair and restoration of rooms at the Sabarimala Sannidhanam as part of a proposal to permit stay of pilgrims. It has also initiated a clean-up drive at different locations where pilgrims will be allowed to lay ‘viri.’ The restoration of about 500 rooms is nearing completion. The hilltop has space to accommodate about 17,000 people at a time. With COVID-19 guidelines in place, the majority of the TDB infrastructure at the Sannidhanam, including rooms for pilgrims, has been lying idle since March last year. Meanwhile, a review meeting convened by Arjun Pandian, Sabarimala Additional District Magistrate, here on Saturday discussed the arrangements to be put in place at the Bhasmakulam pond. A decision with regard to regulating the queue of pilgrims in front of counters for Neyyabhishakom too was made. The work carried out on the Neelimala-Marakkoottam route was examined. In view of a sharp rise in pilgrim arrivals, the authorities have arranged more toilet facilities for devotees at Nilackal and Pampa. The police have brought the entire pilgrimage zone under a network of 76 CCTV cameras. Braving the downpour, pilgrims have turned up in large numbers since the season began. Health Minister Veena George inaugurated the Sabarimala hub at the Pathanamathitta Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus station here on Thursday, along with a medical aid post and a Kudumbashree canteen. Sixty five buses have been set aside for operating the Pampa chain services. No RT-PCR for children The State has now allowed children to go on Sabarimala pilgrimage without the RT-PCR test. The latest order by the Health and Family Welfare Department states that parents are accountable for the health issues of their children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restoration-of-rooms-begins-at-sannidhanam/article37732616.ece
28 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Dalit groups to stage protest||Bishop Geevarghese Mor Coorilos will inaugurate a 48-hour protest by various Dalit-Adivasi organisations demanding implementation of the Chengara package in front of the Pathanamthitta collectorate on November 29. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan will inaugurate a meeting to be held in this connection. Dalit leader Sreeraman Koyyon will preside. Former Planning Board member C.P. John will inaugurate the valedictory session at 10 a.m on December 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dalit-groups-to-stage-protest/article37732605.ece
28 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala Tourism to launch STREET project soon||In a pioneering initiative to take tourism deep into the State’s interiors and rural hinterland, Kerala Tourism will launch a project named STREET in select spots in seven districts. This would help visitors experience the diversity of offerings in these locales. The project, conceived by the Responsible Tourism Mission, is inspired by the ‘Tourism for Inclusive Growth’ slogan of the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO). STREET is an acronym for Sustainable, Tangible, Responsible, Experiential, Ethnic, Tourism hubs, an official statement said here on Saturday. In the first phase, the project would be implemented in Kadalundi in Kozhikode, Thrithala and Pattithara in Palakkad, Pinarayi and Ancharakkandi in Kannur, Maravanthuruthu and Manchira in Kottayam, Valiyaparamba in Kasaragod, Kanthallur in Idukki and Chekadi in Wayanad. Green street, cultural street, village life experience street, experiential tourism street, agritourism street, water street and art street are the themes that have been planned as part of the project. These streets will be in tune with the peculiarities of each of these locations and would focus on experiential tourism. Growth potential Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said the project offers a huge potential for growth in the tourism sector and would usher in significant changes. “It aims to present the unique identity of our State before travellers. It will foster mutually beneficial organic relationships between tourism development in the State and the ordinary lives of people,” he added. In PPP mode The STREET project would be implemented in the public-private partnership (PPP) mode and would have local bodies and residents of these locations as stakeholders. Joint venture projects with local bodies have also been envisaged. In every chosen location at least three such streets would come up. V Venu, Additional Chief Secretary, Tourism, said the project is envisaged as a model for decentralised tourism development, and it would help bring little-known rural destinations to the mainstream and create more jobs. The STREET project would have a time frame of four years for implementation. Around 1,000 local units connected to the sector would also be set up as part of the project. Separate projects under the scheme for enterprises by women and other marginalised communities and in sectors like agritourism have also been envisaged, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-tourism-to-launch-street/article37732596.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SI suspended||V. Thulaseedharan Nair, a sub-inspector attached to the Mangalapuram police station, who allegedly refused to register a case against a notorious criminal and let him off on station bail, was suspended for dereliction of official responsibilities. Sanjaykumar Gurudin, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range, issued the suspension order on a Special Branch inquiry that found Mr. Nair guilty of misconduct. Case in question The disciplinary action was taken in connection with a brutal attack on Puthenthope native Anas by a three-member gang, led by habitual offender Faizal of Masthanmukku in Kaniyapuram, during the late hours of November 21. Despite suffering grievous injuries, the victim approached the Kadinamkulam police. Though he was later referred to the Mangalapuram police, under whose jurisdiction the incident took place, the officer refused to register a first information report (FIR) claiming that the area came under the jurisdiction of the Kadinamkulam police. The Mangalapuram police bowed to public pressure a day later after a footage of the assault sparked outrage. In spite of the serious nature of the attack, Faizal was called to the station and let off on bail after booking him under “weak” charges. The action by the police team headed by Mr. Nair was despite the accused having a warrant in his name for cases, including murder attempt. The police also insinuated that Anas could have sustained the injury after falling from his two-wheeler under the influence of alcohol. No proper probe In his order, Mr. Gurudin, who visited the Mangalapuram police station a day ago, noted that officer had not made any effort to register a case despite the petitioner having visited the station thrice. Besides, the accused was released on bail without conducting a proper investigation in the case as well as his criminal antecedents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/si-suspended/article37732753.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Repair of damaged roads ordered||Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister G.R. Anil has instructed the district authorities to complete the pending repair of damaged roads in the districts on a war footing. The deplorable plight of roads in various parts of the district came up for discussion at a meeting of the District Development Council held online on Saturday. Other legislators in the district flagged the condition of stretches unfit for vehicular movement. In view of such demands, District Collector Navjot Khosa ordered the officials concerned to undertake the repair work in a time-bound manner. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Anil called for steps to appoint a nursing assistant at the Kannakode primary health centre in Vembayam grama panchayat. He stressed the need to increase the number of bus services plying in the panchayat. I.B. Satheesh, MLA, demanded steps to expedite the proposed development works in Kattakada town. G. Stephen, who represents the Aruvikkara constituency, urged the intervention of the Forest Department in mitigating wild animal intrusions into inhabited areas in Vithura by establishing fences and elephant trenches. He also called for urgent steps to boost Internet connectivity in forest fringe areas to enable children to access online classes. Repair of houses sought Vamanapuram MLA D.K. Murali urged urgent steps to repair the houses in the tribal colony at Pottamavu. He told the officials concerned to ensure the timely conduct of bus services to the Upper Sanatorium in Ponmudi. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, sought greater coordination among officials of the Revenue and Public Works Departments in undertaking the Vattiyurkavu junction development project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/repair-of-damaged-roads-ordered/article37732754.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SHRC orders probe into suspected organ racket||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered a probe into the alleged organ racket that is suspected to have been preying on the coastal community in Vizhinjam and nearby places. Commission chairman Antony Dominic directed the District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) and District Medical Officer to probe reports of women being coerced to donate their kidneys for monetary gains in order to settle their debts. Media reports The order was issued on the basis of a petition by Kottukal native Aneesh Maniyan who highlighted various media reports that raised the possibility of organ mafia to operate in the region. The complaint alleged at least 16 people, mostly women, are known to have sold their kidneys in Kottapuram and Vizhinjam. They are suspected to have sold their organs for surgeries conducted in private hospitals in Ernakulam and Thrissur. The complainant claimed the racketeers exploited the financial difficulties of families, mostly those residing in rented houses. The intervention by the commission comes a day after the Vizhinjam police arrested one man for assaulting his wife and children after she refused to donate her kidney.  Racketeers exploiting financial difficulties of families in Vizhinjam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-orders-probe-into-suspected-organ-racket/article37732755.ece
28 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF wrongly claiming credit for eradicating poverty, says Chandy||Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government had wrongly claimed credit for eradicating poverty in Kerala. Mr. Chandy’s reaction came against the backdrop of the NITI Ayog’s report that 0.71& of Kerala’s population was multidimensionally poor. The National Multidimensional Poverty Index (NMPI) had said Kerala registered a low count on almost all the parameters of deprivation concerning child and adolescent mortality (0.19%), maternal health (1.73%), years of schooling (1.78%), school attendance (0.3), and sanitation (1.1). The deprivation parameters regarding nutrition, cooking fuel, sanitation, drinking water, electricity, housing, assets and bank accounts also had the State scoring low. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had reacted to the NMPI report by stating: “Our unwavering commitment to social welfare is reflected in this achievement that will be a huge boost to our efforts to eradicate extreme poverty”. Mr. Chandy said the NMPI report was based on the findings of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) conducted in 2015-16 when the Congress-led United Democratic Front was in power. The NITI Ayog had also said it would publish an updated index based on the 2019-20 NFHS. Mr. Vijayan might have inadvertently misread the report. Free ration The UDF Government had given ration free, and its Karunya scheme made modern treatment affordable for disadvantaged families. The UDF’s accent on child nutrition and poverty eradication had aided Kerala climb out of deprivation, he said.  ‘National Multidimensional Poverty Index used data of survey of 2015-16 when UDF was in power’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-wrongly-claiming-credit-says-chandy/article37732610.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tanya Savichevayude Katha released||Tanya Savichevayude Katha (The Story of Tanya Savicheva), the Malayalam biography of a Russian girl whose short diary brings to life the horrors of the Siege of Leningrad during World War II, was released here on Friday. Enlarged pages from the diary were on display at the Russian House (formerly Russian Cultural Centre), the publisher of the work. The book release event opened with Russian children reading from the pages of the diary. The biography, which goes into Tanya’s life in detail and also carries rare photographs from the siege, has been written by Ratheesh C. Nair, Honorary Consul of Russia in Thiruvananthapuram. 80th anniversary The year 2021 marks the 80th anniversary of the start of the Great Patriotic War (following the German invasion of the Soviet Union). Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian released the book by handing over a copy to former Ambassador T.P. Sreenivasan. Humankind had not learned its lessons from the sufferings gifted by the two World Wars. Crores died in World War II that ushered in sweeping geopolitical changes. Ten lakh people died in the Siege of Leningrad (presentday St Petersburg) by the invading German forces, Mr. Cherian said. Tanya’s diary contains only the details of the deaths of her family members. But it sufficed to illustrate the misery and despair of the children caught in the war, he said. The Minister added that it was our duty to protect the younger generation from the ravages of war and terrorism. The Soviet triumph over Germans led to the Allied victory in the War, Mr. Sreenivasan said. However, Soviet Union lost 2.7 crore lives, he pointed out. Russian House assistant director Kavitha Nair presided. Janayugam Editor Rajaji Mathew Thomas, poet Rosemary, and Ratheesh C. Nair, spoke. Tanya did not survive the war. But her diary, which runs into just nine pages, was recovered by her sister and is today preserved at the St Petersburg History Museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tanya-savichevayude-katha-released/article37732598.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Supplyco mobile units to tour all districts soon||Mobile outlets of Supplyco will tour all districts soon with subsidised commodities as part of the market intervention programmes aimed at tackling price rise, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil said on Saturday. The mobile outlets will be inaugurated in Thiruvananthapuram on November 30. The scheme will be implemented in rest of the districts soon. Five mobile outlets will tour each district for two days. On a given day, a vehicle will cover at least five points in a taluk, Mr. Anil said. “Priority will be given to coastal areas, hilly regions, tribal hamlets, isolated localities, and places that lack Supplyco outlets.” The Supplyco will collect essential commodities that are sold at subsidised rates in 52 depots under five regions. Arrangements have been made for making available essential items, barring red cowpea whose production is down, he said, warning traders of action if they engage in artificially jacking up prices of essential commodities. The Legal Metrology Department will launch inspections to check overpricing of commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplyco-mobile-units-to-tour-all-districts-soon/article37732621.ece
28 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Research initiatives to be given impetus: Veena||Research initiatives in government medical colleges in the State would be given due impetus, Health Minister Veena George said here on Friday. The Government will examine what measures can be taken to improve research by medical colleges, the Health Minister said while inaugurating a workshop on how research can be improved in government medical colleges, organised by the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Alumni Association There are many doctors, alumni of medical colleges, who are engaged in serious medical research and it could be explored whether they can collaborate with research initiatives here, Ms. George added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/research-to-get-priority-veena/article37732599.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Bank plans drive to improve efficiency||Kerala Bank, which is turning two years old, is launching a ‘Be the Number One’ campaign to improve its efficiency and quality of service. This year’s campaign will be on from November 29 to March 31. The aim is to transform the bank into the number one bank in the State. Minister’s Trophies will be presented to the best branch, credit processing centre and regional office at the State level. Cash awards The district with the best performance stands to win a cash award of Rs. 3 lakh, the best branch at the State level, Rs. 2 lakh, and the best branch at the district level, Rs. 50,000. Parameters including reduction in non-performing assets, growth in business and deposits, growth in current account savings account (CASA) deposits, loan disbursement and development activities will be considered for the award, a release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-bank-to-launch-campaign/article37732600.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Former MCH security guard found dead||In a suspected suicide bid, a 39-year-old man was found hanging in his house at Mannanthala on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Jins Joseph. The police shifted the body to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) after completing inquest proceedings. Jins is known to have worked as a security guard at the medical college until recently. Appointed through the National Health Mission, he was a member of the COVID-19 Brigade that was disbanded recently. His relatives alleged that he had not been remunerated for his services despite several pleas. Financial hardships are suspected to have led him to take the extreme step. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471 – 2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-mch-security-guard-found-dead/article37732758.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||786 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 786 COVID-19 cases and 866 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 7,181 on Saturday. A test positivity rate of 10.6% has been recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/786-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article37732756.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CEE extends deadline for submitting NEET scores||The Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) has extended the deadline for submitting the NEET–UG 2021 scores for the preparation of rank lists for admissions to medical and medical-allied courses including MBBS, MDS, Ayurveda (BAMS), and Homoeopathy (BHMS), to November 30 at 5 p.m. Candidates warned Candidates who failed to submit the scores within the stipulated time would not be considered for preparation of rank lists, an official release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cee-extends-deadline-for-submitting-neet-scores/article37732757.ece
28 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,741 new cases in State||Kerala reported 4,741 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 54,309 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 51,29,359 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 39,679 with the State adding 554 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. These includes 28 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 526 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths. The State’s active case pool is declining rapidly and now has 48,501 patients. A total of 5,144 persons have recovered. Only 7.4% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals. Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 797, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 786, Thrissur 509, Kottayam 369, Kozhikode 506, Kollam 380, Kottayam 357, Kannur 287, Malappuram 207, Palakkad 198, Idukki 172, Pathanamthitta 164, Alappuzha 152, Wayanad 131 and Kasaragod 95.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4741-new-cases-in-state/article37732619.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Plus One results declared||The results of the higher secondary Plus One and first year Vocational Higher Secondary examinations held a month ago amid legal hurdles, stringent COVID-19 restrictions, and inclement weather were published on Saturday. Over four lakh students had appeared for the exams. General Education Minister V. Sivankutty announced the declaration in a Facebook post. The deadline provided to students for submitting applications for revaluation, scrutiny and copies (upon payment of Rs. 500, Rs. 100 and Rs. 300) of answer scripts is December 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-results-declared/article37732620.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to present film awards tomorrow||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will present the Kerala State Film Awards 2020 at a function to be held at the Nishagandhi auditorium here on November 29 at 6 p.m. Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian will preside over the function. A total of 48 awards will be presented at the function, including the awards for best actors Jayasoorya and Anna Ben, and director Sidhartha Siva and Geo Baby, the director of the best film. Industries Minister P.Rajeeve will release a book detailing the awards for the year by presenting a copy to Agriculture Minister P.Prasad. Poster release Minister for General Education V.Sivankutty will release the poster of the International Documentary and Short Film Festival of Kerala (IDSFFK), to be held from December 9 to 14, by handing over a copy to Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-present-film-awards-tomorrow/article37732601.ece
28 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Congress, BJP slam Attappady deaths||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have slammed the Government for the “recurrent death of infants” in the Attappady tribal settlement. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, MLA, said on Saturday that malnutrition and lack of medical attention were the prime causes. The recent deaths reflected the cruel apathy of the Government to indigent tribal people in the forested locality. Mr. Chennithala said four children had died within a week in Attappady. In the past year, 11 children had died. Different government departments were locked in a blame game over the deaths. Mr. Chennithala said the Government should compensate the parents of the deceased children. BJP State president K. Surendran said child mortality was characteristic of impoverished nations, and Kerala seemed no different. He accused the Government of diverting Central funds for tribal welfare. He said malnutrition and lack of medical supervision dogged Attappady tribals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-bjp-slam-attappady-deaths/article37732713.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LSGIs told to assess People’s Plan||Local self-governments across the State have been told to assess the progress of the People’s Plan in the past 25 years and come up with a status report ahead of the preparation of the 14th Five-year Plan, which is set to begin from April 1 next year. The assessment of the People’s Plan experiences are meant to identify the lacunae in preparing the plans for the years ahead. Committees to be recast The planning committees and working groups will be reconstituted as part of the preparatory work for the 14th Five-year Plan. Local bodies have been asked to include experts who are keen to get involved in local development in the planning committees and working groups, which will have to be reconstituted before December 10. The first job of the reconstituted committees will be to prepare the status report of the People’s Plan in the past 25 years in the respective local body. For this purpose, the local bodies will also have to ensure the participation of former people’s representatives and officials. The status report will have to identify the issues and possible remedies in each area. It will have to do a comparative study of various developmental indicators in the specific local body in 1996, when the people’s plan was launched, to the present.  The development plan made during the 9th Five-year Plan is expected to come in handy for this purpose. The committees will have to study and document the major interventions made in various areas and the changes brought about through these. Gaps in development also have to be identified. The committees and working groups will also have to revise the developmental plan, to reflect the aspirations for the next five years. The local bodies are expected to include special action plans to tackle natural disasters arising out of climate change. They will also have to focus on creating jobs at the local level, doubling farmers’ income, steps to promote entrepreneurship, improvement of service delivery, poverty alleviation, and waste management. Increasing revenue The local bodies have to come up with a plan to increase revenues. The entire process of preparing the status report and the revised development plan is expected to be completed by January 20 next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/peoples-plan-being-assessed/article37732608.ece
28 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Second Kuthiran tunnel by next year||The second tunnel at Kuthiran will be opened early next year, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. The Minister reviewed the progress of works on Saturday. He also reviewed the regulations on the stretch from Vazhukkumpara to Kuthiran. Necessary changes would be made in traffic regulations imposed in the last three days to avoid traffic congestion. District Collector Haritha V. Kumar and Thrissur City Police Commissioner R. Aditya accompanied the Minister. The first tunnel road at Kuthiran has been witnessing severe traffic block after two-way traffic was allowed There is a suggestion to remove soil dumped at the Vazhukkumpara junction to widen the road. There is a plan to block goods vehicles during peak hours from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. on the Thrissur-Palakkad highway. Discussions Discussions will be held with District Collectors and higher police officers of Ernakulam and Palakkad districts in this regard. The two-way traffic was started on the first tunnel road as the old road had to be reconstructed to make the approach road to the second tunnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuthiran-second-tunnel-will-be-opened-next-year/article37732607.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A tired rework of an old formula||As far as allegories go, Nithin Renji Panicker likes to play it straight. The introduction of Thamban (Suresh Gopi), the central character in Kaaval , happens through one such scene. We see him tending to the tender, injured legs of a chick, which then slowly starts to walk. An eagle flies above, with eyes set on its prey on the ground. Thamban looks up in slow motion, twirls his moustache and stares at the eagle, which flies away scared, apparently having seen the stare from half a mile away. The scary background score makes way for a pleasant one, as Thamban looks lovingly at the chick, now walking without any fear. The entire movie is essentially about Thamban playing this elderly protector to the children (Evan, Anil, and Rachel David) of his old friend Antony (Renji Panicker). Violent history Now, the Thamban-Antony duo have quite a violent history, as they used to run a parallel justice delivery system in the high range village. The oppressed used to run to them to settle their issues, with the police firmly in the pockets of some rich rowdies. The duo seem to hold contempt for every other kind of avenue to get justice, including trade unions, as is evident in one of Thamban’s dialogues. Their muscle might is the only available form of hope in that village, in their world-view. Nithin, who made his filmmaking debut with the horrible Kasaba , which was lambasted for the way it portrayed its women characters, seems to have learned some lessons in political correctness from that misadventure, for Kaaval is quite clean compared to that. But, when it comes to the filmmaking part, it still harks back to the glory days of the all-protective superstar films of the 1990s. Even in that respect, Kaaval happens to be a pale shadow, with a sombre, depressing mood all through, which is peppered with a few “mass” scenes to satisfy the star’s fan’s. As if the scriptwriter was unsure of whether the audience will be sufficiently excited by this, there are references to yesteryear hits like Commissioner thrown in. There is an eagerness on the part of the scriptwriter to follow by the book all the usual tropes of a movie of this kind, with hardly any attempt being made to bring in a fresh element. The ‘accidents’, the attacks, and the counter-attacks all can be predicted from miles away, only that the laboured pace of the movie makes them arrive much later than when we expect them to. ‘Comeback’ film Although touted in some quarters as Suresh Gopi’s ‘comeback’ film, he had a much better comeback recently in Varane Avashyamund . In Kaaval , he gets an almost one-note character. Kaaval might have worked a couple of decades ago, but much water has flowed since that time. Now, it appears as a tired rework of an old formula, and the movie itself seems to be an allegory of this fact. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-tired-rework-of-an-old-formula/article37732593.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hunger pangs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hunger-pangs/article37732518.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Clarification||In the report titled “Scuffle between staff and SFI activists at Calicut University” that appeared in these columns on November 26, it was mentioned that “Calicut University Employees’ Centre (CUEC), a pro-RSS organisation representing university employees, alleged that the SFI activists had beaten up one of their members”. The CUEC functionaries have clarified that none of their members were beaten up in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clarification/article37732529.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Buying from Tenkasi||“There are nine FPOs in Tenkasi, of which four deal with vegetables. Tamil Nadu officials have agreed to arrange a collection point for us,” Mr. Sajeev said. Skyrocketing prices prompted the Agriculture Department to entrust Horticorp with direct purchase from farmers in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Under this initiative, 34.5 tonnes of vegetables arived on Friday and 44 tonnes, on Saturday. Vegetable prices dropped further here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/buying-from-tenkasi/article37732622.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival colours||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-colours/article37732763.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wait continues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wait-continues/article37731972.ece
28 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Input subsidy will be given to farmers for damaged crops: Botcha||The State government will provide an input subsidy for all the crops, damaged during the rain in the current month, as it was not possible to enumerate and register ‘crop booking’ on the government portal before December 15 to get the benefit of Prime Minister’s Fasal Beema Yojana, district in-charge and Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana has said. At a press conference here on Saturday, Mr. Botcha Satyanarayana highlighted lack of crop-booking data required to pay the insurance premium and compensation. R&B Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana, District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan Uravakonda MLA and PAC Chairman Payyavula Keshav were also present at the meet. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy also seconded the decision to provide input subsidy instead of taking up the prolonged process of the PM Fasal Beema Yojana. As per the estimates available with the district administration, as many as 53,000 hectares of crops were damaged in the district. Officials would submit the damage assessment report to the District Collector within five days. “Once the damage assessment report is received, the government will take a decision on the quantum of input subsidy in consultation with agriculture department officers,” the Minister added. Bengal gram, groundnut and chillies were the worst-affected crops, officials at the meeting said and added that in place of providing subsidised seeds for sowing again, monetary compensation was better. About 1.5 lakh hectares of Bengal gram and chillies were sown in rabi. Overall 2,153 houses were partially damaged and all of them were given Rs. 5,000 each as compensation and owners of 159 fully damaged houses were given Rs. 95,000 per house. In addition to the financial aid, they would also be given assistance in building a new house. Kin of all 7 persons, who died in the Kadiri house collapse, were given Rs. 5 lakh each, the Minister said. Out of 4,230 km R&B roads in the district, 231 km of roads were either fully or partially damaged for which Rs. 200 crore would be required, Mr. Botcha Satyanarayana said. At least 52 culverts and causeways were also damaged and Rs. 37 crore was needed to restore them. Minister’s assurance to CUAP students The Minister also promised to get the issue of Central University of Andhra Pradesh students, who had been protesting for the last two days over the non-construction of the hostels for boys and girls, resolved immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/input-subsidy-will-be-given-to-farmers-for-damaged-crops-botcha/article37732007.ece
28 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No personal remarks were uttered: Botcha||There are no comments on record made by anyone in the Assembly regarding Nara Bhuvaneswari, said Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana on Tuesday. “Some people shouted something that did not go on record because it was not clearly audible, and it is unbecoming of a former Chief Minister to make it an issue,” Mr. Satyanarayana opined. At a press conference held to review the flood damage in the district, the Municipal Administration Minister said that he did not wish to comment on TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu breaking down at a press conference. “He should have remembered to show the same respect towards women when his party members commented on MLA Roja during his tenure as Chief Minister. Nobody in the Assembly commented on Ms. Bhuvaneswari, and disrespect towards women is something that is not tolerable,” the Minister asserted. The Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government is giving women all opportunities in public life, he said. Mr. Naidu’s offer to get houses registered free of cost was laughable, the Minister said, questioning why he did not do so during his 14-year tenure as Chief Minister. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has offered registration of all B/D Form pattas for houses and sites given from 1983 or Indiramma or Rajiv Gruhakalpa free of cost but has proposed a one-time payment of Rs. 10,000 to provide a full house in that plot, he added.  He should have remembered to show the same respect towards women when his party members commented on MLA Roja during his tenure as Chief Minister Botcha Satyanarayana MA&UD Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-personal-remarks-were-uttered-botcha/article37732698.ece
28 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die in road accident in Anantapur||Two persons died on the spot and four others were injured when a car hit a lorry trailer at N.S. Gate on National Highway-44 in Anantapur district on Saturday. According to Chennekothapalli sub-inspector K. Sridhar, the car rammed into the rear portion of the lorry trailer when its driver reportedly applied breaks all of a sudden. The deceased have been identified as Peslavath Swamy(38) and his wife Peslavath Shankaramma(35) hailing from Mylavaram in Nagarkurnool district (Telangana). Four out of danger The four injured are out of danger and have been admitted to the Government General Hospital in Anantapur for treatment, the SI added. The incident took place when they were proceeding to Hindupur to attend a function. The police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-in-road-accident-in-anantapur/article37732008.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru/Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. wants House panel probe into tender scam||With the BJP Government unlikely to order a judicial probe into the allegations of the Karnataka State Contractors’ Association on payment of kickbacks of up to 40% of the project cost to government officers and elected representatives to get their dues cleared, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar has now demanded the constitution of a committee of both the Houses of the legislature to ensure transparency in the probe. The Congress had demanded a probe from a Supreme Court judge into the alleged tender scam in the State. “However, the State Government will not order a judicial probe. Let them order the probe from the House committee with the ruling party legislator as its chairman and a majority of its members,” said Mr. Shivakumar. During session Mr. Shivakumar said the party would expose the alleged tender scam in the coming session of the State legislature next month. He demanded that the Government order probe into tender works executed during the last 10 years, which included the Congress, JD(S)-Congress coalition, and BJP Governments, to punish those who looted the public money. In July, the contractors’ association wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that contractors in the State were forced to pay a bribe of up to 40% of the project cost to government officers and elected representatives to get their dues cleared in departments such as Public Works, Major and Minor Irrigation, and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Engineering, and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. Following Chief Minister’s instructions, Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar has now asked heads of major departments to scrutinise tenders and conduct inquiry into any irregularities reported in the tendering process. Speaking in Mysuru on Saturday, the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah dismissed the probe by secretaries of the respective departments as an “eyewash”. He too said that the probe could cover the previous Congress regime if the ruling BJP so wished. The BJP Government was free to bring even his tenure between 2013 and 2018 under the ambit of the probe, he said. However, he insisted that only a judicial inquiry by a Supreme Court judge could bring the guilty to book. The president of the contractors’ association, which is a registered body having more than one lakh members, had not only written a letter to the Prime Minister, but had also addressed a press conference on the issue, he said. Referring to the demand by BJP leaders that such corruption was prevalent even during his regime as Chief Minister, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the contractors’ association had not written any such letter during his tenure. The former Chief Minister, who is also the Congress Legislature Party leader, said the Congress had met Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot and demanded the dismissal of the BJP Government. ‘PM should intervene’ “It is a fit case for invoking Article 356 of the Indian Constitution and imposing the President’s rule. This Government is not eligible to remain in power,” he claimed, before adding that the Prime Minister to whom the association had complained too should act by either dismissing the Government or atleast order a judicial probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-cong-wants-house-panel-probe-into-tender-scam/article37731960.ece
28 November 2021||Bhimavaram (West Godavari),ANDHRA PRADESH||SRKR Eng. College girls land plum jobs||Duram Sri Siva Gayatri Devi, a final year student from the ECE Department and Sireesha Buurgual, a CSE final year student from the SRKR Engineering College here, have landed plum jobs in Amazon with a salary package of Rs. 44 lakh per annum. College principal M. Jagapathi Raju said the two girls were selected for the jobs in an online placement drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srkr-eng-college-girls-land-plum-jobs/article37732776.ece
28 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stalin meets Governor over NEET Bill||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin called on Governor R.N. Ravi at Raj Bhavan on Saturday and urged him to send the NEET Bill to the President immediately for his assent. In September this year, the Assembly passed the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021, to provide admission to undergraduate medical courses on the basis of the marks obtained in Class XII through ‘normalisation methods’ as was done before 2017. The Bill was tabled after a committee, headed by the retired High Court judge, A.K. Rajan, concluded that NEET “clearly undermined” the diverse social representation in MBBS and higher medical studies, favouring mainly the affluent sections, and that if it continued for a few more years, the State’s healthcare system would be badly affected. Two similar pieces of legislation, passed by the Assembly during the previous AIADMK government, did not get the President’s assent. Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Principal Secretary in the Chief Minister’s Office T. Udhayachandran and Officer on Special Duty in the Health Department P. Senthil Kumar accompanied the Chief Minister. A release from the the Raj Bhavan said Mr. Stalin met the Governor to discuss the steps taken by the Government after the incessant rain and the status of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stalin-meets-governor-over-neet/article37732285.ece
28 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rayalacheruvu tank safe, says TUDA chief||Tirupati Urban Development Authority (TUDA) chairman and Chandragiri MLA Chevireddi Bhaskar Reddy on Saturday said that the Rayalacheruvu tank in Ramachandrapuram mandal was safe, and appealed to the people of villages at the down-reaches to return to their houses. The district administration had evacuated hundreds of families and shifted them to rehabilitation centres after a leak was found in the bund of the tank following heavy rain last week. Work under way The MLA, who camped at the tank zone, oversaw the works to plug the leak. Thousands of cement bags were dumped at the site to accomplish the task. An IAF helicopter was also deployed to provide meals to the stranded people in marooned villages. He thanked Tirumala Tirupati Devathanams (TTD) and Bharti Cements for supplying the cement bags. Special puja On Saturday, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy performed special pujas at the tank. “In future, foolproof plan would be in place to permanently prevent leakages to the tank. We are constantly monitoring inflows, and already drained out 4,000 cusecs of flood waters and brought down the water level by 4-foot,” Mr. Bhaskar Reddy said. Meanwhile, the body of a Tirupati resident was traced at the Cotton Mill area on the Renigunta road on Saturday. The deceased had gone missing on November 18 after heavy floods ravaged Tirupati. After a week-long search operation, the body was finally traced by the NDRF teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rayalacheruvu-tank-safe-says-tuda-chief/article37732009.ece
28 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ugandan national held in New Delhi for online fraud||The Nagari police from the district on Friday night arrested a Ugandan national, identified as Nelson Hoglar alias John (30), from an apartment at Rajpur Khurd locality in New Delhi on the charges of extracting Rs. 13 lakh from a 27-year-old woman from Nagari town, who works as a Sangamitra programme volunteer. Deputy SP (Puttur) T.D. Yashwant told The Hindu that in October last year, the woman received an online communique asking her to deposit Rs. 15,000 to redeem a Rs. 2.5 crore lottery she had won. She made an online deposit as instructed. Till June 2021, the woman had deposited a total of Rs. 13 lakh into various accounts as required by the accused. “Each time, the accused reportedly used to confuse the woman with deadlines for making an online payment, jumping of which would result in the woman losing her previous deposits. As this trick worked, it led to a series of online payments from the victim,” the police officer said. A special police party from Nagari rushed to New Delhi and arrested the accused in coordination with the Delhi police. It took the police four hours to enter the premises where the accused was residing. “Our police broke open the gate lock to gain entry into their portion. A laptop and some mobile phones were seized. ,” the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ugandan-national-held-in-new-delhi-for-online-fraud/article37732705.ece
28 November 2021||COIMBATORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Loco pilots booked for elephant deaths||The Forest Department on Saturday registered a case against the two loco pilots of the train that knocked down three elephants near Walayar in Coimbatore district on Friday night. Main loco pilot M.T. Subair, of Kozhikode, and assistant loco pilot M.C. Akhil, of Thrissur, were booked under Section 9 of the Wildlife Protection Act. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj said the loco pilots were released after their statements were recorded and they undertook to cooperate in the investigation in future. He said a Forest Department team from Coimbatore was sent to Palakkad to get the microchip of the speed recorder of the locomotive. “I have been in constant touch with senior officers of the Indian Railways throughout, and we are going to reach out to them and others to prevent such accidents in future,” he said. Preliminary investigation .Conservator of Forests S. Ramasubramanian said the case was registered after preliminary investigation. The Mangaluru-Chennai Express (12602) hit three three elephants on the A line between Walayar and Ettimadai around 9 p.m. on Friday. A senior official told The Hindu that preliminary findings showed the loco pilots had operated the train “negligently” on the stretch. It was a straight track and they could have seen the elephants moving on the side, the official said. “The Railways is extending its best cooperation to the Forest Department. Investigation is in progress. At the moment there is no evidence supporting the claim of negligence on the part of the loco pilots. It is being discussed only as a possibility,” Southern Railway said in reply to a tweet on the Forest Department’s decision to register a case against the loco pilots. The Palakkad Division of Southern Railway said the train was running within the restricted speed limit when the accident took place. It said speed restriction was in place on the stretch where the train hit the elephants. The loco pilot who operated the train told officials that the train was running at 42 kmph, said a source in the Division. The Division said a permanent speed restriction of 45 kmph is imposed on 13.9 km of the vulnerable section on the A line. The lines A and B connect Kanjikode in Kerala and Ettimadai in Tamil Nadu. While trains bound for Palakkad are generally run on the A line, those bound for Coimbatore are run on the B line. The train that hit the elephants was, however, operated on the A line because of the movement of another train on the B line. Forest veterinarians A. Sukumar and Rajesh Kumar autopsied the carcasses of the elephants: a female elephant aged around 25, a ‘makna’ (tuskless male) aged around 15, and female calf aged around six. Tension prevailed at the MEMU Shed, Palakkad, when a five-member team of the Forest Department from Coimbatore, which visited the shed for investigation, was picketed by members of railway unions and association of loco pilots. The Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, along with the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and a few other outfits, staged a protest here on Saturday evening, condemning the picketing of the team. Kazhagam general secretary Ku. Ramakrishnan said the protest was to condemn the treatment meted out to the Forest Department officials. ( With inputs from Karthik Madhavan )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/loco-pilots-booked-for-elephant-deaths/article37732308.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t raise paddy, Telangana tells farmers||A day after the Union government made it clear to the State government that it would not procure parboiled rice from Telangana from this year with an advice against cultivating paddy this rabi season, the State government has given a call to the farming community against taking up paddy cultivation in rabi. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar along with Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy held a video conference on Saturday with all District Collectors, Superintendents of Police, Commissioners of Police, Additional Collectors, District Agriculture Officers, District Supply Officers and others on procurement of paddy pertaining to the recent kharif season and on educating farmers against taking up paddy cultivation this rabi season. The Chief Secretary explained that the Union Government represented by Food Corporation of India (FCI) had decided not to procure parboiled rice from Telangana from now on. He however stated that paddy grown in Telangana in Yasangi (rabi) season was suitable only for processing as parboiled rice due to the local seasonal conditions. As a result, it had become imperative to the farming community not take up paddy cultivation in rabi. However, farmers who have tie-up either with seed companies or rice millers could cultivate paddy in rabi. Besides, farmers could also raise the crop for self-consumption or at their own risk. On the ongoing exercise of procurement of paddy produce in kharif, the Chief Secretary told the officials to speed up procurement. He told the District Collectors to ensure the procurement exercise happens smoothly and told them to take decision on opening paddy procurement centres (PPCs) as per requirement. He also told the Collectors and other senior officers to visit PPCs regularly to resolve issues, if any. No from other States The Chief Secretary also cautioned the officials against allowing paddy from the neighbouring States stating that certain instances of paddy from other States coming to PPCs were noticed already. He instructed the Collectors, SPs and CPs to ensure that no outside paddy is purchased/produced in Telangana PPCs. He said allowing paddy from other States at PPCs in Telangana would be against the interests of the State’s farmers. He also stated that the Centre had indicated about lifting only 40 lakh tonnes of raw rice of the recent kharif season. On milling of paddy purchased at PPCs, the Chief Secretary told the Collectors to speed up milling of paddy to process it as custom milled rice (CMR). It is also important to dispatch CMR immediately after processing to ensure that there is no shortage of space for paddy stock coming from PPCs. KCR to brief party MPs Meanwhile, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will discuss the refusal of Centre to buy paddy from the State in the ongoing rabi at a meeting of the parliamentary party of TRS on Sunday, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dont-raise-paddy-telangana-tells-farmers/article37732229.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyderabad Mahindra varsity shut||The Mahindra University has closed its Hyderabad campus for physical classes after 30 students and staff were found COVID positive. Students have been asked to vacate hostels and go home to take online classes. Those who tested positive have been kept in isolation. The entire semester is likely to be held online as authorities have taken up sanitising the campus, according to a student who joined the law course recently. Students claimed that about 1,700 were tested for the virus and about 30 were detected with infection. Though most of the students have taken two doses of vaccination, the problem was with new students who arrived recently. They were either not vaccinated at all or have taken a single dose. Lot of students are under 18 years of age and have not taken any dose. The university is in Bahadurpally on the outskirts of Hyderabad and the District Medical and Health Officer concerned has visited it to take stock of the situation. The university is promoted by Tech Mahindra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hyderabad-mahindra-varsity-shut/article37731963.ece
28 November 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP pegs flood loss in Kadapa at Rs. 1,221 crore||Kadapa MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy on Saturday informed the Inter-ministerial Central team, which was on a two-day inspection of flood-devastated areas in the district, that the unexpected floods had wreaked damage of Rs. 1,221 crore. The MP said that standing agriculture and horticulture crops in 80,000 hectares bore the brunt of the incessant rains, while Panchayat Raj roads were heavily damaged. The farmers who went in for paddy, onions, and cotton crops were left helpless following the inundation of crops in vast stretches. The MP said that the bridges of Kamalapuram, Jammalamadugu, and Addalamarri were also damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-pegs-flood-loss-in-kadapa-at-rs-1221-crore/article37732699.ece
28 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. to seek share in Balimela water from Odisha||The Andhra Pradesh State government is preparing to make a request to Odisha for utilisation of its share of the Balimela reservoir water to meet the irrigation needs of the Godavari delta for the rabi season. The existing Andhra-Odisha water-sharing pact on the Balimela reservoir entitles Andhra Pradesh to draw 50% of water. Located in Odisha’s Malkangiri district in the Sileru river system, the reservoir’s capacity is 96 tmcft. “At present 47 tmcft of water is available in the Balimela reservoir. We can draw up to 22 tmcft for irrigation purpose in the Godavari delta during rabi 2021-22,” said Irrigation Circle (Dowleswaram) Superintending Engineer B. Rambabu. On Monday (November 29), the Irrigation Advisory Board (IAB-East Godavari) will finalise the proposal regarding the request to be made to the Odisha government. The IAB will also appeal to the APGENCO to release 4,000 cusecs per day from the Sileru project for irrigation needs without impacting its hydropower production. The APGENCO will be urged to supply water for 90 days from January. Godavari delta In the Godavari Eastern, Central, and Western Delta, the total requirement of water for irrigation (rabi season) and drinking needs is 90.22 tmcft. The total rabi acreage is 8.96 lakh in the delta (4.36 lakh in East Godavari and 4.60 lakh in West Godavari). More than 74% of the area is likely to be irrigated in rabi, according to irrigation officials. “Every possibility is being explored to meet the irrigation needs in the Godavari delta for rabi 2021-22. Water will be drawn from all the sources, including the Polavaram project, the Sileru project, and the Yeleswaram reservoir,” East Godavari Zilla Parishad Chairman Vipparthi Venu Gopala Rao told The Hindu.  The quantity of water to be released from the Polavaram project site will be finalised during the IAB meeting. “We are coordinating with the officials of the West Godavari district for sharing of irrigation water for the rabi. An action plan will be finalised during the IAB meeting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-to-seek-share-in-balimela-water-from-odisha/article37732701.ece
28 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tenant farmers promised compensation for crop damage||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu has promised to ensure compensation to tenant farmers for the crops damaged during the recent rains, even if they did not have the Crop Cultivator Right Card (CCRC). The tenant farmer gets the CCRC card with the consent of the landowner to be able to claim benefits from the State and Central governments and sell the yield. On Saturday, Mr. Kannababu inspected the paddy fields in Kothapeta mandal in the Konaseema region, where paddy in the fields got damaged after getting soaked in rainwater for many days. The Minister interacted with the farmers, officials, and public representatives. “From the government end, every tenant farmer will be offered compensation for the damaged crops irrespective of the CCRC. The process is still in progress to assess the extent of crop damage,” he said. The Minister appealed to landowners to consider waiving some part of lease amount for kharif, to help tenant farmers withstand the devastation caused by the rains across the State. Action plan The Minister said that the encroachment of canal banks for various purposes, including aquaculture, remains the prime reason for the flooding of fields in the Konaseema region. An action plan would be implemented to remove the encroachments in summer, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tenant-farmers-promised-compensation-for-crop-damage/article37732707.ece
28 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja plantation on AOB destroyed||Ganja crop in 10 acres on the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border was removed and burnt in the fields located in the forests of Y. Ramavaram mandal in Chintoor agency of East Godavari district on Saturday. The estimated worth of the ganja crop destroyed in the raid is Rs. 2.5 crore. Chintoor ASP G. Krishnakanth along with Special Enforcement Bureau (Sand and Liquor) Assistant Commissioner M. Jayaraju and local people took part in the raid as part of ‘Parivarthana’, an anti-ganja initiative. “We have raided the ganja plantation spread in a 10-acre site near Sinduvada and Buradavada villages in Chintoor agency. The local communities have participated in the raid and destroyed the plantation,” said Mr. Krishnakanth. ‘Help police’ He appealed to the tribal communities to help the police to put a check on the ganja trade cycle in the agency. The officials from the Forest and Revenue departments also accompanied the police during the raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-plantation-on-aob-destroyed/article37732709.ece
28 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vatican intervenes in row over mode of Mass||The Congregation for the Oriental Churches in the Vatican has intervened to maintain the status quo in the celebration of the holy Mass in the Major Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly of the Syro-Malabar Church. A letter from the congregation, addressed to Archbishop Mar Antony Kariyil, says as Metropolitan Vicar, the archbishop could dispense with any decision that would “result in grave consequences” with the implementation on November 28, 2021 of a synodal decision concerning the holy Qurbana (Mass). What the circular seems to imply is the major archdiocese can continue with the present system of the Mass being celebrated with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation (westward) for the entire duration of the Mass instead of the decision of the synod of bishops of the Syro-Malabar Church in August for a uniform system of celebrating the Mass with the celebrant facing the congregation for the first half (the liturgy of the Word) and facing eastward (the liturgy of the Eucharist) for the second half. The uniform system was to come into effect on the first Sunday of the new liturgical calendar beginning November 28. It is also the first Sunday of the Advent season. Cardinal’s stance However, Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, Major Archbishop, said in a statement on Saturday that no communication had been received from the Vatican regarding the stay on the synodal decision. He expects all dioceses of the Church to implement the synodal decision on uniform Mass celebration. Mar Alencherry will celebrate the Sunday Mass at the Church headquarters at Mount St. Thomas, Kakkanad, Kochi, according to the unified Mass system, said an official communication from the archdiocese. The synodal decision has caused unrest among a section of the priests and the faithful in the archdiocese where the Mass is now celebrated with the celebrant facing the congregation throughout the ceremony. The community favouring the system says it would protest against the decision on Sunday. However, the letter from the Vatican has resulted in the protest being called off. Decision welcomed Father Kuriakose Mundadan, a senior priest of the major archdiocese, is among those who have welcomed the decision which came after Mar Kariyil met Pope Francis and Cardinal Leonardo Sandri, head of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches, and the Vatican State Secretary early this week. Riju Kanjookkaran, leader of the Almaya Munnettam, an organisation calling for more transparency in Church administration, has welcomed the decision and calls it a positive one. He says the decision would help cement unity in the community. The letter from Cardinal Sandri, Prefect of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches, also calls upon Mar Kariyil to convey to the Major Archbishop and the synod at its scheduled meeting in January 2022 the difficulties that would arise if the decision on implementing the uniform Mass code is imposed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vatican-intervenes-in-row-over-mode-of-mass/article37731964.ece
28 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Classify rain damage as national disaster’||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna, after a visit to Kadapa, Anantapur, and Kurnool districts to assess flood damage, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday seeking financial assistance from the Centre to overcome the heavy loss by recognising the rain-induced damage as a ‘national disaster’. “Four districts in Andhra Pradesh have been hit hard by heavy rains and floods on November 18 and 19, causing crop damage of over two lakh hectares. Two dams, ponds, and canals were severely damaged leading to the death of 60 persons and leaving many homeless,” Mr. Ramakrishna wrote, requesting that a Union Minister be deputed to assess the damages first-hand instead of sending a Central officers’ team to the affected areas. In all, 1,402 villages in 196 mandals and four towns were severely affected and several highways, irrigation tanks and canals were breached or damaged in Kadapa, Chittoor, Anantapur, and Nellore districts, he wrote. The worst-affected were the farmers as crops like paddy, Bengal gram, black gram, cotton, groundnut, and sugarcane which were ready for harvesting were damaged. The loss to the farmers has been estimated at Rs. 6,054.29 crore and roads measuring 1,900 km in Nellore, Kadapa, Chittoor, and Anantapur districts were damaged, the CPI leader said, adding that hundreds of houses, electricity feeders, sub-stations and distribution lines, pipelines, drains, school buildings and community centres in municipalities were also damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/classify-rain-damage-as-national-disaster/article37732702.ece
28 November 2021||MYSURU/Hubballi,ANDHRA PRADESH||62 test positive in two Mysuru colleges||More than 60 students from two nursing colleges in Mysuru have tested positive for COVID-19 during tests conducted about a week ago. Officials from the District Health and Family Welfare Department said the students, who had tested positive, in the two separate cluster outbreaks, been isolated in the district hospital. Meanwhile, at SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital at Dharwad, with 77 more medical college students testing positive for COVID-19, the total tally rose to 281. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who took stock of the situation on Saturday through a video conference, asked to shut down the OPD (Out Patient Department) at the hospital till Monday and declare the entire campus a containment zone.  At Mysuru, the students were tested about a week ago as part of the random testing taken up by the health officials in educational institutions. All the 380 students at Cauvery Nursing College in Alanahalli and 250 students of St Joseph’s College of Nursing in Bannimantap were tested. “A total of 62 students from both the colleges had tested positive,” Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham told The Hindu.  While the students who tested positive were isolated in the district hospital, those who had tested negative during the initial test were subjected to re-testing after seven days. “All of them tested negative again,” said an official. Though some of the students, who had tested positive, were also showing symptoms of COVID-19 like cold and fever, there was no need for alarm. The students, aged between 18 and 22, had also informed the officials that they had been vaccinated. Most of the students had taken both the doses. The students, including the ones from outside the State, who are staying in the hostel, had denied they had any recent travel history when asked by the officials. Officials said such cluster outbreaks would be commonly reported from hostels, colleges, schools and jathres. Students stable Meanwhile, addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that students of SDM College were doing well. He clarified that the health of all those who had tested positive was stable. Of the 281 COVID-19-positive persons, 25 were health staff including 14 doctors. However barring six persons, all others were asymptomatic and none required oxygen support. He said that people had been asked to exercise extreme caution in the wake of the sudden spurt on the medical college campus and avoid cultural and social gatherings. Although there was no restriction on holding marriages and other functions, the government will soon come out with fresh guidelines to contain the infection from spreading, he said. Mr. Patil said that on the campus that sees a total of 3,500 persons, the swab collection process had been expedited by deploying eleven teams. The swabs of patients and health staff were being collected and the test results of 1,800 persons were awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-than-60-test-positive-in-two-nursing-colleges-in-mysuru/article37731962.ece
28 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers continue march amid rain||Incessant rain was no deterrent for the farmers from Amaravati who continued their ‘court-to-temple’ long march to Tirupati, demanding that the YSR Congress Party Government shelve the capital trifurcation decision and retain Amaravati as the sole capital of the State. People expressed solidarity with the farmers when the latter offered prayers at the centuries-old Barashaheed Dargah, which draws pilgrims cutting across religious lines during ‘Rotella Pandaga’. Leading the march, Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti Convenor A. Siva Reddy said the government should take note that people from Rayalaseema and north coastal Andhra Pradesh too extended support to their protracted struggle. The government, which reversed several of its decisions including the abolition of the Legislative Council, should give up its capital trifurcation decision as well, samiti co-convenor G. Tirupati Rao said at the time of conclusion of the mahapadayatra at Amancharla vilalge on the city outskirts. Women farmers from the 29 villages in the capital region evoked a good response from Nellorians, samiti leader Rayapatti Sailaja said. “We rejoice when an announcement is made on location of a steel plant in Rayalaseema. We fully back the struggle against privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) as it is a pride of Andhra Pradesh,” she explained. TDP leaders Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy, Beeda Ravichandra and Abdul Azeez, Progressive Democratic Front leader in Legislative Council Vitapu Balasubrahmanyam, BJP State unit Spokesman K.Anjaneya Reddy and Jana Sena Party Nellore in-charge K.Vinod Reddy, Communist Party of India District Secretary Ch.Prabhakar and CPI(M) State Committee member Madala Venkateswarlu joined the padayatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-continue-march-amid-rain/article37732005.ece
28 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special courses at Andhra Kesari varsity||The Andhra Kesari University is planning to introduce special courses, on the lines of National Institute of Education Planning and Administration in New Delhi, said University Officer on Special Duty K.V.N.Raju. Decks had been cleared for the full-fledged functioning of the university with the State Legislative Assembly and the Council adopting resolutions in the recent session sanctioning Rs. 340 crore, including Rs. 204 crore in the first phase for creation of 114 posts and 19 different courses, he told a media conference on Saturday. Some of the new courses are: Education Leadership and Management, Educational and Counselling Psychology, Adult Continuing Education and Extension, and Rural Development and Women Empowerment. New campus The university, which presently offers ten traditional courses, would move to a new campus at Pernamitta in the new academic year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-courses-at-andhra-kesari-varsity/article37732010.ece
28 November 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alarm over infant deaths in Attappady||An action plan for the tribespeople of Attappady will be chalked out soon to prevent recurrence of infant deaths owing to malnutrition. The Government has asked the District Collector and the District Medical Officer (DMO) to submit separate comprehensive reports about the circumstances that led to recent deaths of infants in Attappady. Minister for the Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Communities K. Radhakrishnan and Minister for Health Veena George on Saturday visited the families of infants who died in different tribal hamlets of Attappady due to malnutrition and sickle cell anaemia. Micro-level plan When Ms. George said the Government was viewing the spurt in infant deaths with utmost concern, Mr. Radhakrishnan said a special nodal officer would be appointed for Attappady. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the issues being faced by each tribal hamlet of Attappady would be examined with a micro-level plan. The Government Tribal Specialty Hospital at Kottathara, Attappady, would be upgraded, he said. Addressing an emergency review meeting held at Agali, Attappady, on Saturday, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that making the tribal community self-reliant would be the only way out to address their woes. Awareness campaigns against sickle cell anaemia would be launched in Attappady. “There should not be a circumstance in which even a single child is denied treatment,” he said. According to Mr. Radhakrishnan, the Tribal Department would bear the cost of upgrading the Tribal Specialty Hospital. Facilities including intensive care units would be introduced and the posts of vacant paramedical staff would be filled. The number of beds at the hospital would be raised to 100. “We are planning in such a way as to address the woes of Attappady in two years,” he said. Monitoring panel A monitoring committee would be appointed for Attappady, and the committee would meet every three months. This panel could convene any emergency meeting to address developing issues in the hill area. Quoting the Health Minister, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that an expert team would soon be sent to Attappady to study the situation there. Mobile ration shop service would be expanded in Attappady, and teams of health workers would increase their visits to the hamlets. Kudumbasree and Supplyco would soon sanction Rs. 1 crore each for Attappady, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alarm-over-infant-deaths-in-attappady/article37731968.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala plans direct purchase of vegetables from T.N.||Kerala is looking at direct purchases from farmers at Tenkasi in Tamil Nadu in a bid to further bring down vegetables prices. Vegetable consignments have started arriving in the State from Tirunelveli and Mysuru from Thursday onwards under a market intervention programme launched by the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp). Horticorp managing director J. Sajeev held preliminary discussions with officials of the Tamil Nadu Agriculture Department in Tenkasi district on Friday. Meeting on Dec. 2 A high-level meeting is likely to be held on December 2 with officials and representatives of farmer producer organisations (FPO) to finalise a decision. “There are nine FPOs in Tenkasi district, of which four deal with vegetables. Tamil Nadu officials have agreed to arrange a collection point for us,” Mr. Sajeev said. Skyrocketing prices had prompted the Kerala Agriculture Department to entrust Horticorp with the direct purchase of vegetables from farmers in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Under this initiative, 41 tonnes of vegetables arrived on Thursday and 34.5 tonnes on Friday. As much as 44 tonnes arrived on Saturday, of which 30.5 tonnes arrived in the southern region and 13.5 tonnes in north Kerala. Meanwhile, vegetable prices dropped further in the State on Saturday. The price of tomato which had touched Rs. 120 a kg earlier this week fell to around Rs. 60 in shops in Thiruvananthapuram now. Horticorp further reduced the price to Rs. 56 in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-plans-direct-purchase-of-vegetables-from-tn/article37731970.ece
28 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala steps up vigil after Omicron alert||The Kerala Health Department has stepped up vigil against Omicron, the new variant of SARS CoV2. The State had taken all measures as directed by the Centre and vigil had been increased at all four international airports in the State, Health Minister Veena George said here on Saturday. While there was no situation at present which warrants panic or worry, it was time the public too became more mindful of maintaining all universal precautions against COVID-19 — masking, physical distancing and avoiding crowds, she said. Ms. George appealed to all those due for their second dose of vaccine, not to delay it any longer. According to Centre’s directive, all travellers coming into India will have to do RT-PCR test within 72 hours of landing in India. As directed by the Centre, all international travellers coming from or transiting through Botswana, South Africa, Hong Kong and other nations where the new variant has been detected, will be under surveillance. Vaccination by Dec.-end The Telangana Health department will convene a meeting on Sunday to discuss preparedness. The countries at risk, screening at airports and possible ways in which the new variant can make its way into the State would be discussed at the meeting. Health Minister Harish Rao had earlier directed officials to vaccinate everyone in the State by the end of December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-steps-up-vigil-after-omicron-alert/article37731969.ece
28 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 lakh darshan tickets booked in 16 minutes||Tokens for the darshan of Lord Venkateswara were booked in record time, said officials of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Saturday. The TTD had released around 3,10,000 free tokens of Slotted Sarva Darshan (SSD) for the month of December at 9 a.m. on Saturday which reportedly got exhausted in a record time of 16 minutes. With a view to preventing crowding and to help devotees get darshan quickly, the TTD began issuing free darshan tokens online along the lines of the Rs. 300 special entry darshan tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-lakh-darshan-tickets-booked-in-16-minutes/article37732248.ece
28 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No death in State, 248 new cases reported||The State reported 248 new COVID-19 cases and zero deaths in the past 24 hours ending Saturday morning, according to a bulletin released by the Health Department. This is the first time in almost eight months that the State has witnessed zero daily COVID-19 deaths twice a week. At 0.87%, the daily test positivity rate of the 28,509 samples tested in the past day was the highest in the past 27 days. Meanwhile, throughout the past month, the daily positivity rate remained less than 1%. The overall positivity rate of the 3.034 crore samples tested so far stood at 6.83%. The cumulative toll stands unchanged at 14,432 while the cumulative tally reached 20,72,446 with a death rate of 0.70% and a recovery rate of 99.20%.  The number of recoveries increased to 20,55,856 including 253 recoveries in the past day. Krishna reported 56 infections, the highest in the past day. It was followed by Guntur (39), East Godavari (38), Chittoor (28), Srikakulam (16), Nellore (15), Visakhapatnam (15), West Godavari (14), Kadapa (12), Anantapur (10), Prakasam (4) and Kurnool (1). Vizianagaram reported no infections. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,94,632), Chittoor (2,47,944), West Godavari (1,79,580), Guntur (1,78,817), Visakhapatnam (158,355), Anantapur (1,58,009), Nellore (1,46,834), Prakasam (1,38,686), Kurnool (1,24,192), Srikakulam (1,23,403), Krishna (1,20,194), Kadapa (1,15,854) and Vizianagaram (83,051).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-death-in-state-248-new-cases-reported/article37732694.ece
28 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Talents on display at Loyola College||Students from the Department of Visual Communications of Andhra Loyola College on Saturday showcased their talent at ‘V-Events’ organised as part of the curriculum. The venue boomed with high energy as students performed dance numbers and music concerts, besides engaging in activities like listening to TEDx talks, viewing short films and attending career guidance sessions among several other activities. Head of the Department of Visual Communications Fr. I. Lourthu Raj said that students should make the best of such events as a platform to hone their skills. The participants included Madhu Kumar and Nikhila who presented a scintillating dance performance, faculty from the Engineering department delivered TEDx talks, Yuva Raj and his team presented a music concert while Charitha and her team dished out short films to the audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/talents-on-display-at-loyola-college/article37732775.ece
28 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||APIDC plans roadmap to revive industry||AP Industrial Development Corporation Limited (APIDC) has been revived after almost a decade as promised by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and incorporated in the YSR Congress Party’s 2019 election manifesto. Besides attracting new industries, the APIDC is exploring ways to get sick units back on the rails wherever possible, and focusing on recovering various dues to the department. An action plan was being prepared to achieve those goals, said APIDC chairperson B.N. Punyaseela. Addressing media persons at the APIDC office in Tadepalli, Ms. Punyaseela stated that several entrepreneurs were approaching the Industries Department and expressing keenness to set up their units in the State. She said the APIDC was facilitating their entry and that she had met Peter Hassan, advisor to the Chief Minister (investment promotion and external relations) in New Delhi recently and discussed the investment climate and steps required to realise the potential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apidc-plans-roadmap-to-revive-industry/article37732773.ece
28 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan owes explanation over CAG report: BJP||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should give an explanation on the negative remarks made by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India on the State’s precarious financial position, especially on capital and revenue expenditures incurred by the government. The fact that the revenue expenditure was a whopping 88.65% compared to barely 12% spent on wealth creation, exposed the government’s ineptitude in handling the finances, he said. In a press release, he said there was no infrastructure creation and many projects were incomplete notwithstanding the government’s tall claims. The situation warranted an explanation by the Chief Minister on the CAG’s findings on the State’s accounts. He questioned which assets/wealth was created in financial year 2019-20, and demanded that the government should reveal the true picture. The government apparently failed in repaying loans and it was pushing itself deeper into a debt trap by making fresh borrowings. Instead of utilising those loans to clear the pending ones, the government was only paying interest and diverting the funds for other purposes. If these were mere allegations, the government should release a white paper to set speculation at rest, the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-owes-explanation-over-cag-report-bjp/article37732695.ece
28 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MPs to raise three capitals, SCS issues in winter session of Parliament||The Telugu Desam Parliamentary Party (TDPP) will raise the three capitals, Special Category Status (SCS), Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy murder, floods, petrol and diesel prices, cannabis smuggling and Visakhapatnam Steel Plant privatisation issues in the winter session of Parliament scheduled to begin on November 29. Specifically, it has been resolved to seek the Central government’s intervention in the raging controversy surrounding the ‘three capitals’. A resolution to that effect was passed in the TDPP meeting held virtually under the chairmanship of the party’s national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday. Mr. Naidu said that his party would press for declaration of the floods that ravaged the Rayalaseema region as a national calamity so that the Centre acts with the desired urgency and gives required funds. He said A.P. stood second in suicides by tenant farmers and second in the suicides of farmers as a whole. There were several issues which should be focused upon, Mr. Naidu told the MPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-mps-to-raise-three-capitals-scs-issues-in-winter-session-of-parliament/article37732696.ece
28 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TANA president promises help in combating possible third wave||The Telugu Association of North America (TANA) will extend its full cooperation to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana in combating the possible third wave of COVID-19 pandemic, in coordination with the Red Cross, said the association president Lavu Anjaiah Chowdary. A native of Pedautupalli village in Krishna district, Mr. Chowdary moved to the United States in 1988 and has been actively serving Telugu people in America through different activities. At a press conference organised by TANA life member Tarun Kakani, Mr. Chowdary said during the two years of his tenure he proposed to take up a series of welfare measures for the Telugu diaspora in America and also initiate programmes for local Telugus. The initiatives like TANA Annapurna were designed to extend health services to patients in various hospitals besides providing medical equipment to hospitals in the two states, worth Rs. 25 crore. “We have designed programmes to benefit women, children and students,” he said. Mr. Anjaiah said plans were also afoot to promote Telugu language, literature and books. “A curriculum is being prepared to make the task of teaching Telugu language to children in America an easy one,” he said. Responding to his statement that the association had plans to take up consumer education at a global level, Mr. Chowdary promised all help from his side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tana-president-promises-help-in-combating-possible-third-wave/article37732011.ece
28 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Return money diverted from panchayats’||Alleging that the State government has diverted Rs. 1,309 crore devolved by the 15th and 14th Finance Commissions (Rs. 965 crore and Rs. 344 crore respectively) to gram panchayats (GPs), BJP national executive committee member Kanna Lakshminarayana demanded that the money should be given back in order to uphold the spirit of the 73rd Constitutional amendment. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday, Mr. Lakshminarayana said the diversion of the above funds was not only an unconstitutional act of the government but it was also disrespectful to Mahatma Gandhi’s sacred mission of ‘Gram Swarajya’. He stated that the 73rd Constitutional amendment envisaged various measures for the holistic development of villages but the funds due to them were being stripped off and used for other purposes in a brazen manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/return-money-diverted-from-panchayats/article37732697.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more person arrested in ganja smuggling case||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested a fifth person for his alleged involvement in the ganja smuggling case through an e-commerce site, on Friday night. The fifth person has been identified as Chilakapati Mohan Raju With this, the number of arrests has gone up to five and the arrested include Chilakapati Srinivasa Rao, Jeeru Kumaraswamy, Bijjam Krishnam Raju, Cheepurupalli Venkateswara Rao and Chilakapati Mohan Raju alias Rakhi, who is the son of Srinivasa Rao. Addressing the media here on Saturday, SEB Joint Director Satish Kumar said that thekingpins in the case are Suraj Pawaiya and Mukul Jaiswal, who are residents of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, and Srinivasa Rao was their main contact point here. Explaining the modus operandi, Mr. Satish said that Suraj and Mukul had established a ganja smuggling corridor from Visakhapatnam agency to Madhya Pradesh, using the portals of the multi-national e-commerce company Amazon.  Shell company They started a shell company with a registered address in Srikakulam and also obtained a GST registration number to pay GST on the freight charges. They would pack the weed under the guise of transporting natural Stevia leaves using the packaging material of the e-commerce company. The kingpins took franchise of the e-commerce company and were conducting the business from Gwalior or Bhopal with the help of Srinivasa Rao, who acted as their middlemen and contact person. The case had come to light after Suraj and Mukul were arrested by MP police a couple of weeks ago and based on confession of the duo the SEB zeroed in on Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-more-person-arrested-in-ganja-smuggling-case/article37732778.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja crop in over 5,500 acres destroyed: official||Ganja crop in over 5,500 acres has been destroyed so far in Visakhapatnam Agency under ‘Parivartana’, a joint operation being undertaken by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), District Police and the Excise Department. Addressing the media here on Saturday, SEB Joint Director Satish Kumar said that the destruction was taken up in about eight mandals, which include a few hotbeds such as G. Madugula and Pedabayalu. About 360 acres were destroyed after the farmers volunteered to destroy the standing crop, he said. Referring to the resistance from the farmers, he said the teams face resistance from one out of five villages, but at the end of the day, they able to convince the farmers to be part of the ‘Parivartana’ programme. Speaking about alternative livelihood to the farmers, he agreed that initially they are going to face some hardship but alternative crop pattern is being offered to them. “We have been discussing with the tribals on alternative crops and they have been asking about sweet oranges, guava, litchi and commercial crop like ginger, turmeric and pepper. We are working them out with the district administration and the departments of horticulture and agriculture,” he said. According to him, over 10,000 acres is under ganja cultivation and about 5,500 have been destroyed. “We are working in phases and slowly moving into the interior parts. We are half-way to the Maoist-affected cut-off area,” he said. He also said that ganja cultivation is huge and the economics can go into hundreds of crores. “We are trying to get to the main kingpins, who include the main smugglers and financiers, who hail from other States,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-crop-in-over-5500-acres-destroyed-official/article37732785.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mentally unstable woman ‘kills’ her baby||A woman claimed to be mentally unstable killed her one-month-old baby boy by dumping him into a water drum at Narsapuram village under the Kasimkota Police Station limits in Visakhapatnam district. The incident which is believed to have happened on Friday night, came to light, after the family members of the baby saw the infant lifeless in the drum on Saturday morning. According to the police, the couple Appalaraju and Sandhya were married around one-and-half year ago. On Friday night, the couple along with the baby slept together in a room, but in the morning, Sandhya claimed that her son went missing and alerted locals. The locals were shocked to see the baby lifeless in water drum. Initially the police found the case as mysterious, however after further investigation, they learnt that the infant’s mother Sandhya had committed the crime. Case registered Sub-Inspector L. Suresh Kumar has registered a case. The police are yet to ascertain the mental condition of the woman and would also find out if there are any other reasons behind the crime. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mentally-unstable-woman-kills-her-baby-at-kasimkota/article37732712.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||The Hindu FIC and HPCL to hold quiz and debate for law students today||As part of the ongoing Constitution Day celebrations, The Hindu FIC and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited are organising a quiz and debate competition for the students of law colleges in and around Visakhapatnam, at the HPCL auditorium, Waltair Park, Siripuram here on Sunday. The colleges to participate include Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University, Dr Ambedkar College of Law Andhra University, NBM Law College, Vizag Law College, MRVRGR Law College and NVP Law College. The participants of these competitions are advised to report at the venue by 8.30 a.m. The quiz will be conducted by quiz master P. Venkata Murali and the debate competition will be adjudged by eminent persons from the field of law Y. Satyanarayana, the founding Vice-Chancellor of the DSNLU, Vydyula Ravindra Prasad, president, Visakhapatnam Bar Association, and P.V. Rama Krishna Rao, senior advocate and legal advisor to the city police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-hindu-fic-and-hpcl-to-hold-quiz-and-debate-for-law-students-today/article37732779.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||New species to greet Vizag zoo visitors||Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) is all set to welcome new species from animal kingdom soon. As part of animal exchange programme, the IGZP has collaborated with National Zoological Park (NZP), New Delhi and this was approved by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA). According to the officials, the zoo has received two new species, Bengal Fox and Himalayan Goral, apart from two male Nilgais on Friday night. IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria said that the exchange is being executed in two phases. There are a few more species to be brought from Delhi Zoo to the IGZP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-species-to-greet-vizag-zoo-visitors/article37732782.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Enrol all eligible in voters’ list’||Roll Observer and Secretary, Tribal Welfare Department, Kantilal Dande, conducted a meeting on voter enrolment with District Collector A Mallikarjuna and Election Returning Officers (EROs) here on Saturday. He said that all the eligible persons should be enrolled in the voters’ list. He instructed the Collector to utilise the Sachivalayam system to identify and add eligible voters. He also suggested to create more awareness on voter enrolment in the district. He said that special attention needs to be laid on voter enrolment in the Agency areas. The awareness camps may be arranged at weekly-shandies, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enrol-all-eligible-in-voters-list/article37732783.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppose move to privatise LIC, says former union leader||The idea of bringing in IPO in LIC goes back to 1994, when the Malhothra Committee report recommended to allow private companies and the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in life insurance sector. “But due to a sustained struggle, we could stop it,” said former general secretary of All India Insurance Employees Association. He was delivering the inaugural address at the 47th Annual General Conference of the Insurance Corporation Employees Union, here on Saturday. “In 2020, the door was opened again and we need to step up the struggle, as we did earlier,” he said. He pointed out that LIC continues to be the market leaders and has a base of over 40 crore policy holders. The asset base of LIC is around Rs. 48 lakh crore and out of which only Rs. 100 crore belongs to the Union government. He condemned the idea of bringing in non-participating policies in the market because of which the share holder gets the profit instead of passing the benefits to the policy holders. He also criticised the Union Government for passing on a tax rebate of about Rs. 1.26 lakh crore to corporate companies. He was also critical of determining the EV (embedded value) before going for the IPO. Mr. Venugopal urged the members to strengthen the branch offices by increasing the recruitment, take the support of the 40 crore policy holders, agents and development officers, if they intend to defeat the IPO bill. He told them to take a leaf from the farmers’ agitation to defeat the bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppose-move-to-privatise-lic-says-former-union-leader/article37732787.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Produce arrested cadre in court, says CPI(Maoist)||The CPI (Maoist) has demanded that three of its cadres who were reportedly taken into police custody on November 21 be produced in court immediately. In an audio clip released late on Friday night, a party member on behalf of the secretary of AOB (East Division) Aruna, claimed that their three comrades Rame, Sangeetha and Devi and another girl who had accompanied them on a work were taken into custody near Sapparla area under GK Veedhi Police Station limits.  They claimed that they are being held by the SIB (State Intelligence Bureau) and being interrogated. The Maoists also claimed that in the event of their death or any kind of injury to them, the police will be held responsible. However, the district police have refused to comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/produce-arrested-cadre-in-court-says-cpimaoist/article37732704.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo hosts birthday party for four-year-old hippo||Staff of Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) celebrated the birthday of the four-year-old hippopotamus named ‘Junior Dalapathi’ in a unique and grand manner at its enclosure here on Saturday. Zoo authorities along with visitors, children and animal lovers sang Happy Birthday song at the enclosure. They also arranged a board at the enclosure with birthday wishes. The animal keepers offered special food which included wide varieties of fruits and vegetables cut in various shapes on a leaf platter. Carrots were arranged in the name ‘Dalapathi’ on it. Junior Dalapathi stepped out of the waterbody in its enclosure to savour the fruits and vegetables and wandered around in front of the guests and occasionally posing for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-hosts-birthday-party-for-four-year-old-hippo/article37732777.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third Vistadome coach to operate today||One more Vistadome coach will be attached to Visakhapatnam-Kirandul train, for the convenience of tourists, in view of the huge demand on Sunday (November 28). This is for the first time that three Vistadome coaches are made available to passengers and tourists, says Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/third-vistadome-coach-to-operate-today/article37732728.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poura Grandhalaya Seva Samithi seeks reconstruction of library building||Members of Poura Grandhalaya Seva Samithi on Saturday said that they would be conducting a series of agitations demanding that the government take up reconstruction works of District Central Library Building immediately. Initially, the members will be staging a dharna near Grandhlaya site in Dandu Bazaar, Maharanipeta, here on November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poura-grandhalaya-seva-samithi-seeks-reconstruction-of-library-building/article37732781.ece
28 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation camp organised at Bheemunipatnam Naval Station||As part of the Navy Week Celebrations, a blood donation camp was organised by the Indian Navy at Naval Station, Bheemunipatnam, here on Saturday. Station Commander, Naval Station, Bheemunipatnam, Commodore Naresh Warikoo, inaugurated the camp. The camp witnessed an overwhelming response with uniformed personnel, defence civilians and families coming forward to donate. A total of 115 families participated. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-donation-camp-organised-at-bheemunipatnam-naval-station/article37732784.ece
28 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||OTS a boon for property owners, says Collector||Collector A. Suryakumari on Saturday said that the One Time Settlement (OTS) under the Jagananna Sampoorna Griha Hakku will enable people to get rights over their properties in a proper way. She said that the scheme would benefit nearly 76,000 persons who were currently facing difficulties due to the lack of proper registration documents and legal rights over the properties which were mortgaged with banks and other financial institutions. She told The Hindu that 34 special officers were appointed for all 34 mandals to monitor the scheme on a daily basis. “Many beneficiaries could not get registration documents as they could not clear bank loans. Under the scheme, the beneficiaries in rural areas can pay only Rs. 10,000 and those in municipalities Rs. 15,000. The one time payment helps beneficiaries and legal heirs to get registration documents in their respective village and ward secretariats,” she added. “We have been providing training to secretariat staff in sub-registrar offices to make them understand the registration process. The scheme will also ensure waiver of registration charges,” she said. Ms. Suryakumari expressed happiness over the timely support from public representatives to ensure wide publicity for the scheme which would be in force till the third week of December. The district administration had targetted to collect Rs. 77 crore under the scheme, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ots-a-boon-for-property-owners-says-collector/article37732710.ece
28 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deepotsavam enthralls||Kartheeka Deepotsavam organised in the form of Shiva Dhanassu at the Sri Rama temple at Ramanarayanam here on Saturday enthralled hundreds of devotees who gathered to witness the event. The temple constructed in the form of Lord Rama’s bow was decorated with lights of various hues. Arrangements The temple trust chairperson Narayanam Nagaratnamma and other members coordinated the arrangements for the devotees who came from different parts of the North Andhra region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deepotsavam-enthralls/article37732711.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stone laid for mosque in secretariat complex||Sixteen months after the demolition of the old secretariat complex, a foundation stone was laid on Thursday, paving the way for the construction of a mosque. The complex had two mosques on its premises. The move came as a surprise to many who were vocal against the demolition of these places of worship, and had raised their voice against the government over the past few months. Amid tight security, a limited number of people, including faith leaders and political leaders, attended the event, the video clips and images of which appeared on social media pages of legislators. The foundation stone was laid by prominent cleric Mufti Khaleel Ahmed from the Islamic seminary Jamia Nizamia, in the presence of politicians including Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali, and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen legislators Akbaruddin Owaisi and Ahmed Balala, among others. Other faith leaders including Hamed Mohammed Khan from Jamaat-e-Islami Telangana Odisha and Hafiz Peer Shabbir Ahmed from Jamiat-e-Ulama Hind were also present. There were two mosques which once stood within the secretariat complex — Masjid-e-Hashmi and Masjid Dafatir-e-Mautamadi. In place of these, the plan is to construct a mosque spread over 1,500 square yards, at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.90 crore. The plans have been prepared by a private firm. Soon after the secretariat complex was razed, the issue of mosque demolition came to the fore. Several waqf protection activists, leaders, including those from political parties, had raised concerns over the demolition. In the recent past, activists had demanded that the mosques be rebuilt at the same location. Protests were also organised near the secretariat, seeking accountability, and to build pressure on the Telangana government. The issue gained traction in the Telangana State Legislative Assembly with the AIMIM being vocal about it. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had assured that a large mosque, and other places of worship, would be built at the complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stone-laid-for-secretariat-mosque/article37732490.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana on alert over new COVID variant||A meeting on various aspects of Omicron, the new variant (coronavirus) of concern, will be held by the Health department on Sunday. The State government has already received an alert regarding the new variant from the Central government. The countries at risk, possible ways in which the new variant can make its way into the State, airports where passengers from the countries at risk land in India, screening at airports, and other aspects would be discussed at the meeting. Health Minister Harish Rao would head the meeting with senior officials of the department. Collection samples for genome sequencing, vaccination, preparations to handle additional cases, too, would come up for discussion. The World Health Organisation has termed the new Variant of Concern (B.1.1.529) as Omicron. It was learnt that top officials have been tasked to gather all information regarding the new Variant of Concern (VoC). Since vaccination is one of the ways to battle coronavirus, the immunization coverage, methods to vaccinate more people, would be discussed. Mr. Harish Rao had earlier directed Health officials to vaccinate everyone in the State by the end of December. Since Friday, people have started coming across news about the new variant. “This variant has a large number of mutations, some of which are a matter of concern. Preliminary evidence suggests an increased risk of re-infection with this variant compared to other VoCs,” as per the WHO. Genome sequencing WHO has suggested countries to enhance surveillance and sequencing efforts to better understand circulating SARS-CoV-2 variants, submit complete genome sequences and associated metadata to a publicly available database like GISAID. In Telangana, samples are collected from COVID patients admitted at government and private hospitals. Genome sequencing is done at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB). Principal Secretary of Health Department Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi, Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao, Director of Medical Education Dr. K. Ramesh Reddy and others would take part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-on-alert-over-new-covid-variant/article37732498.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress ‘Vari Deeksha’ takes on KCR||The two-day ‘Vari Deeksha’ (protest for paddy) of the Telangana Congress at the Dharna Chowk was aggressive in its action with the leaders offering to solve the crisis if the government was unable to, and also accusing Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of surrendering to the Centre and going silent since his Delhi visit. The protest also saw the top leadership of the Congress, including TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, V. Hanmantha Rao, Ponnala Lakshamaih and Ponnam Prabhakar, participating while the surprise participant was Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, who had shared the stage with Mr. Revanth Reddy for the first time since the former was made TPCC chief. The leaders will spend the night at the protest camp itself to send a signal of confidence to the farmers who had been sleeping at the IKP centres, market yards and the threshing yards for weeks, Mr. Revanth Reddy said. Launching a scathing attack on the Chief Minister, he said KCR and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were together in cheating farmers. “KCR has not even sought appointment with the PM during his New Delhi visit and instead was partying at the residence of Rajya Sabha MP K.R. Suresh Reddy.” He said procurement should have been completed at the start of November but so far only 8 lakh tonnes of paddy had been procured. In the Congress-ruled Punjab 1.19 crore tonnes of paddy was already procured, he said, adding that the government did not have neither a plan nor concern but was only interested in politics. He warned that Congress would not leave the BJP and TRS till the last grain was procured as promised. Mr. Revanth Reddy offered to solve the crisis if the government was willing to earmark Rs. 10,000 crore, which was a meagre amount for a ‘rich state.’ “We will give additional bonus of Rs. 500 apart from the MSP of Rs. 1,960 per quintal.” Former PCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy said the Centre fixed a target of procuring 500 lakh tonnes of rice all over the country and Telangana was given a target of 40 to 60 lakh tonnes. So far only 8 lakh tonnes had been purchased. Other states like Punjab with 1.13 crore tonnes, Uttar Pradesh with a target of 47 lakh tonnes, Odisha with 43 lakh tonnes, and Chattisgarh and Haryana with 40 lakh tonnes each were way ahead of Telangana. Senior leaders G. Chinna Reddy, Sircilla Rajaiah, Kodanda Reddy, Mallu Ravi, Anvesh Reddy, Sunita Rao and Anil Kumar Yadav were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-vari-deeksha-takes-on-kcr/article37732513.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NAC to train 20,500 jobless youth||The National Academy of Construction (NAC) has decided to train 20,500 unemployed youth in different trades/activities of the construction industry during the current financial year. The plan includes skill development training for 4,500 and skill upgradation for 12,000 construction workers. The decision was taken at the 42nd executive committee meeting of NAC held here on Saturday. The meeting was chaired by Vice-Chairman of NAC and Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy. He went round different blocks of NAC along with Armoor MLA A. Jeevan Reddy, Secretary (R&B) K.S. Sreenivasa Raju, Director General of NAC K. Bikshapathi and others. He inaugurated the Solar Training Lab, set up by Schneider Electric India Foundation and Hydraulics Mechanic Lab set up by L&T (CMB) and interacted with sponsors and students undergoing training. The Minister also visited Construction Equipment Training Yard for interaction with construction equipment industry partners such as JCB, Volvo, Ajax, IESC and L&T (CMB)) and awarded course completion certificates and offer letters to JCB trainees of NAC. Further, the Minister handed over tool kits sponsored by Saint Gobain Gyproc to two successful NAC Drywall False Ceiling trainees turned entrepreneurs. At the executive committee meeting, the Minister reviewed the progress of training programmes of NAC and complimented the NAC authorities for training over 15,000 unemployed youth against the target of 16,000 during 2020-21. The meeting approved the audited financial statement of NAC for March 31, 2021 and budget estimates for 2021-22. The meeting has also approved enhancement of salary ceiling to certain category of NAC contract employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nac-to-train-20k-jobless-youth/article37732495.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Student suicides go up||More students ended their lives in 2020 than 2019, according to data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Student suicides spiked to a new high of 12,526 in 2020 contributing 8.2% deaths, while farmer suicide rate stayed constant at 7.4% in 2019 and 2020. The biggest spike in deaths was recorded in Odisha, where the number of student suicides reached 1,469, a jump of 287% over 2019, when there were 379 deaths. Only Maharashtra recorded more student suicides than Odisha with 1,648 young people ending their lives. However in Telangana, 489 students ended their lives as against 426 in 2019. Mental health Psychologists have been flagging the issue of mental health due to COVID lockdown where students stayed cooped up at homes without access to classrooms or emotional socialisation for nearly 18 months. “There was a big jump in phone calls we received at our helpline number. As we have age-wise data, the number of calls from youngsters were higher at 26% for those under 20. The biggest chunk of calls from people in 20-45 age group was at 64%,” says T. Ushasree, director of Roshni, an NGO that helps people having suicidal thoughts. The sharp rise in number of suicides bely expectations that cancellation of examinations due to COVID would have led to less stress. “Last year was very traumatic for schoolchildren as they had to deal with tension and fear while staying at home,” said a volunteer at the suicide helpline. In a pandemic year, when the two main educational boards in the country cancelled examinations for all students and there was near 100% promotion to the next class, this data comes as a surprise to many. “Usually it is exam and its outcome that students are worried about. But in 2020, there was uncertainty about everything. The younger children were worried about how they will progress to the next class. The older ones about career and job prospects,” said Ms. Ushasree.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)   There was a big jump in phone calls we received at our helpline number. As we have age-wise data, the number of calls from youngsters were higher at 26% for those under 20. The biggest chunk of calls from people in 20-45 age group was at 64%. T. Ushasree Director of Roshni||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/student-suicides-go-up/article37732507.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Exim Bank to support SMEs with unique products in TS||The Export-Import Bank of India is evaluating a clutch of firms in Telangana to support them under a national programme it operates to identify and handhold tomorrow’s champions. ‘Names screened’ “We are actively looking at three [such] companies. Ten more names are being screened,” deputy managing director N. Ramesh said, adding that the Ubharte Sitaare programme is for small and medium enterprises that offer unique proposition in terms of technology, products or processes. One of the firms among the three makes turbine components for a multinational firm that generates power from different sources. The SME had recently diversified into making parts for aerospace players. Another firm is developing an innovative pharma delivery mechanism, while one more being considered for the support is into solar energy-based farm level cold storage management system. Ubharte Sitaare is a unique programme announced to identify and assist firms with potential to grow in size and scale not only in domestic market but the export market also, Mr. Ramesh said here on Friday. Target The Exim Bank is pursuing a target of assisting 100 such firms across the country by next fiscal. Some 12-15 firms have been supported thus far and this number is expected to touch 30 by March, he said. The programme has been conceptualised to assist the companies in different ways. Besides regular debt, the support from the bank could be by way of equity or equity like instruments and even a technical grant. Firm-vendor connect The bank would also try to connect the firms with vendors and OEMs, Mr. Ramesh said during a media interaction. The bank said automobile and auto components, aerospace, capital goods, chemicals, defence, food processing, IT and ITeS, machinery, pharmaceuticals, precision engineering and textiles are the indicative sectors in which the prospective beneficiary firms should be operating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/exim-bank-to-support-smes-with-unique-products-in-ts/article37732502.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PD Act invoked against three persons||Two persons hailing from West Bengal were booked under the Preventive Detention Act by the Rachakonda police on Saturday, reportedly for organised prostitution. The duo, identified as Pradeep Sarkar and Raju Das, had been arrested as part of a raid in September by Kushaiguda police at Netaji Nagar, said police. A woman rescued in the raid was admitted to a shelter home. In 2018 , Pradeep was arrested for related offences and organising prostitution in Neredmet police limits. According to police, he had migrated to Hyderabad in search of livelihood, later worked in private companies, and as a route to quick money, took to trafficking women from Bengal and organised sex work here. Joining two others, Raju Das and Emili Biswas, Pradeep expanded his business, thereby exploiting more women. In a separate incident, police invoked the Act against 20-year-old Md. Abdul Ansar of Falaknuma, who had reportedly joined local history-sheeters in Malkajgiri and robbed a restaurant keeper and later threatened him for monthly mamool. The three detainees were sent to central prison, Cherlapally.  The duo, Pradeep Sarkar and Raju Das, had been arrested as part of a raid in September at Netaji Nagar. Rachakonda police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pd-act-invoked-against-three-persons/article37732730.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ARCI pact with Bengaluru firm||Centre for Automotive Energy Materials International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials (ARCI), an autonomous R&D Centre of Department of Science and Technology (DST), had signed a pact with Bengaluru-based NsureReliable Power Solutions for technology transfer and training in ‘Lithium-ion’ battery process in electric scooters and solar street lamps on Friday. ARCI chairman of governing council Anil Kakodkar said the partnership is an important milestone to address challenges associated with climate change and carbon footprints. He emphasised the need of indigenous technology development for sustenance and highlighted the importance of partnership between R&D labs and industries. ARCI director Dr. T. Narasinga Rao said the the cost of electrode materials contributes significantly towards the overall cost of LiBs and as India is heavily dependent on import of these materials, it became essential to indigenously develop the technology and support in LIB technology. ARCI regional director, Chennai, R. Gopalan briefed about the efforts of DST and ARCI in setting up technical research centre on alternative energy materials in systems and especially the Li-ion battery technology for electric vehicles and energy storage solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/arci-pact-with-bengaluru-firm-on-battery-process/article37732493.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmer sets paddy afire at Dubbak||A farmer who was agitated that his paddy was not being purchased set the stock on fire at a procurement centre in Dubbak on Saturday. According to sources, Ramulu, a farmer belonging to Dubbak, brought his produce about one month ago. He alleged that in the name of moisture his cotton produce was not being bought by officials and for the past several days he had been waiting for paddy purchase by officials. He said that he was not given even gunny bags. "I brought the paddy more than one month ago and there was no response from officials. What should I do other than this to register my protest," asked the farmer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmer-sets-paddy-afire-at-dubbak/article37732747.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Burglar held, 1.8 kg gold recovered||Saroornagar police, along with a central crime station team from L.B. Nagar, have nabbed a man allegedly involved in a series of night-time burglaries across several police limits. The police recovered a whopping 1. 805 kg of gold worth about Rs. 89.92 lakh, among other valuables. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh M. Bhagwat explaining the detection, that was pieced together by several teams, said Gaffar Khan alias Jigar, a resident of Alijah Kotla, was a habitual offender. After nabbing him on Saturday, police said he has admitted to having committed 27 burglaries in 11 police station limits in the Rachakonda and Cyberabad commissionerates. In 2018, he was booked under Preventive Detention Act by Malakpet police. “A night-time burglar, Gaffar selects villas and residences, parks his scooter away and walks to the houses on foot. Accessing the main doors through windows, he focusses on precious metal and cash. He has also been taking COVID-19 measures, like using face mask and gloves during robberies,” Mr. Bhagwat said. Cricket betting The stolen gold would be sold to a gold polish worker named Khaja Pasha in Charminar, and the money from it was spent on online cricket betting. Apart from gold, the police also recovered Rs. 1.90 lakh cash, a scooter and 10 mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/burglar-held-18-kg-gold-recovered/article37732729.ece
28 November 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||3 petitioners in dargah case withdraw from SC||Three petitioners have withdrawn from the Supreme Court and are likely to approach the Telangana High Court in the Dargah Hazrat Hussain Shah Wali case, a standing counsel for the Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) said. Standing Counsel Abu Akram said the case was heard on November 9, 10, 11 and then again on November 23, 24, 25. Mr Abu Akram, who was present at the hearings with a team of officials from the TSWB said on behalf of the board, the advocate on record is Ejaz Maqbool. Other senior lawyers for the TSWB include Huzefa Ahmedi. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Abu Akram said, “There are three petitioners who are farmers. They had claimed that their ancestors had come here from north India with erstwhile kings. They have withdrawn. Their claim is approximately 250 acres. They are likely to approach the High Court with writ petitions. This happened during the last hearing. The court has given time till December 9 for written arguments. There are 11 parties which have filed civil appeals. Lanco Hills and the Maulana Azad National Urdu University are two of the parties.”  Endowed land According to the TSWB, the total extent of land endowed to Dargah Hazrat Hussain Shah Wali is 1,654 acres.  The trio had claimed that their ancestors had come here from north India with erstwhile kings. Their claim is roughly 250 acres. Abu Akram, Standing counsel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dargah-case-three-withdraw-from-sc/article37732489.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Socialite, husband held in cheating case||Socialite Tella Shilpa (46) aka Shilpa Chowdary and her husband Tella Krishna Srinivas Prasad (56) were arrested by the Narsingi police of Cyberabad in connection with a multi-crore cheating case. Police said on November 13, a woman, who happens to be a friend of Ms Shilpa, approached them stating that she gave Rs. 1.05 crore to invest in her real estate business. She also used to participate in kitty parties organised by the accused. “It has been a year and Shilpa was not responding to calls. When she asked to return the money, the accused started threatening her and her family by employing bouncers and hatchmen,” police said. Following a complaint, a case was registered. Shilpa and her husband were arrested and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/socialite-husband-held/article37732487.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monitor health services at ground levels: Harish||Telangana should stand first in health indicators across the country, said Health Minister Harish Rao at a meeting held with departmental officials on Saturday. He asked them to ensure that maternal mortality and anaemia reduce. Telangana diagnostics services, child health, maternal health, tuberculosis, ambulance services, Palle Dawakhanas, Primary Health Centres (PHC), and other topics were discussed at the meeting that was attended by Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Vakati Karuna. The Minister also directed officials to monitor the services at ground levels, ready reports and hold review meetings every month. Instructions were issued to begin Cath Lab services at Gandhi Hospital, and Osmania General Hospital, in two weeks. These services would also start at government hospital in Khammam. A team of government officials from Bihar had studied the Telangana diagnostic services last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monitor-health-services-at-ground-level-harish/article37732500.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gold worth Rs. 20.30 lakh seized at RGIA||Foreign-origin gold concealed in a talc powder container and inner supporting metal frame of the suitcase was seized by Customs officials from a passenger who arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Saturday. The passenger arrived from Dubai. A total of 410 grams of gold valued at Rs. 20.30 lakh was recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gold-worth-rs-2030-lakh-seized-at-rgia/article37732731.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Future of interventional pulmonology reviewed||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu virtually inaugurated the second annual international pulmonology conference – BRONCHUS 2021 – being hosted by Yashoda Hospitals, Secunderabad, on Saturday. The two-day conference being organised at HICC, Kondapur, reviews the future of interventional pulmonology, while imparting disease-specific skills to younger pulmonologists through live work stations. The conference also discusses recent experiences such as pulmonologists’ challenges during COVID-19 pandemic, robotic bronchoscopy, women in interventional pulmonology and best practices in usage of scopes. Mr. Naidu, congratulating Yashoda Hospitals for the initiative, said the discipline of pulmonology grew by leaps and bounds with the introduction of sophisticated procedures like robotic-assisted and confocal microscopy. He said several diseases like asthma, tuberculosis and airway tumours were treatable with advanced diagnostics in the country, and opined India was fast becoming a destination for medical tourism. Remembering the services of frontline warriors during the pandemic, Mr. Naidu also felt COVID-19 served as a timely reminder of the importance of good respiratory health, indoor and outdoor air quality, and healthy lifestyles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/future-of-interventional-pulmonology-reviewed/article37732492.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NCD kits from Dec. first week||A kit containing medicines for diabetes, hypertension and high blood pressure would be distributed to people in Telangana from the first week of December. A pouch titled ‘NCD Kit’ will have three pockets. Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and other Health staff would distribute the kits containing medicines to people with Non Communicable Diseases (NCD). NCDs are one of the biggest threats in the coming years. People with NCDs will also be given a book having the list of medicines prescribed, and next date of consultation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ncd-kits-from-dec-first-week/article37732499.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 160 COVID cases||Telangana has recorded 160 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, out of 32,540 samples that were tested. The results of 1,186 were awaited and one more COVID patient died. The new cases include 66 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 21 from Khammam, 12 each from Medchal Malkajgiri and Rangareddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-160-covid-cases/article37732501.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BVRIT Graduation Day held||BVRIT Hyderabad College of Engineering for Women celebrated its 6th Graduation Ceremony wherein 385 students were presented with degrees by chief guest Katta Narasimha Reddy, VC JNTU-H. VC of Vishnu Educational Society Ravichandran Rajagopal, and principal BVRIT College of Engineering for Women Dr. KVN Sunitha were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bvrit-graduation-day-held/article37732504.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Apollo medicos get degrees||Graduates of 2014 and 2015 batch from Apollo Medical College received their degrees at a glittering convocation ceremony held at Apollo Hospitals. Vice-Chancellor, Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences, Prof. B. Karunakar Reddy, and chief cardio-thoracic surgeon, Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills, Dr. Vijay Dixit presented the certificates to over 200 MBBS students. The best outgoing student Keerthana of 2014 batch and Ganesh Reddy of 2015 batch received the prestigious Dr. Prathap C. Reddy’s gold medals from Dr. Prathap C. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apollo-medicos-get-their-degrees/article37732505.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC restores 359 services||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) restored as many as 359 services, translating into 1,347 trips. The move came after the transport juggernaut received scores of representations from students and other bus users who either sought restoration of bus services or requested new services. According to official data, the TSRTC had received as many as 370 representations - with the largest from Naglonda Region followed by Greater Hyderabad Zone - out of which an official said that 364 were ‘resolved’. Under the general category, 267 bus services, translating into 1,137 trips, were restored. Further, on the requests of students, 92 services, meaning 210 trips, were restored. The transport juggernaut began a total of 151 new services, and 587 trips across regions. Out of these figures, 43 services were for students. In all, a total of 510 services and 1,934 trips were either newly started or restored. In recent past, the TSRTC, especially its Managing Director V C Sajjanar, who is active on Twitter, has been flooded on social media with requests by passengers to restore bus services. The most notable request came to light earlier this month after Chief Justice of India N V Ramana’s intervention. P Vaishnavi, a student of class VIII of a State government school, from Chidedu had written to the CJI, seeking his intervention to restore bus services so that she and her sibling could go to school. In recent past, students of engineering colleges in Aushapur had staged a sit-in, demanding more buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-restores-359-services/article37732514.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Expedite NEET counselling’||Expressing support to the nation-wide protest demanding NEET-PG counselling to be expedited, junior doctors across Telangana staged dharnas at government medical colleges on Saturday. President of Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (TJUDA) D. Sagar said that PG medical aspirants are on the verge of losing an academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-neet-counselling/article37732503.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for hitting son, video goes viral||A disturbing video of a man thrashing and kicking his eight-year-old son went viral. Chatrinaka police booked a case against the man, Ashok Ghante, a private company employee. They said the boy was at his aunt’s place on Saturday when she called Ashok to take his son back as he was ‘creating nuisance’. “Soon, Ashok took him home. He was drunk and started thrashing the boy before giving the phone to his daughter to record the act,” police said. Ashok and Jija Bai had migrated to the city from Bidar, Karnataka, in search of livelihood. Based on Jija Bai’s complaint, a case was booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-hitting-son-video-goes-viral/article37732732.ece
28 November 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Blood donation on November 30||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation, in collaboration with Prahari Trust and Indian Red Cross Society, will conduct a ‘mega blood donation’ camp across the State. According to a statement released to the media, The camp will be organised at 65 locations, including Bus Bhavan, on November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blood-donation-on-november-30/article37732752.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3||Hyderabad police on Sunday organised a mega job mela at Chandrayangutta in Old City. It was inaugurated by Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar. Over 5,000 unemployed youth took part in it. “It is gratifying that 20 private companies have come forward to provide 2,000 job opportunities to the youth. So far over 4,000 youth have applied for the job and at least 1,000 people will be employed,” Mr.Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3/article37732488.ece
28 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Speaker discharged from hospital||Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, who tested positive for COVID on November 24 and was admitted to a corporate hospital here, was discharged on Saturday. According to the Speaker’s office, he was discharged as he had no other health issues and tested negative. He was advised home quarantine for some days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speaker-discharged-from-hospital/article37732511.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 4||Prominent Tollywood lyricist Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry is undergoing treatment at KIMS Hospital, Secunderabad, for pneumonia. “He is getting necessary support for lungs in ICU under close observation. His condition is stable over last 24 hrs,” said the hospital administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-4/article37732491.ece
28 November 2021||MULUGU,TELANGANA||Mulugu SP holds meet on arrangements for tribal jatara||The Mulugu district police have started chalking out elaborate plans for traffic management and parking arrangements during the forthcoming Sammakka-Saralamma jatara, the mega tribal festival slated to be held at Medaram village in Tadvai mandal from February 16 to 19 next year. Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil on Saturday held a review meeting on traffic management and bandobust arrangements for the tribal fair with police officials of both Mulugu and Jayashankar-Bhupalpally districts at the ITDA guest house in Medaram. The meeting deliberated, mainly, on devising a comprehensive traffic management plan envisaging creation of adequate parking spaces at Medaram and ensuring seamless vehicular movement on the roads leading to the tribal village in Telangana’s tribal heartland. Bandobust arrangements for the four-day jatara, which was expected to draw tens of thousands of devotees from far and wide, were discussed in detail during the review meeting, sources said. A range of bandobust-related arrangements, including deployment of adequate police personnel during the main rituals of bringing the tribal goddesses Sammakka and Sarakka to the altar in Medaram and taking them back to their forest abodes during the four-day jatara, figured in the deliberations of the meeting. The meeting was attended by Mulugu ASP Potharaju Sai Chaitanya, and Eturunagaram ASP Gaush Alam, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mulugu-sp-holds-meet-on-arrangements-for-tribal-jatara/article37732749.ece
28 November 2021||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Volleyball tournament begins||A two-day sub-divisional level volleyball tournament for youth got off to an enthusiastic start in Peddapalli town on Saturday. The tournament is being organised by the Peddapalli sub-divisional police as part of its outreach activities to wean youth away from drug abuse and encourage them to participate in sports, police said. Peddapalli MLA D Manohar Reddy inaugurated the two-day tournament at the government junior college grounds in Peddapalli on Saturday. Ramagundam Police Commissioner S Chandrasekhar Reddy, Peddapalli Deputy Commissioner of Police Ravinder, Assistant Commissioner of Police Sarangapani and others were present. As many as 14 teams from eight mandals are participating in the tournament. Sources said the sub-divisional police drew up plans to hold similar sporting events in various mandals to tap potential of youngsters fully .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/volleyball-tournament-begins/article37732751.ece
28 November 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||34-day strike by sugar factory staff called off||Offering a relief to sugarcane farmers, an agreement was signed by employees and management of Ganapathi Sugars. The agreement was signed on Saturday. According P. Srisailam, secretary of the employees' union, the management agreed to give an increment of Rs. 700 against a demand for Rs. 1,000. The suggestion made by Additional Collector Rajarshi Shah to the management to come to an agreement with employees had yielded result. The employees resumed duties in the afternoon. Union president M. Raghunandan Rao and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/34-day-strike-by-sugar-factory-staff-called-off/article37732745.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Rules gone with the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rules-gone-with-the-wind/article37732509.ece
28 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||With eye on Punjab polls, Kejriwal meets protesting teachers in Mohali||With an eye on Punjab Assembly elections, due in early 2022, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday visited a contractual teachers’ protest site in Mohali and assured them of regularising their jobs if his party forms the next Government in the State. Mr. Kejriwal met the teachers who had been on ‘dharna’ for 165 days in front of the Punjab School Education Board in Mohali. Addressing them, he said, “The Channi Government has put up hoardings at various places for regularising 36,000 ‘raw’ (contractual) employees, but neither the teachers nor hundreds and thousands of ‘raw’ and outsourced employees of sanitation and other departments were regularised.” ‘Reforms in schools’ He said like Delhi, Punjab’s education system would be reformed and vacancies filled on merit basis. He added that new posts of teachers would also be created. Mr. Kejriwal promised that his Government in Punjab would immediately regularise ‘raw’ teachers and would not terminate the services of the 906 guest faculty professors-teachers of government colleges who were being expelled after 15-20 years of service. Mr. Kejriwal also visited Sohana, where some unemployed PTI teachers have been protesting at the overhead water tank. “The teachers should be in classrooms and not on ‘dharnas’. The ‘raw’ teachers serving in State Government schools for 10-20 years were being paid only Rs. 6,000 per month,” he said. He appealed to all the ‘raw’, permanent and the unemployed teachers and other unemployed youth along with the people of Punjab sitting on ‘dharnas-protests’ to give a chance to AAP. “With the formation of AAP Government in 2022, revolutionary reforms would be carried out in the Government schools and education system of Punjab as shown in Delhi,” Mr. Kejriwal added. He also asked the State government to immediately release the merit list of the recruitment process as per the demand of the teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-poll-kejriwal-meets-protesting-teachers-in-mohali/article37732398.ece
28 November 2021||Jaipur,||Rajasthan extending social audit to more Govt. schemes||The concept of social audit is being extended to more departments and Government schemes in Rajasthan in an attempt to ensure transparency and accountability in the utilisation of funds. Civil society activists have made a significant contribution to the audit process and suggested measures for an effective check on the executive action. The first social audit dialogue was held recently under the aegis of the State Government’s Society for Social Audit, Accountability and Transparency (SSAAT). The event, organised at Indira Gandhi Panchayati Raj and Gramin Vikas Sansthan, provided an opportunity to the stakeholders to identify the difficulties in social audit and recommend solutions. The schemes being audited through the process include the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Swachh Bharat Mission, National Social Assistance Programme and the Central Finance Commission’s 14th and 15th grants to the State. More participants Rural Development Secretary K.K. Pathak said at the dialogue that a decision had been taken to involve the members of women’s self-help groups, volunteers of Nehru Yuva Kendras and village-level workers of Women’s Development Programme, known as ‘Sathins’, in the social audit exercises. Following a departmental decision on the issue, the process of amending the rules and regulations for the selection of participants had been initiated, Mr. Pathak said. The State Government’s Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Social Justice and Empowerment Departments have mainly taken up social audit for their schemes. Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan leader and Right to Information activist Nikhil Dey said the social audit process should be improved with the participation of more stakeholders in order to make it an integral part of governance. The autonomy and impartiality of social audit could be maintained by creating an “enabling environment”, said Mr. Dey. The SSAAT was established in 2019 as an independent organisation through a State Cabinet resolution for working towards strengthening the social audit processes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rajasthan-extending-social-audit-to-more-govt-schemes/article37732575.ece
28 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan begins exercise for agriculture budget||The exercise for presenting the first ever agriculture budget for the next financial year, with provisions to facilitate welfare measures for farmers, has begun in Rajasthan. The Agriculture Ministry has started a dialogue process with the progressive farmers seeking their suggestions for innovative steps in the farming and allied sectors. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had made the announcement in the 2021-22 Budget of a separate budget formulation for agriculture. The agriculture and related sectors, including dairy and animal husbandry, in the State registered a growth rate of 3.45% in 2020-21 despite the adverse circumstances created by the pandemic. The first interaction with the farmers and other stakeholders was organised in Ajmer on Thursday. Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria said the separate budget would herald a “new era” with the innovative reforms and new packages for farmers. “Only those proposals will be incorporated into the budget which the farmers themselves want,” he said. Several cattle rearers, fish farmers, office-bearers of the dairy federations and representatives of food producers’ groups participated in the division-level programme. The participants suggested an increase in the grants and budget for various agricultural schemes and promotion of food processing and packaging at the district level. Agriculture Commissioner Om Prakash said the Government would hold discussions with experts after receiving the recommendations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rajasthan-begins-exercise-for-agriculture-budget/article37732578.ece
28 November 2021||Jamui,||Dead man wins panchayat poll in Bihar||A dead man has won a panchayat poll in Bihar riding on a “sympathy wave” generated by his death. The real-life tragicomedy was detected in the Jamui district when officials were handing over certificates to candidates who won the polls held on November 24. Sohan Murmu, who won ward no. 2 of Deepakarhar village, falling under Khaira block, was nowhere to be found. “On enquiry, we learnt that Murmu had died on November 6, more than a fortnight before the voting took place,” Khaira BDO Raghavendra Tripathi said. Deepakarhar happens to be a remote hamlet situated along the State’s border with Jharkhand. Old residents also recall that it was this village, which was first hit by Maoist activity in the 1990s, in the district that later became one of the worst affected by ultra-Left insurgency, according to a list published by the Union Home Ministry a few years ago. Nonetheless, Tripathi’s account of what has happened suggests that the village and its residents retain an amazing simplicity, bordering on downright sentimentality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dead-man-wins-panchayat-poll-in-bihar/article37732571.ece
28 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘Jaitapur would be the world’s most powerful nuclear plant’||After 11 years of being on the drawing board, there is some progress in the Jaitapur nuclear power project in Maharashtra with the French company EDF and Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) working together to take this project off the ground said Jean-Marc Séré-Charlet, Consul General of France in Bombay. Edited excerpts: Is the Jaitapur nuclear power project in Maharashtra on? What is the current status? EDF, the French company, submitted to NPCIL its binding offer this April and it was the result of intense work between the two countries. EDF and NPCIL teams are working actively together. This project is a key component of the strategic partnership between India and France as stated by President Emmanuel Macron and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on several occasions. Jaitapur would be the world’s most powerful nuclear power plant. There would be six state-of-the-art EPR reactors with an installed capacity of 9.6 GWe that will produce low carbon electricity. It would provide electricity to seven crore households. That’s huge. It’s a complex project. Both countries are dedicated to reach an agreement. This project will embody the strong partnership between India and France, a commitment to low carbon future, and will directly benefit Maharashtra with thousands of local jobs. What kind of investment is coming in? When do you think it will be up and running? Cannot answer the ‘when’ right now. It is an ongoing discussion. As far as investments are concerned, I can definitely say [they are] in line with Make in India and Skill India initiatives. For the industrial benefit of the project, EDF and its partners aim to encourage the active involvement of India’s industrial sector. In this spirit, EDF is deploying a strategy based on in-depth work to identify Indian companies that could be selected as suppliers. Some 200 Indian companies have already been pre-qualified. Pre-feasibility study, conducted by EDF, French I2EN (International Institute of Nuclear Energy) and Indian VJTI (Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute), for the establishment of a centre of excellence in India to train engineers and technicians is on. What is the current scenario of French firms doing business in India? I am impressed with the recovery of Indian economy. We also see a strong desire of French businesses to work in Mumbai, Maharashtra and all over India. The key for us is to help Indian and French companies know each other better to invest more. France is a very active investor — 3rd European country in terms of Foreign Investment in India, after the Netherlands and Germany, with $9.9 billion in stock. The pandemic has not slowed down French investments and companies in India. For instance, we have Capgemini that has hired more than 30,000 Indians this year making it one of the top 20 recruiters in India. There are also other companies that are ready to invest in different fields. We are impressed by the desire of French companies to carry on working in India whether in Maharashtra or all-over India. India is giving a lot of importance to Electric Vehicles. Are there any French companies involved? Yes Renault and Citroen (Groupe Stellantis) are very involved in conventional car making in India, and have active plans to develop electrical projects. As for the important subject of electrical batteries, we already have three French companies that are present in the Indian market — Saft, Forsee Power and ECM Greentech. The French Development Agency (FDA) is also engaged in promoting clean mobility in India, in particular, through the Smart Cities programme of the Government of India. Which are the Indian companies doing business in France? This year nine Indian companies invested in France, which is very good given the pandemic. But what is important is that they are happy to work in France. Thanks to several reforms, doing business in France is now simpler. It takes four days to start a business in France, four-and-a-half in U.K., and eight days in Germany. Is there any specific sector you are looking at for investment? France is very open to foreign investors and welcomes their contribution to its continuing transformation, notably through ecological transition, modernisation of production facilities and technological innovation. Indian business is already an important partner as far as investment is concerned. For instance, Mahindra invested in Peugeot Scooters and Tata in TCS France. We are also interested in renewable energy, agro-business and healthcare. European subsidies of Indian firms located in the U.K., which want to keep a direct contact with the European market and avoid the difficulties linked to Brexit and its impediment for business, are also welcome in France. Some have already decided to join Paris and its business-friendly environment.  The pandemic has not slowed down French investments and companies in India... Capgemini has hired more than 30,000 Indians||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jaitapur-would-be-the-worlds-most-powerful-nuclear-plant/article37732393.ece
28 November 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra for bilingual curriculum in schools||The Maharashtra Government is set to introduce bilingual curriculum in State-run schools where students will be taught English along with Marathi from Class I. State Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “The State Government is mulling options to ensure the concept of English is also clear in the minds of students along with Marathi. We will run the pilot project in 488 schools initially.” The Government will introduce bilingual textbooks in selected Marathi schools from the next academic year. Based on the success of the project, it will be introduced in other schools in phases. This will be first introduced in Class I. The textbooks will be designed to make it easy for students to understand English definitions, routine words, concepts, easy English synonyms for a Marathi word and use of sentences. Ms. Gaikwad said the bilingual curriculum will be used to reduce the weight of school bags and to clear the concept of English language in the minds of students of the vernacular medium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-for-bilingual-curriculum-in-schools/article37732396.ece
28 November 2021||Nagpur,||Patna-bound Go First flight makes emergency landing at Nagpur||A Patna-bound Go First (erstwhile GoAir) flight from Bengaluru with 139 passengers on board made an emergency landing at Nagpur airport on Saturday due to a glitch in one of the engines of the aircraft, an official said. The flight landed safely at the airport at 11.15 a.m., the official said. “The pilot of the Go First flight contacted Nagpur ATC to inform that one of the engines of the plane is facing a problem, and made a request for emergency landing at Nagpur airport,” airport director Abid Ruhi told PTI. There were 139 passengers on board apart from the crew members, he said. “We made all requisite arrangements by declaring it as full-scale emergency, which includes making available runways, fire tenders, doctors, ambulances and requires coordination with the police. Fortunately, the flight made a safe landing,” Mr. Ruhi said. A statement issued by Go First said flight G8 873 from Bengaluru to Patna was diverted to Nagpur due to a “faulty engine warning in the cockpit, which necessitated the captain to shut down the engine as a precautionary measure”. “Thereafter, the captain followed the standard operating procedures and landed safely at Nagpur airport. All the passengers have been deplaned and served refreshments. Go First has rendered all the requisite assistance to the passengers,” it said. Alternative aircraft has been arranged to accommodate the passengers and it will depart for Patna at 4.45 p.m. The affected aircraft is being inspected by the engineering team, the airline said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/patna-bound-go-first-flight-makes-emergency-landing-at-nagpur/article37732576.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Living in the shadow of fear||Two months ago, the Dwarka district police launched “Operation Varchasva” as part of their mission to make the sprawling sub-city in south-west Delhi a crime-free area. Cracking down on gangsters and criminals apart, the main plank of the operation was to arrest and deport foreigners who have been staying illegally in the area, particularly those whose visas had expired. To this end, the district police also merged their Cell Against Illegal Foreigner with the Anti-Narcotics Cell.  The police have been on their toes ever since the violent incidents of September 26. On that day, a mob, comprising relatives and friends of a Nigerian national, who reportedly died from a fall while being chased by the police, attacked the Mohan Garden police station. The man, who was declared dead on arrival at a hospital, was identified as Chinoso Okafor, 33, a resident of the area. According to the police, the mob also tried to attack the ambulance when his body was being shifting out of hospital. Three policemen were injured in the mob attack at the police station. Subsequently, 53 people were arrested and a chargesheet was filed under IPC sections relating to attempt to murder and rioting, among others. Following the incident, police patrolling in and around Mohan Garden has been intensified with door-to-door surveys becoming the norm. “We have stepped up efforts to trace and arrest foreign nationals who have been staying illegally on expired visas,” a senior police officer said. “Only 3%-4% of their population now remain in Mohan Garden. Most have either fled to south Delhi or Noida or have been arrested and deported. Earlier, around 25% of African origin people living in the Capital were staying here,” the officer added. Target of abuse While hurling abuses and making racist remarks against people of African origin is a common occurrence in the area, the September 26 incidents have turned the atmosphere tense. While many African origin people are still staying put in their homes, fearful of being “picked up”, others have left the area to escape “police harassment”. Most desist from speaking up or disclosing their identity for fear of reprisal from the police. Others talk in hushed tones about how strolling on the streets has become risky... and how foreigners are being “arrested in hordes in the dead of night”. A Nigerian national, who runs a textile business and deals in hospital equipment, said: “There has been a lot of fear ever since the incident and the police crackdown is still going on. They [police] will round you up even if you produce a valid visa,” he said. For the 35-year-old, who has two children and an Indian wife hailing from Arunachal Pradesh, the police are a greater concern than local residents. “I haven’t faced a lot of racial abuse from the locals here, but the fear of police action hangs over our head,” he added. “I can’t leave this place, this is my home”. The tension is palpable among those running salons and grocery shops selling African goods. A 26-year-old woman from Senegal, who arrived in Mohan Garden last year, lamented: “Even women are not spared of police action... we live in constant fear. Those arrested can’t even come out on bail as no one is willing to stand surety.” The woman, who runs a salon in Nawada, said the situation was calm until the recent incident. “I am being looked upon with sceptical eyes... this has affected my business as no one wants to come to my salon, how will I survive?” she said. “I cannot leave India as I have set up my business here and it's my only source of livelihood.” Another 35-year-old Nigerian, while scouring through grocery items at a general store, was reluctant to make eye contact with anyone. “You the police?” he asked. Opening up gradually, he said: “It is so tense here that we have stopped coming out of our homes unless it’s very essential. We mostly stay inside our homes as the police can stop and start inspecting us randomly on the streets.” According to property dealers, houses where people of African origin stay “are being barged into and they are being arrested on the slightest of pretext”. They said their migration has begun with most of them moving to south Delhi localities such as Chhatarpur and Khirki Extension or to Noida in Uttar Pradesh, from where they had earlier arrived here. “Most of my clients have left the area due to fear of the police... not even half their population is left now,” a property dealer, who mostly deals with foreign nationals, disclosed. “The police have raided several houses rented out to foreign nationals and this has left the others with no option but to find another safe haven,” he said. Local sentiment While some locals used derogatory terms at the mention of the community, accusing them of “drug peddling” and “anti-social activities”, some sympathised with their suffering and said they were being “unfairly targeted”. “They stay indoors during the day and party all night. This creates a bad impression of the locality... Some of them are into illegal activities. A lot of them have left after the police crackdown,” a resident said. A woman, whose tenant was among those arrested after the September incident, said: “They [police] broke open the door and entered forcefully, it is illegal. Even landlords are finding it hard to find tenants... they are being harassed on the pretext of verification.” A senior police officer responded to the charges: “We use minimum force as most of them don’t open their doors and hide inside when we come for verification. The allegations being levelled against us are exaggerated”. DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary denied all allegations of overreach and said the police operate as per law. “Deportation and crackdown on people of African origin have doubled in the last two months alone. We have also taken action against landlords for giving shelter to them illegally,” he said. “We have to use minimum force according to law when they don't cooperate,” the DCP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/living-in-the-shadow-of-fear/article37732390.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Students to pitch business ideas on TV||Class XI and XII students in Delhi Government schools who received seed money under the ‘Business Blasters’ programme will now get to pitch their projects to investors on a television show every Sunday. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told The Hindu that the opportunity to obtain investment capital could take their business ventures to the next level. The first episode of the Business Blasters televised event on November 28 will witness business ideas – shortlisted from more than 50,000 ideas submitted by 3,00,000 students – being pitched to Mr. Sisodia and a panel of businessmen that includes Abhiraj Singh Bhal, co-founder and CEO of Urban Company, Nitin Saluja, founder of Chaayos and Sairee Chahal, founder and CEO of SHEROES. EMC initiative Launched as a part of the Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum initiative, a pilot of the Business Blasters was carried out in School of Excellence, Khichripur in February 2021 and scaled up to over 1,000 schools on September 7. Elaborating on the initiative, Mr. Sisodia told The Hindu : “The whole idea behind launching the Business Blasters televised event is to allow children to pitch their projects to potential investors so they can raise more capital to scale their ideas. These children under the EMC curriculum are learning to work in teams, brainstorm and identify social challenges or business opportunities, prepare business plans and implement their ideas in their neighbourhoods which will give them the much-needed skills to take it beyond a school-level activity.” Under the programme, students are supported through mentorship and a financial capital of Rs. 2,000 as seed money to help kick-start their businesses. A sum of Rs. 60 crore has been allocated for the programme. The Deputy CM said for the ongoing programmes business coaches who have been assigned to schools include entrepreneurs, home-grown business owners, consultants and subject matter experts. Speaking about some of the ventures where students displayed entrepreneurial skills and earned profits in a very short span of time, Mr. Sisodia said that a project, ‘Divine Creations’, involving the sale of indigenous art such as paintings of the Madhubani school online, used social media for mass marketing and targeted outreach. “The project ended up earning a profit of approximately Rs. 30,000, the highest for any project chosen under the initiative,” he said. He cited another venture, Tap and Draw, that involved a team selling portraits and drawings and marketing them on platforms such as YouTube during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/students-to-pitch-business-ideas-on-tv/article37732382.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||City’s air quality remains ‘severe’||The air quality of the city continued to be in the ‘severe’ category for the second consecutive day on Saturday and is expected to remain the same on Sunday, according to authorities. Speed of local surface winds is likely to pick up slightly on Monday and Tuesday, resulting in slight improvement of air quality to the ‘very poor’ level, according to Centre-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). Funds for workers The city Government in an official statement said it will deposit Rs. 5,000 each into the accounts of 7 lakh construction workers of Delhi. The money has already been sent to 2,95,000 accounts on Saturday and the others will also receive the amount in the next two days, the statement said. On Saturday, the contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 — a chief pollutant — to Delhi’s pollution was low, according to SAFAR. The current spike in air pollution is chiefly due to a drop in wind speed and a fall in the height up to which pollutants can be distributed in the atmosphere. ‘Severe’ air pollution levels affect “healthy people” and “seriously impacts” those with existing diseases, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The Air Quality Index of Delhi was 402 on Saturday, slightly down from 406 on Friday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is the average of the past 24 hours. An AQI between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and 401 and 500 is ‘severe’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/citys-air-quality-remains-severe/article37732387.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||6 snatchings in 7 days and counting||A 34-year-old bank employee, riding a scooty from her residence in Dwarka Sector 16 to her office in Sector 12, became a victim of daylight snatching when a man on a two-wheeler came from behind and fled with her bag. Amrita Tolani stated in her complaint that around 9.50 a.m. on November 22, she slowed down her two-wheeler as she reached the traffic signal near a luxury hotel. A youth, who was following her from Sector 14, suddenly snatched her bag containing documents, phone and money, and sped away on his motorbike, jumping the signal. Ms. Tolani was one of the six victims targetted by the snatchers between November 20 and 26 in and around Dwarka Sector 14. The Hindu accessed the six FIRs registered at Dwarka North police station and in all the cases the victims were threatened with sharp objects by one of two motorbike-borne men. Speaking to The Hindu , Ms. Tolani’s husband Varun said she was considering changing the route to office after the incident. “In the last one year that my wife has been taking this route, this is the first time that something like this has happened and that too in broad daylight,” he said, adding that the police have been very cooperative with them. On November 20, a youth, Prashant Yadav, was with his friend near Dwarka Sector 14 metro station when two men threatened them with a sharp object and robbed them of their cell phones. The victim said there were no CCTV cameras in the area where the incident happened. On November 23, 40-year-old Sombir, a resident of Kakrola, told the police that he was on his way home after a party at a friend’s place when near a park in Dwarka Sector 14 a man attacked him with a knife. Another man came from the front and the duo overpowered him and snatched his mobile phone. 2 incidents in 1 day On November 24, two such incidents took place in a span of two hours and barely a few kms from each other. In the first incident, the victim, Vikas Kumar, 36, a resident of Kakrola who works in the Air Force, said he was near a Government school in the area when a man came on a motorbike, snatched his phone and fled. In the second incident, 20-year-old Bharti Sharma, a call centre employee, told the police that around 10 p.m. on the Old Palam Road in Dwarka Sector 14, two men came on a motorbike, snatched her cell phone and fled. Mohsin Khan, 32, a resident of Uttam Nagar, said in his complaint that on November 26 he was robbed of his mobile phone by two men on a motorcycle at Dwarka Mor around 2 a.m. In most cases, the victims said, the suspects were aged between 20 and 25. While these incidents have triggered safety concerns among the residents of Dwarka Sector 14 and neighbouring areas, the Dwarka district doesn’t feature on the top the list of reported snatchings in the city as most of such crimes have been reported from East (112), North (103), Shahdara (94), Outer (88), and Central (87) districts, according to Delhi Police data between October 8 and November 11. A total of 1,018 cases of snatchings were reported in this period and 526 cases, including old ones were solved; 421 persons were arrested in these cases. Dwarka reported 61 cases of snatching in this period. Police sources said that under operation ‘Varchasva’, they have managed to control gangs involved in such crim-es and the number of cases has, in fact, declined after the crackdown began in October. When contacted, DCP (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary refused to comment. “The numbers indicate easier registration of FIRs and effective conversion of PCR calls into FIRs. We are dominating the streets and that shows in the number of arrests made and cases solved,” said Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal.  The numbers indicate easier registration of FIRs and effective conversion of PCR calls into FIRs. We are dominating the streets and that shows in the number of arrests and cases solved Chinmoy Biswal Delhi Police Public Relations Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/6-snatchings-in-7-days-and-counting/article37732388.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. leader, workers join AAP||Congress leader and five-time councillor Mukesh Goyal and more than a dozen Congress office-bearers joined the Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday. “People are joining the Aam Aadmi Party inspired by the commendable work done by the Arvind Kejriwal Government in sectors like education, health, electricity, water, roads, transport and WiFi. The mission of Kejriwal and AAP is that all the people of the country should get educated and everyone should get access to quality health services,” said senior AAP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. Mr. Goyal said the model of development of Chief Minister Kejriwal in the national capital is being discussed not only in the Capital but across India. “Whatever the party is doing in Delhi is commendable and the public is receiving its benefits. Opposing AAP did not feel right. This is why I left the Congress and joined AAP to work in the interest of the public,” Mr. Goyal said. Tax hikes AAP leader Durgesh Pathak on Saturday said that after South and North municipal corporations, now the East civic body has also increased tax in its budget. “According to the budget of EDMC, if you buy a property today, then they have increased the tax by 2%-3%. If there is a government house, then the tax of 5% has been increased on it. If you go to MCD to make a building plan, then there is an increase of 10% on it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-leader-workers-join-aap/article37732385.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Former Cong. MLA arrested for ‘assaulting’ civic workers||Former Congress MLA Asif Mohammad Khan was arrested on Saturday for allegedly abusing and assaulting on-duty workers of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and obstructing Government work, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) Esha Pandey said a case was registered against the former Okhla Legislator on Friday based on a complaint by Ram Kishore, Inspector, MCD, Lajpat Nagar Zone. The complainant accused Mr. Khan of abusing and assaulting on-duty municipal workers. The case was registered under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Shaheen Bagh police station. “The accused, Asif Md Khan, a resident of Shaheen Bagh, has been arrested, and investigation of the case is under progress,” Ms. Pandey said. Video surfaces The arrest was affected after a video surfaced, purportedly showing Mr. Khan abusing SDMC workers for allegedly removing hoardings put up by him. He had on Friday said he had no knowledge that they were SDMC employees. “I didn’t know who they were. I received no call or message from the SDMC about the incident," he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/former-cong-mla-arrested-for-assaulting-civic-workers/article37732380.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||NDTF member elected new DUTA president||After a gap of over two decades, the RSS-affiliated National Democratic Teachers’ Front (NDTF) won the president’s post of the Delhi University Teachers’ Association with A.K. Bhagi defeating Abha Dev Habib of the Left-affiliated Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) by a margin of 1,382 votes. The result of the DUTA election was announced on Saturday. Mr. Bhagi received 3,584 votes and Ms. Habib secured 2,202 votes. Mr. Bhagi said of the several issues that DUTA would address, the most important ones were the regularisation of ad hoc teachers within two years and the release of full funds by the Delhi Government on an immediate basis. He added that the NDTF was committed to reviving the idea of DUTA with an inclusive approach and appealed to all the teachers’ groups in DU to join him. Nandita Narain, the president of DTF, congratulated the newly elected leadership of DUTA and called upon it to fearlessly defend the democratic and critical legacy of the union by striving for absorption as per the correct roster and the rollback of the National Education Policy. “The hasty and cynical promulgation of an NEP that denies equal educational and livelihood access to all social classes and ignores the importance of academic democratisation will continue to undermine our collective aspirations. Therefore, DUTA needs to mount a strong resistance to NEP,” Ms. Narain said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ndtf-member-elected-new-duta-president/article37732371.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi police chief issues order to segregate duties||Commissioner of Police Rakesh Asthana issued a standing order stating that Inspector (Anti-Terror Operations) has been redesignated as Inspector (Law and Order) and listed duties of the Station House Officer and both Inspector of Law and Order and Investigations. Mr. Asthana said that this order shall be strictly complied with to ensure segregation of investigation duties from law and order. The order stated that the SHO being the Chief Investigating Officer is mandated as ‘Officer-in-charge’ and shall be responsible for supervising the work and conduct of the Inspector (Law and Order) and Inspector (Investigation). “In case either Inspector (Investigation) or Inspector (Law and Order) is not posted for a while or is on leave, then the SHO himself will look after their work in addition to his own duties. He shall act as a guiding and controlling officer who shall ensure overall harmony endeavouring to guide, motivate and facilitate the smooth functioning of both wings,” the order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-police-chief-issues-order-to-segregate-duties/article37732370.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||De-addiction drive: ‘3 out 20 have recovered’||Three out of 20 youth who were registered with de-addiction centres have recovered fully after rehabilitation under ‘Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyan’, police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North West) Usha Rangnani said that a special drug de-addiction campaign was launched in the district about a month ago and all the SHOs were specifically briefed to identify people involved in drug trafficking in their respective areas and take strict action. Besides this, special awareness drives were initiated at various places in which residents took active part. It included drug awareness seminars, nukkad-nataks and sensitization programmes. Police said that the north-west team bore fruitful results and three youth — Imran, Sahil and Azharuddin of Jahangirpuri area — recovered completely and are now living happily. They felt grateful towards Delhi Police for changing their lives and also motivated others to refrain from drugs, leading by their own example.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/de-addiction-drive-3-out-20-have-recovered/article37732372.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Doctors at Hindu Rao to resume duties||North Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh on Saturday announced that resident doctors at the civic body-run Hindu Rao hospital have “called off their strike”and will “resume work” on Sunday. Resident doctors at the hospital went on an indefinite strike starting November 22 over non-payment of salaries and dearness allowance (DA). “After detailed discussion on all the issues with the doctors and assurances from the corporation, the doctors have called off their strike. The corporation is aware of all the issues related to doctors and efforts are being made to resolve them at the earliest,” said Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctors-at-hindu-rao-to-resume-duties/article37732391.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||One COVID-related death reported in city||The city reported one new COVID-19-related death over 24 hours and the tally stood at 25,096, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Twenty-seven new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,40,834. A total of 59,651 tests were done in a day and the test positivity rate was 0.05%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-covid-related-death-reported-in-city/article37732384.ece
28 November 2021||Shimla,||Himachal Govt. announces new pay scales||The Himachal Pradesh Government has announced new pay scales as per the 6th Pay Commission for its employees, an official spokesperson said. It has also reduced the period of contractual employees for their regularisation from three years to two years. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur while addressing the Joint Coordination Committee of the Himachal Pradesh Non-Gazetted Employees Federation here on Saturday announced new pay scales for the employees of the State Government with effect from January 1, 2016. The pay of January 2022 will be payable in February 2022 as per revised pay scales, he added. Mr. Thakur said the State Government was spending about 43% of its budget on employees and pensioners, which would increase up to 50% after the implementation of the 6th Pay Commission. He said all the pensioners would also be given revised pension, effective from January 1, 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/himachal-govt-announces-new-pay-scales/article37732572.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Chronicler of the golden period of Indian theatre||The Delhi theatre scene suffered an irreparable loss when eminent critic and theatre practitioner Kavita Nagpal passed away this Tuesday after a prolonged illness. Very much like Nemi Chandra Jain and Romesh Chander, Kavita was a chronicler of the golden period of Indian theatre whose perceptive and in-depth reviews greatly contributed to the contemporary Indian theatre movement. Their impact was so significant that the late thespian, B.V. Karanth, once said it was the voice of the critics that dominated the theatre scene in Delhi. Born in Kanpur in 1942, Kavita was a complete theatre artist in the true sense of the word. She was an actor, writer and director, with knowledge of music and training in dance. An all-round creative person, she illuminated multiple fields of art with her contributions. Making her debut with the Darpan group in Kanpur, she performed with prestigious theatre groups of Delhi such as Yatrik, Dishantar, Abhiyan and Delhi Arts Theatre, and was one of the founder members of Jana Natya Manch. Artistic vision  Her artistic vision was largely influenced by the work of Sarveshwar Dayal Saxena, poet, criticand playwright, which inspired her to work with progressive theatre groups. Kavita performed with big names such as Gyan Dev Agnihotri, Satyadev Dubey, Shiv Puri, T.P.S. Jain, Sai Paranjpye, Rajendra Nath, Sheila Bhatia and B.M. Shah. She directed a number of plays that were performed in prominent theatre festivals, including the Bharat Rang Mahotsav. A great admirer of the theatrical art of Ratan Thiyam, she penned a book on Chakravyuha, the internationally acclaimed piece of theatrical art. A bold theatre critic, Kavita would not spare even eminent theatre directors, including foreign ones who performed in Delhi, in her reviews. Her presence, both in the auditorium and on the stage, was electrifying. Eminent director and playwright Bhanu Bharti recalled, “In the 1970s when I was new to the theatre scene in Delhi, every newspaper was alive to the happenings in the art world, particularly theatre. Critics would rush to their respective offices to write about the play they had watched that evening. There were Nemi Chandra Jain, Romesh Chander, and the vivacious Kavita.” Kavita’s views were the most controversial among the theatre practitioners, he said. “She had strong likes and dislikes and did not mince her words. Nevertheless, she had a strong presence and we became friends. This friendship continued all through, despite all the quarrels and disagreements. I will greatly miss her and so will Delhi’s theatre.” Courage of conviction In a similar vein, Devendra Raj Ankur, former director of the National School of Drama, said: “Kavita had the courage of conviction to call a spade a spade.” This writer had the privilege of watching drama shows alongside Kavita for several years. After the show, we would briefly discuss the production in question. She was a star critic; the writer was a novice but she would listen to his views with respect. We came close when her husband Vinod Nagpal, a veteran film and theatre actor, was acting in B.M. Shah’s Rajula Malushahi opera, produced by the Parvatiya Kala Kendra. Kavita took a keen interest in the month-long rehearsals. She was particularly interested in the folk music of Uttarakhand. It was a different Kavita, an enthusiast with a deep love for folk music who watched with keen interest the way Mohan Upreti was composing music for the opera. Those were the days of great discoveries, innovations and experiments in theatre and Kavita was a witness as well as a participant in that creative saga. Her incisive reviews reflected the spirit of the time. Kavita was arguably the only theatre critic in the country who was invited to watch theatre in some of the European countries and the U.S. She watched Peter Brook’s 1985 mega-production of the Mahabharata, staged at Avignon, France. Her review was an insightful critique of an Indian epic, projected by a foreign director. She was also invited to attend the Edinburgh Theatre Festival. She was honoured by a number of cultural bodies, including Pratibimb Kala Darpan, which conferred on her Lifetime Award in 2011; the best critic award by All India Critics Association 1979-80 and the best critic award by Natsamrat Theatre in 2008. In recent years, she was suffering from a chronic disease. She would attend the shows on a wheelchair, accompanied by an attendant, but her writing remained sharp. Physically she became weak, her voice feeble, but her passion for the theatre never dimmed. Kavita is no more but her reviews and writings will continue to inform and inspire theatre scholars and connoisseurs of the art.  (The writer is a seasoned theatre critic and a Sangeet Natak Akademi fellow)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chronicler-of-the-golden-period-of-indian-theatre/article37732375.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A treat in honour of our farmers||The visuals of songs being shared on social media platforms in honour of our tireless farmers last week brought to mind not just the images of the men and women toiling in the field but also a sight that has always gladdened my heart: green and yellow mustard fields. What does one do when reminded of mustard leaves? Have some sarson ka saag, of course. This is the season for mustard leaves, and big and small eateries have started serving fresh saag with makkey ki roti. Many years ago, I had gone to a small restaurant in Geeta Colony that was known for its dal and saag. I found out that the dhaba — called ‘Sialkot Vegetarian’ (Pyare Lal) — was still going strong. Also, it delivered food through delivery apps. I ordered a plate of its special dal fry chana (Rs. 120 for half a plate), malai kofta (Rs. 120 for a half plate) and sarson ka saag (Rs. 160 for a full plate), with some makkey ki roti (Rs. 25 for one). I had a memorable lunch that day. Serving since 1950 The restaurant has been around since 1950, set up by the grandfather (the aforementioned Pyare Lal) of the present owner. The eatery, Manager Raju tells me, focuses on fresh, high quality ingredients, and that trait, more than anything else, explains the good taste of the dishes. The chana dal’s delicious flavours, for instance, had a lot to do with the quality of the dal, as well as the ripe red tomatoes that went into the tadka, with onions. The dal had been cooked just right — it was neither too mushy nor too hard — and the tempering, with butter, added considerably to the taste. I enjoyed the malai kofta too. The koftas were soft but not crumbly. The paneer, clearly, was of good quality. The small dumplings had a sweet taste, which I rather liked. And the gravy, thickened with a paste of nuts, went well with the rotis. The icing on the cake, of course, was the saag. It had been cooked really well, and had been mildly tempered with garlic, ginger and green chillies. The ghee, again, gave it a twist, blanketing the mashed leaves with a mild fragrance. The rotis, though cooked in a tandoor, were soft, and ably complemented the saag and the dal. Each dish was enough for three, and there was some left over for dinner as well. If you plan to drop in at Pyare Lal’s, here are the directions. While going towards Jheel from Radhu Palace, you’ll go past a place called Khureji. Move on, and you will find yourself in Geeta Colony. Ask for a neighbourhood called Shivpuri. The dhaba is right there. When I went there 12 years ago, a plate of dal came for Rs. 20, and, if cooked in butter, for Rs. 50. The price has gone up considerably since then, but the taste is as good as ever. After the last bite of the roti and sarson ka saag, I put my hands together for our farmers — a gesture of gratitude for those untiring hands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-treat-in-honour-of-our-farmers/article37732378.ece
28 November 2021||JAFFNA,||Unable to access our lands, say Tamils in Jaffna village||In Chundikulam village, located on the eastern tip of Jaffna Peninsula, farmers are facing a peculiar challenge. They are unable to access their lands in which they have recently sowed vegetables. “Border stones of the Department of Wildlife Conservation have sprouted on our plots,” said S. Arunthavaraja, a resident, pointing to a dull grey stone with the letters ‘DWC’ painted on it. “Once a stone like this is put on our lands, we have been told not to enter the area, as it is part of the Government’s conservation effort,” he said. His problem is yet another reflection of a widespread concern in Sri Lanka’s Tamil-majority north and east. On the one hand, successive Governments in power during Sri Lanka’s post-war decade show records of returning people’s lands until now held by the military. On the other, scores of families, who have returned to their villages following years of war-time displacement, have been highlighting other, more recent “threats” to their land, mostly from the Government’s Archaeology and Forest Departments. Last year, farmers in the Eastern Province filed at least a dozen cases challenging authorities to reclaim their lands that they once cultivated or used as grazing patches for their cattle. ‘Reserve areas’ The nearly 250 families in and around Chundikulam, over an hour’s drive from Jaffna town, and bordering Kilinochchi and Mullaitivu districts, are largely engaged in agriculture and fisheries for a living. During the civil war, they were displaced to Mullaitivu and returned to their village in phases, in 2009 and 2011. “When we came back, there was absolutely nothing here — our homes were destroyed. And now, the Government has declared our ancestral lands ‘wildlife reserve areas’,” said Natesa Yogaraja, a community leader. “Our village also has a heavy military presence, you would have seen. The CID will likely question us for even speaking to the media,” he said. The Marunthakeni area in Vadamarachchi East has several military check points, as residents pointed out. “They say it’s to prevent narcotics trade. Every day, we read about big hauls being seized in different parts of the country. What does that mean? How do the drugs enter our country despite all this surveillance?” he asked, referring to the Government’s rationale for persisting military presence in many coastal areas in the north. According to Chandralingam Sugirthan, a former member of the Northern Provincial Council, many families had title deeds for the private land, and some others were cultivating state land for decades. “When the war ended, the Government began gazetting these lands as areas earmarked for conservation,” he said. The problem, he said, has persisted for years now, across Governments. “Authorities neither inspected the areas in person, nor consulted people living here for many generations before declaring them wildlife reserve areas. It is the same story across the north and east.” Addressing Parliament recently, Jaffna district MP Gajen Ponnambalam said the Forest Department has been declaring hundreds of acres of private land, or permit land of the people, as protected areas. “If there is a reallocation of state land, it is often given to people belonging to other districts, to systematically change the demography of the north and east. When we tell these truths, they say we are racist, or communal, or against Sinhalese, that is not the case. But you cannot pauperise the people of the north and east to the benefit of people outside,” he told the House. ‘Disputed areas’ According to the 2018 performance report of Sri Lanka’s Wildlife Conservation Department, about 50,000 acres in Chundikulam, which was earlier a bird sanctuary, was “upgraded” to a national park in 2015. Residents had raised the matter with the former Sirisena-Wickremesinghe administration as well, but to no avail. When contacted, Chandana Sooriyabandara, Director General of the Department, said the concerns of the people of Chundikulam had been brought to his attention. When the area was upgraded to a national park, several human inhabitations were excluded, he said. “But there are some disputed areas. We had planned to undertake a field visit to review our conservation plan, but we had to postpone it due to the pandemic,” he told The Hindu . “We will consult the locals soon and resolve the issue,” he said. For residents like P. Yogalakshmi, 62, it is perplexing to how lands she grew up on, saw her father and grandfather cultivate, has suddenly ceased to be her family’s. “See, we have all the papers,” she said, opening a file with her pale-yellow title deed. According to Mr. Natesa Yogaraja, the recent moves also threaten the village’s food production. “If we are allowed to cultivate our lands, the entire village will be self-sufficient. Let authorities take action if we hunt illegally.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/unable-to-access-our-lands-say-tamils-in-jaffna-village/article37731899.ece
28 November 2021||Tehran,||Riot police deployed after violent stir in Iran: reports||Riot police were deployed on Saturday after a number of arrests in the Iranian city of Isfahan, witnesses and state media said, a day after violent protests over the drying up of a lifeblood river. Security forces fired tear gas during clashes on Friday with stone-throwers at the protest with around 500 people in the bed of the Zayadneh Rood river that crosses the central city, Fars and ISNA news agencies said. Security forces made “a limited number of arrests”, according to the province's police chief. “The situation is calm in the Zayandeh Roud riverbed and the streets are empty, but I heard riot police were deployed on the Khadjou bridge,” said a resident who works in the area. The demonstration on Friday was the latest in a series in Isfahan. But it was the first to turn violent. The riverbed has been the gathering spot for farmers and other people from across Isfahan province protesting the lack of water since November 9. Drought is a cause, but they also accuse the authorities of diverting water from the city to supply the neighbouring province of Yazd, which is also desperately short on supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/riot-police-deployed-after-violent-stir-in-iran-reports/article37731892.ece
28 November 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar-China crossings reopen for trade||Two Myanmar-China border crossings have reopened for trade after the movement of goods was suspended for almost seven months due to COVID-19 restrictions, officials said. Five shipping containers of produce were exchanged on Friday at the Kyin San Kyawt border gate, around 11 kilometres from the northern Myanmar city of Muse. Min Thein, vice-chair of the Muse Rice Wholesale Centre, said an estimated 8,00,000 bags of rice had been in limbo since the border was shut in April. “It will take one month to export all these rice bags,” he said. China said it would allow more trucks to cross next week. Elsewhere in Shan state, Myanmar, the Chinshwehaw border gate also reopened for commerce Friday, the Chinese Embassy in Yangon said. “China-Myanmar border trade is trying to return to normal as soon as possible,” the Embassy posted on Facebook alongside pictures of container trucks and officials in full plastic protective gear. Huge blow The border shutdowns came as a huge blow to Myanmar’s agricultural export sector with hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue lost. The country’s economy has tanked since February’s military coup sparked widespread protests, bloodshed and international sanctions. Myanmar typically exports seafood, fruit and rice to China via land routes, while it receives electronics, medicine and construction materials in return. The trade disruptions increased the cost of living for families living in Myanmar border towns. “Food and clothes that come from China now have a higher price,” a woman from Muse said. “We have many difficulties as our income cannot keep up with the price of goods.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-china-crossings-reopen-for-trade/article37731894.ece
28 November 2021||Beijing,||Chinese Army conducts drills near Taiwan Strait||The Chinese Army has carried out a “naval and air force combat readiness patrol” near the Taiwan Strait following a contentious visit to the island by a group of American lawmakers, a spokesperson said. Tensions between Beijing and Washington have soared over the fate of democratic self-ruled Taiwan, which China has vowed to one day retake, by force if necessary. A group of American lawmakers arrived on the island on Thursday offering support for the Taiwanese authorities, who Beijing accuses of seeking independence for the island. In response, the Chinese Army on Friday carried out “a naval and air force combat readiness patrol in the direction of the Taiwan Strait”, a spokesperson for the Eastern Theater Command said in a statement. Necessary measure “This is a necessary measure in response to the current situation in the Taiwan Strait,” they added, pledging that the Army would “protect sovereignty and territorial integrity of the nation”. China’s Foreign Ministry on Friday expressed Beijing’s “firm opposition” to the U.S. lawmakers’ visit, the second by members of Congress to the island this month. Led by Mark Takano, Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, the delegation met with Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen on Thursday in a show of support for a rare issue on which there is cross-party consensus in the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-army-conducts-drills-near-taiwan-strait/article37731891.ece
28 November 2021||London,||U.K. confirms first two cases of new strain||Britain on Saturday confirmed its first two cases of the new Omicron strain of COVID-19, both linked to travel from southern Africa, and expanded travel restrictions on the region. “After overnight genome sequencing, the U.K. Health Security Agency has confirmed that two cases of COVID-19 with mutations consistent with B.1.1.529 [Omicron] have been identified in the U.K.,” a Government statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-confirms-first-two-cases-of-new-strain/article37731895.ece
28 November 2021||TOKYO,||Japan PM vows to step up defence amid threats||Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida, at his first troop review on Saturday, renewed his pledge to consider “all options”, including acquiring enemy base strike capability, and vowed to create a stronger Self-Defence Force to protect the country amid growing threats from China and North Korea. Mr. Kishida said the security situation around Japan was rapidly changing and that “the reality is severer than ever”, with North Korea continuing to test-fire ballistic missiles while advancing its capability, and China pursuing a military buildup and increasingly assertive activity in the region. “I will consider all options, including possessing so-called enemy base strike capability, to pursue strengthening of defence power that is necessary,” Mr. Kishida said in an address to hundreds of Ground Self-Defence Force members in olive-coloured helmets and uniforms. Mr. Kishida, who took office in October, served as top commander for the first time at Saturday’s Self-Defence Force troop review held at the main Army base camp Asaka, north of Tokyo. About 800 troops gathered for the inspection, according to the Defence Ministry. ‘Unprecedented speed’ “The security environment surrounding Japan has been rapidly changing at an unprecedented speed. Things that used to happen only in science-fiction novels are today’s reality,” Mr. Kishida said. He said his Government would lead “calm and realistic” discussions to determine what is needed to protect people’s lives and gain their understanding. The possibility of possessing so-called enemy base strike capability has been a divisive issue because opponents say it violates Japan’s war-renouncing Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/japan-pm-vows-to-step-up-defence-amid-threats/article37731897.ece
28 November 2021||London,||U.K. scientist backs vaccines against variant||The British scientist who led the research underpinning AstraZeneca’s COVID-19 jab on Saturday said a new vaccine could be developed against the emerging Omicron variant “very rapidly” if needed. Professor Andrew Pollard, the director of the Oxford Vaccine Group, also said existing vaccines should work against the new strain, but that would become apparent after more research. “It is extremely unlikely that a reboot of a pandemic in a vaccinated population like we saw last year [with the Delta variant] is going to happen,” he told BBC radio. “The processes of how one goes about developing a new vaccine are increasingly well-oiled. If it’s needed, that is something that could move rapidly.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-scientist-backs-vaccines-against-variant/article37731896.ece
28 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Pandemic forcing nations to develop newer frameworks for cybersecurity||Worldwide, nations have been forced to introduce legal frameworks and regulations to ensure cyber sovereignty for themselves and data security and privacy for their netizens, after the pandemic-triggered a data deluge on the Internet which dramatically increased vulnerabilities to cyberattacks, said legal luminaries and cyber experts who spoke online at an international conference on Cyberlaw, Cybercrime and Cybersecurity that concluded on Friday. Technology should find a way to accurately identify actors who violate the norms of the Internet and infringe upon personal data privacy and governmental security and sovereignty, said Vint Cerf, Chief Internet Evangelist at Google. “It is critical that we have a way to identify people who violate the rules of the Internet, the data super highway,” said Mr. Cerf, considered one of the ‘fathers of the Internet’. “It could be something like a driving license, and violations are trackable and violators are easily identifiable,” he added. Globally, nations lost some $6 trillion to cybercrimes in 2020 and such losses are estimated to exceed $8 trillion in 2021. Cybersecurity issues have emerged as a top concern for several governments and, as a result, 63% of the countries globally are planning to come up with cyberprivacy-related legislation by 2023, as per Gartner Research. Cyberlaw was a constantly evolving paradigm and therefore most governments were working on holistic legal approaches to safeguard their critical information infrastructure and protect digital liberties and rights of netizens, said Pavan Duggal, President, Cyberlaws.Net, cyberlaw expert. “Newly evolving technologies are increasingly putting the focus back on pushing the envelope of cyberlegal jurisprudence across the world. So, nations have realised the importance of creating distinctive sub-disciplines of law under the cyberlaw umbrella such as cybersecurity, cybercrime, law for artificial intelligence, blockchain and IoT, etc.,” added Mr. Duggal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-forcing-nations-to-develop-newer-frameworks-for-cybersecurity/article37731882.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Direct selling firm Modicare adds 2 lakh consultants a month’||Direct selling firm Modicare on Friday said it has been onboarding nearly two lakh consultants every month as people are turning to direct selling after losing their jobs amid the pandemic. “During COVID many people lost jobs overnight, for them direct selling became an option. And they could do it from home as well, without stepping out,” said Samir Modi, founder and MD, Modicare Ltd. “Currently have a base of 53 lakh consultants with two lakh new consultants joining every month,” Mr. Modi said. He added that men and women accounted for 50% each of the consultant base, with 30% consultants in the age group of 21-29 years, 50% aged from 30-49, and the remaining above 50 years. Mr. Modi added that the company had been growing at a CAGR of 65% and expected to garner revenues of about Rs. 2,100 crore this year. “Five years ago, we were at Rs. 96 crore. This growth has been driven by new product offerings. Even during the pandemic, we unveiled 150 new products across categories like oil, ghee, masalas, tea and coffee,” he said.  U.K. market entry Mr. Modi further said the company was looking at entering the U.K. market with cosmetics and wellness segment products and would be investing Rs. 60 crore in that. “We will expand the product line in the U.K. We need to get UK FDA registration and EU FDA registration and that takes a long time,” the MD said. “Hence, launching with limited categories,” he added. The company also announced its foray into consumer durables last month with air purifiers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/direct-selling-firm-modicare-adds-2-lakh-consultants-a-month/article37731885.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Let’s work together to fix commercial disputes fast’||Indian industry and the government must together approach the judiciary to press for faster resolution of commercial disputes that take years to unravel, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday, adding that it was up to the judiciary to accept ideas like limiting the number of adjournments allowed in the hearings of such disputes. “Capping adjournments, which I have been a proponent of, needs a buy-in from the judiciary,” Mr. Goyal asserted. “So maybe what we need to do, is the government and industry both go together and engage with the judiciary. I assure you our judiciary has really outstanding individuals with a very high degree of understanding and empathy.” Observing that the government was working on making mediation a preferred mechanism to resolve delays in settling commercial disputes ‘rather than everyone rushing to court’, the minister said a lot depended on industry’s readiness to work with the government on a solution. “You saw the comment of the Honourable Chief Justice of India that they are only nudging us to do our work better, whether it’s in industry or government. But if both of us go together with our difficulties, I can assure you we will not find the courts or the honourable judges lacking in their support. They are in fact, all the time wishing to support us to do better, whether in government, industry, executive or every walk of life,” Mr. Goyal added. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade could work with the law ministry and industry to engage ‘well-meaning top jurists’ and moot a solution within the Constitution, the minister said at a CII conference on ‘Ease of Doing Business for Aatmanirbhar Bharat’. “We can’t take away some of the freedoms that are available, particularly the writ jurisdictions of the court. You or I can’t suggest that to the court. But we can ask them for their guidance on how to make this process faster and easier,” Mr. Goyal underlined. ‘Resilient supply’ The minister also exhorted businesses to tap local suppliers even if that entailed higher costs in order to help build a ‘resilient supply ecosystem’. Citing the example of Korea where companies only buy local steel despite Indian steel being equally good and competitively priced, the minister said that this was not done because of any diktat from their government. “It’s their local industry that buys domestically and doesn’t give an entry to all our steel players. So I am just raising a point for your consideration. Can we progress as partners of each other, looking beyond costs? You may have to compromise on some small costs in the short run, but imagine the jobs and opportunities you will create for those who have been left behind in the development cycle, if you gave that little support to your own people, your own industry,” he pointed out.  We can ask the judiciary for guidance on how to make this process faster||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lets-work-together-to-fix-commercial-disputes-fast/article37731883.ece
28 November 2021||Mumbai,||Hindujas welcome RBI’s 26% promoter stake cap||The Hindujas, who had earlier moved the RBI seeking to increase their holding in IndusInd Bank, on Saturday welcomed the regulator’s decision to allow promoter holding of up to 26% in private sector lenders. IIHL Mauritius, the Hindujas’ entity and the promoter of IndusInd Bank, had applied to the RBI to increase its holding to 26% from the earlier 15%, after promoters of rival Kotak Mahindra Bank were given thenod to keep their holding at 26% after they dragged the regulator to courts. “We believe this measure of increased promoter holding will be of benefit to all stakeholders: the regulator, the banking institution and its clients, particularly at this time when Indian economy is poised for exponential growth,” said Ashok Hinduja, the chairman of IIHL. The RBI on Friday came out with revised guidelines for private sector banks, allowing for 26% promoter ownership, but did not go ahead with an internal working group’s recommendation to allow corporates to promote banks after protests from various quarters. Mr. Hinduja said IIHL now awaits operational guidelines as it gives the promoters an opportunity to inject capital to increase stake up to 26%.  We believe this measure will be of benefit to all stakeholdersAshok Hinduja,IIHL Chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hindujas-welcome-rbis-26-promoter-stake-cap/article37731887.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Bharti rolls back in-app data coupons||Bharti Airtel has withdrawn certain data benefit coupons it was offering through its app on some prepaid plans, a move the telco said will help “avoid any confusion” among consumers about the offerings and comparisons between various plans. The telecom operator had announced 20-25% tariff hikes for various prepaid offerings. “It is an ongoing industry practice to run cash backs or extra data only through telco apps as coupons. However, to avoid any confusion of incorrect comparisons in the mind of our customers, these in-app coupon offers stand withdrawn,” a Bharti spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-rolls-back-in-app-data-coupons/article37731886.ece
28 November 2021||New Delhi,||Think about creating safe Internet: MoS||Democratic countries need to join hands to think about creating safety, trust and accountability on the Internet which has no boundaries, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Saturday. Speaking at an event organised by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and National Internet Exchange of India (NIXI), he said India was becoming one of the largest connected nations with 800 million people online. With the world’s largest rural broadband programme, India would soon have more than one billion people on the Internet, the Minister noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/think-about-creating-safe-internet-mos/article37731888.ece
28 November 2021||KANPUR,||Axar pulls things back with a remarkable spell||A touch of familiarity returned to the proceedings once the Indian spinners turned things around. After New Zealand laboured to a 151-run opening stand and consolidated further to 197/1 in the over before lunch, it was India all the way on the third day of the first Test here. In the space of 99 runs, India cleaned up nine wickets and kept the Kiwis to 296 for a 49-run first-innings lead. India seized the psychological advantage by taking four wickets each in the second and third sessions, in sharp contrast to the corresponding sessions on Friday when it went wicketless. Castled again When India batted again, Kyle Jamieson exposed Shubman Gill’s technical deficiency by shattering his stumps for the second time in three days. Cheteshwar Pujara joined Mayank Agarwal and prevented further damage with India ending a fine day at 14 for one — a lead of 63 with nine wickets in hand. If India returned to the right course, it was mainly due to the left-arm spin of Axar Patel. Playing only his fourth Test, Axar finished with a five-wicket haul for the fifth time in seven innings. It all started in Axar’s 19th over when he reinforced the belief that Ross Taylor was vulnerable to slow left-armers. The delivery caught the outside edge of Taylor’s bat and substitute wicketkeeper K.S. Bharat — on for Wriddhiman Saha who did not take the field due to a sprained neck — snapped it. In his next over, Axar had Henry Nicholls leg-before following a missed sweep. His persistence paid off when opener Tom Latham lost his patience when just five runs short of a century. Seeing Latham step out, Axar dropped one wide. The ball found the left-hander’s gloves, bounced once before reaching Bharat who effected a neat stumping. Quick wickets In the post-tea session, Axar bowled Tom Blundell with the one that stayed low and added a fifth wicket by shattering Tim Southee’s stumps. Before Axar got into the wicket-taking act in the second session, India struck two vital blows in the first. R. Ashwin, who took the last two wickets, was instrumental in providing the breakthrough in the 67th over of the innings when Will Young edged a flat delivery and Bharat stayed low to grab the offering. After Axar was given the second new ball in the 85th over, Umesh Yadav bowled the next over — last before lunch — and trapped Kane Williamson leg-before. The length was just right to keep Williamson on the backfoot. After he chose to review, his dismissal signalled the lunch interval. Trailing, Williamson and his men will come hard at the host. Much depends on how India mixes application with aggression to press home the advantage. The host needs to score in a calculated manner on Sunday to have any chance of forcing the issue on Monday. With the pitch clearly assisting spin and a few deliveries keeping low, the Indian spinners could prove a handful in the fourth innings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/axar-pulls-things-back-with-a-remarkable-spell/article37731989.ece
28 November 2021||KUALA LUMPUR,||Ghosal ends three-year drought||India’s Saurav Ghosal bagged his first PSA Tour title in three years, defeating top seed Miguel Rodriguez of Colombia 11-7, 11-8, 13-11 in the final of the SRAM 40th Malaysian Open squash championships here on Saturday. Seeded two and ranked World No. 15, Ghosal produced a clinical display in the third game even as the Colombian, ranked World No. 12, fought hard. Counter-drop Rodriguez had a game point at 10-9 in the third game, but Ghosal nullified it with a counter-drop from the front-court. The Indian won the match on his second match point when Rodriguez’s backhand drive hit the ‘Tin’. Ghosal last won a PSA title in the 2018 Kolkata International Open. The 35-year-old said it’s a great feeling to win after a while. “Obviously it feels great. I beat some good players along the way. “The final was a high-quality match. As much as the third game, the second was tough too as I was trailing 0-7. The victory is a reward for all the hard work I’ve put in,” said Ghosal, who now has 10 PSA titles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ghosal-ends-three-year-drought/article37732239.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Exciting second game too ends in a draw||If Magnus Carlsen was left wondering if he had actually missed a chance to create a winning opportunity, then it is bad news for Ian Nepominachtchi in the coming games. In what turned out to be an exciting second game of their World Chess Championship title-clash, the two contenders fought harder than they did in the first game before arriving at the same result — a draw. “I completely missed Nepo's 18th knight move but I think I had a good position towards the end,” said Carlsen. Nepo admired Carlsen's play after the champion ran into an inferior position. For 58 moves, the two battled hard. After Carlsen, playing white, let go of a queenside pawn for initiative and sacrificed a rook for a knight to slip into an apparent disadvantageous position. But on the 26th move, Nepo captured a pawn and missed a more assertive queen-move to let his advantage slip away. By the 38th move, Carlsen was clearly holding a better position. Thereafter, the game eventually moved into a rook and pawn end-game where only one result was possible. The third game, where Nepo plays white, is scheduled for Sunday.  The moves:   Game 2: White: Carlsen, Black: Nepominachtchi   1. d4 Nf6 2. c4 e6 3. Nf3 d5 4. g3 Be7 5. Bg2 O-O 6. O-O dxc4 7. Qc2 b5 8. Ne5 c6 9. a4 Nd5 10. Nc3 f6 11. Nf3 Qd7 12. e4 Nb4 13. Qe2 Nd3 14. e5 Bb7 15. exf6 Bxf6 16. Ne4 Na6 17. Ne5 Bxe5 18. dxe5 Nac5.   19. Nd6 Nb3 20. Rb1 Nbxc1 21. Rbxc1 Nxc1 22. Rxc1 Rab8 23. Rd1 Ba8 24. Be4 c3 25. Qc2 g6 26. bxc3 bxa4 27. Qxa4 Rfd8 28. Ra1 c5 29. Qc4 Bxe4 30. Nxe4 Kh8 31. Nd6 Rb6 32. Qxc5 Rdb8 33. Kg2 a6 34. Kh3 Rc6 35. Qd4 Kg8 36. c4 Qc7 37. Qg4 Rxd6 38. exd6 Qxd6 39. c5 Qxc5 40. Qxe6+ Kg7 41. Rxa6 Rf8 42. f4 Qf5+ 43. Qxf5 Rxf5 44. Ra7+ Kg8 45. Kg4 Rb5 46. Re7 Ra5 47. Re5 Ra7 48. h4 Kg7 49. h5 Kh6 50. Kh4 Ra1 51. g4 Rh1+ 52. Kg3 gxh5 53. Re6+ Kg7 54. g5 Rg1+ 55. Kf2 Ra1 56. Rh6 Ra4 57. Kf3 Ra3+ 58. Kf2 Ra4 1/2-1/2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/exciting-second-game-too-ends-in-a-draw/article37731977.ece
28 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||India wallops Poland, moves up||An aggressive India relied on Sanjay, Araijeet Singh Hundal and Sudeep Chirmako’s braces to beat Poland 8-2 to record its second win and qualify for the quarterfinals of the men’s hockey Junior World Cup at the Kalinga Stadium here on Saturday. In its last Pool B match, India earned five cards, including three yellow, while pressing hard to ensure a much-needed victory. The host, which placed second in Pool B with six points, will face Pool A topper Belgium in the last-eight clash. Dominant start India began on a dominating note, scoring twice and putting pressure in the opening quarter. Sanjay drew first blood with a low flick. Hundal’s powerful and high flick in the seventh minute made it 2-0. Chirmako then foxed a defender to fire home a spectacular goal in the 24th minute as India led 3-0 at half-time. After the change of ends, captain Vivek Sagar Prasad sneaked past three defenders and set up Uttam who made no mistake. Shardanand Tiwari and Chirmako added to India’s tally. Poland finally put some pressure on India, earning several penalty corners on either side of the third break. W. Rutowski scored off the seventh corner before Robert Pawlak narrowed the margin. However, Sanjay and Hundal helped India pull away again.  The results:   Pool A: Malaysia bt South Africa 4-3, Belgium bt Chile 3-0; Pool B: France bt Canada 11-1; India 8 (Sanjay 4, 58, Araijeet Singh Hundal 7, 60, Sudeep Chirmako 24, 40, Uttam Singh 34, Shradanand Tiwari 38) bt Poland 2 (Wojciech Rutkowski 50, Robert Pawlak 54); Pool D: Pakistan bt Egypt 3-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-wallops-poland-moves-up/article37731986.ece
28 November 2021||Chennai,||Mahindra Racing optimistic ahead of testing||Ahead of the first pre-season testing for the 2021-22 season of Formula E, the electric single-seater championship that starts next week in Valencia, Indian team Mahindra Racing is optimistic of a good run after a few years of struggle. Mahindra Racing has been part of the series since the first year in 2014-15 and this will be the final season for the Gen2 car before the Gen3 car is introduced next year. Downturn The team showed good progress for the first few years finishing as high as third and fourth in the third and fourth seasons. Since then it has slipped to ninth over the last two years. Dilbagh Gill, Team Principal, of Mahindra Racing, however, is optimistic about his side’s chances this year. Gill spoke to The Hindu ahead of the launch of Formule E Unplugged, a documentary series about the last season, similar to F1’s ‘Drive to Survive’ where an episode focuses on Mahindra. “I don’t want to say a number like second or third, but I would say we will be back in the top half,” said Gill. Explaining what has held the team back, Gill said, “Our weakness essentially has been largely around tyre management and race strategy. “In qualifying, we have always been one of the best teams... we can get the best single lap pace out of a car. But in race pace is where we are (lacking). We have been good at preparing for the sprint but not the marathon. “For the race, there is a bit more strategy, you push for a bit, you hold back and we are tuning ourselves towards nailing race pace,” he added. In its inaugural year, the team had Karun Chandhok as one of its drivers, but has not had an Indian behind the wheel after that. When asked about that, Gill said, “We haven’t had the resources though we have had the intention. “There has been a vacuum of talent but some really good drivers like Arjun (Maini) and Jehan (Daruvala) are coming up even though they are largely F1-focused so far.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mahindra-racing-optimistic-ahead-of-testing/article37732277.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||ATK MB toys with SCEB in derby||ATK Mohun Bagan (ATK MB) proved too strong for a listless SC East Bengal (SCEB) as it stormed to a commanding 3-0 victory in their Indian Super League Kolkata derby at Tilak Maidan, Vasco, on Saturday. In the day’s second match, Hyderabad came from a goal down to script a memorable 3-1 victory over Mumbai City FC at the Fatorda Stadium. SCEB’s defence fell apart in the 12th minute when Roy Krishna scored a stunning goal. After receiving Pritam Kotal’s delightful cross from the right, Krishna caressed the ball past the ’keeper. Things got worse for SCEB as Manvir Singh netted the second two minutes later. Arindam’s evening turned more miserable in the 23rd minute when he messed up a regulation save and Liston Colaco slotted the ball into an empty net to make it 3-0. SCEB had little to do but chase shadows for the rest of the game as ATK MB showed no signs of relenting. At Fatorda, after Ahmed Jahouh had given the defending champion the lead, Manolo Marquez’s men scored through Joao Victor to go into the break on level terms. In the second half, they were miles ahead as Bartholomew Ogbeche and Rohit Danu got on to the scoresheet to help Hyderabad earn its first win of the season, and its first-ever over Mumbai City FC. On an evening when ATK MB recorded a statement win over SCEB to establish a clear lead at the top, Mumbai will rue the missed opportunity to keep pace with its arch-rival.  The results: East Bengal 0 lost to ATK Mohun Bagan 3 (Krishna 12, Manvir 14, Colaco 23); Mumbai City FC 1 (Jahouh 6) lost to Hyderabad FC 3 (Victor 13, Ogbeche 53, Danu 82).   Sunday’s match: Bengaluru FC vs Kerala Blasters FC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mb-toys-with-sc-eb/article37731984.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sarabjot emerges champion in air pistol||Sarabjot Singh emerged the national champion in men’s air pistol, but it was Shiva Narwal who hogged the attention with a consistently brilliant fare in the 64th National shooting championship at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, on Saturday. After qualifying with 581 in the seventh place, Sarabjot beat Haryana teammate Shiva Narwal by 0.6 point with a 10.5 on the last shot. Saurabh Chaudhary finished fourth after having qualified in the second place with 584 points, one point behind Kedarling Balakrishna Uchaganve of the Army. The men’s field had 916 shooters completing the competition. The best final was in the junior section, which featured 712 shooters, as Narwal shot 246.7, a score better than the current world record, to pip Saurabh by 0.2 point. Narwal sizzles The youth gold was relatively an easy fare for Narwal as he won by 3.7 points despite shooting 243.1. The youth section had more than 1070 shooters in the fray. Two gold and a silver in the individual competition was a truly outstanding performance by Narwal.  The results:   10m air pistol: Men: 1. Sarabjot Singh 242.3 (581); 2. Shiva Narwal 241.7 (582); 3. Harsh Gupta 221.2 (581). Juniors: 1. Narwal 246.7 (582); 2. Saurabh Chaudhary 246.5 (584); 3. Sarabjot 225.4 (581).   Youth: 1. Narwal 243.1 (582); 2. Sagar Bhargava 239.4 (579); 3. Arif Malik 216.2 (580) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sarabjot-emerges-champion-in-air-pistol/article37732360.ece
28 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Yuki-Saketh duo takes the honours||Yuki Bhambri announced his return to competition by winning the doubles title with Saketh Myneni in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Tennis Project, Baliawas, here on Saturday. The duo beat compatriots S.D. Prajwal Dev and Rishi Reddy 6-4, 7-6(6) in an entertaining final. It is the second ITF title for Yuki this season, and both have been with Saketh. He had won the last in Lucknow in March. After playing the doubles event at the Orlando Challenger in April, the 29-year-old Yuki has not played in the professional circuit owing to a recurring knee problem. Saketh also has not been competing in the professional circuit regularly for a variety of reasons. He has been playing only doubles and had won the title with Vishnu Vardhan last week in Delhi.  Both Yuki and Saketh served and stroked well against a quality opposition. Saketh was able to step up on his big serves to get the team out of trouble. Yuki was understandably rusty, but was able to show glimpses of his class that had taken him to No. 83 in the world in singles. There was not much cheer for the hosts earlier in the day as USA’s Dusty Boyer and Zsombor Velcz of Hungary took turns to beat Nitin Kumar Sinha and Ishaque Eqbal in the singles semifinals. The 22-year-old Nitin battled for two hours and 36 minutes before being beaten 6-4, 3-6, 4-6 by third seeded Boyer who had a strong all-round game. Nitin, who had done well to win the first set after being down 1-3, dropped serve rather tamely in the sixth game of the third and that proved decisive. Ishaque handled the left-handed Velcz with competence but a blister on his feet did not let him get a firm grip on the match against a forceful opponent.  The results: Singles (semifinals): Dusty Boyer (USA) bt Nitin Kumar Sinha 4-6, 6-3, 6-4; Zsombor Velcz (Hun) bt Ishaque Eqbal 6-3, 6-3.   Doubles (final): Yuki Bhambri & Saketh Myneni bt S.D. Prajwal Dev & Rishi Reddy 6-4, 7-6(6) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yuki-saketh-duo-takes-the-honours/article37732364.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Blasters keen to get off the mark||Kerala Blasters will be desperate for its first win of the 2021-22 Indian Super League campaign while Bengaluru FC will look to steady things after a stuttering start when the two sides meet at the Bambolim Stadium on Sunday. Blasters, who opened with a 2-4 defeat to ATK Mohun Bagan, looked set to secure its first victory when it played NorthEast United FC, but ended up with a goalless draw because of its profligacy in front of goal. BFC, after a positive start against NEUFC, was beaten 3-1 by Odisha FC in its last game, giving coach Marco Pezzaiuoli a reality check. Not just that, BFC will miss the services of Jayesh Rane, a bright spot for the club since his arrival in late July, owing to the concussion he suffered against Odisha. Pezzaiuoli, though, insisted that his team was on the right track. “Our second game was still good,” he said. “There were just individual mistakes. We dominated the match, but we need to create more chances.” For Blasters, converting chances and not creating, has proved the Achilles heel. Argentinian forward Pereyra Diaz and midfielder Sahal Abdul Samad both missed gilt-edged chances to score against NEUFC. Rahul K.P, who scored in both matches against BFC last season, will be sorely missed. Luka has impressed But midfielder Adrian Luna has impressed in a creative role, triggering belief that good times are indeed round the corner. “We are very positive in the dressing room,” said Harmanjot Khabra, formerly of BFC, now with Blasters. “All players are in good mood and they know their responsibilities.”   BFC, after a positive start against NEUFC, was beaten 3-1 by Odisha FC in its last game Bengaluru side will miss the services of Jayesh Rane, a bright spot for the club Blasters ended up with a goalless draw against NEUFC because of its profligacy in front of goal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/blasters-keen-to-get-off-the-mark/article37732230.ece
28 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Senthil Kumar ousts Sreehari||Seventh seeded K.S. Sreehari (Pkd) losing to Senthil Kumar (Thiruvananthapuram) was the lone upset as the quarterfinalists in men’s singles were spotted in the Bank of Baroda-State table tennis championships at the Jimmy George indoor stadium here on Saturday. Senthil, a seasoned campaigner in the circuit, was too good for Sreehari and registered an easy 11-3, 11-7, 13-11 win. Hectic day The hectic day, with the initial rounds in all the sections, witnessed the other seeded players, led by top seed Soham Bhattacharya and No. 2 Udit Bhattacharya (both from Alappuzha), cruising through to the round of eight without much trouble. Bouncing back In the lone final of the day, Devaprayag Sarika Sreejith (Thiruvananthapuram) bounced back to take the boys’ under-11 title with an effortless 8-11, 11-5. 11-8, 11-9 win over Jake Jones (Thrissur).  The results: Men (pre-quarterfinals): Soham Bhattacharya (Alp) bt Mathens Ninan (Pta) 11-3 11-9 11-8; Ranjith Benny (Tvm) bt Emmanuel Sunil (Ekm), 11-9, 14-12, 11-6.   S. Sunder (Ekm) bt Aswin Gokul (Tvm) 11-7, 11-6, 6-11, 11-5; Amir Aftab (Alp) bt A.S. Amal (Tvm) 11-6, 11-5, 11-7; Bharath Krishnan (Tvm) bt Mohammed Sahil (Kzde) 11-4, 11-13, 11-8, 4-11, 11-7.   Aditya V. Joseph (Alp) bt H. Nithin (Pkd), 11-7, 11-9, 11-6.   Senthil Kumar (Tvm) bt K.S. Sreehari (Pkd) 11-3, 11-7, 13-11; Udit Bhattacharya (Alp) bt Abbas Khan (Kzde) 11-6, 9-11, 8-11, 11-5, 11-8.   Boys: Under-17 (pre-quarterfinals): Milan B. Nair (Alp) bt R. Anandan (Tvm) 11-7, 11-5, 11-7; R.S. Jayanth (Kzde) bt Gouri Sankar (Pkd), 11-3, 7-11, 13-11, 11-8; A. Adwaith (Tvm) bt Jose Praveen (Ekm) 10-12, 11-5, 6-11, 12-10, 11-6.   B. Abhinav (Pkd) bt Cherian Ninan (Pta)10-12, 11-9, 11-8, 11-6; B. Gokul (Klm) bt Shree Sankar (Pkd) 16-14, 11-9, 11-6; Mohammed Faz (Kzde) bt Anand Shaji (Ekm) 8-11, 11-7, 11-6, 11-7.   Anokh G. Nair (Tvm) bt Daniel Deepak (Ekm) 11-7, 11-7, 11-6; Mohammed Naffil (Pkd) bt Blaze Alex (Alp) 14-12, 11-5, 11-8.   Under-11: Final: Devaprayag Sarika Sreejith (Tvm) bt Jake Jones (Tsr) 8-11, 11-5, 11-8, 11-9.   Semifinals: Devaprayag bt N.K. Sriram (Pkd) 11-8, 11-6, 11-6; Jake bt Mahhavan Unni Chandran (Klm) 11-3, 11-3, 14-16, 11-7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/senthil-kumar-ousts-sreehari/article37732536.ece
28 November 2021||Paris,||Serbia downs Austria||Novak Djokovic sped past Austria’s Dennis Novak as Serbia thumped Austria 3-0 in its Davis Cup opening match at Innsbruck on Friday. Djokovic took an hour to beat Novak 6-3, 6-2 after Dusan Lajovic saw off Gerald Melzer 7-6(5), 3-6, 7-5 behind closed doors due to a resurgence of the coronavirus in Austria.  Elsewhere, Italy beat the United States 2-1 in Turin and Spain beat Ecuador 3-0 in Madrid.  The results:   In Madrid: Spain 3 bt Ecuador 0 [Feliciano Lopez bt Roberto Quiroz 6-3, 6-3; Pablo Carreno Busta bt Emilio Gomez 5-7, 6-3, 7-6(5); Busta & Marcelos Granollers bt Gonzalo Escobar & Diego Hidalgo 6-4, 6-7(5), 7-6(2)].   In Innsbruck: Serbia 3 bt Austria 0 [Dusan Lajovic bt Gerald Melzer 7-6(5), 3-6, 7-5; Novak Djokovic bt Dennis Novak 6-3, 6-2; Nicola Cacic & Filip Krajinovik bt Oliver Marach & Philipp Oswald 7-6(4), 4-6, 6-3].   In Turin: Italy 2 bt United States 1 [Lorenzo Sonego bt Reilly Opelka 6-3, 7-6(4); Jannik Sinner bt John Isner 6-2, 6-0; Simone Bolleli & Fabio Fognini lost to Rajeev Ram & Jack Sock 7-6(5), 6-2] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/serbia-downs-austria/article37731980.ece
28 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||‘We want to do well ahead of big events’||Skipper Manpreet Singh feels that the Asian Champions Trophy hockey tournament, starting in Dhaka on December 14, would be a good platform to test the younger players. At a virtual press conference on Saturday, Manpreet said, “The younger players have not got a chance for a long time as important events, including the Olympics, were lined up. They are getting a chance now.” He clarified that seasoned goalkeeper P.R. Sreejesh had been rested. Manpreet said the ACT would be a good platform for defending champion India to launch its campaign for the next Olympic cycle. “It’s an important event as this is the first competition after the Olympics. The new cycle has begun and we want to do well ahead of big events like the FIH Pro League, Commonwealth Games and Asian Games next year.” Both Manpreet and his deputy Harmanpreet wanted to repeat their 2017 Asia Cup success at the same venue.  Manpreet had a word of praise for the Indian players participating in the Junior World Cup here.”I spoke to (junior team captain) Vivek after the first match and told him we can do better. They need to have the belief that they can beat any team (in the quarterfinals),” said Manpreet. Harmanpreet also shared some tips with the juniors after India’s defeat to France. “I spoke to the defenders about timely interception of the dangerous ball, correct positioning and maintaining focus (throughout a match).” Harmanpreet, who worked with the juniors on penalty corner conversion, liked the fact that India had a variety of drag-flickers. “It makes things difficult for the opponents,” said Harmanpreet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-want-to-do-well-ahead-of-big-events/article37732022.ece
28 November 2021||Chennai,||Sai Kishore can stifle and strike||Left-arm spinners are generally easy pickings for a left-handed batter. The vignette here tells a different story. It’s the first ball of the second over of the Karnataka innings in the Syed Mushtaq Ali final at New Delhi. Tamil Nadu’s Sai Kishore is bowling to southpaw Rohan Kadam from over the wicket. Compelling strike And the delightfully flighted delivery, which drew the batsman forward for a fatal drive, dipped and then spun in to disturb the stumps. A compelling strike. “It was the first ball. I did not know what the pitch would be like. “So I bowled a classical ball with flight and looked to see what the pitch could do. The ball spun and went through the gate,” revealed Sai Kishore in a conversation with The Hindu . Sai Kishore struck another vital blow for Tamil Nadu. He bamboozled Karnataka skipper Manish Pandey, who played for the turn, but the ball came in with angle to leave him castled. “I have a different type of arm-ball. The batters are sometimes late in picking it and the ball hurries off the pitch,” said Sai Kishore. Precious effort In Tamil Nadu’s triumphant campaign in Syed Mushtaq Ali tournament, Sai’s Kishore role was vital. His three for 12 in the summit clash was a precious effort. Creditably, he bowled in the PowerPlay overs, contained and struck. “The team showed so much trust in me. I love the challenge,” Sai Kishore said. Talking about bowling in T20 cricket, Sai Kishore said, “I am reading the game better, also what the batter is trying to do.” Sai Kishore did not get a game for Chennai Super Kings but said he learnt much from watching the likes of M.S. Dhoni, Ravindra Jadeja and Mitchell Santner prepare. This year the 25-year-old Sai Kishore, a lanky bowler with a high-arm action and natural bounce, was picked as a net bowler for India’s tour of Sri Lanka. Trust own game Legend Rahul Dravid was the coach and Sai Kishore said, “I learnt from him to trust my own game. It is good to chase excellence but you need to have confidence in your own ability.” Talking about the bigger challenges of First Class cricket, Sai Kishore said, “I am not a finished product yet. I am willing to learn and improve.” Sai Kishore has taken flight. It remains to be seen where this magic carpet called cricket carries him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-kishore-can-stifle-and-strike/article37732284.ece
28 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shruti downs Vaishnavi||Shruti Ahlawat fought hard to beat the free-stroking Vaishnavi Adkar 7-6(4), 2-6, 7-5 in the girls final of the ITF grade-4 junior tennis tournament on Saturday. Fifth title It was the fifth junior singles title in the international circuit for the 16-year-old Shruti who has competed in only eight tournaments so far. The trainee of coach Pundreek Chaturvedi, Shruti was not at her best but competed well to subdue Vaishnavi. The latter had the game but not the matching desire as she got pipped at the post. In the boys final, second seed Max Batyutenko of Kazakhstan was made to look too good by Yuvan Nandal as he failed to eke out a single game in the match. Yuvan seemed to have played his best in the semifinal when he beat top seed Aman Dahiya A painful right arm also did not help Yuvan’s cause.  The results (finals): Boys: Max Batyutenko (Kaz) bt Yuvan Nandal 6-0, 6-0. Girls: Shruti Ahlawat bt Vaishnavi Adkar 7-6(4), 2-6, 7-5 .   Shruti, a trainee of coach Pundreek Chaturvedi, competed well to subdue Vaishnavi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shruti-downs-vaishnavi/article37732362.ece
28 November 2021||Chittagong,||Abid, Shafique lead Pakistan’s strong reply||An unbroken opening century stand by Abid Ali and debutant Abdullah Shafique gave Pakistan a solid platform after bowling out Bangladesh for 330 on day two of the first Test here on Saturday. Abid closed in on his fourth Test century (93) while Shafique was batting on 52 as Pakistan reached 145 for no loss at stumps, 155 shy of Bangladesh’s first innings total. Pace bowler Hasan Ali led Pakistan earlier with the ball, finishing with five for 51, his sixth five-wicket haul, which kept Bangladesh in check after the hosts resumed at 253 for four. Liton Das top-scored with 114 for Bangladesh, adding just one run to his overnight score, while Mushfiqur Rahim, unbeaten on 82 at the end of the opening day’s play, fell for 91.   The scores: Bangladesh 330 in 114.4 overs (Mushfiqur Rahim 91, Liton Das 114, Mehidy Hassan 38 n.o., Hasan Ali 5/51) vs Pakistan 145/0 in 57 overs (Abid Ali 93 batting, Abdullah Shafique 52 batting) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abid-shafique-lead-pakistans-strong-reply/article37732016.ece
28 November 2021||Bali,||Sindhu loses to Intanon, exits in semifinal again||P.V. Sindhu’s campaign at the Indonesia Open Super 1000 tournament came to an end on Saturday, losing to former World champion Ratchanok Intanon of Thailand 21-15, 9-21, 14-21 in the semifinals. The 26-year-old Sindhu had made it to the last four at the Indonesia Masters last week and also at the French Open in October. Later, the World No. 11 men’s doubles pair of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty, seeded sixth, exited after a 16-21, 18-21 defeat to the top-seeded Indonesian combination of Marcus Fernaldi Gideon and Kevin Sanjaya Sukamuljo. 10th successive loss It was the 10th straight defeat for the Indians against the World No. 1 pair — two-time All England champions and reigning Asian Games gold medallist. It was thus curtains for Indians at the $850,000 tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-loses-to-intanon-exits-in-semifinal-again/article37731974.ece
28 November 2021||Kanpur,||We were rewarded for our persistence: Axar||As a Test cricketer, Axar Patel seems to be in a hurry to make up for lost time. Since making his Test debut against England this February, Axar has taken five wickets in an innings five times. With 32 Test wickets midway through his fourth Test, the left-arm spinner is making Test cricket look easy. Excellent figures After all, between Axar’s first and fifth wickets on Saturday, his figures read 10.1-2-20-5! That too on a pitch far less conducive to spin than the ones in Chennai and Ahmedabad against England. “It does seem like you are living a dream within a dream. But on Friday, after India went wicketless for two sessions and New Zealand scored 129 without loss, Test cricket did not look easy at all,” said Axar. “The focus was on consistently bowling good lines and keeping the right length. In the last two sessions today, we were rewarded for our persistence.” On what made him appear more effective than seniors like R. Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja on this day, Axar said, “Compared to yesterday, I was focusing more on bowling from the edge of the crease to create a certain angle. I think the Kiwis found that difficult to deal with.” About the pitch, Axar said: “It is slowing down further. The odd ball is either spinning more or keeping low. It will be challenging to bat on, but if you play the ball on merit, runs will come. Patience will play a role.” Asked about substitute wicketkeeper K.S. Bharat’s skills, he said, “it is not easy for anyone to be told to take the field less than 10 minutes from the start of the day’s play. After Wriddhiman Saha sprained his neck while warming up this morning, Bharat did a fairly good job of ball-collection, catching and stumping.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-were-rewarded-for-our-persistence-axar/article37731979.ece
28 November 2021||LONDON,||Arsenal back on track||Liverpool crushed Southampton 4-0 to put pressure on Premier League leader Chelsea, while Arsenal got back on track with a 2-0 win over Newcastle as Eddie Howe suffered his first defeat as Magpies manager. Diogo Jota scored twice for Jurgen Klopp’s side. Liverpool's third consecutive victory in all competitions moved it into second place. The Reds sit one point behind Chelsea, which takes on the struggling Manchester United on Sunday. At the Emirates Stadium, goals from Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli made it four wins from the last five league games for Arsenal.  Select results: Premier League: Arsenal 2 (Saka 56, Martinelli 66) bt Newcastle 0; Crystal Palace 1 (Guehi 90+5) lost to Aston Villa 2 (Targett 15, McGinn 86); Liverpool 4 (Jota 2 & 32, Thiago 37, Van Dijk 52) bt Southampton 0.     Bundesliga: Wolfsburg 1 (Weghorst 2) lost to Borussia Dortmund 3 (Can 35-pen, Malen 55, Haland 81); Cologne 4 (Ljubicic 55, Uth 77, Duda 78, Andersson 90+3) bt Borussia M’gladbach 1 (Hofmann 74).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/saka-and-martinelli-fire/article37731982.ece
28 November 2021||Lausanne,||AIBA moves to secure boxing’s Olympic future||Desperate to save boxing’s future as an Olympic sport, the suspended International Boxing Association (AIBA) has accepted crucial governance reforms suggested by an independent group, including holding elections by June next year, elevating the secretary-general’s role and appointing a liaison officer to handle its troubled equation with the IOC. Shadow over Paris The International Olympic Committee (IOC), which suspended AIBA in 2019 and conducted the Tokyo Olympics boxing event through a task force, has reiterated “that serious concerns about AIBA’s governance, finances and refereeing and judging remain” and the future of boxing in the 2024 Paris Games is not secure. The AIBA has responded by stating that it would do all that the IOC demands of it. “...the Board of Directors is recommending to the Congress that elections shall be conducted no later than 30 June 2022,” the AIBA stated. “As an option, these elections may take place during the AIBA Women’s World Boxing Championships in Istanbul, that were rescheduled to May 2022, however, the exact date to be determined by the Board on 31 December 2021 at the latest.” The decision to implement the reforms came ahead of the AIBA extraordinary congress on December 12 at a meeting of its Board of Directors. The Board unanimously approved the recommendations and constitutional amendments in a report by independent Governance Reform Group (GRG), led by Professor Ulrich Haas.   In addition, an independent Boxing Integrity Unit will be empowered to address competition manipulation, abuse, harassment, eligibility checks of election candidates and other issues.  “Professor Haas and his team of independent legal experts have pointed us in the right direction Umar Kremlev AIBA president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aiba-moves-to-secure-boxings-olympic-future/article37732689.ece
28 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Karnataka qualifies for final round||Karnataka qualified for the final round of the Santosh Trophy after a 2-0 win over Telangana at the Bangalore Football Stadium on Saturday. The home side won all three of its matches in the Qualifiers over the last week to ensure a berth in the final round to be held in Kozhikode and Manjeri in January 2022. TN fails to make it Tamil Nadu, meanwhile, recorded a 1-0 victory over Andhra Pradesh for its second win of the competition but failed to qualify, for other results had to go its way.  The results:   Karnataka 2 (N. Solaimalai 10, T.P. Bavu Nishad 74) bt Telangana 0.   Tamil Nadu 1 (Senthamizhi 39) bt Andhra Pradesh 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-qualifies-for-final-round-tn-misses-out/article37732020.ece
28 November 2021||Hyderabad:,||Princess Daka reigns in the feature event||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s Princess Daka (Akshay Kumar astride) won the Dodla Pratap Chander Reddy Memorial Million, the main event of Saturday’s (Nov. 27) races here. The winner is owned by Mr. Y. Damodar. Sequeira and Akshay Kumar won three races each on the day.  1. MAHABUBNAGAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): HASHTAG (Rohit Kumar) 1, Theo’s Choice (Santosh Raj) 2, Solo Winner (P. Gaddam) 3 and That’s My Speed (B. Nikhil) 4. Notrun: Paree. 1-1/2, 1-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 13.70s. Rs. 90 (w), 16, 14 and 43 (p). SHP: 53, THP: 122, SHW: 46 and 25, FP: 1,031, Q: 490, Tanala: 14, 369. Favourite: Winning Player. Owner: Mr. Chitturi Krishna Kannaiah. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  2. WINDSCALE PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): INTENSE APPROACH (S.J. Sunil) 1, City Of Blessing (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Muaser (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Pedro Planet (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 1-1/2, 2 and 1-1/4. 1m, 26.55s. Rs. 48 (w), 16, 16 and 19 (p). SHP: 52, THP: 35, SHW: 23 and 20, FP: 299, Q: 178, Tanala: 969. Favourite: Top Diamond. Owner: Mr. Nitin H. Jain. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  3. BRAVE DANCER PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): GALWAN (Nikhil Naidu) 1, Morior Invictus (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Quality Warrior (N.B. Kuldeep) 3 and Grand Finale (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Not run Ashwa Migsun. 1/2, 1 and Sh. 1m, 27.07s. Rs. 36 (w), 23, 10 and 21 (p). SHP: 33, THP: 38, SHW: 30 and 19, FP: 217, Q: 122, Tanala: 1,493. Favourite: Franklin. Owner: Col. S.B. Nair. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  4. WINDSCALE PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): LIFES SONG (Abhay Singh) 1, N R I Sport (A.A. Vikrant) 2, Bold Bidding (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Able Love (B. Nikhil) 4. Sh, Nk and Sh. 1m, 27.44s. Rs. 75 (w), 28, 14 and 20 (p). SHP: 42, THP: 89, FP: 435, Q: 174, Tanala: 1,088. Favourite: Bold Bidding. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  5. DODLA PRATAP CHANDER REDDY MEMORIAL MILLION (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only: PRINCESS DAKA (Akshay Kumar) 1, Superlative (Neeraj) 2, Ashoka (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and Galway Bay (N.S. Parmar) 4. Not run: Malibu. 1, 3/4 and Sh. 1m, 13.52s. Rs. 43 (w), 13, 13 and 21 (p). SHP: 58, THP: 39, SHW: 26 and 25, FP: 250, Q: 108, Tanala: 2,022. Favourite: Arabian Queen. Owner: Mr. Y. Damodar. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  6. BRAVE DANCER PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): MALAALA (Ajit Singh) 1, Beauty Flame (Gaurav Singh) 2, Despang (Surya Prakash) 3 and N R I Touch (Akshay Kumar) 4. 3-1/4, 1/2 and Nose. 1m, 27.27s. Rs. 54 (w), 26, 19 and 25 (p). SHP: 73, THP: 101, SHW: 39 and 72, FP: 355, Q: 350, Tanala: 5,261. Favourite: N R I TOUCH. Owners: Mr. N. Adil Mirza, Ms. Nimrah Mirza Shakeebai & Mr. Mohd Sohrab Mirza. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  7. SRI SHAMLAL GUPTA MEMORIAL CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. III): SHOW ME YOUR WALK (Akshay Kumar) 1, Chuckit (Aneel) 2, Southern Princess (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Crazy Horse (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 1/2, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 25.44s. Rs. 33 (w), 15, 109 and 13 (p). SHP: 227, THP: 48, SHW: 34 and 50, FP: 1,776, Q: 963, Tanala: 2,702. Favourite: Southern Princess. Owners: Mr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  8. MAHABUBNAGAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): THUNDER ROAD (Akshay Kumar) 1, Sea Wolf (Ajit Singh) 2, Hip Hop (P. Gaddam) 3 and Sorry Darling (Rohit Kumar) 4. 2-1/4, 3 and Nose. 1m, 13.36s. Rs. 15 (w), 12, 24 and 35 (p). SHP: 46, THP: 65, SHW: 14 and 64, FP: 63, Q: 68, Tanala: 903. Favourite: Thunder Road. Owners: Mr. Chitturi Krishna Kannaiah, Mr. Sureshbabu Daggubati & Mr. Venkatesh Daggubati. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 6,916 (33 tkts.) & 30%: 2,385 (41 tkts.); Treble: (i) 3,240 (9 tkts.), (ii) 2,078 (8 tkts.), (iii) 314 (126 tkts.); Mini Jackpot: (i) 10,049 (2 tkts.), (ii) 1,579 (57 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/princess-daka-reigns-in-the-feature-event/article37732237.ece
28 November 2021||PUNE:,||It’s Zuccarelli vs. Queen O’ War in Pune Derby||Zuccarelli and Queen O’ War should fight out the finish of the Pune Derby (Gr. 1), the blue riband event of the Pune racing season here on Sunday (Nov. 28). Rails will be announced one hour before the start of the first race.  RUFFINA TROPHY (Div. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 12.30 p.m.: 1. Hellbent (11) Parmar 60.5, 2. Jubilant Journey (10) Sandesh 60.5, 3. Mascara (12) P. Vinod 59.5, 4. Bold Advance (9) Dashrath 59, 5. Kardashian (2) Rupesh 56.5, 6. Regal Prince (13) Bhawani 56, 7. Dawnstar (6) Ayyar 54, 8. Suited Aces (3) Shelar 54, 9. Fendi (1) Zervan 53, 10. Shadows (5) S. Amit 50.5, 11. Arabian Muktar (7) Zeeshan 49.5, 12. Grey Falcon (4) Aniket 49.5 and 13. Principessa (8) Nadeem 49.  1. JUBILANT JOURNEY,   2. HELLBENT,   3. BOLD ADVANCE   PIONEER PLATE (1,800m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 1.00: 1. Magistero (5) Bhawani 59.5, 2. Arcadia (3) Chouhan 51, 3. Majestic Warrior (4) Kaviraj 51, 4. Giant Star (1) Neeraj 50 and 5. Successor (2) David Egan 49.  1. SUCCESSOR, 2. ARCADIA .  JEREMIAH PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 1.30: 1. Sandalphon (12) T.S. Jodha 60.5, 2. The Awakening (14) Yash Narredu 60.5, 3. Sovereign Master (11) Kaviraj 59.5, 4. Excelerator (9) Sandesh 58.5, 5. Perfect Perfecto (5) A. Prakash 57.5, 6. Rising Brave (8) Sharukh 57.5, 7. Periwinkle (7) P. Vinod 56, 8. Dilbar (4) Ayyar 55, 9. Magic In The Wind (2) Parmar 55, 10. Northern Singer (6) Zeeshan 55, 11. Slam Dunk (13) S. Amit 54.5, 12. Kahlua (1) Kirtish 54, 13. Viva La Vida (3) Aniket 54 and 14. Princess Snow (10) Nadeem 50.  1. THE AWAKENING,   2. EXCELERATOR,   3. SANDALPHON   NOSHIR & DOLLY DHUNJIBHOY SPRINT MILLION (Gr. 3) (1,200m) (Terms), 4-y-o & over, 2.00: 1. Iron Age (1) Sandesh 59, 2. Excellent Gold (4) Dashrath 54, 3. Gazino (3) Neeraj 54 and 4. St. Andrews (2) T.S. Jodha 54.  1. IRON AGE   CONRAD PUNE CUP (1,400m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 2.30: 1. Pokerface (9) Yash Narredu 59, 2. Exotique (8) Neeraj 57.5, 3. Polyneices (3) Shelar 57, 4. Tigrio (7) P.S. Chouhan 57, 5. Red Merlot (4) Dashrath 54, 6. Rambler (1) Zeeshan 53, 7. Dreams (2) T.S. Jodha 50.5, 8. Enlightened (6) Kaviraj 50 and 9. Fast Rain (5) Parmar 49.  1. TIGRIO, 2. FAST RAIN,   3. RAMBLER   F.D. WADIA TROPHY (Gr. 3) (1,400m) (Terms), 3-y-o only, 3.00: 1. Petronia (2) C.S. Jodha 57, 2. Presidential (6) P.S. Chouhan 56.5, 3. Baby Bazooka (3) Zervan 56, 4. Raffaello (4) Yash Narredu 55.5, 5. Spinoza (7) Neeraj 55.5, 6. Dragoness (1) Parmar 54 and 7. Lit (5) Sandesh 54.  1. PETRONIA, 2. DRAGONESS   RUFFINA TROPHY (Div. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30, 3.30: 1. Zacapa (1) Aniket 62, 2. Indian Crown (12) Kaviraj 61.5, 3. Love Warrior (9) Sandesh 61.5, 4. Amped (6) Parmar 60.5, 5. Caprifla (4) Yash Narredu 60.5, 6. Hilad (2) Shahrukh 60.5, 7. Republica (13) Ayyar 60.5, 8. Scottish Scholar (11) S. Sunil 60.5, 9. Timeless Deeds (7) P. Dhebe 60.5, 10. Song Song Blue (5) Akshay 60, 11. Midas Touch (10) Bhawani 59, 12. Sussing (14) S. Amit 56.5, 13. Chezza (8) T.S. Jodha 53.5 and 14. Patriots Day (3) Nadeem 50.5.  1. LOVE WARRIOR,   2. CAPRIFLA,   3. INDIAN CROWN .  PUNE DERBY (Gr. 1) (2,000m) (Terms), 3-y-o only, 4.00: 1. A Star Is Born (8) David Egan 56, 2. Alastair (7) Akshay Kumar 56, 3. Juiced (2) Parmar 56, 4. Multiencrypted (11) P. Dhebe 56, 5. Orchids (10) Dashrath 56, 6. Rasputin (3) A. Imran Khan 56, 7. Regal Command (4) Bhawani 56, 8. Souza (1) Kaviraj 56, 9. Sunrise (6) Neeraj 56, 10. Zarak (9) T.S. Jodha 56, 11. Zuccarelli (12) P.S. Chouhan 56 and 12. Queen O’ War (5) Sandesh 54.5.  1. ZUCCARELLI, 2. QUEEN O’ WAR, 3. A STAR IS BORN   AQUILO PLATE (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 4.30: 1. Arabian Phoenix (6) Zervan 59, 2. Aira (3) Bhawani 57.5, 3. Speculator (1) Shahrukh 55.5, 4. Commandment (10) T.S. Jodha 55, 5. Lord Byron (4) P.S. Chouhan 55, 6. Sinner (8) A. Imran Khan 55, 7. Brave Eagle (9) Kirtish 54, 8. Flash Force (7) Ayyar 54, 9. Mystical Rose (11) Yash Narredu 54, 10. Silent Knight (2) Shelar 53.5, 11. Levitate (—) and 12. Shes The Queen (5) P. Vinod 52.  1. LORD BYRON,   2. MYSTICAL ROSE,   3. SINNER  10. JEREMIAH PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 5.00: 1. Safdar (11) Shahrukh 59, 2. Monarchy (3) Chouhan 58, 3. Pure (5) Sandesh 57.5, 4. Remy Red (12) Dashrath 57.5, 5. Unclaimed Treasure (2) P. Vinod 57.5, 6. Untitled (8) Shelar 56.5, 7. Magical Rays (4) Nadeem 56, 8. Spirit Bay (6) Akshay 56, 9. Tormenta Storm (9) Ayyar 56, 10. Zarriya (13) Aniket 56, 11. Carlos (7) Zeeshan 55.5, 12. Teispes (14) S. Amit 55.5, 13. Windy City (10) P. Dhebe 54.5 and 14. La Peregrina (1) Parmar 53.  1. PURE,   2. MONARCHY,   3. SPIRIT BAY . Day’s Best: IRON AGE . Jackpot: (i) 3, 4, 5, 6 & 7. (ii) 6, 7, 8, 9 & 10. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 4, 5 & 6. (iii) 8, 9 & 10. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 & 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-zuccarelli-vs-queen-o-war-in-pune-derby/article37732653.ece
28 November 2021||Coimbatore,||Mounika stuns Reeva Evangelin||R. Mounika of Thiruvallur edged out third seed Reeva Evangelin of Virudhunagar 21-16, 26-24 in a girls’ singles pre-quarterfinal clash of the Tamil Nadu State under-19 badminton championship at the RaK’s Sports Arena courts here on Saturday. Earlier, in the boys’ group, Sri Varshan of Erode coasted to a 21-7, 21-8 win over fifth seed V.S. Guruguhan of Coimbatore.  The results: Singles (pre-quarterfinals):   Boys: Nisanth Duraiswamy (Chn) bt Swastik Matharasan (Tjr) 21-13, 21-17; Sri Varshan (Erd) bt V.S. Guruguhan (Cbe) 21-7, 21-8; K. Kavin (Mdu) bt M. Suryaveera (Chn) 21-17, 18-21, 26-24; K.M. Nidhin (Cbe) bt J. Irvin Walter (Chn) 22-20, 19-21, 23-21; E. Aaruthra Kangayen (Cbe) bt B. Bharadwaj (Chn) 21-8, 19-21, 23-21; K. Abhinaav (Chn) bt G. Nikil (Cbe) 21-12, 21-23, 21-18; Tamilarasan Vivek (Tvlr) bt H.H. Sabreeshwaran (Chn)16-21, 23-21, 21-15; S. Than Mukil (Vrd) bt G. Poopesh (Cbe) 21-19, 21-19.   Girls: V.S. Jayani (Tvlr) bt Riduvarshini Ramasamy (Tpr) 21-13, 21-13; N. Dhanyaa (Cbe) bt K.N. Kanihaa (Cbe) 21-16, 21-12; R. Mounika (Tvlr) bt M. Reeva Evangelin (Vrd) 21-16, 26-24; Shreya Balaji (Kpm) bt T. Kaviarasi (Tjr) 21-19, 13-21, 22-20; Sadhana Fenelon (Chn) bt S. Hashini (Tvlr) 21-17, 21-19; V. Methini (Cbe) bt S. Jenita Blessy (Vrd) 21-9, 21-11; Deepta Sathish (Tvlr) G.N. Atchaya (Erd) 21-10, 21-9; Kanishka Ganesan (Cbe) bt Janani (Kpm) 21-12, 14-21, 21-13.   Doubles: Boys: A. Hariharan & R. Rubankumar (Tjr) bt K. Madhavan & Sujay Charan (Try) 21-12, 21-10; S. Bharathsanjai & S.S. Naren (Erd) bt S.P. Aswathharrish (Nkl) & B. Hari Bharathi (Mdu) 21-14, 21-13; Premkumar Prabhu (Erd) & Sai Suresh (Tvlr) bt K. Abhinaav (Chn) & K. Kavin (Mdu) 21-13, 14-21, 22-20; Nisanth Duraiswamy (Chn) & Sri Varshan (Erd) bt Ribi Ahamed & Sami Ahamed (Theni) 21-13, 21-8.   Girls: N. Dhanyaa (Cbe) & Jerlin Anika (Mdu) bt Deepta Sathish (Tvlr) & Riduvarshini Ramasamy (Tpr) 21-18, 21-16; Anbu Joshna (Chen) & Shreya Balaji (Kpm) bt Karen Austin & R. Sania (Chn) 21-9, 21-9; G.N. Atchaya (Erd) & S. Atchayaa (Vrd) bt Jenita Blessy & Reeva Evangelin (Vrd) 22-20, 11-21, 22-20; K. Gnanadha (Mdu) & Srinidhi (Kpm) bt Agshatha Aravindan & Yogithaa Aravindan (Cbe) 21-12, 21-7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mounika-stuns-reeva-evangelin/article37732014.ece
28 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Natl. women’s senior football from today||The city is all set to host its biggest sporting event since the coronavirus broke out last year. The 26th National senior women’s football championship kicks off on Sunday. Matches will be played at two venues — Corporation Stadium and Medical College. Besides, the preliminary league games will also be staged at the Calicut University campus and Koothuparamba. The reigning champion and most dominant side in the history of the competition, Manipur, will play its matches at Koothuparamba, while Railways, the runner-up in the tournament’s last edition, as well as host Kerala will be based here. Final on Dec. 9 The winners from eight groups will advance to the knock-out stage. The final will be played on December 9.  The groupings:   A: Manipur, Daman & Diu, Puducherry and Meghalaya.   B: Railways, Chattisgarh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Tripura; C: Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Rajasthan and Bihar.   D: Jharkhand, Delhi, Goa and Karnataka.   E: Arunanchal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Sikkim and Maharashtra.   F: Odisha, Haryana, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh.   G: Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Mizoram and Uttarakhand.   H: Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Bengal and Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-womens-senior-football-from-today/article37732231.ece
28 November 2021||Orrisei (Italy),||Karman falls just short||Fifth seed Susan Bandecchi of Switzerland beat Karman Kaur Thandi 6-4, 6-4 in the final of the $25,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here on Saturday. Though Kamran fired 10 aces in the match, it was the Swiss who served better as she faced a solitary break point in the whole match. Bandecchi converted two of 10 break points to emerge victorious in straight sets.  The results: $52,080 Challenger, Manama: Semifinals: Maximilian Neuchrist (Aut) & Michail Pervolarakis (Gre) bt Arjun Kadhe & Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-3, 1-6, [10-7]; Nuno Borges & Francisco Cabral (Por) bt Sriram Balaji & Divij Sharan 6-4, 6-2.   $25,000 ITF women, Orrisei, Italy: Final: Susan Bandecchi (Sui) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 6-4, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karman-falls-just-short/article37732240.ece
28 November 2021||Houston,||Indian pairs one win away from a medal||India is one win away from a historic medal in women’s doubles and mixed doubles as it reached the quarterfinals of the World table tennis championships here on Friday. Manika Batra and Archana Kamath defeated the Hungarian pair of Dora Madarasz and Pota Georgina 11-4, 11-9, 6-11, 11-7, and then Manika joined hands with G. Sathiyan to overcome the American duo of Kanak Jha and Manyu Wang 15-17, 10-12, 12-10, 11-6, 11-7. However, Sharath Kamal and Archana Kamath went down to Emmanuel Lebesson and Yuan Jia Nan of France 4-11, 8-11, 5-11 in another mixed doubles last-16 clash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-pairs-one-win-away-from-a-medal/article37732241.ece
28 November 2021||hyderabad,||Easy win for Hyderabad||Hyderabad scored a 10-3 win over Peddapalli in a boys league match of the sixth Telangana State sub-junior inter-district softball championship at Jagtial on Saturday. K. Shobhan Babu, general secretary, Telangana Softball Association and Dashrath Poshetty, president, Nirmal District Softball Association, inaugurated.  The results (league):   Boys: Hyderabad bt Peddapalli 10-3; Nizamabad bt Nirmal 7-0; Siddipet bt Karimnagar 11-0; Mahabubnagar bt Adilabad 6-0; Ranga Reddy bt Karimnagar 12-2.   Girls: Nizamabad bt Warangal Urban 10-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-win-for-hyderabad/article37732481.ece
28 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Shrikanth, Shrinath move up||Top seed Shrikanth C. Menon and second seed Shrinath C. Menon moved into the quarterfinals in the boys under-14 category in the State tennis tournament at the TTC courts here on Sunday. Shrikanth crushed Harinarayan 8-0 while his brother Shrinath beat Mikhaeal Shiyad 8-3 in the second round. V.S. Sreenath, the third seed, also had it easy against Siddiharth Raj, winning 8-0 in the second round. In the under-12 category, top seed Abel George moved into the second round with a 7-3 win over C.S. Adithyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shrikanth-shrinath-move-up/article37732535.ece
28 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||AP women’s football team||The Andhra Pradesh women’s football team to take part in the Hero senior women’s championship in Kerala was named on Saturday. The selection was done after a coaching camp attended by 35 probables in Eluru, K. Gopala Krishna, president, APFA, said.  The team: P. Padmaja, L. Mani, S.K. Shabana, T. Pravallika, G. Krishnaveni, Y. Poojitha, B. Mounika, G. Varalakshmi, B.D. Anitha, A. Lavanya, I. Ashwini Priya, P. Gayathri, C. Mounika, C. Subadra, E. Rani, S.K. Gousia, S. Sreesha, Kamal Bee, G. Bhavani .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ap-womens-football-team/article37732690.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 07:41 IST,||Sudoku — November 28, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-28-2021/article37732927.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A taste for gold||This novel is a lacerating attack by a Nobel laureate on the collapse of democracy and public values in Nigeria, by far Africa’s most populous nation. At least, that’s what it is intended to be. Alas, it misses the mark. Political satire needs to be stiletto sharp. Wole Soyinka’s Chronicles is no more incisive than a plastic picnic knife. The targets are all lined up: bloated political leaders; corrupt corporates; tainted populists; false prophets; absurd national awards; murderous police officers; priapic architecture; and, extending to every crevice of the country, a profound absence of civic sense and an acceptance of grotesque inequalities as the natural order of things. No wonder then, that in the book’s opening pages, a character declares: “our nation is indeed the dung heap of the world.” Inspirational figure Soyinka is an inspirational figure in African writing and the continent’s first Nobel laureate in literature. In a life stretching over almost nine decades, he has campaigned against colonialism and, with even more vigour, against the corrupt and autocratic governments which have divided and looted Nigeria, and much of the rest of Africa, since independence. But this book does not add to his eminence. It is overwritten, under-plotted, and with little in the way of characterisation. Promising storylines pop up and then, just as suddenly, vanish. A coded Codex keeps creeping into the tale, as does a bogus champion of religious syncretism who at one point poses as a Zoroastrian priest. Underlying the rot in every corner of public life is a ruthlessly efficient trade in human body parts — not just hearts, kidneys and livers, but also limbs, heads, the whole lot. It feels like a cross between Orwell’s Animal Farm ,  Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein and Dan Brown’s The Da Vinci Code — but works neither as political parable, nor as horror story, nor as mystery thriller. Deep rot Nigeria’s difficulties in establishing an effective democracy and an enduring national identity have been much greater than those suffered by India. But there are parallels in the travails. Soyinka gives voice to this through a Nigeria-based geologist, Dr. Mukarjee, who comments: “I am from India, and I think you know our politics are very much alike. Very much so, I felt at home here from my first arrival fifteen years ago.” But, like so much in this novel, the observation is not developed. Dr. Mukarjee’s great accomplishment is to be able to taste gold and to detect it in a Nigerian leader’s favourite caffeine-rich kola nuts. This is loaded with symbolism, as a taste for gold is about the only unifying attribute of Soyinka’s main characters. The author’s deep contempt for those who have monopolised wealth and power comes through loud and clear. But it often translates into a disempowering pessimism. Yes, there are people of moral courage. And yes, they can win minor skirmishes. But the rot has settled in so deep that it can’t be eradicated. Those who have proved to be so adept at grabbing status and privilege are even more adept at eliminating those who threaten their supremacy.  Chronicles is, as the publishers proudly proclaim, Wole Soyinka’s first novel in 48 years. Meanwhile, he has won global esteem as a playwright and poet as well as an activist. What the publishers clearly believe is a selling point should perhaps serve as a warning. Would you trust a surgeon who hasn’t wielded the scalpel for half a century? Would you go to hear a singer who hasn’t performed since the 70s? The reviewer, a former BBC India correspondent, teaches at the Asian College of Journalism in Chennai.  Chronicles from the Land of the Happiest People on Earth Wole Soyinka Bloomsbury Circus   Rs. 699      The author’s deep contempt for those who have monopolised wealth and power comes through loud and clear||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-taste-for-gold/article37732185.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Hunger games||One of the best things about the Asterix comic book series is the food that the brave Gaul’s healthy friend, Obelix, eats in every adventure. He holds a barbecued boar dripping with fat, just off the fire, and then proceeds to demolish it. I was happy to see that the last page of a new release — Asterix and the Griffin, created by Jean-Yves Ferri and Didier Conrad — had that old familiar scene of the Gauls gathered around a table for a feast. Cacofonix has been tied up and gagged. And Obelix is holding up a plump wild boar. Looking juicy Comics, clearly, fan our culinary imagination. Much before I ate a burger, I had seen illustrations of it in Archie comics. There it was, looking splendidly juicy, in Jughead’s hands. Blondie comics worked for me because of the sandwich that Dagwood was often shown assembling: a stack spilling over with slices of ham, other meats and cheese. And, of course, Dennis the Menace had his peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. Just like photograph-filled cookbooks, many comic books add flavour to food. I recently came across a book called Let’s Make Dumplings! by Hugh Amano and Sarah Becan. It opens with a sketch of dumplings of various shapes, some of them in a bamboo steamer of the kind we often use, and accompanied by hot sauce. “We’d be hard pressed to name a culture in the world that doesn’t have something that could be called a dumpling,” says chef and writer Amano. The book tells the story of the pharmacist Zhang Zhong Jing from the Eastern Han dynasty of China, who came across a group of impoverished people huddled together in the bitter cold, and decided to ease their pain by cooking something hot and nutritious. He prepared a hot mutton broth and shaped some dough into dumplings, which he boiled in the broth. Those may well have been the first dumplings ever. There’s a lot to learn from comics. I was surprised to find that chef Anthony Bourdain has written great comic books. His graphic novel, Get Jiro (co-written with Joel Rose), for instance, is about a sushi chef in a dystopian future world entirely dominated by food. “Chefs are the new power,” it says. Hungry spirits Bourdain’s and Rose’s Hungry Ghosts: Tales of Fear and Food from around the World has stories about food, hunger and all kinds of spooky spectres. A game is being played at a dinner table, based on the Samurai game ‘100 candles’, where chefs have to narrate a bloodcurdling tale — the eerier the better — to survive. To lighten up the narration, there are five recipes at the end — including one for pan-seared duck breast with red cabbage and one for saffron risotto (cooked with rice, saffron, chicken stock, onion, parmesan, olive oil, white wine and butter). Another mouthwatering comic book is Relish: My Life in the Kitchen by Lucy Knisley. She tells us how she grew up in a foodie household (her parents can’t recall how old she was when she was baptised, but remember that she had poached salmon in cream), exchanging food stories with friends and family. She writes about eating croissants in a tiny Venice bakery; her mother’s stacked enchiladas with homemade mole, queso fresco, green salsa and black beans; and the worst meal she’d ever had — cooked by her friend, Mark. With comic-style illustrations, the book has recipes for masala chai, fresh pesto, carbonara, grilled lamb and other delicacies. For barbecued wild boar, though, you need to go back to Asterix and Obelix. The first words Obelix utters in the new book are promising. Our heroes are in Barbaricum — “a vast frozen steppe wreathed in fog”. Asterix is lost in fog and the druid has caught a terrible cold. “I’m hungry,” says Obelix.  Blondie comics worked for me because of the sandwich that Dagwood was often shown assembling: a stack spilling over with slices of ham and cheese||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hunger-games/article37732183.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||A march to estrangement||Nirupama Rao has written what will certainly be an authoritative text for a long time to come on India-Tibet-China interactions in the early years of the republic leading up to the war of 1962. This is a scholarly work, infused with her long experience of the boundary question and of dealing with China in various capacities in the Ministry of External Affairs, as Ambassador to China, and as Foreign Secretary. She has buttressed her deep experience with original scholarship in the archives that are now open internationally to students of that period. Stress factor Rao makes her deep scholarship accessible for she writes clearly and makes the history flow.The Fractured Himalayatells of the critical initial years when India and China tried, for the first time in history, to build a political relationship and, when the strains of that effort became too much, to manage the stresses and issues such as the boundary question which became public in 1959. Their failure was evident in the war of 1962, the resonances of which still play out in the relationship. The book reads like a tragedy, with tragically flawed heroic characters and an inexorable march to estrangement and war. Rao reminds us that opinions in the government of India were divided on responding to the Chinese occupation of Tibet and on how to approach the boundary question with China. These divisions were not just between Jawaharlal Nehru and Sardar Patel, but persisted, with most of those who had actually dealt with Tibet or China, like Sumal Sinha and K.P.S. Menon, or those of a more realist bent of mind like Girija Shankar Bajpai, advocating a boundary negotiation before recognising China’s occupation of Tibet in the 1954 Agreement. Sadly, Nehru went with K.M. Pannikar and Subimal Dutt’s advice not to raise the boundary question. Would raising the boundary question in 1954, stressing Tibet’s independent role in history, and withholding acceptance of the Chinese occupation have led to a better outcome? This is a ‘what-if’ question that cannot be answered with any certainty, but the book makes clear the complexity and contemporary context in which those decisions were taken. It is a pattern that is to be repeated through the decade, of missed opportunities, woolly thinking and misreading Chinese intentions, and the book describes this in admirable detail. A tragedy foretold Rao’s work has two great merits. It restores Tibet to the centrality and independent agency that it enjoyed in practice and deserves in any telling of this story. Rao’s own sympathies do not get in the way of her objectivity. She describes in detail India’s confusions when it was evident that Tibet would be occupied by the Chinese PLA (People’s Liberation Army), and the desultory way in which India chose to protest and play her hand. In some ways this was a tragedy foretold. While post-colonial India and China made the transition in the late 19th and early 20th centuries to becoming modern Westphalian states, and were accepted as such by the rest of the world, the third nation with its own distinct state, political culture and civilisation, Tibet, could not make that transition. The consequences have been tragic, primarily for the Tibetan people and culture but also for India-China relations and the communities of what Rao calls the fractured Himalaya. Rao’s narration of how this played out through the long 1950s makes for depressing reading. The other contribution that the book makes is to restore a sense of balance and objectivity to the evaluation of what went wrong in India’s China policy in the ’50s and early ’60s. It has been convenient for all concerned to blame Nehru for the war and the unsettled boundary with China. And Nehru, being Nehru, never publicly blamed anyone else for failures of policy. Today’s newly fashionable stance of putting all the onus on Nehru begs the question of what all the institutions of the government of India were doing and where they went wrong — the Intelligence Bureau, the Indian Army, Indian diplomats, the Ministry of Defence and others. While the prime minister does have ultimate responsibility, it does not serve us well or enable us to learn from history to only blame one person and not look into institutional and other actions and actors. Cautionary tale The book’s rich detail offers a variegated cast of characters and issues, and a cautionary sense of the limitations under which Indian policy makers operated. When Nehru asked about India’s military capabilities as China marched into Tibet in 1950-51, he was told by Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa that the Indian Army could, at best, push one brigade up to Gyantse for a month or two, but could not sustain it, stretched as it was with a war in Kashmir against Pakistan and with keeping the peace in a communally charged India after Partition. India had no military options and her response to China’s occupation of Tibet therefore had to be diplomatic and political. And there, as Rao tells us, India’s choices in the ’50s were suboptimal. One only hopes that Rao will now apply her knowledge and scholarship to take this story forward to the decades after 1962 and bring it up to today. All in all this is a book for anyone with an interest in foreign policy, in India, Tibet and China, and with a sense of history. For it is only by studying our true history, not by telling fables or constructing narratives, that we will avoid the mistakes of the past.  The reviewer is a former National Security Adviser and former Foreign Secretary.  The Fractured Himalaya: India, China, Tibet 1949-1962 Nirupama Rao Penguin/ Viking  Rs. 999||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-march-to-estrangement/article37732202.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Hot off the press||Though we can catch up on news on the phone, the morning newspaper is still welcome. The crispy newspaper, which arrives at our doorstep come rain or shine, is avidly read by family members who vie with one another to share it. By late evening, however, it is left crumbled in a corner to be consigned to the shelf. To the common man, the value of a daily is lost the moment he has finished reading it. Of course, there are some readers who assiduously preserve newspaper pages containing informative, outstanding articles. The bulk of the back numbers, however, awaits the inevitable hour, the day the old newspaper collector calls at the door. In western countries, the practice of selling old papers is not in vogue. There, households consign them to a separate bin from where it is collected by the civic body for recycling. India receives a significant proportion of waste paper from the U.S. and Europe for reprocessing, along with local consignments. Palani, the stocky paper buyer with a pointed moustache, dressed in a white dhoti and shirt and riding a “frontload” tricycle, is a familiar figure on our streets. His call of “Paper, paper” attracts the attention of households. He is a shrewd businessman who wins his customers with a glib tongue. Peering over the rim of his glasses, he will carefully study the seller before quoting his rate. He will offer only a nominal rate for used neighbourhood papers as these are supplied free of cost. He will carefully segregate the bulky demi-quarto supplements while weighing the newspapers since these are not to be paid for at the same rate. During the pandemic he was one of the millions of informal workers who were hit badly. To this day, he is thankful to our residents’ association which provided a helping hand to him on those dark days. Once on seeing me, he held a sheaf of papers with a request to check whether it was of any importance. When I told him it was the original sale deed of a property in favour of one Mohan Raj, he looked startled for a moment, and then composed himself. The next day, he told me he called on all his customers and finally restored it to the property owner. He said the owner’s wife had inadvertently mixed it up with old newspapers. “I thankfully declined the Rs. 500 that madam offered as consideration,” he said. ramaraon2014@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hot-off-the-press/article37732173.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Ghalib made easy||While children in India and Pakistan still read Shakespeare in school, they hardly study classics of their own literature — verses by Ghalib or Mir in case of Urdu, for instance. Many Sharh-i-Dewan-i-Ghalib are available, but they are in Urdu while education has largely turned English medium. Thinking with Ghalib: Poetry for a New Generation attempts to address this gap. It explains 30 Ghalib couplets, chiefly by relating them to the world around us today. The authors have sequenced the couplets, starting with the easier ones and then moving on to the more complicated. Each couplet is presented in Urdu, Hindi and English, and gets a title, like a chapter head. The titles are explanatory as are the notes at the end. The hallmark of the book is the way Anjum Altaf and Amit Basole contextualise Ghalib’s poetry, placing it within the socio-political realities of India and Pakistan. An example is: Hai pare sarhad-e idraak se apna masjuud/ qible ko ahl-e nazar qiblah-numa kahte hain (The object of my worship lies beyond perception’s reach/ To those who see, the kaabah is a qiblah, nothing more). In explaining these lines, the authors refer to the rampant abuse of religious symbols in the name of politics that has resulted in the rise of right-wing parties on both sides of the border. Most of the interpretations show Ghalib in a completely different light. For instance, the note on Bana kar faqiiron ka hum bhes Ghalib/ Tamaasha-e-Ahl-e-karam dekhte hain (Having put the guise of faqirs, Ghalib/ We observe the spectacle of generous people) starts with a Marxist take on society and goes on to talk about international NGOs and their agendas. One drawback of the book is that in its effort to contextualise Ghalib, it often forgets to explain the literary devices like metaphors or similes that Ghalib used extensively. But this is pardonable if it suggests that the targeted audience is not just students of literature but also laymen. The same applies to the sudden patches where the translation gets too literal. The reviewer is a journalist and poet based in Lahore.  Thinking with Ghalib: Poetry for a New Generation Anjum Altaf, Amit Basole Roli Books  Rs. 395||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ghalib-made-easy/article37732180.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Madness in the air||In the 1980s, the Congress’s desire for political gains in the Punjab region created a Frankenstein monster called the Khalistan movement. Its henchmen, whom Anirudh Kala calls “The Boys” — “warriors in a religious war” — in Two and a Half Rivers , started wreaking havoc. In a land whose wounds from Partition hadn’t yet healed, what followed was madness for which no one had any explanation. But fiction allows us the possibility of exploring reasons that reality often precludes. Two and a Half Rivers constitutes such an exploration. Set in the wake of the Punjab insurgency, which lasted over a decade, Kala’s impeccably layered story has three principal characters: a Dalit couple, Shamsie and Bheem, and a psychiatrist in the middle of a marital separation. Disturbed by personal and political crises, the psychiatrist, who is himself taking psychiatric help from a devout Christian, Dr. Mustafa, starts living outside Chandigarh. His regular patient, Shamsie, a dancer, returns to the insurgency-stricken land from Bombay, where she had secured a job in a dance bar. She and her boyfriend Bheem are driven out of Bombay by the unruly behaviour of the “Maratha Army”. You smell not only the gunpowder in the air but also the stench of religious fanaticism. Indeed, one cannot be distinguished from the other, just as you cannot untangle the policeman from the hooligan in the ensuing bloodshed. As Dr. Mustafa observes, reality itself is losing contact with reality in the quest for an imagined homeland, which one of the characters describes as the P-3 region — a Punjab with two and a half rivers: Satluj, Beas, and half of Ravi. But the rest of India quickly labels the unrest as the ‘Punjab Problem,’ “as if it were a stubborn crossword puzzle.” While most of us know about the insurgency, the discriminations against Dalits in Punjab are hardly discussed. Be it in the description of the vehras — courtyards of “low-caste dwellings,” which are constructed in such a way that Jat homes get unpolluted sunlight — or in the record of the multiple ways in which caste identity is used to inflict violence on people, Kala’s narrative renders voice to the voiceless, expertly weaving together the personal and the political. In more ways than one, Kala is a natural heir to the acclaimed Punjabi novelist, Gurdial Singh. The reviewer is a Delhi-based queer writer. Instagram/ Twitter: @writerly_life  Two and a Half Rivers Anirudh Kala Olive Turtle  Rs. 395||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/madness-in-the-air/article37732187.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On November 28, 1843, the British and French governments formally recognised the independence of this Island nation, becoming the first non-European indigenous state recognized by these powers. Earlier known as the Sandwich Islands, it is a group of eight major islands and numerous smaller ones stretching more than 2400 km across. The islands are the exposed peaks of a massive undersea mountain range of volcanoes, which also includes the tallest mountain on earth. Which islands are these that are the only state in their country to not have a straight line in its borders? 2 Due to its isolation, a third of the plant life on the island of Socotra is found nowhere else on the planet and has been described as the “most alien-looking place on earth”. Every plant on the island is on the critically endangered list and 94% of the animals are not found anywhere else on the planet. The most striking is the Dragon’s Blood Tree, which has bright red sap and looks like a giant umbrella. Politically this UNESCO World Heritage site is part of which country whose capital is Aden? 3 The Canary Islands are a Spanish archipelago in the Atlantic Ocean, which are a major tourist destination due to the beaches, tropical climate and the third tallest volcano in the world. Although one would expect the island to be named after a common yellow bird, the islands were actually named by the Romans as ‘Insula Canaria’, because they saw quite a lot of a certain kind of animals here. What animals are these which also appear on their flag or what does ‘Insula Canaria’ mean? 4 The flag of Iceland has been in use since 1918. It has three colours which represent the three elements that make up the island. The first colour stands for the fire produced by the island’s volcanoes, second for the ice and snow that covers Iceland and third for the mountains there. What are the three colours of the flag? 5 The island nation of Nauru raised its flag for the first time on 31 January 1968. The flag has a gold horizontal stripe which runs across a blue field. Nauru itself is symbolised by a white twelve-pointed star (each point represents one of the twelve indigenous tribes on the island) that is placed just below the gold line. Since this is a symbolically accurate depiction of Nauru’s geographical position, what does the gold line refer to? 6 The United Kingdom refers to the country comprising Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and England. However, Northern Ireland lies on the separate island of Ireland. What is the name of the geographic entity of the island that is made up of Scotland, Wales and England? 7 North America is the most recently colonised continent and has 23 countries. It is the only continent with no landlocked countries, as all of them have access to at least one major water body. Which is the biggest island (in the world) that belongs to the continent of North America and is known for its sharks that live to 500 years? 8 The Republic of Kiribati is an archipelago in the Pacific Ocean, consisting of 33 reef islands and one large island. The total exclusive economic zone (the ocean area over which they have rights) covered by this country is about 3.5 million square kilometres. Kiribati is geographically special, as the spread of the islands cover both sides of the equator (latitude) and the 180th meridian (longitude). What unique status does this give Kiribati? 9 Taal Lake has a very interesting location — it is located on an island that is in a lake, which is on an island in a lake and this lake is located on an island! Taal Lake itself lies in the hollow of the crater of a volcano. The country is located on what is known as the Pacific Ring of Fire, for its abundance of volcanoes. In which country is this nested lake located? 10 The Big Diomede and the Little Diomede are two neighbouring islands that are only 3.8 km apart but belong to two different countries on two different continents — the United States in North America and Russia in Asia. In addition to being the closest point of contact between two countries, the two islands share another unique relationship. Despite being only 3.8 km apart, one is in the past and the other is in the future. What goes through the gap between them that causes this strange situation? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37732209.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Scope for hope||“What is your greatest reason for hope?” asks the host, her voice resolute and clear, the weight of her 87 years barely discernable. Before answering, the guest, Christiana Figueres, former diplomat and climate policy advocate, asks to be greeted in the customary chimpanzee way which she proceeds to, in a single breath, ending with, “Me, Jane.” Dame Jane Goodall, that is. The Jane Goodall Hopecast is a pandemic-era podcast that Goodall started so that she could continue to interact with a world that seemed to be fast losing faith in its ability to save itself from environmental disaster. Forced to lock down in her childhood home, “Virtual Jane” began zooming everywhere, often giving multiple talks in a single day, advocating for the conservation of animal habitats and raising funds for a variety of projects. A few months into the pandemic, the podcast emerged as part of her ongoing advocacy, and an extension of her recent book Reason for Hope: A Spiritual Journey . Human spirit “I do believe in the indominable human spirit,” she says, opening the first episode. “I think hope has been a part of our human evolution, a force that has pushed us to where we are today... but because there’s so much darkness in the world today, there is even more need for hope.” The podcast turns its ear to people who offer reason for hope, whose ideas and actions are making a difference to planetary health, through individual, community, corporate or policy action. Their conviction and energy match Goodall’s, making for a lively exchange between almost-equals — obviously, it is hard to match her six decades in the field! We meet musicians, royalty, community activists and policy wonks. Figueres, a former diplomat and climate policy advocate (one of the key organisers of the Paris Agreement), runs her own podcast, Outrage and Optimism . Ayana Elizabeth Johnson, a guest on Episode 15 of Season 1, is a marine biologist and policy expert and — you guessed it — host of a podcast, How to Save the Planet . Janet Hayes, CEO of Crate & Barrel Holdings, who speaks about how global corporations can take more responsibility for climate action and conservation. Informed action Each of the episodes introduces an initiative, a movement, a set of ideas, that has shifted something in the way people interact with their environments, with plenty of lessons for those who would want to get into climate change or environmental activism. Goodall notes, “You can reach the heart by telling stories, not just by arguing with people’s intellects.” As she reminds us often through the series, hope is not just empty anticipation, but informed action. Even as we learn about these good works, we are offered glimpses into bits and pieces of Goodall’s childhood and early years in the Gombe. There’s a delightful story about how as a 10-year-old, she made her grandmother will her the beech tree (Mr Beech) in her family home, and an account of offering the chimpanzee greeting — despite being terrified by the size of the crowd — at the Live Aid concert in New York. Of course, Goodall does not lose the opportunity to talk about the work of the Jane Goodall Institute and particularly, about the Roots & Shoots programme that engages with young people, and as important as this work is, these segments can get just a wee bit didactic. But then Goodall is allowed that much, isn’t she? The podcast is best listened to in spurts rather than binged, when you feel the need to be reminded that there is hope for our planet.  We are offered glimpses into bits and pieces of Goodall’s childhood and early years in the Gombe||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/scope-for-hope/article37732218.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Viewing India’s economic history through the prism of the Tatas||“The history of business is indivisibly linked to the history of mankind, and business historians should aim at understanding the interplay between the actions of individual companies and changes in the total society.” This exhortation to business historians that features in the abstract to The Significance of Business History by R. Richard Wohl, Associate Professor of the Social Sciences, at the University of Chicago, is aptly reflected right through Mircea Raianu’s novel tome, Tata: The Global Corporation That Built Indian Capitalism .  A historian of two seemingly disparate areas of study, global capitalism and modern South Asia, Raianu’s 291-page, exhaustively researched book connects the two strands of his scholarship into a fascinating tapestry of a family run business house’s evolution from colonial-era mercantilism — trading in opium and cotton — to its rise as an all-encompassing conglomerate that in its contemporary avatar spans industries from tea to high-tech and salt to steel. Historical records The University of Maryland academic acknowledges that his pursuit of the Tatas’ history was made easier by the unfettered access he had to the voluminous archival material housed at the Tata Central Archives in Pune and the Tata Steel Archives in Jamshedpur. Interestingly, the very existence of such detailed historical records and the fact that it is open to the public, prompts Raianu to remark: “Archives embody a powerful impulse to present oneself to the public and to posterity, analogous to the way a state chooses to selectively open its bureaucratic records to citizens as a prerogative of sovereignty. Indeed corporations that most closely resemble states keep ‘the most state-like archives’.” It is this quasi-sovereign approach that would appear to inform a wide gamut of the Tatas’ actions and runs as a kind of leitmotif right through the book. ‘Collective subjects’ The historian also makes clear up front that his work is neither an attempt to read the available material “against the grain” in order to uncover “archival silences and erasures” and come up with an expose of the Tatas’ failures, nor is it a hagiographic work “cementing a master narrative of the group as a bearer of an unbroken tradition of nation-building and socially responsible capitalism”. Raianu asserts that his is an “eye-level immersion in the ‘black box’ of information exchanges within the group, with an aim to draw attention to the “many ways in which people ‘enact’ corporations as ‘collective subjects’ through everyday conflicts and decisions.” The narrative spans approximately 130 years of the group’s history — starting about a century before World War II, makes a temporal break at the War and then covers a three-decade period from the late 1940s to the late 1970s. As a result, those keen to uncover some deeper insights into the genesis and fractious denouement of the Tata-Mistry standoff or even glean some juicy tidbits from the Radia tapes controversy are bound to be disappointed, with only the former even finding mention over two pages of the Epilogue. The journey Raianu’s book is certainly not a ‘grab at the airport book stall and read on a flight for discovering the Tatas’ secret recipe to its enduring corporate heft’ variety. Instead, the reader is drawn inexorably into the formative years of the group as an industrial pioneer as it transformed from its trading roots into manufacturing — first textiles, and then iron and steel and hyrdroelectric power — all the while navigating its liminal position astride the evolving political and economic landscape of British India and subsequently a newly independent nation. Over six engrossing chapters, Raianu paints a veritable mindscape of a group that was sometimes consciously nationalistic and ‘swadeshi’, while at other times outward looking and almost uniquely invested in science, technology and its own distinct brand of philanthropy. This is a history worth reading not for knowing all about the Tatas but to understand how global and domestic political winds tilted economic policy in India, especially in the early post-independence years.  Tata: The Global Corporation That Built Indian Capitalism Mircea Raianu Harvard University Press  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/viewing-indias-economic-history-through-the-prism-of-the-tatas/article37732199.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Four-to-one||East-West can make four hearts in today’s deal and would likely have reached that contract. North’s fourspade bid prevented that and ended the auction. East won the opening club lead with his jack and continued with his ace. South ruffed and led a low heart to dummy’s jack and East’s king. South ruffed the king of clubs with the 10 of spades and ruffed a heart in dummy. The ace and king of spades drew the trumps and declarer ruffed his last heart in dummy. It was time to tackle the diamond suit. There is no problem if the missing diamonds split 3-2 – the percentage split. A good declarer will invest some time deciding whether or not he can handle a bad split. There is nothing to be done if diamonds split 5-0, but what about a 4-1 split? Declarer can handle that split provided the singleton diamond is the queen, jack, 10, or 9 – a solid four-toone chance. South led a low diamond from dummy and played low from his hand when East played the jack. Should East win this trick, he will have to yield a ruff-sluff. West can overtake the jack, but what can he do? West can lead another diamond instead of giving a ruff-sluff, but that will allow declarer to pick up the rest of the suit without loss. Making four!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/four-to-one/article37732212.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||From ‘My Hitler’ to ‘my muffins’||Swastikas on the wall become giant cupcakes with purple icing, and the words “my Hitler” are transformed into “my muffins”. All in a day’s work for the Italian street artist who fights racism by turning nasty graffiti into food. “I take care of my city by replacing symbols of hate with delicious things to eat,” says the 39-year-old artist, whose real name is Pier Paolo Spinazze and whose professional name, Cibo, is the Italian word for food. On a recent sunny morning he had been alerted by one of his 3,63,000 Instagram followers that there were swastikas and racial slurs in a small tunnel on the outskirts of Verona. Up he turned, wearing his signature straw hat and necklace of stuffed sausages. He took out his bag of spray paints and set to work, while cars drove by beeping. He covered up the slurs with a bright slice of margherita pizza and a caprese salad — mozzarella, tomatoes and basil. A swastika was transformed into a huge red tomato. As he created the murals in the tunnel, which each took around 15 minutes, people drove by, peering out of their windows to stare and wave. One art teacher wound down her window to compliment his work. In recent years human rights groups have warned of growing racism in Italy following mass immigration from Africa. Fascist culture and wartime dictator Benito Mussolini still have a hard core of admirers. As he has become a local celebrity in Verona, he has also made enemies: “Cibo sleep with the lights on!” someone spray painted on a wall. He turned the threat into the ingredients of a gnocchi recipe. “Dealing with extremists is never good, because they are violent people, they are used to violence, but they are also cowards and very stupid,” Spinazze said. “The important thing is to rediscover values that we may have forgotten, especially anti-fascism and the fight against totalitarian regimes that stem from World War II,” he said. “We must remind ourselves of these values.”  — Reuters   As he created the murals in the tunnel, which each took around 15 minutes, people drove by, peering out of their windows to stare and wave||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/from-my-hitler-to-my-muffins/article37732220.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Perspectives on the willow game||Cricket lends itself to the apt turn of phrase, droll humour, simmering anger and the realisation that it will throw up surprises. It offers its chroniclers enough drama to chew on and for them to mull about styles to adopt — elegant prose, poetic flourishes, may be some rhetoric and also weave in those threads that bind the willow game with life. It is no surprise that the very best of cricket writing moves into the realm of literature. In the anthology Indian Innings: The Journey of Indian Cricket from 1947 , veteran sports writer Ayaz Memon curates some of the finest pieces that tell the remarkable tale that Indian cricket has largely been. Roots of a romance Ayaz starts with the roots of his cricketing romance, a bond forged by listening to radio commentary and the yellow brick as the Wisden Almanack, is fondly referred to, which was often gifted to him by his father. He then lets the other members of his tribe shed light on seminal moments in Indian cricket by carrying their diverse articles and at the end of every piece, he adds a footnote named AYAZSpeak, which gives his perspective. There have been anthologies before and one that springs to mind is The Picador Book of Cricket edited by Ramachandra Guha, published in 2001. That tome had a broader sweep and the writers cut across the cricket-playing globe. Two decades later, Ayaz prefers to keep his gaze closer home and sheds light on significant moments and the larger-than-life players who shaped Indian cricket after the yoke of colonialism was shed in 1947. What you get is a veritable who’s who of cricket writing from within our desi shores and it features both seasoned journalists and others, who have alternative calling cards in life. For the nostalgically inclined, there is K.N. Prabhu, Rajan Bala and R. Mohan to name a few, with the last-named still putting pen to paper through Deccan Chronicle. The other significant writers featured through their reports, profiles and analysis are Vijay Lokapally, Suresh Menon, R. Kaushik, Clayton Murzello, Sandeep Dwivedi, Rohit Brijnath, Sharda Ugra, Harsha Bhogle, Shashi Tharoor, Guha, Makarand Waingankar, Mukul Kesavan, Pradeep Magazine, Prem Panicker, Sambit Bal, Anand Vasu, Sriram Veera, Sanjjeev K. Samyal, Bharat Sundaresan, Rahul Bhattacharya and many more. At ‘volatile’ Eden You also get to read a Mudar Patherya, who moved on from tracking sport to keeping an eye on the financial markets. “India is the most emotional country in the world. Kolkata is its most temperamental city. And the Eden Gardens its most volatile showpiece,” he writes. This book has many such lines from a huge array of writers and it also has space for the diligent reporter, who lets the facts speak more than any evident flair. But again this is a subjective culling of articles and some miss out be it a Sidharth Monga, an Ajay Shankar or a few others. And it is not just about the regulars in journalism, cricketers too have penned their thoughts including Bishan Singh Bedi, Sunil Gavaskar and Anil Kumble. This is a book which can be read based on what segments of Indian cricket attract you or yield to the lure of a familiar byline or sporting memory.   Indian Innings The Journey of Indian Cricket from 1947 Edited by Ayaz Memon Westland Sport  Rs. 899||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/perspectives-on-the-willow-game/article37732197.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The privilege of ageing||“Sir, you don’t look a day older than 50!” This was the optician, while going through the date of birth entry in the form I was required to fill. My wife, who was with me, immediately whispered into my ears that I should take this remark merely as a marketing strategy. Not having any requirement of strategies, marketing or otherwise, she was in no frame of mind to have me harbour any grandiose delusions of my age! Be that as it may, I was left wondering why should people get concerned if they get old or look as old as they are. The desire of getting to be told that they look younger than they are is, perhaps, an understandable variant of vanity. One often comes across observations such as “He/she is so graceful even at his/her age” or “He/she has aged gracefully.” I presume the observation, at least in part, is based on seeing people who have accepted old age with dignity and a measure of calmness. On the other hand, there are people who appear tormented and beleaguered by age and show it too and when that happens, we say, “He/she looks so much older than he/she is.” Ageing is a natural process and not a matter of choice, but how we handle it, is! There is no known elixir bestowing on humans youth and vitality which will defy and reverse the process of ageing. And thank god for that! Imagine a world bursting at the seams with young “old” people who have defied ageing! A wise man had once said, “A beautiful face in youth is the result of fortune; a beautiful face in old age is earned by kindness and wisdom.” There are, of course, challenges in how parents and senior citizens are treated by their children. Some cases of “seniors” being ignored or being stifled financially or emotionally or both are dark and sinister facts of today’s times, and though laws such as the Maintenance of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) Bill, 2019 (awaiting passage in Parliament) are on the anvil, what is required is understanding and empathy, not limited to finances alone, from the kin of the seniors. Since ageing is inevitable in life’s journey, it is important also to explore and find ways and means to enjoy the journey. These days, concepts such as assisted living with regular health check-ups and nursing care have found currency. In such senior citizens’ homes, “seniors” are eased into secured community living sans the hassles of mundane household chores such as dusting, cleaning and even cooking. For ageing, one has to live, and when one lives with satisfaction and happiness, there need be no regret, for as is said, “Do not regret growing older, it is a privilege denied to many.” ashokwarrier27@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-privilege-of-ageing/article37732175.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Letters||We must end our dependence on coal and invest in affordable and sustainable renewable energy. (Half a degree of separation; Nov. 21) To achieve internationally agreed climate targets, roadmaps for coal phase-out, smart use of a combination of policy instruments, and effective integration of powerful stakeholders are key. Kumarika Roy nThe green commitments made at COP 26 by India are bold and ambitious, and in a sense signal the way forward in the combat against climate change. Our role in ensuring a change in policy on coal dependence from ‘phase out’ to ‘phase down’ will certainly provide leeway to developing economies. G. Ramasubramanyam nThe ‘polluter pays’ principle must be enforced without fail and the onus of climate-related changes, mitigation strategies, and implementation must fall on fossil fuel leviathans and petroleum states. Governments are duty bound to explore mitigation measures and implement them in a time-bound manner. T.N. Venugopalan nIt is an abstruse appeal to ask developing countries like India and China to stop their carbon footprint by 2050. Stopping the use of coal in the production of electricity will indeed strangle our economy and livelihood. Anson Alex, SJ nYes, COP 26 has ended in tears. But, should they not be called crocodile tears? If the developed nations are really serious about limiting global warming to 1.5°C, they should voluntarily and collectively come forward to provide adequate climate finance, transfer climate technologies, and pay reparations to developing nations for the losses caused by climate disasters. Kosaraju Chandramouli   I had the good fortune of rubbing shoulders with the celebrated poet when he was the Literary Editor of a Mumbai newspaper. (‘Sometimes I feel I have to be completely invisible as a poet’; Nov. 21) Unlike essayists or novelists, who are generally prolific, poets follow the dictates of the heart as verse stems from its core. His resolve to release three more books before he takes his final bow should warm the hearts of his aficionados. C.V. Aravind   It is ironic that a recognised hotspot of biodiversity is neglected and subjected to environmental stress at a time when there is worldwide concern about climate change and global warming. N. Rama Rao nThe Western Ghats should be regarded as an ecologically sensitive zone as recommended by the Madhav Gadgil and Kasturi Rangan committee reports. All stakeholders, such as the government, environmentalists, civil society and NGOs, should come forward to save the rocks and hillocks. S. Haritha Rao & K. Mohan Reddy   Pratapaditya Pal is right when he highlights the remarkable role played by the adherents of diverse faiths in the flowering of India’s cultural heritage. (‘Nationalism should not ever be invoked to establish our identity’; Nov. 21) It requires a great deal of learning and, above all, moral courage to say so in today’s India where agenda-driven propaganda is fast replacing history, and WhatsApp forwards are smashing to smithereens the noble idea of unity in diversity. Samiul Hassan Quadri||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/letters/article37732176.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Cryptic bill||It all began with murmurs of ‘bitcoin mining’ almost a decade ago. Tech savants were possibly the first to hop on the cryptocurrency bandwagon as it involved solving complex computational puzzles, and fast, in order to obtain, or ‘mine’, a single unit. In 2013, the RBI issued an advisory against cryptocurrencies due to the unregulated and speculative nature of their transactions. Last week, amid the growing popularity of crypto money worldwide, the government said it would table a new bill in Parliament to regulate its use and circulation. More importantly, it hinted at the creation of an “official digital currency”, indicating a thawing in its original stance against cryptocurrencies. A collection of binary data, cryptocurrency is categorised as ‘fiat money’, as it is not convertible or backed by any commodity like gold or silver. There is no central authority or body to govern its use or mining and transactions are recorded via a digital ledger-based database called blockchain. Bitcoin, released in 2009, is the first decentralised cryptocurrency. Today, there are over 14,000 cryptocurrencies globally with a market capitalisation of over $2 trillion. The widespread concerns against a cyrpto-based economy lie in fears that its unregulated nature will make it hard to track criminal activity and money laundering. In September, China, the largest market for cryptocurrency, declared all such transactions illegal. El Salvador and Cuba are the only countries where crypto is legal tender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/cryptic-bill/article37732171.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Eye of The World||Robert Jordan  Orbit Rs. 599 When their village is attacked by terrifying creatures, Rand al’Thor and his friends are forced to flee. An evil is stirring, and its servants are searching for the Dragon Reborn — the hero who can deliver the world from darkness. The first part of theWheel of Timeseries now playing on Amazon Prime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-eye-of-the-world/article37732178.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Brightest Star in Paris||Diana Biller  St. Martin’s Griffin $9.44 (Kindle price) Amelie St. James, the sweet, virtuous prima ballerina of the Paris Opera Ballet, is a fraud. When her handsome first love reappears, the ghosts of her past come back to haunt her and the shell of safety she has created for herself begins to crack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-brightest-star-in-paris/article37732189.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Dreams Lie Beneath||Rebecca Ross  Quill Tree Books $5.63 (Kindle price) The realm of Azenor is plagued by a curse of nightmares coming to life. Only magicians, serving as territory wardens, stand between people and their worst dreams. Clementine Madigan, the new warden, is challenged by two magicians and drawn into a century-old conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dreams-lie-beneath/article37732191.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Ascendance of Evil||Abhinav  Penguin Rs. 299 In this concluding part ofThe Kalki Chronicles, Anirudh, the Kalki avatar, has been slain by the enemy. His allies swiftly regroup and look towards Avyay, who wields the mantle of the avatar now. Will the forces of Kalki be able to save the earth or will everything perish?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-ascendance-of-evil/article37732193.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Governance by Stealth: The Ministry of Home Affairs and the Making of the Indian State||Subrata Mitra  OUP Rs. 1,961 India’s Ministry of Home Affairs, with its ability to adapt to the transition from colonial rule to post-colonial governance, is an example of institutional resilience. Mitra explores the multiple roles of the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/governance-by-stealth-the-ministry-of-home-affairs-and-the-making-of-the-indian-state/article37732195.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3178||Across  1 Unstraps a little sarong shifting in warm spots (8) 5 Primarily, full lists of regions’ Amaryllidacaea, etc! (6) 10 Tense, like a guitar neck? (7) 11 They’re seen with soldiers, say, getting George Cross: happy times (7) 12 Sides of langoustine consumed... offcolour in French city (5) 13 US cop story, not right to reboot film (9) 14 Sees chest heaving, having eaten undercooked snack (6,6) 18 How rotor-head’s spinning is a problem (4,3,2,3) 21 In home counties these days, smallest part unsullied (4-5) 23 Some nonlinear systems offering approaches (5) 24 ‘Podgy’ (mostly fat) servicemen getting starter of hamburgers (7) 25 ‘A very European’ fury? That’s mean (7) 26 Go back into – or out of – employment (6) 27 Face cry that’s voiced for pasta topping (8)  Down  1 Sneaky, frequently hiding piano (6) 2 Tease a little weak-kneed learner (6) 3 First-year divinity student’s a sweetie! (9) 4 Upon swell, exercising rowers — what each must do? (4,4,6) 6 Help large English dog that’s upset (3-2) 7 Primitive painter showing topless bride’s outfit (8) 8 One writes 19th letter a year before first (8) 9 Does roast with beef, batter and timing advice for chef? (4-6,4) 15 Model superlatively lusty: most problematic (9) 16 He painted his mum, a referee at times (8) 17 A Queen’s wavy patterns in wardrobes (8) 19 Country’s athletic club taking in judo practitioner, amateur ascendant (6) 20 A second spring besides (2,4) 22 Loudly call for squeeze (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3178/article37732215.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||From Startup to Exit: An Insider’s Guide to Launching and Scaling your Tech Business||Shirish Nadkarni  HarperCollins Rs. 499 With the advent of the Internet, mobile computing, and AI learning, the growth of new startups has accelerated all across the world, including India. Nadkarni, a serial entrepreneur, explains what tech startups need to do.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/from-startup-to-exit-an-insiders-guide-to-launching-and-scaling-your-tech-business/article37732204.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Jumbos on the Edge||Sanjeev Kumar Chadha  Natraj Publishers Rs. 499 India faces a challenge towards long-term conservation of the elephant population. This volume explains issues related to elephant depredation in human enclaves and fragmentation of habitats for them. It offers solutions like alternative crop patterns and building linear infrastructure in forests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/jumbos-on-the-edge/article37732206.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Force in Statecraft: An Indian Perspective||Edited by Arjun Subramaniam, Diptendu Choudhury  KW Publishers Rs. 980 As India grapples with new and emerging security challenges, a host of writers explore issues confronting the establishment and policy makers. There are chapters on land, sea and air power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/force-in-statecraft-an-indian-perspective/article37732208.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Covaxin elicits immune memory to virus, study finds||A small study conducted on 71 individuals who received two doses of Covaxin found that the vaccine generates antibodies and easily detectable memory B cell and T cell responses in many recipients. The study has been posted on a preprint server medRxiv. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed and published in a scientific journal. The multi-institutional research, which is led by a team of scientists from Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology, found that immunological memory to the virus and the variants after full vaccination seemed to last up to six months in many individuals. The cellular immune responses in the form of memory B cells and memory T cells seen in most vaccinated people would mean that the immune system can respond swiftly and provide protection in case of a breakthrough infection. “The study finds that both B cells and T cells develop well after Covaxin administration. This means that even though antibodies may decline with time, the memory compartment will be marshalled quickly in case of a future infection to limit virus multiplication and disease,” virologist Dr. Shahid Jameel Director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University says in an email. The study also evaluated the cellular immune responses in 73 individuals who have been naturally infected but have not been vaccinated. The samples in the infection group were collected between November 2020 and January 2021, prior to the Delta variant surge in India. The researchers first measured anti-spike antibodies in the plasma samples from vaccinated and recovered individuals. All vaccinated and recovered individuals had detectable anti-spike IgG antibodies; the IgG titer against the spike protein was not significantly different between the two groups. Memory B cells The study has measured the RBD-specific memory B cells but not the spike-specific memory B cells. “We did not measure the spike-specific memory B cells for this study. We are currently undertaking this study. The levels of spike-specific memory B cells may not be very different from the RBD-specific memory B cells but this has to be studied,” Dr. Nimesh Gupta from NII and the corresponding author of the preprint says in an email. “We have demonstrated that vaccine induces memory T cells in about 85% of the subjects. The T cell responses are largely preserved against the variants, including the Delta variant,” Dr. Gupta adds. According to the preprint, there was about 1.3-fold reduction in the case of memory T cells against the beta variant, with no significant impact against the Delta variant. “While antibody-based neutralisation is reduced with Alpha, Delta and Beta variants, the memory compartment is not adversely affected,” says Dr. Jameel. Response durability The quantity of memory T cells is comparable to that of natural infection, and the composition of memory subsets is indicative of a long-term durability of vaccine-induced T cell responses, says the preprint. The analyses are from four weeks post-second dose up to six months, the authors note this is sufficient to gather key information on persistence of immune memory. However, the durability of immune memory cannot be defined due to absence of the longitudinal follow-up. “Being a killed whole virus vaccine, antibodies and T cells against other viral proteins are also expected. In this paper the authors show this for the nucleocapsid as well. However, this is often wrongly cited as an advantage of Covaxin. Since the nucleocapsid protein is inside the virus, antibodies or T cells against it have little value in protection,” says Dr. Jameel. “While the data are useful, the conclusions that can be robustly based on them are limited at this stage for a number of reasons,” immunologist Dr. Satyajit Rath, formerly with NII says in an email to The Hindu.  Modest numbers According to Dr. Rath, a major issue with the study is that the numbers of people tested are quite modest. While 71 vaccinated people were tested for antibodies, only 39 of them were apparently tested for memory B cell and T cell responses. The naturally infected group size is even smaller at 27, he says. “We should note that each individual has been tested only once, so there is no information about the time course of immunity in any given individual,” says Dr. Rath. “Further, both these groups are quite diverse in when they were either infected or vaccinated. On average, naturally infected people were tested over seven months after their illness, while vaccinated people were tested about four months after vaccination. This limits how much meaning we can ascribe to comparisons between the two groups. To add to this uncertainty, the people in each group also have a lot of variation about when they were either vaccinated or infected, further compounding this problem of limited comparability.” Other limitations Dr. Rath mentions another important limitation of the study with regard to the measurements made in people belonging to both groups. “The cell-based tests for immunity provide relative rather than absolute measurements in the absence of very painstaking efforts for standardisation,” he says. “This means that quantitative comparisons of the 'levels' of immunity shown by these measurements can be reliably made only within this study. The actual numbers of cellular immunity levels from this study cannot simply be compared to those from other studies elsewhere. This is not a limitation of this study alone, but simply the nature of these tests.” Since testing was done only when symptoms were reported, the study does not allow exclusion of asymptomatic reinfections and breakthrough infections among the naturally infected and vaccinated groups, respectively. “This introduces a potential variable that remains unaccounted for,” Dr. Rath says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/covaxin-elicits-immune-memory-to-virus-study-finds/article37731957.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Were there domestic horses in ancient India?||A recent report in Nature by Ludovic Orlando and his group from the Paul Sabatier University in Toulose, France (P. Librado et al., Nature 598, 636-642; 2021) has been able to collect bones and teeth samples of over 2,000 such ancient specimens from regions from where domestic horses could have originated, namely in the Iberian Peninsula in the southwestern corner of Europe, or the western-most edge of Eurasia (Spain and its neighbours), Anatolia (which is modern Turkey), and the steppes of Western Eurasia and Central Asia. As Tosin Thompson writes in his commentary in Nature of October 28, 2021, Dr. Orlando’s team analysed the complete genome sequences of about 270 samples from these regions, and also gathered information from archeology. In addition, they also dated radioactive Carbon 14, which decays at a fixed rate, to determine the age of these horse samples. These collective data have led them to decide that until about 4200 BCE, many distinct horse populations inhabited various regions of Eurasia. Horse trail A similar genetic analysis has also found that horses with the modern domestic DNA profile lived in the Western Eurasian Steppes, particularly the Volga-Don River region. By around 2200–2000 BCE, these horses spread out to Bohemia (the Czech Republic of today and Ukraine), and Central Asia (Kazhakstan, Kyrgystan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, Iran and Afghanistan) and Mongolia. These horses were bred by breeders from these countries to sell them to countries that demanded them. Riding on horses became popular in these nations by around 3300 BCE, and armies were built using them, for example, in Mesopotamia, Iran, Kuwait and the ‘Fertile Crescent’ or Palestine. Thompson notes that the first spoke-wheeled chariots emerged around 2000-1800 BC. Indian story Now, when did horses come to India, and were they domestic or foreign? Was horse native to India? The answer seems to be ‘no’. The “World Atlas” says that the only animals native to India are the Asian elephant, snow leopard, rhinoceros, Bengal tiger, Sloth bear, Himalayan wolf, Gaur bison, red panda, crocodile, and the birds peacock and flamingo. The website ThoughtCo cites, in the article ‘11 domestic animals that originated in Asia’, lists the antelope, Nilgiri tahr, elephant, langur, Macaque monkey, rhinoceros, dolphin, Garial crocodile, leopard, bear, tiger, bustard (heaviest flying bird), squirrel, cobra, and peacock. Thus, it seems clear from these sources that horse is not native to India. Horses must have come into India through inter-regional trading between countries. Indians might have traded their elephants, tigers, monkeys, birds to their neighbours and imported horses for our use. So, when did India get its horses? Wikipedia points out that horse-related remains and artefacts have been found in Late Harappan sites (1900-1300 BCE), and that horses did not seem to have played an essential role in the Harappan civilisation. This is in contrast to the Vedic Period, which is a little later (1500-500 BCE). (The Sanskrit word for horse is Ashwa, which is mentioned in the Vedas and Hindu Scriptures). These are roughly towards the end of the late Bronze Age. Debate in literature It is also worth noting that two recent scholarly books, one by Tony Joseph, titled ‘Early Indians: The Story of our Ancestors and Where we Came From’, and the other by Yashaswini Chandra, titled, ‘The Tale of the Horse’. Dr. Joseph’s recent article in December 2018 in Firstpost examines the evidence to the ‘Aryan’ migrations to India. This would suggest that the horses found in India came from the ‘Stans’ mentioned above. And Dr. Yashaswini Chandra’s posting in The Print of January 17, 2021 suggests that Indian native horses disappeared by 8000 BCE. Perhaps the clearest analysis of the debate comes from an article by the historian Michel Danino of IIT Gandhinagar. He writes in his paper titled, ‘The horse and the Aryan debate’, in the Journal of Indian History and Culture, 2006, September 13:33-59, and in the book “History of Ancient India” in 2014, that that the archaeologist Sandor Bokonyi studied samples of horse teeth from Baluchistan dating to pre-Harappan era from Allahabad (2265-1480 BCE), in Chambal Valley (2450-2000 BCE) and the upper molar sample from Kalibangan, and concluded that they came from real domesticated horses. These papers by Professor Danino sets to rest several conflicting claims about domestic horses in India, and we are thankful to him. Harappan remnants Given this background, it will be interesting to check whether in the Harappan sites, there are any remnant bones, teeth or skulls of horses, and perform DNA sequencing on them, just as Orlando’s group did in their Nature article on Eurasian samples. dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/were-there-domestic-horses-in-ancient-india/article37731944.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Evolution of immune mechanisms can shape genetic risk of mental illness||Evolution is a process of natural selection in which traits that improve the fitness of the organism to survive the challenges posed by its surrounding environment. However, genes have multiple effects: The very same genes that are responsible for improving an aspect of the fitness of the organism may have other contributions too, such as increasing the risk for a non-communicable disease. A paper published recently in Scientific Reports shows that this may be the case also with some severe mental illnesses, like schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Tracing through families The study examined 80 individuals from 80 separate families from southern India, which each had several members affected by severe mental illness. Each of these 80 individuals had at least two first-degree relatives who had a major psychiatric disorder, such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, dementia or substance use disorder. Clues in the exome Researchers from NIMHANS, Bengaluru; Institute of Genomics, Tartu, Estonia and ADBS Consortium, analysed the whole exome data from these 80 individuals and identified 74 genes that were positively selected. “Our genetic material or DNA consists of 3 billion [letters] or bases. Of this, only a small portion codes for the proteins that make up our cells,” says Meera Purushottam, from the Department of Psychiatry, NIMHANS, and a corresponding author of the paper, in an email to The Hindu.  Sequencing the exome means sequencing this, relatively small, portion of the genome, which codes for proteins. Under the premise that differences in the frequency of genetic variants between populations have arisen through natural selection, the researchers compared the exomes of these 80 individuals from families in southern India with multiple members having psychiatric disorders with a second, related population (random members from southern India) and a third set from an African population (which is the ‘parent’ population). This comparison revealed the genes that have been positively selected for in the 80 individuals. “So, these 74 genes that we have identified are different in more than one way in our patients and their families, compared to what we see in the population at large in this part of the world,” says Dr Purushottam. As to the functionality of the genes, the study revealed that many of the 74 were involved in helping the body fight off diseases. “They are needed to process foreign antigens so our immune cells can recognize them as foreign, and are involved in aberrations like graft versus host disease and autoimmune thyroid disease. Many are known for having potential roles in cancer, liver disease and diabetes,” says Mayukh Mondal of Institute of Genomics, University of Tartu, Estonia, who is a corresponding author of the paper. The genes also have another side to them. As Dr. Mondal explains, “Importantly, about 20 of them were previously associated with elevated risk for schizophrenia, Parkinson disease, Alzheimer’s Disease and cognitive abilities or intelligence. So, there is a suggestion that the risk of all these may be related at some level.” Archaic DNA There is also the question of the effects of ancient DNA. It is an established fact that there has been intermingling of Homo sapiens with Neanderthals and Denisovans, hence each of us carries 2%-3% of DNA from this mixing in our genome. The group also investigated whether any of the 74 positively selected genes contained such archaic DNA. They found only one gene that contained a sequence of Neanderthal DNA, but that sequence was itself not positively selected for. “Persistence of Neanderthal genes has been linked to risk of disease, as well as persistence of traits and body structure etc. We detected the usual amount of Neanderthal DNA in all the samples, it did not differ between the samples,” says Dr. Purushottam. Thus, the study concludes that families with several members affected by severe mental illness can be used to detect signatures of evolution. Also, since immune-related genes show a significant positive selection in these families, the study underlines the contribution of immune mechanisms and infection susceptibility to the genetics of severe mental illness. Biological reason Dr. Sanjeev Jain of Department of Psychiatry at NIMHANS, who was one of those who designed the study, says that the risks of mental illness may be incorporated and integrated into our genome. “So we should never think of these [effects] as being different. How these widespread changes increase the risk of mental illnesses is a deep biological issue, and needs to be researched across populations. This will help reduce the stigma of mental illness, if we can reassure everyone that this is a problem that needs to be solved, rather than a burden that must be borne.” He also adds that new treatments may emerge only after this understanding. “Mental illness cannot, and perhaps should not, be ‘eradicated’ or ‘defeated’ but managed with compassion and dignity, and an understanding that is biological as much as it is psychological.”  Mental illness cannot, and perhaps should not, be ‘eradicated’ or ‘defeated’ but managed with compassion and dignity...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/evolution-of-immune-mechanisms-can-shape-genetic-risk-of-mental-illness/article37731947.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Evolution through layers of food chain||How do monarch butterflies and their predators eat poisonous milkweed? Scientists now understand how certain animals can feed on picturesque, orange monarch butterflies, which are filled from head to abdomen with milkweed plant toxins. Milkweed produces toxic cardiac glycosides that can kill a horse, or a human, if consumed in high-enough concentration. However, monarch butterflies have evolved a set of unusual cellular mutations to be able to eat this plant. Now, a study carried out by researchers at the University of California, Riverside shows that the animals that prey on monarch butterflies too have evolved these same mutations (Current Biology).  The research revealed these mutations in four types of monarch predators — a bird, a mouse, a parasitic wasp, and a worm. “Plant toxins have caused evolutionary changes across at least three levels of the food chain,” Simon C Groen, the first author says in a press release. Milkweed toxins target a part of animal cells called the sodium–potassium pump, which helps enable heartbeats and nerve firing. When most animals eat milkweed, the pump stops working. Two years ago, these researchers discovered amino acid changes in three places on the pump that allow monarch butterflies to accumulate the milkweed toxins in their bodies as a defence against attacks. Based on the DNA sequence information, they found black-headed grosbeak, which eats up to 60% of the monarch butterflies in many colonies each year, had evolved the amino acid changes in their sodium pumps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/evolution-through-layers-of-food-chain/article37731946.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Margazhi 2021: where does the season go from here?||Rehearsals are in full swing at Alarmel Valli’s home in Kilpauk in Chennai. The Bharatanatyam artiste is readying to record a performance that will premiere on January 2 (kicking off the 15th edition of The Music Academy’s Dance Festival under the umbrella of its 95th annual conference, which begins on December 20). In Chennai, across auditoriums and cultural institutions, artistes are either busy recording performances that will unfold online or organisers are applying the final coat of paint to spaces that have remained shut for over 18 months. For Valli, this recording is a first; transitioning from performing to a live gallery to audiences that will watch it online, whenever, wherever, on their devices. It also underlines how different this Margazhi feels — like the fading away of an era, of a certain magic. “There’s a sadness in me,” she says, reiterating how the calendar of her life, right up to the onset of COVID-19, was measured, in a sense, from December to December, one Margazhi to another. (Incidentally, she’d debuted at The Music Academy when she was 15, a space she says is charged with the collective energies of thousands of artistes and rasikas ). “It [Margazhi] was an intense period of enrichment in my growth as an artiste.” Though going digital has helped the arts and artistes sustain themselves over the last year, and amplified its reach across the globe, she observes, “In the process, I feel the intensity and uniqueness of the experience has been diluted.”  A khichdi in December  After a year-long hiatus from all things live, the annual festival of music and dance is beginning to make its presence felt, in varied forms, sizes, formats and possibilities. Having tasted digital blood, and its dizzying possibilities in terms of reach and interaction — Yours Truly Margazhi, for instance, a month-long festival of music and dance, sold 3,500 subscriptions and had between 5,000 and 15,000 views per day from across the globe — Margazhi 2021 is trying to retain its core sensibilities while unfurling as a bespoke experience. The question is: has it lost a bit of its sheen? “The word that comes to mind is khichdi ,” says Ramanathan Iyer, founder of the arts platform, The ARTery. “I think the digital re-creation, with a smattering of half-baked in-person experiences, has exacerbated the many problems that already existed in the festival. Such as the same artistes performing at venues close to each other, resulting in a scattered audience and ticket sales. The online model was a great opportunity for reform, but it hasn’t been so [the same artiste is now popping up at the same time across two digital festivals]. What we need urgently is for artistes and organisations to come together and deliberate on the way forward.” This season, while some organisations are sticking with the digital format, others are going the opposite direction, and a few are toying with both (a virtual festival combined with short, in-person experiences). “I’d say it’s a bit of a hotchpotch,” says N. Murali, president, The Music Academy. “We made a decision in August that we’d stay digital this year as well. What we have done is expanded our festival’s contours. For instance, our music festival is spread across 12 days [as opposed to eight last time]. We have also included lec-dems and a three-day dance festival. In the shooting and recording of these performances, we have tried to re-create the live experience digitally as much as possible.” Just back from Mumbai, Anita Ratnam says over a phone call, “As a dancer, I hope organisations that are curating digital festivals have re-imagined it and ensured they have raised the bar in terms of the camera and editing work. I hope the camera person has spent some time watching the dancer in rehearsal, attempting to understand the dance before capturing it.”  The joys of in-person shows  With the government giving a go-ahead for live performances a few days ago, a host of sabhas are curating truncated festivals, conscious of social distancing and other COVID-19 protocols. Hari Krishnaswami, secretary, Narada Gana Sabha, is looking forward to welcoming audiences from December 17 to 31, for two programmes a day in his 1,200-seater auditorium (that will also house a canteen to dish out the much-awaited sabha saapaadu ). “People are waiting to watch performances live,” he says, adding that he isn’t expecting NRIs; most of the audience will be locals and perhaps a few from across the country. Saashwathi Prabhu, CEO, Krishna Gana Sabha (KGS), is readying to open the auditorium for its 65th Margazhi Mela, which will unfold as an in-person experience for 15 days (December 15 to January 1). Opening with a dance performance by Srinidhi Chidambaram and concluding with one by dancer-actor Shobana, and with competitive pricing (tickets between Rs. 200 and Rs. 2,000), KGS is looking to fill its nearly 800-seater auditorium. The festival will also have a new restaurant doling out ‘tiffin’ items. “Artistes and audiences revel in the synergy that occurs during a performance; this is the innate trait of the classical arts,” says Prabhu. “We are hoping to re-create that magic, in a smaller, more manageable format.” However, some young artistes are still undecided about how they’d like to engage with the festival. Amrit Ramnath, an upcoming musician and Bombay Jayashri’s son, feels this over abundance of content, especially during Margazhi, can lead to a saturation of sorts. “This will, I’m sure, push for a new kind of change. I’m looking forward to that paradigm shift in the way we consume a live concert. And the variables may include duration, format, number of elements, structure of a concert.”  The way forward  But digital is where much of the attention is focussed now. The hybrid model has undoubtedly nudged artistes and organisers to think out-of-the-box while filming concerts. Classical musician Sandeep Narayan tells me how his friends in the U.S. were impressed by the photos he shared over WhatsApp from a recent recording for the Federation of City Sabhas. “With elaborate sets unlike what you’d find in a typical kutcheri , and high-quality microphones [Rover 121, Neumann KMS 105, and Sontronics Sigma], everything was top notch,” he says. “The Margazhi festival has a stigma of being too traditional, but with everything being curated consciously now, the visual aspect is more deliberate.” In a sense, the recordings have meant that, at least for the artistes, Margazhi has arrived early. Does this potpourri, however, mean that there’s a threat of it becoming a mere milestone that just happens to coincide with a specific time of the year? “It’s the difference between something actually happening between December and January versus something that we create for a festival,” says classical musician Vignesh Ishwar, who has recorded five online concerts and has two live gigs for this season. All this leads me back to the point Valli had raised — about how the uniqueness of Margazhi is getting diluted. At her home by the sea in Valmiki Nagar, Malavika Sarukkai acknowledges the overall noise that pervades the world of the arts, but says she is excited to just dance. “Would I miss an audience when I record? Am I looking forward to performing to a live audience? Do I practise differently for each of these programmes? The answer is I wouldn’t change the way I do things; I am rehearsing with the same intensity,” says Sarukkai, who is recording for The Music Academy’s festival and will perform live at KGS. “These permutations and combinations we are attempting are all a part of the natural process of evolution. After we get through this, it is imperative to discuss what is important in dance and what we want to say through it, which will, in a sense, pave the way for the next 20 years.” Amen to that.  “Through the pandemic, I worked on a bunch of singles that I intend to put out as an album next year. I also intend to record a classical concert on my own, of myself, for the Margazhi season. It will be a shorter format because I don’t think that online consumption of classical music is possible beyond 20-30 minutes.” — Amrit Ramnath, musician||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/margazhi-2021-where-does-the-season-go-from-here/article37732563.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||Does data protection Bill have safeguards on privacy?||The story so far: The Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill submitted its report on November 22. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, stems from the 2017 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Puttaswamy vs.Union of India case that recognised privacy as a fundamental right protected by the Constitution. The committee, which had been deliberating on the Bill since it was introduced in Parliament in 2019, has made several recommendations for modifying the draft. However, it steered clear of the main sticky points such as government access to private data, leading to dissent notes from panel members from the Opposition. What has the JPC left untouched? The committee has retained Section 35 of the Bill. It gives the Government the right to authorise any of its agencies to circumvent the provisions of the law if it finds it necessary to do so under “public order”, “sovereignty”, “friendly relations with foreign states” and “security of the state”. It is being interpreted as essentially a carte blanche for the Union Government to act as it wishes when it comes to accessing data on citizens. The draft Bill leaves it to the Government to frame the rules for oversight and safeguards for this provision. The critics of this provision, particularly the dissenting JPC members, are seeking judicial oversight and a more detailed prescription for the agencies that can access the data and the conditions under which they can do so. The final JPC report does not favour any change in this provision. The JPC also leaves untouched the state’s ability to process personal data without consent, as allowed under Section 12. The JPC has also left mostly untouched the draft Bill’s provisions for data localisation. The Bill requires a copy of any user data generated in India to be kept in the country, which critics say is unnecessary and may facilitate surveillance. What does it say on social media? The JPC has suggested that any social media that is not an intermediary be treated as a publisher. Under India’s Information Technology Act, an intermediary is a website or service that only receives, stores, and transmits information online, without any sort of selection or curation of the content. Such intermediaries enjoy “safe harbour” protection from being held liable for the content that they are hosting or transmitting. A publisher, however, is legally liable for the content that it is hosting. In its report, the JPC says it is of the “strong view that these designated intermediaries may be working as publishers of the content in many situations”, making choices on what content is being shown to whom. The JPC has also suggested a regulatory body for social media on the lines of the Press Council of India. This will have major implications for companies like Facebook. What it will mean for freedom of speech online also remains to be seen. The draft Bill already places social media in a separate class of intermediaries when it comes to data protection, adding provisions for voluntary verification of accounts. The modes for verification of accounts are to be prescribed by the Government, which leads to the question of who will be excluded and who will be allowed to be verified, and about the repercussions of not being verified. Critics of this provision also see it as being misplaced in a data protection legislation. They say that social media is best handled within the ambit of the Information Technology Act itself. Has the ambit of the Bill been changed? According to the JPC recommendation, the Bill should cover both personal and non-personal data. Non-personal data would include the traffic information that Google Maps collects and other such information. The JPC has even recommended changing the name of the Bill as the Data Protection Bill, 2021, dropping the word ‘personal’. This takes the Bill beyond its original ambitions, as laid down by the B.N. Srikrishna Commission that worked on drafting it in the wake of the Puttaswamy verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/does-data-protection-bill-have-safeguards-on-privacy/article37731889.ece
28 November 2021||November 28 2021 00:00 IST,||EWS criteria rethink||The story so far: The Union Government has decided to revisit the criteria set out for eligibility for its 10% reservation under the economically weaker sections (EWS) category within a month. The main criterion is a family income ceiling of Rs. 8 lakh. The decision came after the Supreme Court closely questioned it on how it arrived at the income figure, while considering a challenge to the implementation of 27% reservation for the Other Backward Classes and 10% for the EWS under the all-India quota for medical admissions. How was EWS reservation introduced? The 10% reservation was introduced through the 103rd Constitution Amendment and enforced in January 2019. It added Clause (6) to Article 15 to empower the Government to introduce special provisions for the EWS among citizens except those in the classes that already enjoy reservation. It allows reservation in educational institutions, both public and private, whether aided or unaided, excluding those run by minority institutions, up to a maximum of 10%. It also added Clause (6) to Article 16 to facilitate reservation in employment. The new clauses make it clear that the EWS reservation will be in addition to the existing reservation. The Constitution initially allowed special provisions only for the socially and educationally backward classes. When the Congress Government tried to introduce a 10% quota for the poorer among the general category, the Supreme Court struck it down, saying there is no provision in the Constitution for reservation on the basis of an economic criterion. Through this amendment, the Government introduced the concept of ‘economic backwardness’ for a new class of affirmative action programmes for those not covered by or eligible for the community-based quotas. What are the criteria to identify the section? The main criterion is that those above an annual income limit of Rs. 8 lakh are excluded (income from all sources such as salary, business, agriculture and profession for the financial year prior to the application) of the family (applicants, their parents, siblings and minor children). Possession of any of these assets, too, can take a person outside the EWS pool: five or more acres of agricultural land, a residential flat of 1,000 sq.ft. and above, a residential plot of 100 square yards and above in notified municipalities, and a residential plot of 200 square yards and above in other areas. What are the court’s questions about the criteria? The court has been intrigued by the income limit being fixed at Rs. 8 lakh per year, as it is the same figure for excluding the ‘creamy layer’ from OBC reservation benefits. A crucial difference is that those in the general category, to whom the EWS quota is applicable, do not suffer from social or educational backwardness, unlike those classified as the OBC. Therefore, the question the court has raised is that when the OBC category is socially and educationally backward and, therefore, has additional impediments to overcome, “would it be arbitrary to provide the same income limit both for the OBC and EWS categories.” In line with the Supreme Court’s known position that any reservation or norms for exclusion should be based on relevant data, the Bench wants to know whether the criteria for the EWS were arrived at based on any study. For instance, whether the per capita income or GDP in all States, or the difference in purchasing power in the rural and urban areas, were taken into account while a single income limit was formulated for the whole country. There are other questions as to whether any exercise was undertaken to derive the exceptions such as why the flat criterion does not differentiate between metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas. What is the current status of the EWS quota? The reservation for the EWS is being implemented by the Union Government for the second year now. Recruitment test results show that the category has a lower cut-off mark than the OBC, a point that has upset the traditional beneficiaries of reservation based on caste. The explanation is that only a small number of people are currently applying under the EWS category — one has to get an income certificate from the revenue authorities — and therefore the cut-off is low. However, when the number picks up over time, the cut-off marks are expected to rise. The EWS quota remains a controversy as its critics say it reduces the size of the open category, besides breaching the 50% limit on the total reservation.  The top court has questioned the income limit being fixed at Rs. 8 lakh per year for economically weaker sections, as it is the same figure for excluding the ‘creamy layer’ from other backward classes reservation benefits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ews-criteria-rethink/article37731890.ece
28 November 2021||Mumbai,||CID notice to Param Bir||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of Maharashtra has asked former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh to appear before it next week to record his statement in connection with two extortion cases registered against him and being probed by it, an official said on Saturday. The CID has issued a notice to the senior IPS officer asking him to appear before it, he said. Mr. Singh is most likely to appear before the CID at its office in Navi Mumbai’s Belapur on Monday and Tuesday, the official added. The agency is investigating the extortion cases registered against Mr. Singh at the Marine Drive police station in south Mumbai and Kopri police station in Thane. “The CID wants to know Singh’s role in these cases. It has also prepared a questionnaire for him,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cid-notice-to-param-bir/article37732394.ece
