08-10-2020||Mumbai||You may be able to travel between Mumbai and Nagpur in eight hours by May 2022||The state government’s ambitious project, Mumbai-Nagpur expressway, is expected to be ready for vehicular movement by May 2022, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which is executing the project, announced on Thursday. Once fully operational, motorists can travel between the capital and the second capital of Maharashtra in eight hours, said Radheshyam Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director, MSRDC. Currently, the journey between both the cities takes 16 hours. Until now, 152.17km-stretch of work has been completed for the 701-km corridor, Mopalwar said. According to him, the expressway will be made operational in three stages. Around 520km between Nagpur and Shirdi will be operational by May 1, 2021, as part of Phase-1, while another 100km-work will be completed in the following six months by December 2021, making the stretch between Shirdi and Igatpuri operational. By May 1, 2022, the remaining 78km-work will be completed, making the entire expressway open to traffic. “There might be a gap of around 50km in the two districts of Washim and Buldhana, but our target is to make Phase-1 operational by next year. We are racing against time to complete it,” said Mopalwar. Like several infrastructure projects in Mumbai, the Rs 55,000 crore was also affected owing to the pandemic-ensued lockdown. “We had almost 18,000 workers before the lockdown which went down to 10,000 in the months during the lockdown. But most of the workers started coming in by July-August. Now there are more than 20,000 people working on the project,” Mopalwar said adding that the initial target to get the corridor fully operational was January 2022. The project is called Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Mahamarg or the prosperity corridor. It was initiated by the previous Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)- led government and was seen as a pet project of the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The ambitious expressway will connect 10 districts, 26 talukas and 392 villages between Mumbai and Nagpur. With 24 interchanges, it will also connect many tourism locations such as the Lonar lake, Ajanta-Ellora caves, Pench National Park, Shegaon, Sevagram, Shirdi, Bibi Ka Maqbara and Daulatabad. In 2017, farmers across 10 districts opposed land acquisition for the project. However, Mopalwar said that the entire acquisition process has been completed smoothly. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government that took over the project after coming into power in November 2019 and named it after Shiv Sena’s founder, the late Bal Thackeray. The government is also developing Krishi Samruddhi Kendras or new townships along the corridor. Of the 20 proposed townships, MSRDC is currently working on the development plan for eight townships along the expressway. Each of the townships is expected to be developed in an area of 1,000-1,500 hectares with adequate infrastructure facilities. MSRDC is also looking to lease out its land parcels at Nepean Sea Road and Bandra in Mumbai, as well as some parcels along the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, and in Pune and Kolhapur to raise Rs15,000-crore revenue for the project. “We are ready with the proposals but were advised by our consultants to not enter the market now. We will take a concrete decision in the next 15 days,” Mopalwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/you-may-be-able-to-travel-between-mumbai-and-nagpur-in-eight-hours-by-may-2022/story-I9oiRgLuQ9vSPcP5ywTw8K.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid snuffs out 10 more lives in Chandigarh tricity, 246 test positive||Chandigarh and Mohali recorded four Covid-19 deaths each on Thursday and two patients succumbed in Panchkula, while 246 people tested positive for the virus across the tricity.Those who died in Chandigarh included a 58-year-old man from Sector 37, who was brought dead to Government Multi Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, and was tested positive posthumously.The other three were also men, aged 81, 56, and 52, from Sector 33, Sector 19, and Dhanas, respectively, who died during the course of treatment.While the death toll in Chandigarh has reached 186, the number of infections rose to 12,922, with 102 people testing positive.However, with 154 patients being discharged, the active cases came down to 1,392. As many as 11,344 people have recovered so far.In Mohali district, two men, aged 56 and 69, from Dhakoli and Kurali, respectively, and two women, aged 49 and 76, from Mohali city and Kharar, died, taking the toll to 206. With 64 fresh cases surfacing, including 41 from the city, the total reached 11,152. As many as 9,818 patients have recovered so far, including 159 discharged on Thursday, while 1,128 cases remain active. Amid decline in the number of cases, the district administration has commenced closure of Covid Care Centres, and patients are being shifted to Level-2 hospitals, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. In Panchkula, the toll climbed to 100, with a 68-year-old Kalka man and an 82-year-old man from Devinagar succumbing.Also, 80 people, including there healthcare workers, one CRPF personnel and five ITBP personnel, tested positive.The district has reported 6,451 cases, of which 5,865 patients have been cured, leaving 486 active cases. As many as 135 health workers have tested positive so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-snuffs-out-10-more-lives-in-chandigarh-tricity-246-test-positive/story-QVWa4C0DKoAvf1ffUY2pQP.html
08-10-2020||Noida||13-year-old gang-raped by three persons in Dadri, all suspects arrested||Greater Noida: A 13-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by three persons in Dadri on Tuesday evening. A case was registered and all the suspects, who are neighbours of the girl, were arrested. Primary investigation shows the victim and the suspects were known to each other. Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women safety, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the victim’s family informed police about the incident on Thursday. “The family alleged that the three suspects live in the neighbourhood. They had asked a 12-year-old boy, who was playing in nearby field, to call the victim to their house. When the victim reached there, they allegedly gang-raped the victim,” Shukla said. The victim returned home and narrated the incident to the family members. A police team from Dadri reached the spot and sent the victim for medical examination. The police arrested the three suspects, who appear to be adults, as per primary investigation. All the three suspects are neighbours and they had gathered at one’s house and committed the crime. Shukla said Dadri police registered a case against the suspects under Section 376-D (gangrape) and relevant sections of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “The suspects’ medical examination will establish their exact age. We will be able to share more details once the medical report is received,” Shukla said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/13-year-old-gang-raped-by-three-persons-in-dadri-all-suspects-arrested/story-EOjBclDCOe2fjMczPS83eK.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in 11 more areas in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh administration on Thursday declared 11 more micro-containment zones in the city, including three in Sector 41B. UT adviser Manoj Parida issued the orders on recommendations made by the affected area committee.Earlier, 24 areas were declared as micro-containment zones on September 24, 27 on September 16 and 24 on September 8.The areas where curbs on movement were imposed on Thursday are in Sector 15 (House No. 247-287), Sector 22 (1691-1698), Sector 26 (82-84 in the Police Lines), Sector 37D (3557-3560), Sector 39B (1269-1274), Sector 41B (1049-1056, 1119-1124 and 1221-1230), Sector 44D (3167-3172), Mauli Complex (3543-3554) and Shanti Nagar (151, 152, 154, 2215/1, and 2215/2 in Gali No. 11).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-11-more-areas-in-chandigarh/story-w73dWBRDjkNcAAvhc9yrFI.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai monsoon misses withdrawal date; could take another 8-10 days, says IMD||The southwest monsoon has extended beyond the normal withdrawal date for the city — October 8 — with another eight to 10 days for the season to end, the weather bureau said.In April this year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had announced the new onset date for Mumbai as June 11 as opposed to June 10 originally, and the new withdrawal date as October 8 against September 29. This meant that the normal duration of the entire season over Mumbai would span 120 days as opposed to 112 days.This year monsoon onset was declared on June 14 and the season has already spanned 116 days. It was the second wettest monsoon in history in the city.“Mumbai has missed its normal withdrawal date, but it cannot be said that it is a delayed withdrawal yet because the withdrawal date (October 8) has a standard deviation of plus-minus seven days. So it will not be a delayed withdrawal if declared till October 15,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general, IMD. IMD had earlier this month said that withdrawal was expected between October 9 and 15.KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, said, “With the prevailing situation, it may take another eight to 10 days for monsoon withdrawal to be declared from Maharashtra and Mumbai.”The weather bureau said rainfall activity is expected to enhance over Maharashtra from October 10 onwards with a yellow alert for isolated areas in Marathwada, Vidarbha and parts of central Maharashtra and south Konkan. However, it is not likely to lead to heavy rain for north Konkan including Mumbai. “We are expecting the formation of a low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal which will increase rainfall over Maharashtra, thus delaying withdrawal,” said Mohapatra.Last year, monsoon withdrawal from Mumbai was declared on October 14 while it was October 6 in 2018, and as late as October 24 in 2017. The trend was observed in previous years as the southwest monsoon withdrew from the city on October 14 in 2016, October 15 in 2015, October 20 in 2014. Prior to that, the range had been between October 14 and 18.Independent meteorologists said withdrawal for Mumbai and Maharashtra was not likely before October 20. “The low pressure systems from the Bay of Bengal will keep the monsoon circulation active for some more days. La Niña (when the western Pacific Ocean warms up creating a low pressure near Australia pulling winds from the Indian Ocean, strengthening equatorial dynamics keeping southwest monsoon circulation active) is allowing the equatorial dynamics to be vigorous, which is, in turn, showing up in the form of low pressure systems in the Bay of Bengal. The intertropical convergence zone (ITCZ) is not moving down, hence keeping the monsoon circulation active. This translates into delayed withdrawal,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay.Akshay Deoras, independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, United Kingdom, said, “Consecutive low-pressure systems from the Bay of Bengal will prevent the official announcement of the monsoon’s withdrawal, which is largely dependent on the requirement of dry weather conditions. However, from October 15, main features of the southwest monsoon circulation (such as wind direction) will no longer prevail; so whatever rainfall will occur, will be purely due to the non-southwest monsoon weather pattern.”Meanwhile, the city and suburbs recorded no rain on Thursday with day and night temperatures a degree above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-monsoon-misses-withdrawal-date-could-take-another-8-10-days-says-imd/story-OV28305bP8yEJI3dq8HcZK.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t use steroids in initial stages of Covid infection, warns PGIMER||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has cautioned against the “indiscriminate” use of steroids for the management of Covid-19 patients.The premier institute in Chandigarh, which also receives patients from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, in a release stated that it has been seen recently that the “seriousness” of Covid patients coming to the hospitals has increased majorly due to the use of steroids, which needs to be regulated.“We are facing this issue from a number of patients who are being admitted to our facility. It has become a trend that the patients are taking or given steroids, which can be harmful as the recent scientific evidence is showing,” said Dr GD Puri, dean (academics) and head of the anaesthesia and intensive care department, PGIMER.The institute, in the release, said that steroids are not recommended for patients who do not require oxygen therapy. These include initial, mild or asymptomatic patients. Citing the Recovery clinical trial published from England as well as observations made by experts at the institute, the release said it has been seen that steroids given in early stages of Covid-19, when a patient is not requiring oxygen, can increase severity of the disease along with mortality and morbidity. “Steroids should be started in Covid patients only when they are requiring oxygen therapy and that also preferably after admission to the hospital under the supervision of an experienced physician,” the institute said.‘Inhibits body defences’Throwing more light on the issue, Dr Puri said steroids (such as dexamethasone) if given in the early phase of the infection, when virus replication is occurring and there is no secondary effect on the lungs, inhibit body defences against the virus and this increases the severity of the infection. “Only when body defence mechanisms are failing and have started becoming self-destructive, it is the proper time for inhibiting inflammatory response (through steroids), which helps to limit the damage,” he said.Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid drug used in a wide range of conditions for its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects. The drug has been tested in hospitalised patients with Covid-19 in the Recovery clinical trial and was found to have benefits for critically ill patients and has been shown to reduce mortality by about one-third for patients on ventilators, and by about one-fifth for patients being maintained on oxygen therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-use-steroids-in-initial-stages-of-covid-infection-warns-pgimer/story-a4p2JAVgMzDkfTLC67ydnN.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||ED moves Mumbai sessions court against closure of cheating case against Jet Airways, Naresh Goyal||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has approached Mumbai sessions court challenging a magisterial order that denied permission to the agency to intervene in the Jet Airways case, and opposing a report filed by MRA Marg police for closing a cheating case against Jet Airways and its directors Naresh Goyal and his wife Anita.The magistrate court had, on September 19, rejected ED’s plea for intervention in the case. ED had challenged the order claiming that it was probing money laundering allegations against the airline and the Goyals based on the MRA Marg case. The agency claimed if the case was closed, they would not be able to continue their probe.The probing agency further sought a stay on the proceedings before the magistrate court, which is yet to accept the closure report, till the sessions court decided on its plea for intervention. The sessions court, however, on Thursday refused to grant a stay and scheduled the hearing on ED’s appeal for next week.Opposing the report by MRA Marg police, the agency has pointed out several lacunas in the investigation into the complaint by the chief financial officer (CFO) of Akbar Travels of India Pvt Ltd (ATIPL) against Jet Airways and its directors Naresh Goyal and his wife Anita Goyal for cheating.The complainant alleged that during 2018-19, ATIPL had done business of ₹900 crore with Jet Airways, of which ₹21.31 crore was yet to be paid. The complainant also claimed that the airline made advance air ticket bookings worth ₹23.87 crore which is due. According to ATIPLS, the airline is yet to pay a total of ₹46.05 crore to the company.The CFO further claimed that when Goyals assured the firm of payment and proceeded with business despite having knowledge about the financial crisis. The complainant also shared details of bank accounts held by Goyals in other countries for further investigation.The police, after the probe, had filed a closure report claiming that they found no evidence that the complainant was cheated. The police, in its report, claimed the case is of civil nature and sought closure of the case.ATIPL, through its lawyer Dharmesh Joshi, has also filed a petition against the closure report. ED, in their application for intervention in the hearing, claimed the police left out crucial facts and that it did not properly investigate facts about the three meetings between the complainant’s representative and Goyals.The agency also claimed that the police did not record statement of Naresh Goyal about the allegations in the complaint along with the details of accounts with foreign banks. ED said, “Police made undue haste in submitting the closure report dated March 9 to the court.” It is to be noted that ED has already initiated investigation into money-laundering allegations against Goyals. The probing agency claimed that during their probe, they unearthed numerous foreign bank accounts of Naresh and Anita Goyal and related entities in the UAE, UK, Switzerland, Singapore and USA etc. ED also mentioned that Anita holds eight properties outside India while the couple has around ₹180 crore in one of their several accounts outside India.In the plea, the agency asked the court to not accept the closure report of the police and asked the court to direct the police to reinvestigate the complaint with regards to undisclosed accounts and assets of Goyals and their family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-moves-mumbai-sessions-court-against-closure-of-cheating-case-against-jet-airways-naresh-goyal/story-UUQ8sA55NNiCwUbpzf9jBJ.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Air warriors raise bar amid challenges of Covid and border standoff||Ghaziabad: The preparations for the 88th raising day of the Indian Air Force (IAF) were held under the cloud of the Covid-19 pandemic, even as the air warriors knew they may be called to the border with China at short notice. The IAF on Thursday showcased its might with a scintillating display of frontline fighter aircraft in the air, while the air warriors showcased their discipline with a synchronous, albeit socially distanced, parade. Many who took part in the parade said it seemed like they were marching alone.“We had to maintain more distance and one cannot see the person near them. I could not see the parade behind me. But it was the confidence in each other’s capability that carried us through,” said Group captain Sagar Madhukar Paranjpe, the parade commander. He said training, precision, discipline and teamwork will help the force stronger and a force to reckon with. “We are building capability and this (the parade) was a demonstration of a similar capability. The IAF chief said that the year was challenging with tension at the borders and also due to the pandemic. During these times we have been increasing our capability and not letting it come in our way. The josh is high among the boys and they always come up and rise to the occasion,” said Paranjpe. Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria, in his address at the Hindon airbase, said the IAF had instituted various measures to counter the spread and minimise the disruption in functioning due to the pandemic. “The tenacity and resolve of our air warriors ensured, that the IAF continued to retain its capability and capacity to undertake full scale operations, throughout this period,” he said. The chief said the force had deployed transport and helicopter aircraft promptly during the lockdown to support Covid-19 related tasks pan-India and also flew almost 750 hours including many missions to bring back stranded Indians from across the globe. “I would like to commend all warriors for the quick response, in the recent stand-off on our northern frontiers, when we deployed our combat assets at short notice to handle any eventuality, and provided proactive support to all the requirements of deployment and sustenance for the Indian Army,” he said. Putting up the display of fighters and men and women of the Air Force in the time of the pandemic was challenging.“It sure must have been a difficult to take a call on whether this event should happen or not. But once our chief took the call, we all stood up. Unlike previous years when we practiced for two months, this time it was just about 28 days,” said Squadron Leader Shivangi Rajawat, the officer who led the ‘Nishan Toli’ at the parade on Thursday. There were 50 officers and 157 air warriors who were part of the parade on the 88th IAF Day. On the other hand, the frontline fighter jets including the Rafale dazzled the spectators with splendid air display. Apart from the Rafale, there were fighter jets like Sukhoi-30s, Jaguars, Mirage 2000s, MiG-29s and Tejas LCA who took part in the flypast over the Hindon airbase. The Rafales, Su-30s and MiG-29s are among the aircraft deployed in the Ladakh theatre to deal with any provocation by the Chinese military. The theme this year on the IAF Day was to ‘Innovate, Integrate and Intimidate.’ “We were flying Rafale, Tejas and Sukhoi-30 in a formation. This required a lot of practice and coordination and our manoeuvrers were aggressive. This happened for the first time. We hope to fly together not only in times of peace but also in any other situation. Rafale and Tejas flying together will definitely form a deadly combination,” said an officer who flew the Tejas LCA during the air show on Thursday. “Tejas is indigenously built and it has amalgamation of some of the best technologies available among the different platforms. We were flying together to show the ability that we can operate in a composite manner. So, this was the message that was sent across to anyone who was watching it,” the officer, added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-warriors-raise-bar-amid-challenges-of-covid-and-border-standoff/story-iwFleRR706cSwo1kLqzjnJ.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Cops identify 1 lakh fake social media accounts used to malign Mumbai Police, Maharashtra govt||Another 20,000 social media accounts have been identified for having attempted to malign the image of Mumbai Police and the state government by discrediting the investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Commissioner of Mumbai Police Param Bir Singh had instructed the cyber cell to investigate the matter and register cases under provisions of the Information Technology (IT) Act. HT had previously reported that Mumbai Police had identified over 80,000 social media accounts, which had attempted to discredit the police and Maharashtra government after Rajput was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14. With more than 20,000 accounts being identified since, the total number of accounts engaged in the misinformation campaign is now over 1 lakh. According to Mumbai Police, many of these accounts were created on June 14 and are operated by bots. “Bots are used to increase followers or to [make] something trend on social media. In this case, we have identified over 50 bots and each bot is capable of operating at least 5,000 accounts, so it can be imagined as to how many accounts would have been used to make something trend,” Singh said on Thursday. “We have also identified IP addresses, which were used to operate and access such accounts. The IP addresses used by bots were operated from India and abroad, and the process of identifying accused is underway,” he said. A senior crime branch officer said certain accounts posted tweets in just 0.3 seconds and most posted messages that were copied and pasted. Some of the accounts were created over 10 years ago and had been inactive for a long time before posting messages with hashtags like #SushantSinghRajput. “We have also found in our investigation that the accused were using IP addresses from other countries like Italy, Japan, Poland, Slovenia, Indonesia, Turkey, Thailand, Romania, France, Iceland, Russia and Surinam,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cops-identify-1-lakh-fake-social-media-accounts-used-to-malign-mumbai-police-maharashtra-govt/story-UKJx1dkiMyup6ENtzFhBQM.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||No reclamation beyond 90 ha for Mumbai coastal road until further clearances are obtained: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court (SC) has directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) not to undertake reclamation beyond the 90-hectare (ha) area for the coastal road project, as mandated by the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearances in 2016. BMC intends to reclaim a total of 111ha for the project and has applied for fresh clearances for the 21ha before the state’s coastal authority, which is slated to hear the application on October 31. As per the 2016 CRZ clearance, 90ha includes 20ha for constructing the coastal road and 70ha to be developed as green spaces for parks, cycle tracks, promenade, butterfly park and bus depots etc. The SC bench of chief justice SA Bobde, justice AS Bopanna and justice V Ramasubramanian was hearing multiple applications by environment groups, challenging the ongoing reclamation for the project, alleging BMC had reclaimed far beyond what was required for the road. “Till such clearance is obtained, no activity whether by reclamation or development will be carried out in respect of the said area (remaining 21 ha),” the SC said in the order published on Thursday. Hussain Indorewala, professor at Kamla Raheja Vidyanidhi Institute of Architecture and Environmental Studies, presented maps showing the extent of reclamation proposed versus undertaken by BMC, alleging excess reclamation at Haji Ali and Worli. “The petitioners had originally submitted these maps about a month ago in the Supreme Court. BMC had argued in court that the additional area is needed for the sea wall, which will be partially below water. Why was this not part of the proposal submitted for CRZ clearance in 2016? BMC now wants clearance for these additional areas. Furthermore, excess reclamation has already been carried out in front of Worli promenade without clearance,” said Indorewala. BMC had told the SC that they had reclaimed 52.35ha of the sea, including 4.5ha for the sea wall, along south Mumbai for the 9.9-km ₹14,000-crore coastal road, which is to be an eight-lane highway connecting Princess Street Flyover to the southern tip of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link, from March to September. “This has now increased to approximately 60ha presently,” said Vijay Nighot, chief engineer (coastal road), BMC, adding, “The SC has clarified in its latest order that reclamation for the road pertained to all necessary reclamation, which includes the sea wall construction. However, reclamation for remaining 21ha will only begin post clearance from the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) during October last week.” The SC, in its latest order, clarified its December 17, 2019 order, wherein the bench stayed previous orders by the Bombay High Court (from July 2019) that quashed CRZ clearances to the civic body, and allowed reclamation of the land, 0but restricted BMC from carrying out any other development work. “We have clearly referred to ‘the land’ which meant the land over which the coastal road project is to be executed and that is 90 ha. By the December 17, 2019 order, this court specifically permitted the concerned authorities to construct a road and secure the same thereon. We see no ambiguity which warrants modification or correction of that order,” the order read. Responding to contentions that BMC did not have environment clearance under the Environment Protection Act (EPA), 1986, the SC also said that, as per submissions by BMC and its contractors, the CRZ clearance was issued after more intensive scrutiny than it is under EPA. Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust and applicant before the SC, said BMC had admittedly carried out reclamation which was not included in the CRZ Clearance. “Thus, BMC and its contractors need to be prosecuted under EPA. They have also violated the SC order of December 2019, which did not allow them to reclaim land for the seawall,” he said. “It is a sad day for the environment as till now, the SC has always held that, in matters of environment, the precautionary principle will apply, and such environmentally damaging projects will be subject to greater scrutiny by the courts. It is indeed sad to see that our top court has modified their views on environmental preservation,” said activist Zoru Bhathena. Meanwhile, the SC’s order directed that a representative of the original writ petitioners (before the Bombay high court) were allowed to remain present and be heard in the matter when MCZMA would decide on issuing CRZ clearance for the additional 21 ha proposed by BMC. “We make it clear that any activity undertaken by the petitioners and the concerned contractors shall be at their own risk and shall be subject to the final outcome of the present proceedings,” the SC order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/no-reclamation-beyond-90-ha-for-mumbai-coastal-road-until-further-clearances-are-obtained-supreme-court/story-CI1DwWrzJrXIzWby194YJJ.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP plans outreach across Maharashtra over three new farm laws||Amid criticism from the Opposition, the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to go to farmers and workers in industries and factories to create awareness about the newly enacted farm and labour laws. Moreover, in a bid to corner chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, the party has chalked out a programme to stage statewide protests on the rise in crimes against women and support Maratha community over quota in jobs and education. The newly elected executive committee and the state working committee of the BJP held a daylong session at its Dadar office on Thursday. BJP’s national president JP Nadda addressed the executive and working committee members through video-conferencing, after its national general secretary BL Santosh inaugurated the session in the morning. Leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis addressed the valedictory session. The party passed five resolutions, three of which were to congratulate Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the newly enacted laws and completion of 20 years in public office. Other two resolutions were to galvanise the party cadre against MVA rule over the rise in atrocities against women and support Maratha community’s fight for reservation. In his speech, Nadda said, “The Modi government has stood by the farmers over the past six years, be it implementation of the recommendation of the Swaminathan committee report or giving farmers liberty from middlemen. BJP workers should convince the farmers about the reforms the new laws will bring in. The people of Maharashtra are waiting for an opportunity to elect the BJP back to power.” State unit chief of the party Chandrakant Patil said the party will on October 12 hold demonstrations on crimes against women at 700 places across the state. “Covid centres erected by the government are not safe as a number of cases of rapes and molestations have been reported there. A long march from Shivaji statue at Shivaji Park to Chaityabhoomi in Dadar will be part of the protest,” he said. “The opposition to the farm and labour laws is for political reasons. The Congress’s 2019 election manifesto and Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar too had supported removing farm produce from the clutches of APMCs. The same parties are now opposing the law related to the APMCs. Our party workers would go to farms and gates of factories to spread awareness about how these laws will empower them,” he said. Fadnavis said the MVA government has failed on all fronts, be it handling of Covid-19, legal battle in reservation to Marathas or atrocities against women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-plans-outreach-across-maharashtra-over-three-new-farm-laws/story-IlsQ40EUqQT3wWpe2oEraK.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Student groups demand new exam software provider for re-exam of University of Mumbai’s distance learning wing||A day after the distance education wing of the University of Mumbai (MU), Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), deferred all examinations by 10 days, several student groups have sought immediate termination of contract with the exam software provider hired by the varsity. “We had filed a petition in September asking the university to take time and conduct mock tests before starting exams. The university has not paid attention to any concerns raised by students,” said Dilip Ranadive from Ambedkar Students Association (ASA). He added that the association also wrote to the MU vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar, who then assured of smooth conduct of examinations.While the university is still unclear on what is causing the “technical glitches”, members of the Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS) demanded that the university terminate services of the software company, LittleMORE Innovation Labs. “All exams should be cancelled till the software company is cleared to be able to conduct exams for students in large numbers. Students don’t need more anxiety than they are already facing,” said Santosh Gangurde, state vice-president of MNVS.This announcement for postponement of all exams until October 19 came a day after close to 9,000 third-year BCom and third-year BA students could not attempt their paper on Tuesday due to “technical glitches”. Many students complained of not being able to log on to the link on the examination application. In a statement on Tuesday, the university blamed the errors on a cyberattack on the examination software.While the new timetable is yet to be released, students are also worried about the status of re-examination, especially those who already appeared for one paper on October 3. “Nearly 50% of third-year BCom and BA students had managed to appear for the first exam on October 3, and the university has planned re-exam for those who missed the paper. But now we are not sure if we too have to appear for the paper again,” said Ankush Kumar, a student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/student-groups-demand-new-exam-software-provider-for-re-exam-of-university-of-mumbai-s-distance-learning-wing/story-6PccqGc7sCKhezOPjZOpOJ.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Sohna flyover suffered damage two months prior to the collapse on August 22||Nearly two months prior to the collapse of a span at the under-construction Sohna elevated road on August 22, the project had suffered another damage when cracks appeared in a span between two pillars of the elevated road near Sohna ki Dhani, found a recent spot visit by Hindustan Times. However, unlike the latest incident on Sohna Road, this span did not collapse and was supported with the help of steel shuttering. The officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) familiar with the matter said, at that time, a probe committee was set up, which concluded that engineering issues had led to the damage.The damage which happened at the beginning of July was concentrated in a stretch of two to three metres across the span between two pillars. However, since the damage happened gradually, it allowed the contractor to take precautionary measures, such as setting up a large steel ramp and barricading the affected area to prevent any collapse of the structure, said officials.The damage to the span has however put a question mark on the construction processes and the quality of construction material being employed by NHAI contractors.Gurgaon Sohna Highway Private Limited, a fully owned subsidiary of HG Infra Engineering, is building the ₹600-crore Sohna Road widening project from Badshahpur to Sohna town. The first half of the project is being developed by Oriental Infrastructure Private Limited.The 21.66 km-long Sohna road project has two parts — an underpass and an elevated road from Subash Chowk to a point beyond Badshahpur. The second part comprises the expansion of the 12.72-km road from Badshahpur to Sohna and will involve the construction of flyovers and underpasses at major crossings to ensure smooth movement of vehicles on the entire stretch.A visit to the spot under question on Sohna Road around 15 kilometres from Rajiv Chowk in Gurugram on Wednesday reveals that the span is damaged towards the eastern side and there is an obtrusion, which is visible at the crack. The contractor in order to ensure that the span does not collapse has installed heavy-duty shuttering and other measures to support the concrete beam. Workers were also deployed at the spot, who were engaged in cutting the stressing cables that are supposed to keep these spans in place.On August 22, a span between piers 10 and 11 collapsed, after which a high-level technical committee was formed by NHAI to probe the reasons for this lapse. The committee after detailed deliberations put the onus on the quality of concrete used, the presence of cavity, and the displacement of stressing cables as possible reasons for this incident.When asked about the earlier damage to the span near Sohna Ki Dhani, NHAI project director Shashi Bhushan, who recently joined the project implementation unit, Gurugram, said that the extant incident happened in the beginning of July and has been under investigation of NHAI. “A technical committee probed the matter and it was found that the damage happened due to engineering issues that are common at under-construction projects. A committee has made recommendations to prevent such incidents like testing the concrete, installing spans in proper sequence, etc — measures which were implemented,” said Bhushan. The NHAI project director added that the entire damaged span will be removed and replaced with a fresh span.HT also contacted the contractor regarding the earlier damage. The contractor said the damage to the span happened due to routine engineering issues and the snag was identified and immediate corrective measures were taken to prevent any mishap. “The corrective measures were all recommended by the NHAI. We have also installed a ramp under the damaged span and barricaded the area. Strength test of other spans is being done to prevent any repeat of the August 22 incident,” said Kuldeeo Rajbanshi, project director, Gurgaon Sohna Highway Private Limited, which is developing the project.It may be recalled here that the NHAI had transferred its senior officials and the contractor also had discharged two senior executives after the collapse of span on August 22. The authority has also stopped work on the elevated stretch and is presently waiting for the report from the technical committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sohna-flyover-suffered-damage-two-months-prior-to-the-collapse-on-august-22/story-gWSYRWCegOKIg0P4zogniN.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Haryana government does away with the practice of marking houses of Covid-19 patients||The Haryana government has decided to put an end to the practice of affixing stickers or labels outside the houses of Covid-19 patients, while directing the district administration to remove those which are already pasted. Officials cited it as a move to bring behavioural change for ending stigmatisation of positive patients. In an order issued by the newly appointed chief secretary of the state, Vijay Vardhan, the administration and health department have been directed to implement the directive at the earliest. The order issued on Wednesday stated that the practice of pasting stickers of home isolation or quarantine in front of the houses of Covid-19 positive patients has to be stopped. Authorities have also been asked to remove those stickers that have already been pasted. “The decision has been taken as the central government’s focus is on bringing behavioural change rather than enforcing anything. It has come to our notice that the pandemic has led to stigmatisation and shaming of Covid-19 patients. In the past, several brawls have taken place between the patient’s family and the government workers who visited homes to paste labels. The new directive would prevent such situations,” said Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, director, general health services, Haryana. According to him, the move will motivate people to go for testing at early stages of infection.As reported by HT earlier this week, a petition was filed with the Delhi high court regarding the pasting of posters outside the homes of Covid-19 patients, citing it as a serious infringement of the fundamental right to privacy. The plea also contended freely circulating name of the persons who tested Covid-19 positive to the residents’ welfare association and on WhatsApp groups, that allegedly led to stigmatisation of Covid-positive patients. In Gurugram, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has been assigned with the task of pasting labels. Several issues have been reported where posters/stickers of home isolation were being pasted at wrong addresses with city residents complaining about it. In Large Outbreak Regions (LOR), many families complained that home isolation posters were posted outside their homes despite testing Covid-negative. Also, many positive patients expressed the plight of being harassed by the RWAs or society members once their test status came in the public domain. A Covid-19 patient, who preferred anonymity, said, “The disease can be tackled. However, the way you are being treated by the society when you test positive is reflective of the society’s attitude towards such patients. They should not be harassed. This new order will help in getting rid of the unwanted issues created after the person is tested positive.” Ashish Singla, medical officer, MCG said, “Posters were pasted to create awareness regarding prevention from infection but we will now follow the new directives issued by the government. RWAs have been conveyed to remove the posters at the earliest.” Condemning the state’s move, Dhruv Bansal, media spokesperson for the DLF RWA, said that pasting of posters should not be completely done away with. Instead RWAs should be given the authority to carry out the activity. “The reason for the stigmatisation is that posters remain pasted for a long time even after the patient recovers in 14 days. The MCG has to be informed to take out the posters, which takes time. Till the time poster is pasted outside the home, no one picks up the garbage or delivers food items, creating difficulty for the already recovered patient. Therefore, the process should be decentralised and RWAs should be given the authority to paste labels so that they can remove it in a timebound manner. This practice of putting up poster does help others from contractiing Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-government-does-away-with-the-practice-of-marking-houses-of-covid-19-patients/story-oUFzH3J9mUGr9TeP8f2FiL.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Kidnapped Mumbai teen rescued from Kolhapur, 23-year-old arrested||Bandra police on Wednesday arrested a 23-year-old photographer for allegedly kidnapping and sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl from Bandra. The accused befriended the survivor on a social media site, posing as a wealthy man looking to marry her.Nikhil Kapse senior inspector attached to Bandra police said, “We have arrested the accused from Kolhapur after a month-long chase. The girl has been rescued and handed over to her parents.”According to police, on August 30 they received a complaint from a woman claiming her daughter had gone missing, after which a case of kidnapping was registered against an unknown person.Sandip Jadhav, sub-inspector, Bandra police station, said that during the investigation they came to know that the kidnapper was in Pune. However, by the time the police team reached there, he had fled with the survivor.“We started questioning his friends, and one of them revealed that he might be in Kolhapur, his hometown. We took the help of our technical team and managed to reach his exact location at Kolhapur. On October 7, we nabbed him and rescued the survivor safely,” Jadhav added.After she was rescued, the survivor revealed that a year and a half ago, she met the accused on a social media app, and the two became friends. Last year she informed the accused that she was visiting Pune to attend a wedding. The two met and became romantically involved.The accused told her that he belonged to a rich family and wanted to marry her. On August 30, he kidnapped her from Bandra.“When she reached Pune, she was shocked to find out that the accused’s father was a vegetable vendor and his mother worked as a domestic help,” said the officer.“During the investigation, police came to know that the accused has a history of conning girls and women. In 2019 he refused to marry a woman he had befriended and the woman later committed suicide. He was arrested by Chinchwad police for abetment to suicide and spent four months in jail in that case,” Jadhav added.Bandra police arrested the accused under section 363 (kidnapping) and 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 8 (punishment for sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kidnapped-mumbai-teen-rescued-from-kolhapur-23-year-old-arrested/story-MWBHGczYgcknHecAIB2JHN.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Private labs put on hold home collection of samples after government slashes testing cost||After the Haryana government brought down the cost of the Reverse transcription-polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) — the frontline test to detect the SARS-CoV-2 virus causing Covid-19 disease — testing numbers in the city’s private labs have sharply declined to less than 1,000 per day. According to private diagnostic centres in the city, the reason for this decline is attributed to the fact that they have either limited home collection of samples or put it on hold because the new testing cost of ₹1,200 does not cover the entire cost incurred by them in administering the test. From October 1-7, private labs conducted only 45.2% of the 15,139 RT-PCR tests in the district.From September 16 onwards, when walk-in tests were allowed, private labs had seen a sudden surge in the number of tests and were conducting more than 53% of the total tests. This amounted to almost 1,200-1,400 RT-PCR tests per day.However, on October 2, the state health department issued an order, further slashing the charges of RT-PCR tests from ₹1,600 to ₹1,200. Private labs and hospitals based in Gurugram raised the issue with the district health department, stating that the revised cost did not cover the entire cost of sample collection.Data available with the health department shows that from October 3 onwards — a day after the notification — testing in the private lab came down to 865, as compared to 1,075 tests on October 2 and 1,028 on October 1. At least 879 tests were administered on October 4, 996 on October 5 and 1,047 on October 6. Numbers further dropped to 953 tests on October 7. The health department did not share the figures for Thursday.Dr Rishabh Rajput, director of Covid-19 and microbiology division, Modern Diagnostics, said, “With the revised rate, home collection is slightly difficult due to which labs are now asking people to directly come to the lab for giving samples.”Dr Santosh Kumar, microbiologist, MolQ laboratory, another lab that conducts Covid-19 tests, added, “Many labs are disappointed with the new testing cost, due to which they have stopped sample collection from homes. A technician can take only 15-20 samples when visiting homes but the same technician can collect over 60 tests if stationed at the lab,” saidAccording to him, since they are a research and a diagnostic lab they have developed their own RNA extraction kits and Viral Transport Medium (VTM) kits. “Because, we use our own products, we are not facing huge losses and are doing the home collection. But for the smaller labs, the revised rate is difficult to sustain; therefore, they have either stopped home collection or have limited it,” said Kumar.As per the data, the testing rate in the government lab based in Civil Hospital, Sector 10 has increased compared to private labs. During the time period when private labs were conducting over 1,400 tests a day, testing in government set-up decreased below a 1,000 a day as they imposed charges on testing for non-medical reasons. However, for the last one week, on an average 1,185 RT-PCR tests are being administered in the public set up. On October 1, they did a maximum of 1,300 tests. Their numbers are fluctuating between 1,100-1,300 tests. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “On-demand tests of symptomatic patients are being carried out at the sample collection centres. Also, a large number of samples are being collected through survey and contact tracing.”Till now, 2,83,927 tests have been administered in the city, of which 22,761 were tested positive for Covid-19. 20,180 have recovered and 181 have died due to illness. On Thursday, 264 new cases were confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/private-labs-put-on-hold-home-collection-of-samples-after-government-slashes-testing-cost/story-8e53uAlASn5GABLL2HcI8I.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Haryana government fixes cost for TrueNat, CBNAAT tests for Covid-19||The state government has fixed the cost for TrueNat and Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CBNAAT) — both of which are diagnostic tools approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for administering Covid-19 tests. Though not widely used, health officials said that the tests are generally used in hospitals during medical emergencies. The district health department following the directives issued by the state on Thursday directed all private hospitals and laboratories conducting Covid-19 tests not to charge more than ₹2,400 for CBNAAT test and ₹2,000 for TrueNat. The cost of Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) has already been fixed at ₹1,200, along with ₹650 for rapid antigen and ₹250 for antibody test. RT-PCR and antigen tests are the widely used for Covid-19 with the former being the frontline test. TrueNat and CBNAAT — diagnostic machines used for testing drug-resistant tuberculosis— has been validated by the ICMR for confirmatory detection of the Sars-Cov-2 virus (which causes the coronavirus disease) to boost testing capacities. On April 10, ICMR had approved the use of TrueNat/CBNAAT for screening purposes only. The turnaround time for a single test is around 40-60 minutes. Like RT-PCR tests, throat and nasal swabs are collected. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The government has now fixed the cost of the two tests which are used in private hospitals as well as government hospitals in a pregnancy case or a case that requires immediate surgery. These tests are highly specific and sensitive in detecting the Covid-19. Now, with the new orders, hospitals cannot charge more than ₹2,400 for CBNAAT and ₹2,000 for TrueNat. In Civil Hospital, Sector 10 if the test is being conducted no money is being charged.”Private labs, on the other hand, said they are not doing these tests as they have to bear additional cost in procuring equipment and other essentials to run the machine. A representative of a private lab, who preferred anonymity, said, “Many hospitals are charging more than ₹2,800 for the tests. The price was not fixed as it is not a widely used test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-government-fixes-cost-for-truenat-cbnaat-tests-for-covid-19/story-wEDZy6sfpPDNCSp7gbOMTL.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Woman tries to immolate self at police commissioner’s office||A 28-year-old woman allegedly tried to immolate herself at the police commissioner’s office on Thursday afternoon, after alleging that the police were not arresting her partner against whom she had filed a rape complaint earlier this week. The police said the woman was rescued and did not suffer any injuries. She was taken into custody and booked under sections 309 (attempt to commit suicide) and 190 (threat of injury to induce person to refrain from applying for protection to public servant) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at the Civil Lines police station. According to the police, the incident took place around 2pm when the woman, who worked as a patient care attendant, had gone to the police commissioner’s office to discuss her concerns. The police said she sat down in the waiting area on the second floor, where the office of police commissioner is located, before suddenly rushing towards the entrance/exit gate. She was carrying petrol in a soft drink bottle, wrapped around a newspaper. She took out the petrol and after pouring it on herself, she ran towards the ground floor, the police saidSubhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “Several women police officials noticed the commotion and ran after her. She was rescued before she could take out the matchstick from a packet and took her into custody.” An eyewitness, who was standing near the woman a few seconds before the incident, told media persons, “She entered the gate on the second floor and was wailing. She said police did not conduct a fair investigation in her case and that the SHO concerned had rebuked her. She complained she was running from one police station to another. A woman police official asked her to sit but she resisted and suddenly ran towards the gate. She took petrol out of a bottle and poured it on her. I tried running after her but could not since I am old.” The eyewitness said the police officials took the woman to a washroom and got her changed. After over 20 minutes, she was whisked away from the premises. The police said they had conducted a fair investigation. Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime against women, said, “She had filed a divorce case against her husband in 2017, which is sub-judice. This was her third suicide attempt this year. In February, a man was arrested for allegedly raping her in DLF Phase-3 area and that case is also sub-judice. A few months later, she moved in with a man in Sector 7 after they got married at a temple in September. Since then, she and her partner had filed four complaints against each other at several police stations in the city and one complaint in Delhi. But they had reached a compromise with mutual understanding in all the cases and refused further probe.” The police said earlier this week, her partner filed an FIR against her, alleging she had extorted money from him and harassed him by marrying without getting a divorce. “She also later lodged a complaint, alleging he had raped her. On her complaint, we registered an FIR under Section 376 (rape) of IPC at women police station, Sector 51, on October 3. In both these FIRs, investigation is on. The woman has been booked under sections 309 and 190 IPC today and in such cases, we take the assistance of a counsellor. That process and further investigation have started,” said ACP Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-tries-to-immolate-self-at-police-commissioner-s-office/story-AQ7sM7aN1qTxmnDtQixf8M.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar-led NCP to contest Bihar Assembly elections, will announce candidates on Monday||After the Shiv Sena, the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday announced that it will contest the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections. The party will be contesting the polls independently. Insiders said that NCP was trying to be part of the Grand Alliance led by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress, but did not get a positive response.On Thursday, the NCP declared its list of 40 star campaigners for the elections on 243 Assembly seats to be held in three phases, starting October 28.Tejashwi Yadav-led RJD, Congress and left parties formed an alliance against the ruling alliance of the Janata Dal (United) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“NCP was looking to be part of the RJD-Congress alliance but we have yet to get any response. They have also declared a seat-sharing formula so we don’t have any option but to contest the polls on our own,” said a party insider, requesting anonymity.“We will be contesting the Bihar Assembly elections alone. The party is considering contesting 40-50 seats. By Monday, we will be declaring the list of party candidates as well,” said SR Kohli, permanent secretary and member of the working committee, NCP.In the previous Assembly elections, the Janata Dal (United), RJD and Congress had formed the Grand Alliance, and NCP was also part of it. The party, however, moved out of the alliance after it was allocated just three of the total 243 seats.NCP then formed a third front along with Samajwadi Party and four other regional parties. However, it soon parted ways, protesting against Samajwadi Party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav’s pro-BJP statements. In the last Bihar Assembly elections, the NCP contested 40 seats but could not win a single one. Two years ago, Tariq Anwar, former member of Parliament (MP) and party’s face in Bihar left NCP over Pawar’s “clean chit” to the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi in the controversial Rafale deal. In his interview to a news channel, Pawar had said that people “do not have doubts” over PM Modi’s intentions. Anwar later rejoined the Congress and has been appointed general secretary recently.Another ally of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government – Shiv Sena – has also declared plans to contest the Bihar Assembly elections on 50 seats. In the last elections, the party had contested 150 seats but failed to register victory even on one seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-led-ncp-to-contest-bihar-assembly-elections-will-announce-candidates-on-monday/story-GRyUcYBn1KnysGzPuVMdzO.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||No Oxford vaccine side effects in 53 volunteers at PGIMER||About 53 persons participating in the Covid-19 vaccine trials at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have not reported any major side effects seven days after being vaccinated.PGIMER is expected to administer the vaccine to around 300 volunteers in phase 2 and 3 of the observer-blind, randomised, controlled study to determine the safety of Covishield (Covid-19 vaccine) and its immunogenicity (ability to provoke immune response) in healthy Indian adults. It has been sponsored by the Pune Based Serum Institute of India, which is the world’s largest vaccine producer by the number of doses produced and co-sponsored by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The institute is among 17 others selected for the trails.PGIMER had screened 97 volunteers on Thursday, of whom 65 had already been vaccinated since September 25 when the institute started administering the first dose to volunteers, a release by its spokesperson said.“Among 65 volunteers given the first dose, 53 participants have already completed seven days post-vaccination without any major side effects,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-oxford-vaccine-side-effects-in-53-volunteers-at-pgimer/story-qyq6VaGfwcWmCUXOo2zTRN.html
08-10-2020||City||IPL betting racket busted in Maharshtra: 11 bookies arrested||The Raigad police busted a cricket betting racket and arrested 11 bookies placing bets during the Indian Premier League (IPL) matches.According to police, the bookies operated the racket from Gujarat, Karnataka and Dubai. The main bookies are still at large, police said. “We have arrested 11 bookies so far. Various teams have been formed and are dispatched to Gujarat and Karnataka to trace the remaining accused,” said Jamil Shaikh, inspector, crime branch.Following their interrogation, police zeroed down on nine other bookies and identified five more persons. An officer said while the racket is operating from Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra in India, internationally it originates from Dubai, where the current IPL season is being held.A crime branch officer said, “We raided a hotel room in Khandpe, Karjat on October 1 and arrested two persons. The duo Kanti Varsungia, 43, a Thane resident and Prakash Pujari, 42, a Mulund resident were arrested with five phones and were accepting bets on a Kings XI Punjab vs Mumbai Indians match.”The investigation revealed that the entire operation was managed on a mobile application using a login-ID system. The main bookie would create various IDs using a super mastercard and send it to at least ten bookies working under him. The mid-level bookies would further create up to ten IDs each, using a mastercard. These 100 IDs are given to gamblers across locations to place bets on the cricket matches.Each bet is placed on the betting application using a point system and the entire transaction along with the coordination takes place on the application. The bets are placed on each over or each ball bowled. After the gamblers place their bets, the mid-level bookies forward it to the main bookie.Each Monday, the bookies distribute the funds based on who won the most points.Officials said the mastercard used by the bookies has a limit of anything between ₹5 lakh to ₹15 lakh and the mid-level bookies pay the main bookie who then distributes the winnings. Each match witnesses a betting of at least ₹10 lakh, police said.The police have found five IDs, the transaction details of which are likely with the main bookie, they suspect.The accused are remanded in police custody till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ipl-betting-racket-busted-in-maharshtra-11-bookies-arrested/story-GBe60TadvglMVJBlC4Y11H.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||2,786 fresh cases in Delhi, but infection spread slowing, say experts||Delhi on Thursday reported 2,786 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) taking the city’s total infected count past the 300,000 mark. As per the daily health bulletin shared by the Delhi government, 300,833 people in the city have had the infection and 5,653 have succumbed to it in last seven months. The first case of the infection in the city was reported on March 2, when a 45-year-old man, who had returned from Italy, tested positive. The first death was reported eleven days later, when the 68-year-old mother of the fifth Covid-19 patient from the city succumbed to the virus. Since then, the city has seen two surge in number of cases in June-July and then again in mid-September. The government now has 2,734 containment zones in the city and tests over 50,000 people a day to control the spread of the infection. The positivity rate – fraction of samples that return positive among those tested – has come down to 5.34% over the last seven days, indication a slowing of the spread of the infection. This number had reached 9.55% at the beginning of September, prompting the government to tighten control measures. The daily testing was scaled up from 20,000 a day to over 50,000 over the month. On Thursday, the number of more accurate RT-PCR tests conducted also crossed 10,000 after five days. The daily health bulletin reported 10,125 RT-PCR tests, accounting for almost 19% of the total 53,322 tests that were conducted during the day. The number of RT-PCR, as well as, the number of total tests has seen a decline this week even as the number of cases continued to fall. Delhi conducted 48,629 tests over the last seven days as compared to 54,124 tests the week before that. “There is no intention of reducing the number of tests being conducted, we will keep up these numbers to ensure the infection remains in control,” said an official from Delhi’s health department, on condition of anonymity.Dr GC Khilnani, chairman at PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical Care said that there could be a waxing and waning in the number of Covid-19 cases till there is susceptible population in Delhi. Herd immunity is likely to be achieved when at least 60 to 70% of the population has had the infection or has been immunised,” said .“The people who have had the infection once are likely to have some immunity against a second hit, with very few cases of reinfection reported. A large study from Iceland shows that 90% of people retain the antibodies after four months of infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-786-fresh-cases-in-delhi-but-infection-spread-slowing-say-experts/story-yCsCCqTlV0qCpAdA1C4rkJ.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray meets Maratha leaders to discuss MPSC exams, supernumerary reservation||Following the aggressive stand taken by Maratha organisations to boycott the upcoming Maharashtra Public Service Commission exams and other demands related to recruitment and college admissions, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray held meetings with organisation leaders on Thursday. He will also interact with other community members on Friday. The decision about the MPSC exams and other demands is expected to be announced later today. Maratha organisations have demanded to postpone the MPSC exams being held on Sunday at various centres across the state. The community has contended that in the absence of Maratha reservation, youth from the community may lose the opportunity of getting government jobs if the exams are not postponed till the quota matter is resolved. A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court (SC), on September 9, stayed the reservation to Marathas in jobs and education for 2020-21. Marathas were given reservations of 12% and 13% in employment and admissions, respectively, in 2018, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act.Nearly 2.61 lakh applicants are vying for 200 government jobs in various categories. Besides this, the community has demanded an immediate decision regarding community members whose recruitment procedure has been completed, but their official letter has not been issued. Organisations have also been demanding supernumerary reservation until the Apex court decides on the matter.Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other key ministers from the state cabinet attended Thursday’s meeting with three delegations led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, BJP legislator Vinayak Mete and Suresh Patil of Maratha Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti.Speaking to media persons after the meeting, Mete said that the government was positive about cancelling the MPSC exams. “We have been assured by the government that the scheduled exams would be cancelled. We have also been assured that the state will positively consider our other demands. We have opposed our inclusion in the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota and have also demanded supernumerary quota to safeguard the interests of our youth until the final decision is made,” he said.Sambhajiraje said that they would continue their protest if the exams are not cancelled and warned the government of dire consequences if their demands are not met.The government’s decision is, however, expected to be made only after meeting other delegations. “Few other organisations have demanded to be heard. A virtual meeting with various organisations has been organised for Friday afternoon, after which the final decision will be announced,” said an official from the CM’s office.The split between organisations representing the Maratha community came to the fore during the meeting with the government, as the three leaders chose to meet separately. Mete later said that there were no differences among the leaders or organisations, and the government should have coordinated the meeting with better communication. “Solving the crisis is more important, and if several delegations are meeting the government, there should not be any objection to it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-meets-maratha-leaders-to-discuss-mpsc-exams-supernumerary-reservation/story-wYfGEeGVwPksWD66CwlToJ.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Armed for attack: This is what Chandigarh’s Covid combat zone looks like||Unfailingly, unhesitatingly, they face innumerable dangers every day. For the doctors, nurses, ward boys and other staff in city hospitals, every second spent caring for their patients exposes them to the risk of contracting coronavirus – one they are very well aware of. The fear that they could be carrying the virus back home to their loved ones: Parents, spouses or children, does not stop them from turning up day after day, ready to take on the battle to save lives and win the war against the deadly pandemic. The 410-bed Covid Care unit at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research is one of the largest facilities in the region with over 1,000 admissions since March.A majority of the patients, doctors say, have recovered. The centre caters to patients with serious co-morbid conditions so over a 100 doctors coming in daily have to handle cases of dialysis, heart ailments and other interventions, apart from coronavirus. Most of the staff members have to complete six-hour shifts a day in personal protective equipment (PPE) that cannot be removed during duty hours – no, not even for toilet breaks – and can get more than uncomfortable in stuffy wards with no air-conditioning. Donning and doffing of PPEs at the centre’s crowded changing stations is difficult, requiring at least 45 minutes. Those of us complaining about remaining confined indoors, unable to attend weddings or parties have it easy as we have to stay safe only to protect ourselves. Think about these brave men and women doing everything possible to save others. Let’s behave responsibly then and don’t add to their burden||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/armed-for-attack-this-is-what-chandigarh-s-covid-combat-zone-looks-like/story-kNffOccscox0mhpRICad6K.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Hybrid learning model is the way to go for Maharashtra schools, say experts||A day after the Maharashtra government announced that schools in the state would physically open post-Diwali break, experts are now suggesting a mixed-model of online and offline learning for the days to come. As the number of Covid-19 cases is still high, the state government has decided to reopen schools only after Diwali break in November. Teachers said that even when the government decides to reopen schools, the specifics of it will have to be worked out depending on place to place.“In cities like Mumbai, even if schools reopen post-Diwali, there will still be a lot of risk for students and teachers as the number of Covid-19 cases is still quite high. However, some solutions would also have to be arrived at for students in rural areas and those in cities who are not able to access online learning,” said Uday Nare, a teacher at Hansraj Morarji Public School in Andheri.Subash Joshi, trustee, Science Parivar, a group of coaching institutes said in the days to come, hybrid learning where students can choose between online and offline is the way forward.“Students whose parents wish to send them to school or who cannot attend online classes can go to schools in small groups on a rotational basis. Those who cannot attend school can opt to continue with online learning for the rest of the year,” said Joshi. Francis Joseph, co-founder, SLN Global Network said that while an online-only mode will not work post the pandemic, at least for now, schools would have to make both online and offline options available. “Students and parents would have to be given an option to choose from the two options. This would involve a lot of planning at the school level too. Schools and teachers should ensure that students in whatever way they can, quality learning continues,” he added. Anandita Singh, a parent from Malad said that most parents are anxious about sending their children to school even post Diwali. “Till the pandemic ends, a lot of parents might not take the risk. But schools should offer an option where if need be, for higher classes some offline options like guidance sessions are held in some intervals,” she added.Meanwhile, several teachers and unions from the city have demanded clarity on the conduct of exams as schools continue to operate online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hybrid-learning-model-is-the-way-to-go-for-maharashtra-schools-say-experts/story-oALJ2xysljiDwwKfDMNtvJ.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||2 men die in accidents as cars mow down motorcycles in Chandigarh||Two men lost their lives in separate traffic accidents on Wednesday. Both were on motorcycles and aged around 60 years. One succumbed to his injuries after being hit by a Hyundai Verna at the Sector 9 and 10 dividing road on Tuesday and the other died after being hit by an unidentified vehicle on the sector 20/30 dividing road in a hit and run case.Videsh Pal from Adarsh Nagar in Mohali’s Nayagaon was hit by the vehicle coming from the wrong side of the roundabout. Pal’s son Avinash Kumar, who was following Pal on another motorcycle, informed the police about the accident.In the other mishap, Neelkant (60), a resident of Popna village, was coming from the direction of Sector 30 on Wednesday morning when he was hit by a vehicle on the Sector 20-30 dividing road, which then sped away.Pal was taken to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), with head injuries, and died on Wednesday. Police, in Pal’s case, registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 337 (Causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) with added section 304-A (death by negligence) at the Sector 3 police station. The driver of the Verna, Lovely (29) from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, was arrested and later bailed out.In Neelkant’s case, police constable Deepak, who was driving towards his police station at Sector 19, was witness to the car hitting Neelkant’s two-wheeler from the rear and speeding away.Deepak was unable to note down its registration number.Neelkant was taken to PGIMER where he died late at night. A case under sections 279 and 337 and added section 304-A of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 19 police station. Police said they are still unclear about the make and colour of the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-men-die-in-accidents-as-cars-mow-down-motorcycles-in-chandigarh/story-i4Tg5fkdTYdAoQBFQjExQI.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Four men wanted for murder, extortion and other crimes in Delhi, Haryana held after shoot-out||The Delhi Police Thursday arrested four men wanted for murders, attempts to murder and extortions in Delhi and Haryana following a brief shoot-out in Rohini. Police said all four suspects sustained gunshot wounds and were taken to a hospital for treatment.The men were identified as Sunil Gahlot, 23, Amit Raj, 26, Rohit, 23, and Ravinder Yadav, 31. Six pistols, three bulletproof jackets and three bulletproof helmets were recovered from them, police said.In the past 10 days, this is the third such encounter wherein the police and suspects have exchanged fire but ended with the arrests of the suspects. Four days ago, the special cell had arrested two alleged gangsters after a shoot-out. Both men were shot in their legs. On October 28, police had arrested another alleged criminal in Delhi after an exchange of fire.Giving details of Thursday’s arrests, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said they had received information that members of the infamous Lawerance Bishnoi-Kala Jatheri -Sube Gujjar gang -- whose members are wanted in several cases of murder, attempts to murder, extortion and robbery in Delhi-NCR -- would be arriving in Rohini from Haryana early Thursday, allegedly to eliminate their rivals. “Acting on this information, a trap was laid in Khera village in Rohini on Thursday morning. Around 3.30am, a white car was spotted coming from Khera village. When our team signalled the driver to stop, the occupants of the car tried to speed away. As the road was blocked with a police SUV, their car hit the divider. They were asked to surrender but they instead opened fire at the police team,” Yadav said.Three bullets hits the police’s Innova that had been used to block the road. “One bullet grazed inspector Man Singh’s arm. Another hit sub-inspector Ravi Rana, but he was wearing a bulletproof jacket, which saved him. The police team returned the fire and two bullets hit Sunil in his leg, while one hit his hand. Amit was shot in his legs and so was Rohit, who carried a cash reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest. Ravinder was also injured in his leg,” Yadav said.A total of 22 rounds were fired by the suspects, while the police fired 28 rounds in retaliation. “The local area police were informed and ambulances called in to shift the injured to BSA hospital, Rohini. These men are wanted in more than a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, robbery, firing, etc. Four automatic pistols with 50 live cartridges and two countrymade pistols with 10 live cartridges, three each of bulletproof jackets and helmets were recovered from them. Further investigation is on,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-men-wanted-for-murder-extortion-and-other-crimes-in-delhi-haryana-held-after-shoot-out/story-qhXXWtNY6WrygBcuHh7N0K.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena MP from south Mumbai wins UNICEF award for advancing rights of children in Parliament||Shiv Sena member of Parliament (MP) Arvind Sawant received the ‘Parliamentarians’ Group for Children’ (PGC) awards in recognition of his role in Parliament in advancing the rights of children in India by UNICEF India. Sawant, MP from South Mumbai and a deputy leader in Shiv Sena, was recognised for his “exceptional work” in initiating two debates and seven questions on matters of Right to Education, protection of children from atrocities, malnutrition and child health in Parliament in 2018-19, UNICEF India said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mp-from-south-mumbai-wins-unicef-award-for-advancing-rights-of-children-in-parliament/story-AYhZupO2HHHl5bOJjiId1J.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Pocso court refuses bail to man who posed as woman on social media, befriended a minor in Mumbai and sexually assaulted her||The special court under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 has refused to grant bail to a 23-year-old man booked for sexually abusing a minor girl for the past two years. The court considered that the man had eight other cases pending against him. It is alleged that the accused Kuldeep also known as Krushna Amrutlal Joshi came in contact with the survivor in 2017 through a social media site wherein he posed as a woman. Through the social media account, he started chatting with her and befriended her.Later Joshi allegedly met her the survivor at her tuition classes and gave her a chocolate. After having the chocolate she became unconscious. When she woke up she found herself in a room, without clothes. Thereafter he blackmailed and exploited the minor for two years.The man lastly took her to Ahmedabad after which her father lodged a complaint with Ghatkopar police for kidnapping and sexually abusing his minor daughter. The accused was traced and arrested on August 29. A month later on September 25, he filed a bail plea claiming he was falsely implicated in the case.Joshi claimed that the girl had accompanied him on her own. He claimed that the girl never complained during her travel to Ahmedabad with him.The plea was opposed by the victim’s family claiming there are many cases of theft registered against him. The prosecution had said that he is booked in at least eight more cases of several kinds.The court after hearing the application observed, “The accused has started contact with the victim by concealing his identity and posing himself to be a girl. Here, the investigation is at the initial stage. There are allegations that the girl has been ravished since last two years and yet the statements are to be recorded as well as there is every possibility of the victim getting scared seeing the accused immediately after the commission of the offence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pocso-court-refuses-bail-to-man-who-posed-as-woman-on-social-media-befriended-a-minor-in-mumbai-and-sexually-assaulted-her/story-CNndTOIraxcYYCC0UhsrRN.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government issues SOPs for tour operators, allows them to operate||State tourism department on Thursday allowed tour operators to operate and had issued Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). The SOP has restricted the number of tourists to 10 per guide and mandated the city tours and heritage walks to be held on weekends only. The SOP has also said that the guidelines related to sanitisation, social distancing should be strictly followed.The SOP has also said that the locations with less pedestrian traffic should be shortlisted for conducting these tours. While allowing 3 passengers, besides drivers in cars, the operators are not allowed to operate coaches and prohibited tours are enclosed. “Tour can have any number of participants but should be divided into subgroups with not more than 10 participants. Tour guide audio systems or mini loudspeakers should be used so that tourists could clearly listen to the instructions from the guide. Local authorities will have powers to restrict tourists from any particular tourist spots,” the SOP has stated.The SOP has also said that the guidelines related to sanitisation, social distancing should be strictly followed and the training regarding them should be imparted to the staff members of tour operators. Maharashtra government allowed restaurants, bars eateries to operate at 50% of their capacities from October 5. Intercity trains and services running within state limits too have been allowed under its Mission Begin Again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-issues-sops-for-tour-operators-allows-them-to-operate/story-MYsgqXQLBLobNhwWiIn2HK.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Makeshift shanties at Dhobi Ghat razed, two weeks major demolition drive by DDA||Two weeks after their shanties were razed by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), residents of the Dhobi Ghat slum cluster in Jamia Nagar found themselves without a roof over their heads once again after authorities demolished the remaining makeshift structures on Thursday.Rukshana Begum, a domestic worker who had lost her job during the Covid-19 lockdown, said, “We had nowhere to go after they demolished our houses as we did not have any money. We had set up temporary structures, a little away from our homes, and were sleeping there for the past two weeks. But they razed everything this morning and took away the broken furniture as well,” she said.On September 24, DDA officials had carried out a demolition drive and freed up around 2.5 acres of land. Officials had said there were around 200 temporary structures in the area. According to DDA, the drive was necessary to remove encroachments from the Yamuna floodplains and was done on the directions of the National Green Tribunal.Following the demolition, residents had managed to repair some of the broken cots and had erected makeshift structures near their razed homes to make do till they found a proper place. These structures were also removed on Thursday.“I could not go to work after the first demolition as there was nobody to take care of my children,” said Saira Parveen, 24, a domestic worker with three children. “For the past two days, authorities have been digging up the land where our homes were located. As a result, the whole area is full of water. We can’t live there anymore. We were sleeping in the open nearby and even that option was eliminated today. Where do we go now?”Women residents have a far pressing problem -- they do not have any access to clean toilets since the past two weeks. “The toilets were the first thing they razed last time. This has forced us to go out in the open,” said Parveen. “There is no money to even buy food. We were relying on meals distributed by NGOs once a day,” she said.Residents said around 60 families, comprising roughly 350 people, had lost their homes after this second round of demolition. They also alleged that authorities had dug up pits in the remaining area to ensure that the slum-dwellers do not return.“The water stinks. There is a risk of dengue and other diseases. Our children have been falling sick with fever and cold. There is no means to protect ourselves from the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Mohammad Jahangir, who did painting work before the Covid-19 lockdown.“We were not running away with their land. Even if they can’t let us live there, shouldn’t the authorities have made some alternative arrangements for us before rendering us homeless during a pandemic?” said Jahangir, adding that he had no money to rent a room for his family of seven.The DDA did not respond to phone calls and text messages seeking its comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/makeshift-shanties-at-dhobi-ghat-razed-two-weeks-major-demolition-drive-by-dda/story-mpc9HKaLnsrXKahXnElevI.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana agri varsity inks pact to commercialise anti-mosquito fabric||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, has signed a pact with Swift Corporation Limited, Manesar, Gurugram (Haryana), for the commercialisation of mosquito repellent cotton fabric technology. According to the memorandum, PAU has given non-exclusive rights to the Haryana-based firm for the technology within India. Sandeep Bains, dean, college of community science, and Sumeet Grewal, scientist, department of apparel and textile science, Punjab Agricultural University, have jointly developed the technology.Bains and Grewal said that eco-friendly micro-encapsulated mosquito repellent fabric was developed using eucalyptus essential oil. They added that fabric is effective in repelling three mosquito species - Ades, Anopheles and Culex which cause diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya. The fabric lasts for 15 wash cycles and has been tested clinically on outdoor personnel and sports persons, who found it to be very efficacious against mosquitoes, they further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-agri-varsity-inks-pact-to-commercialise-anti-mosquito-fabric/story-SAHwIu7AWaXptp9ZF2q28M.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Will move court against Ludhiana MC for serving CLU notices to shopkeepers:Beopar Mandal||The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal has decided to move court against the municipal corporation over the change of land use (CLU) notices being served to shopkeepers in the city by the civic body.Members of the Beopar Mandal held a meeting with their legal adviser, advocate Harish Rai Dhanda, on Thursday. They said that they will move on roads and file a petition in court, but not allow the MC to collect CLU chargers from shopkeepers wrongfully. On Wednesday, shopkeepers of Ghumar Mandi had staged a protest against the civic body after two shops were sealed for non-payment of CLU charges. The shopkeepers said that notices are being served to shops which were established even before the CLU norms existed.President of the Ghumar Mandi Shopkeepers’ Association, Pawan Batra, said CLU charges have to be collected before the shop is constructed. “Now, when shopkeepers have got the registry done at commercial rates, and are paying property tax, the MC is also demanding CLU charges, which is not acceptable. The shopkeepers are already reeling under losses due to the ongoing pandemic and the MC is adding to their woes,” Batra said.General secretary of the Beopar Mandal, Sunil Mehra, said,”We have decided to move court against the civic body and meetings are also being held with different associations. We met advocate Dhanda on Thursday to look into the legalities. A petition will be filed soon. The shopkeepers in the entire city are against the decision of MC to collect CLU charges and if required, we would also move on roads.” Factionalism has again come to the fore among Congress leaders in the city. Congress councillor of Ward Number 76, Gurpreet Gogi, slammed mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC for adopting pick and choose policy while taking action against shopkeepers for non-payment of CLU charges. Gogi alleged that he had raised voice against the “illegal” action being taken by MC, and the officials, working on the directions of the mayor, had commenced the drive from his ward because of this. Gogi and shopkeepers of the Ghumar Mandi area had conducted a meeting with the mayor and MC officials in the middle of September and opposed the move by the MC. after two shops were sealed on October 5. MC has served notices against around 2,300 shops situated in different parts of the city. Despite attempts to reach mayor Balkar Sandhu, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/row-over-clu-notices-beopar-mandal-threatens-to-move-court-against-mc/story-APF92a3FAWlaLcOk45jfbJ.html
08-10-2020||Bangalore||Tejasvi Surya claims chemical-induced water sprayed at BJP workers, govt denies allegations||Bharatiya Janata Party’s youth wing chief and South Bangalore MP Tejasvi Surya alleged that the police in Kolkata sprayed water mixed with chemicals on Thursday during the Nabanna Cholo rally organised by the party to protest against political killings in West Bengal.Speaking to mediapersons, Surya said, “Today was a black day... The TMC government murdered rule of law in the state. The way our cadres and leaders were attacked and beaten up mercilessly by the police is unprecedented. Don’t we have the right to conduct a peaceful rally in the state?”Kolkata and parts of Howrah witnessed clashes between BJP workers and the police near Howrah. The state police in riot gear beat up protesters, burst tear gas shells and used water cannons to disband the protests.Responding to these allegations, West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay was quoted as saying by news agency ANI, “No chemical was used in cannon water, it is wrong information. The intent globally to use coloured water is to identify a person post dispersal for further necessary action as per the law if required.”Bandopadhyay added that there is evidence of violent incidents. “Firearm has been recovered, policemen were also attacked. 89 persons were detained in Kolkata Police area & 24 detained in Howrah Police area. Some police personnel have sustained injuries.”He also said that allowing 25,000 people across several rallies would have been a travesty of the lockdown norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/tejasvi-surya-claims-chemical-induced-water-sprayed-at-bjp-workers-govt-denies-allegations/story-CdBAMKXBgm6tHGjHfRKK4I.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||SC scholarship scam: BJP to hold ‘chakka’ jam in Ludhiana on October 10||The state BJP unit has expressed anguish over the clean chit given to cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the SC scholarship ‘scam’ and decided to hold a ‘chakka jam’ across the state on October 10. Punjab BJP SC Morcha president Raj Kumar Atwal said that Dharamsot was “clearly involved in the scam and Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in the state was trying to protect him”.“The struggle to dismiss Dharamsot will continue,” Atwal said while addressing a conference at the district office of Ludhiana BJP near Clock Tower. He said a scam of ₹63.91 crore had come to light in Punjab in the central post-matric scholarship scheme. Atwal said it was shameful that Sadhu Singh Dharamsot’s name cropped up in this incident despite him holding the post of a cabinet minister. He said Dharamsot himself should have resigned on moral grounds. SC Morcha president said that Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar should break his silence on the scam that “exposed” Dharamsot and say what action is being taken against him.Atwal said that children belong to scheduled castes have suffered the most due to this scam. “They were not even given certificates from colleges. Now, colleges are saying that they will give certificates after the students pay money,” he added. “The government has betrayed the SC society by committing this scam,” Atwal said while demanding a CBI probe into the matter as well as strict action against the culprits.Ludhiana BJP district vice-president Sunil Maudgil, district general Kantendu Sharma, district president of Ludhiana BJP SC Morcha Kulwinder Singh, district vice-president Yashpal Janotra, councillors Surinder Atwal , Yashpal Chaudhary, Satish Kumar, Surinder Bali, Jatinder Goria, Nitin Jain, and Manu Arora were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sc-scholarship-scam-bjp-to-hold-chakka-jam-in-ludhiana-on-october-10/story-adfAnaiLoklPN6LNZzk6PJ.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Test staff for Covid before reopening schools in Ludhiana: Parents’ body||Members of Revolutionary Parents’ Welfare Association led by its president Bhagwant Singh wrote a letter to Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma over reopening of schools. The association urged the DC to direct schools to conduct Covid-19 tests of their staff members. According to association members, they had gone to meet the DC, but as he was not available, they submitted a memorandum at his office on Thursday.The association also alleged that schools were “escaping from their responsibility of ensuring safety and security of the children and asking parents to submit self-declaration forms mentioning that the schools will not be held responsible if any of students tested positive for Covid-19”.Bhagwant Singh sought the formation of a seven-member committee comprising parents, which would examine if the classrooms were being sanitised properly and check the Covid-19 test reports of the staffers.The parents’ body also demanded that the government officials whose children were going to schools should make public their self-declaration forms so that the other parents could follow them and would not hesitate in sending their wards to schools during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/test-staff-for-covid-before-reopening-schools-in-ludhiana-parents-body/story-KdVPCgXYwXMoD5RCq7OpRL.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||GMADA approves 14 vending sites in Mohali||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has approved 14 sites in accordance with the Street Vendors’ (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, after a five-year delay. The sites have been identified in a joint survey conducted by the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) and GMADA recently. MC has over the years failed to remove illegal vendors from the main markets of the city, the worst-hit areas being phases 7, 3B1, 3B2, 9, 10, and 11.The Act is aimed at registering and rehabilitating street vendors and preventing their exploitation by enforcement officers. It also calls for controlling use of urban streets and spaces.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said after GMADA identified the sites the civic body had appointed officers to check if these could be used and submit a report after before allocation could begin The town vending committee has yet to approve the sites even though the process of vendor identification began three years back. It was only in the last five months that MC issued identity cards to 200 vendors out of 993 under the Act, before GMADA identified the sites A senior GMADA official said the MC had proposed several sites earlier, but these were either meant for parking space or did not have the requisite legal authorisations.“We then carried out a joint survey and identified them... It is MCs project and now they have to check the feasibility of the new sites,” he added.In January this year, MC decided to first implement the Act in Phase 7, where 139 vendors are registered, as a pilot. The MC commissioner had even asked the agency that conducted the survey to mark the space in the parking areas, but it did not work out as the Market Welfare Association and area councillor of Phase-7 rejected the proposal to allot the sites at the rear parking area of Phase-7.However, out of 973 vendors only 200 were issued identity cards by the MC, but they are yet to be allocated sites.The spots selected by GMADA are in sectors 54: Close to Bassi Theatre and near Madanpur Chowk; 55: at Phase 1 barrier; 56: UT-Mohali border; 59: Near Sanatan Dharam Mandir; 65: Close to the petrol pump; 66: Near the sewage treatment plant; 67: National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research; 68: Near Temple of Knowledge; 77: Near Akal Ashram Colony; 78: Near Fire Station; 79: Near Housefed Flats; and 80: Near Convenient Shopping.Identification process started in 2015At least 993 vendors were identified in a survey started in 2015 by MC carried out by a private company it had hired. Initially, the firm had identified at least 2,295 vendors, but the MC House found anomalies in the survey and ordered a fresh one. In 2017, the civic body had identified 993 moving and stationary vendors.Expressing the hope that the vending problem would be sorted out soon, Jatinder Pal Singh, Phase 3B2 Market Welfare Association President, said, “We have requested the authorities concerned on multiple instances to take action against illegal vendors, but nothing has been done so far. The parking lots are left with no space as vendors have encroached upon the area.”The issue of encroachments is debated in every House meeting, but nothing comes out of it, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmada-approves-14-vending-sites-in-mohali/story-ugwipkqgf3ceE56QqBmApM.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Five arrested for kidnapping 20-year-old DU student, demanding ₹15 lakh ransom||Five men were nabbed by Ghaziabad police early on Thursday morning for allegedly kidnapped their 20-year-old friend — a Delhi University student — and demanding Rs 15 lakh as ransom from his parents. Police said that the prime suspect had lured the victim to a house in Khoda on the pretext of getting him to meet a girl. The five suspects were identified as Harshit Thakur, Sudhir Kumar, Sanjay Kumar, Mohammad Rizwan and Mohammad Asif. Investigators said that the suspects wanted money to fuel their extravagant lifestyle and hence plotted the kidnapping of their friend – Saurabh Shukla who is resident of Master Park in Khoda. The cops said that all the arrested suspects are in the age group of 20-22 years.“The man went with the prime suspect on his bike on the morning of Wednesday and did not return till late night. It was then that his family first launched a search for him and then informed the police and an FIR was registered,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram). The FIR was registered under IPC sections 364a (kidnapping for ransom) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) at Khoda police station. The victim and the suspect are residents of Khoda locality. After the man went missing, his parents started getting ransom calls from in which the caller demanded that they cough up Rs 15 lakh. The calls were being made by using the Saurabh’s phone. On the basis of electronic surveillance and local information, the police conducted a raid on the sixth-floor room in a building at Navneet Nagar locality in Khoda. “They found the victim tied up and five suspects present in the room. In between, victim’s family also told us that their son was last seen with Harshit Thakur. At this we nabbed Harshit from the spot and grilled him, during which he disclosed the entire plot. The victim was safely rescued released,” Jain added. While in captivity, Saurabh’s hands and legs were tied up, while his mouth was also taped. The suspects also prepared a video showing the victim in captivity. The cops said that they will be adding IPC section of 120b (criminal conspiracy) to the ongoing investigation. They added that the victim’s family approached the police at around 10.40pm on Wednesday and the five suspects were arrested around 3.30am the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/five-arrested-for-kidnapping-20-year-old-du-student-demanding-15-lakh-ransom/story-MJ94o6mgCozPn3PRhOiKeM.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Govt reviews G B Nagar Covid measures ahead of festive season||Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary for health Amit Mohan Prasad on Thursday reviewed Gautam Budh Nagar Covid-19 response measures ahead of the festive season.Reviewing the integrated control room in sector 59, Prasad said that the district administration and health department had performed well in keeping the case fatality rate (CFR, or number of deaths per 100 cases) low at 0.4%. “The fatality rate is one of the lowest in Uttar Pradesh. The integrated control and command centre is a sophisticated one,” he said. He said that the state home department has issued a guidelines for festive season and the officials have been directed to ensure social distancing and other safety norms in the district. District magistrate Suhas LY and other officials also attended the meeting. “The additional chief secretary also interacted with a patients in home isolation over video call, and also with the doctors who shared information about the treatment and protocols. The control centre has so far attended 260,000 calls since its opening on April 3,” he said. The DM also met 12 plasma donors at his office in Surajpur on Thursday. “We organise weekly meeting – Coffee with DM – for plasma donors. They share their recovery experience and motivate others to be strong. We urge people who have recently recovered from Coronavirus to donate plasma and save lives,” DM said. Gautam Budh Nagar administration had started an ‘all-in-one’ integrated control room in April. It had issued a helpline number – 1800-419-2211 – and so far received 2.6 lakh queries since it began operations. The 30 telephone lines get at least 350 calls daily on average against the average 1,000 daily call it used to get during the lockdown. The district administration also conducted sanitization drive at 102 locations in the district on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/govt-reviews-g-b-nagar-covid-measures-ahead-of-festive-season/story-gliwTjqQyLUwvSUmTE2T4M.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Special relief awaited: 3 years on, families of 9 fallen Ludhiana firemen run from pillar to post||Three years after nine firefighters were killed in the line of duty, their families are still forced to make rounds of MC offices for disbursal of a special monthly allowance of Rs 6,000 that has been promised to them. The allowance was announced in January last year when the President’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry was awarded to the fallen firefighters who lost their lives while dousing the flames at a plastic factory near Suffiyan Chowk in November 2017. The deceased include sub-fire officers Rajinder Sharma, Sumohan Gill and Raj Kumar, leading firemen Pooran Singh and Manohar Lal, and firemen Rajan, Vishal, Manpreet Singh and Sukhdev Singh. Other benefits promised to their families include discount on air travel, concession in school admission fee for children and widow quota in jobs.Also, four firefighters who suffered burn injuries while dousing flames at a factory in Vijay Nagar in May 2017 are also suffering due to the apathy of the department.Of these, one leading fireman, Hajura Singh, has started receiving compensation after his transfer to Amritsar. The others injured include firemen Lovlesh Sood, Naresh Kumar and Saudagar Singh.Deceased sub-fire officer Raj Kumar’s wife, Manjeet Kaur, said, “We are continuously making rounds of MC offices and have also met Mayor Balkar Sandhu recently. But, the authorities have still failed to provide the allowance. The families of the firefighters who gave their lives in the line of duty are forced to run pillar to post to get what they deserve. The government has provided the government jobs to the family members but few families are still struggling to make ends meet. Also, no other benefits including concession in school admission fee, discount on air travel etc are not being provided.” Deceased sub-fire officer Rajinder Sharma’s son, Tushar Sharma, said the gallantry award was announced for the firefighters in January 2019 and the amount, which was earlier Rs 3,000 per month, was increased to Rs 6,000 in March this year.Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “I am aware of the matter and as per procedure, the file has to be approved by the Finance and Contracts Committee (F and CC) of MC. I have forwarded the case to the committee and the allowance will be released soon after getting approval.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/disbursal-of-special-allowance-families-of-fallen-firefighters-run-from-pillar-to-post/story-IfTFUk1fD3tFLAUpR1hHJO.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||50% physical hearings likely in Chandigarh district courts by next week||About 50% physical hearings are likely to start in the Chandigarh district courts by next week after the long break during the Covid-19 pandemic, NK Nanda, president of the District Bar Association said on Thursday.Adding that the decision was taken at an association meeting, Nanda said, “Currently work of placing plastic sheets inside courtrooms (is continuing) and other Covid-19 related arrangements are being done inside the court premises. Most likely, by Wednesday, it will be completed and physical hearings will start.”Earlier, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana had decided that a chain hunger strike would be launched from October 13 if physical hearings of courts did not start even after announcement of the Unlock 5 guidelines. Plans were being made for five advocates to sit at the HC premises and the district courts every day.The lawyers had warned that if the physical functioning of the court did not start in phased manner then from October 26 they would begin a restrained boycott of virtual courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-physical-hearings-likely-in-district-courts-by-next-week/story-WgQndCUMRyZ9ixWHueRZcP.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar admin wants authority to make animal feeding points in residential areas||In a move aimed at reducing conflicts between animal feeders and other residents in Noida, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration has directed the Noida Authority and police to allow designate animal feeding points in residential areas.The points will be supervised animal welfare authorities, the order read.“Volunteers of an animal welfare group had met me and presented certain issues related to animal cruelty and feeding in residential areas. The competent authorities have been instructed to look into the matter and, in accordance with the law, will take the necessary steps,” said district magistrate, Suhas LY.The meeting was held on September 15 and the order was issued on September 19, but was made public only on Wednesday. “Human-animal conflicts are becoming increasingly common and many residential areas have reported incidents of confrontation between residents and animal feeders over the time. Such a decision will go a long way in resolving these issues,” said Kaveri Bhardwaj, an animal welfare activist.She said that if the feeding points were chosen with care, cases of human-animal conflict will go down too. “If all parties involved, including residential bodies, come to a definite conclusion it will definitely help improve the situation a lot. Places can be decided based on convenience of both the animals and residents,” she said.Residential bodies also feel that such a decision will be helpful for both humans and the stray animal community.“In the current scenario, it is but obvious that animals and we have to co-exist. There are several issues that need to be addressed in this regard but having specific feeding points is a step in the right direction towards resolving a few of those conflicts,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida federation of Apartment Owners Associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-budh-nagar-admin-wants-authority-to-make-animal-feeding-points-in-residential-areas/story-Wu7HAwq0LBFNEkusDt0EnL.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Police release sketches of bank robbery suspects||The police have released CCTV photos and sketches of the three suspects who had looted around ₹4 lakh from a bank in Sector Pi – 3 in Greater Noida on Tuesday afternoon. The suspects, police said, were seen in CCTV footage running away on a red motorcycle after the incident. In another CCTV footage, one of the suspects is seen holding a helmet in one hand. Two suspects were carrying backpacks that were used to carry away the stolen money. Four teams, including one surveillance group, have been engaged to arrest the suspects. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said two teams of police personnel from Sector Beta 2, one special team, and one surveillance team have been engaged to solve the case. “The suspects appear local as they spoke in local dialect during the crime, and they fled on a bike. The CCTV footage showed they had fled towards a private hospital in the neighbourhood,” he said. Singh said the suspects robbed ₹2.15 lakh cash from the drawer of a cashier, and on their way out snatched the bag of a customer that had ₹1.75 lakh in it. “It is possible that the suspects were following the businessman who entered the bank to deposit the money. The criminals snatched the businessman’s cash bag, looted₹2.15 lakh from the bank and fled,” he said. A police team reached the spot after getting information but the suspects managed to escape. The suspects had held the security guard at gunpoint and hit him for putting up resistance. The cyber team has retrieved a list of around 1,000 phone numbers that were obtaining signals from the tower closest to the bank at the time of robbery. “The police teams are investigating the matter from all angles and we hope to solve the case soon,” Sigh said. The suspects could not reach the cash vault at the back as the officials had pressed the security alarm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/police-release-sketches-of-bank-robbery-suspects/story-KQzFKyqYMEUKR4Fc877mEJ.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Man posing as Bulandshahr SHO held in Greater Noida, he was trying settle local dispute||The police on Wednesday arrested a man who was allegedly pretending to be a sub-inspector and recovered a police uniform, cap and shoes from his possession. Police said the suspect, Rajesh Tripathi, 45, a resident of Kanpur, was allegedly trying to pressurise a person in a dispute at a local shop in Badalpur by pretending to be from the police. He had shifted to Badalpur two weeks ago and has been living in a rented accommodation. He lived in Ghaziabad before that for a year, the police added. Dharmendra Sharma, in-charge Badalpur police station, said that two persons had clashed over some issues near Dharam Kanta in Badalpur on Wednesday. “One of the two persons was known to Tripathi, who reached the spot on a two-wheeler and introduced himself as the station house officer (SHO) of Gulawathi police station in Bulandshahr. He was in plain clothes and locals suspected his claims,” he said. The opposite party, meanwhile, informed the Greater Noida police and a team from the Badalpur police station reached the spot. “Tripathi claimed that he is a police sub-inspector posted in Bulandshahr. We checked with the Bulandshahr police and found his claim to be false. We asked the suspect to produce his police identification card, which also turned out to be counterfeit,” he said. The police team then scanned the suspect’s two-wheeler and found a police uniform and a cap under the seat. “The suspect later admitted that he had faked his identity. He revealed that he used to pretend to be a police officer to get undue advantage. He used to visit different places to intervene in disputes as a police officer and then extorted money from people,” Sharma said. A case was registered against him under Section 420 (cheating), Section 467 (forgery), and Section 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) of the IPC. “The suspect was produced in court and sent to jail,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-posing-as-bulandshahr-sho-held-in-greater-noida-he-was-trying-settle-local-dispute/story-uEGAzwQWs2Fn0eSMP9ydBP.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Tender issued again for Noida’s second golf course project in Sector 151A||The Noida authority on Thursday issued a tender to select a firm which can be engaged to design and develop horticulture facilities at Noida’s second 18-hole Golf Course proposed in Sector 151A, along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. The authority has sanctioned ₹12 crore for the horticulture work to be carried out at this Golf Course. The first 18-hole Golf Course was developed in Sector 38A in the 1990s. “We have issued a tender to invite proposals from interested developers. According to rules, after agencies apply, the authority will finalise one, which will be awarded the contract,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty of the Noida authority, who is heading the horticulture department.The authority had issued the tender in this regard last month as well. However, no developers had shown any interest in the project, said officials. “We have issued this tender a second time. If less than three agencies apply for a project then the authority cannot finalise one out of the one or two which have applied for a project. We hope now enough agencies will apply, after which we can finalise one,” said Singh.The authority, in its 198th board meeting in February, had approved a tentative budget of ₹90 crore for the golf course. The project’s detailed report has been finalised and the budget has been vetted.The proposal for the golf course was finalised in the 197th board meeting of the Noida authority, on September 27, 2019. It is proposed to have a 90 acre golf course, 20 acre adventure sports facility and a heliport spread on 10 acres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/tender-issued-again-for-noida-s-second-golf-course-project-in-sector-151a/story-CeoD2sYFrlJMlem7cfB8gO.html
08-10-2020||City||MPSC exam: CM to hold another meet on Friday||Pune: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday decided to hold another round of dialogue with Maratha outfits again regarding MPSC exam and reservation on Friday. The Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exam is scheduled on Sunday (October 11).The meeting was attended by representatives of Maratha outfits who urged the government to defer the exam date and increase the age limit for candidates by another year. Earlier, before the meeting, Shiv Sangram president Vinayak Mete said that till the time government takes a call on Maratha reservation, MPSC exams should be postponed and upper age limit for candidates should be increased. In Pune, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) president Prakash Ambedkar said that opposition to MPSC exam by community outfits is wrong though his party will support the Maharashtra bandh called by some Maratha outfits on October 10 over the quota issue. Over 2.5 lakh students have applied for the examination. VBA chief Ambedkar said that his party has previously taken a call about backing the Maratha reservation and, therefore, it will support Saturday’s bandh. “We have conveyed to Suresh Patil of Maratha Arakshan Samiti that these two reservations, Maratha and OBC, will remain different and no demand should be made seeking reservation for Maratha community by touching the OBCs’ share,” Ambedkar said. If both sides (representing Marathas and OBCs) remain firm on the stand that both the issues will remain separate, the mutual understanding in the state will remain intact, he said. Without naming BJP MP Udyanraje Bhosale, Ambedkar said that he didn’t understand how the saffron party could send someone who doesn’t know the Constitution to Rajya Sabha and says reservations for everyone be scrapped if Marathas cannot get it. The Supreme Court had last month stayed the implementation of 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs, but made it clear that the statute of those who availed of the benefits will not be disturbed.Following this, the state government has filed an application before a larger bench of the apex court, seeking vacation of its stay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mpsc-exam-cm-to-hold-another-meet-on-friday/story-w62nVHyuaHzPYz6R4eWCgJ.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Pollution control board collects samples to ascertain road dust levels in Noida, Ghaziabad||In order to intensify abatement of air pollution in Ghaziabad and Noida, the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) took up sampling of 18 and 10 roads, respectively, in the two cities in order to find out the quantum of re-suspended dust which gives rise to PM 10 levels.Officials said samples of 200-250 grams each have been taken from different road patches in the two cities and that testing is underway at a lab in Ghaziabad. Officials said that the re-suspended dust particles, which are less than 75 microns, aid PM 10 levels as they have a tendency to unsettle. “During an interaction with IIT Kanpur, the UPPCB directed us to take samples. During discussions, it came out that dust particles less than 75 microns do not settle easily and continuously move with the movement of vehicles and wind. So, samples were taken from 18 different road patches in Ghaziabad in order to find out the quantum of such particles,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. Patches from where samples were taken include areas near Vaishali metro station, Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi, Vasundhara Sector-16A, opposite ITS College at Mohan Nagar, in front of LT Centre at Kamla Nehru Nagar and in front of Koyal Enclave at Loni-Bhopura Road, among others. In Noida, officials said 10 road patches were identified from where the samples were taken. “The samples are being tested in Ghaziabad and results are expected by next week. Once we get the results and find out the share of the particles, we will be able to ascertain where we need to intensify dust abatement measures,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida.Some of the spots from where samples were taken are near Sector 62 metro station near Fortis Hospital, Sector 62 A-B Block Road, near Mahamaya Flyover at Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, Sector 129 to Sector 155 road, and in front of Spectrum Metro Mall near Sector 50 metro station, among others.During his recent visits to Ghaziabad, Bhure Lal – the chairperson of the Environment (Pollution & Control) Authority (EPCA) – had directed district officials to focus on dust abatement measures and also get road repairs done in order to control PM10 levels during the winter season. “In compliance with the directions, we have identified about 72-78 different road patches across the city which are potholed and need immediate repairs. The list is being provided to the administration to give further directions to different agencies to get the repairs done at the earliest,” Sharma added. Environmentalists, meanwhile, said if the study brings desired results, it should be taken up for all major roads in the city. “The condition of roads is already dilapidated after the monsoon season and road repair works should be taken up before the temperature starts to drop. On the basis of sampling if desired results are obtained, then the winter action plan should also be modified. But first, the results need to be analysed and corrective measures should start immediately to find the effect of the study,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. The deterioration of air quality has already started to show effect in the three cities of the two districts of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) on October 8, Ghaziabad recorded AQI at 236, Greater Noida at 224 and Noida at 226 - all under the ‘poor’ category.Box: Roads where testing was taken up:Ghaziabad: Outside Vishali metro station, near Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi, Vasundhara sector-16A, sector-4 at Vasundhara, opposite ITS Mohan Nagar, in front of Ajnara Integrity at Raj Nagar Extension, in front of ALT Centre at Kamla Nehru Nagar, opposite to district headquarters, Saur Urja Marg in Maharajpur, in front of Koyal Enclave at Loni-Bhopra Road, Rajendra Nagar Industrial Area, near Haj House, Delhi-Meerut Road, outside Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Park at BS Road Industrial Area, GT Road Industrial Area, NH-9 bypass near Vijay Nagar, outside CISF campus at Indirapuram and outside Kafe Republik in Indirapuram Noida: Sector-62 metro station near Fortis Hospital, sector-62 A-B block road, near Mahamaya Flyover at Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, near Advant IT Park sector-142, sector-129 to sector-155 road, sector-37 to Bhangel road, in front of NSEZ Phase-II Surajpur Road, near Parthala Chowk sector-121 Vikas Marg, in front of Spectrum Metro Mall near sector-50 metro station and sector-16 to 12/22 crossing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pollution-control-board-collects-samples-to-ascertain-road-dust-levels-in-noida-ghaziabad/story-iAlPJRUDvfw3uQPcK5f1kJ.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Install anti-smog guns at construction sites or face action, UPPCB warns builders||The Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) on Thursday warned developers in the city that action will be initiated if construction sites in the city are found running without anti-smog guns.The UPPCB is checking up on construction sites ahead of the onset of the winter season which witnesses a spike in air pollution levels, said officials.Anti-smog guns spray atomised water (tiny droplets of water) up to a height of 50 metres, creating an artificial mist, which is expected to stick to air-borne pollutants and bring them down to the ground. The use of the device helps suppress air-borne particles and dust on road surface.“We will conduct inspection at all sites where construction is ongoing across the city and if found that rules are not being complied with, legal action will be taken,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer for UPPCB, Noida.Following directions from the pollution watchdog, the confederation of real estate developers association of India (Credai) asked all developers to put anti-smog guns to contain air pollution at their respective sites in Noida.The UPPCB in September had reminded developers to put up anti-smog guns at all sites so that air pollution can be mitigated, in a follow up to the directions issued by the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary to make sure developers do not flout orders of the Supreme Court in this regard. The apex court had, in January this year, made it mandatory for developers, government bodies and other agencies to keep in check and mitigate air pollution at construction sites.“The Credai’s western UP wing has sent an advisory to install an anti-smog gun to all its members at their under-construction project sites and most of the members have installed the same. Some builders who could not install them due to issues are expected to do the same before implementation of GRAP (Graded Response Action Plan) in the region,” said Subodh Goel, secretary, Credai, western UP, and CMD, Civitech Group.According to the state government, all construction sites of 20,000 square metres or above need to have antismog gun on their premises to contain air pollution.According to the UPPCB, there are 19 housing projects which are at the stage of construction in Noida, out of which 13 have installed anti-smog guns at their respective sites. “Work at the sites of the remaining six housing projects is currently shut. If they restart construction, they will have to install an anti-smog gun or face penalty,” Kumar added.Apart from these, there are six construction sites of the Noida authority, including an underpass at Sector 71, two underpasses at Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, Bhangel elevated road, Chilla elevated road and Sector 96 administrative building works. “We conducted inspections to ascertain whether anti-smog guns are installed at the sites. All six sites of the authority had installed them,” said Kumar.Residents, however, are not happy with the UPPCB’s claim that several sites have anti-smog guns.“The UPPCB must conduct proper inspection of all big sites in the city as we have not seen anti-smog guns at many sites in Noida,” said PS Jain, president of confederation of NCR residents’ welfare associations (CONRWA), an umbrella body of RWAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/install-anti-smog-guns-at-construction-sites-or-face-action-uppcb-warns-builders/story-6EfepTfR0CY8ixVxHrrHEM.html
08-10-2020||Noida||NCR residents worried about power supply as Epca bans diesel gensets from Oct 15||The Supreme Court appointed environment pollution (prevention and control) authority’s (Epca’s) move to ban diesel generator sets in the national capital region (NCR) from October 15 has thrown up concerns from Noida and Ghaziabad residents who have had to suffer frequent outages. With many working from home due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, they often had to depend on diesel generator to ensure uninterrupted supply.“The UP government claims that Noida is a ‘no power cut’ zone. But in reality, every sector witnesses at least an hour’s power cut daily. Without uninterrupted power supply, lifts, wi-fi and other utility services will stop functioning and affect normal life and work,” said Sandeep Chauhan, a resident of sector 74 housing society and who has been working from home since the Covid-19 outbreak. Diesel is a polluting fuel and its ban was recommended, among other measures, to control emissions as winter sets on north Indiam bringing with it weak winds that would be unable to disperse pollutants. The Epca has also recommended dust management at construction sites, compliance of norms on large infra projects, pollution control measures at polluting industrial units, enforcement of norms on hot spots, improvement of waste management, regular cleaning of roads and closure of coal fired power plants.There are 350,000 customers in Noida who get their supply from Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL).  Residents are of the view that the government must take all required steps to contain air pollution but also take adequate steps to supply uninterrupted power during the ban on diesel. “The government never works to strengthen its power supply network and therefore we have to suffer. Why should we depend on gen sets? Only because the power cuts troubled all the time without any prior notice. It is high time that government addressed the issue,” said PS Jain president of confederation of Delhi-NCR RWAs (CONRWA), an umbrella body of RWAs. The PVVNL, meanwhile, said that it was taking adequate steps to ensure uninterrupted supply. “We are on standby to handle any situation that comes about. There is a power cut only when we have to address sudden faults in the supply line. However, we will try our best to supply uninterrupted supply from hereon,” said VN Singh, chief engineer, PVVNL, Noida. In Ghaziabad, residents’ associations said that about 80-90% highrises have diesel generators that supply to apartments, elevators, lighting in common areas, basements, among others. “It will not be feasible for a high-rise to shut down the diesel generators. Connections to flats and common services are combined and the generators start automatically as soon as the power goes off. So, shutting down these generators will be a difficult proposition. Although the electricity situation nowadays has improved, there are still power cuts,” said Alok Kumar, founder-member of federation of association of apartment owners. RK Rana, chief engineer (distribution) from PVVNL did not respond to calls. “We will ensure that the compliance of directions for diesel generator ban is complied with. To ensure that electricity supply is uninterrupted, we will soon hold meeting with electricity department officials and ask them to take measures so that supplies remain uninterrupted. We will also figure out if there are provisions to allow the use of generators in emergency situations,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ncr-residents-worried-about-power-supply-as-epca-bans-diesel-gensets-from-oct-15/story-sHGB2dCqjH15tOZNwkvlHL.html
08-10-2020||City||Covid has reduced us to numbers rather than people who’ve dreamt, loved, lost: Neelam Mansingh Chowdhry||Renowned thespian Neelam Mansingh Chowdhry will explore what it means to be incarcerated due to the pandemic in her latest production ‘Black Box’, starring theatre and film actor Vansh Bhardwaj, which will be showcased to a limited audience at The Studio Theatre, Sector 4, Chandigarh, from October 9 to 14.“We are in the midst of an extreme existentialist crisis. Fear of the virus is so tangible that I wanted to explore what it means to be incarcerated, to lose the life you are so used to, or to lose a career? How does one create their own affirmations?” Mansingh says.The play, a devised improvisation, also deals with the leitmotif of numbers. “Everyday a bulletin comes out enumerating the infections, recoveries, and deaths. Tomorrow we may become one of the numbers rather than being a person who dreamt, loved, lost, and created, which builds anxiety,” she adds.Ask Mansingh if it was difficult to put up a production amid the pandemic, she says, “This was a new experience. There is no music, which has been an intrinsic part of my works in the past. I have always done ensemble work. But this time, I worked with only one person who does the lights and everything by himself.”The play will be adapted for cinema by Mansingh’s son, Kabir Singh Chowdhry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-has-reduced-us-to-numbers-rather-than-people-who-ve-dreamt-loved-lost-neelam-mansingh-chowdhry/story-inknaQBqs71RcnDL4GeY3N.html
08-10-2020||City||Shopian ‘fake encounter’: L-G promises help to kin of three Gujjar men, conveys PM’s sympathies||In a bid to soothe frayed nerves of the kin of three Gujjar men allegedly killed in a fake encounter in Amshipora of Shopian district on July 18, lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha on Thursday visited the grief stricken families in Tarkassi village of Rajouri.“He promised all possible assistance including government job to the next of kin of the three men,” said a senior official.He expressed grief over the incident and assured the families that justice will be done. He assured them that the government will take care of all three families and assistance will be provided to them.Sinha also conveyed sympathies on behalf of the PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shopian-fake-encounter-l-g-promises-help-to-kin-of-three-gujjar-men-conveys-pm-s-sympathies/story-08skw8q9bBUDysFxLjnWCP.html
08-10-2020||City||696 fresh Covid cases, 9 deaths in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 696 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday taking the tally of positive cases in the UT to 81,793. Nine more people succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 1,291, officials said. They added that 420 people have tested positive in Kashmir and 276 in Jammu.October has witnessed a decrease in the average number of daily cases. In September, the UT recorded a daily average of 1,245 cases which have gone down to 840 daily cases so far in October.As many as 1,336 people recovered from the virus on Thursday taking the overall recoveries to 69,020 which account for a recovery rate of 84.3%, which is the highest so far. Since September 21, the recovery rate has improved. From September 21 to 30, as many as 15,132 patients have been discharged against 11,080 fresh infections. Similarly in October so far, 12,096 patients have been cured as against 6,723 fresh infections. A government spokesperson said 961 people were discharged in Jammu division and 375 in Kashmir. Of total, 41,928 people have recovered in Kashmir and 27,092 in Jammu so far. At present, there are 11,482 active cases in J&K. Total tests conducted in the UT so far have reached 17.80 lakh. Meanwhile, officials said nine more people succumbed to the disease in the UT — seven in Jammu and two in Kashmir division. With this, the number of total deaths has reached 1,291 — 882 in Kashmir and 409 in Jammu. In comparison to August which reported 326 deaths, there was a 64% increase in the number of deaths in the UT in September, taking the month’s tally to 478. In October so far, 110 persons have lost their lives due to Covid.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 89, followed by 47 in Poonch. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 186 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 71. Srinagar tops the case tally with 16,164 cases and 310 deaths. Jammu is at number two with 14,950 cases and 212 deaths. Till date, 6.07 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 26,357 in home quarantine, 11,482 in isolation, and 47,862 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.20 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/696-fresh-covid-cases-9-deaths-in-j-k/story-KlvOiT7sknYt9aedZw7ydJ.html
08-10-2020||City||Pak ‘spy’ arrested in J&K’s Samba||Police have arrested a Pakistani ‘spy’ from the border district of Samba on Wednesday. The arrested accused has been identified as Kuljeet Kumar, 21, of Awtal Katalan village, which is close to the international border with Pakistan. Giving details, Samba district police chief, SSP Rajesh Sharma said, “The accused was arrested on Wednesday evening for sharing classified information and images with an unknown source across the border via social media sites. We have also detected money transactions in his bank account.”Four mobile phones and few SIM cards have been seized from his possession.The SSP added that the accused, who had been ‘spying’ for Pakistan since 2018 has shared some images of bridges and other vital formations with his contacts across. Further investigations are on, he added. An FIR under the Enemy Ordinance Act has been registered against him, the police chief said. It may be stated here that Samba district is dotted by several army formations and also has Samba Brigade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pak-spy-arrested-in-j-k-s-samba/story-4gXDj5cXyG92l0NPsF44JI.html
08-10-2020||City||Himachal logs seven deaths, 213 fresh Covid-19 infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 213 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday, taking the state tally to 16,778. The death toll has also mounted to 233 as seven more patients succumbed to the disease. Of the new cases, 54 were reported in Mandi, 37 in Shimla, 25 in Sirmaur, 21 in Solan, 18 in Bilaspur, 17 in Kangra, 12 in Kullu, 11 in Chamba, eight in Hamirpur, five in Una, four in Lahaul-Spiti and one in Kinnaur. Five fatalities were recorded in Shimla and one each in Kullu and Kangra. RECOVERY RATE CROSSES 80% Meanwhile, the recovery rate in the state was above 81%. A total of 259 people were discharged today taking the tally of cured people to 13,583. The case fatality ration is 1.4%. The confirmation rate was 2,300 cases per 10 lakh people. The state has conducted 3,16,865 tests — over 43,000 tests per million population. The new cases have grown at a rate of 1.5% in past one week. Solan is the worst hit district with 3,265 cases, followed by Kangra where 2,529 people have been infected. Mandi has 2,000 cases, Sirmaur 1,952, Shimla 1,553, Una 1,391, Hamirpur 993, Bilaspur 962, Chamba 943, Kullu 803, Kinnaur 207 and Lahaul-Spiti 180.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-seven-deaths-213-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-aTkN3o09OAb2fi3iHHoURL.html
08-10-2020||City||Farmers’ agitation hits fuel supplies to J&K, Ladakh||The farmers’ agitation in Punjab over the controversial farm bills passed by the Centre has led to the ‘fuel crisis’ in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh due to rail service being disrupted.The Union territories could be staring at a fuel crisis as many petrol pumps may go dry in the next couple of days.President of Jammu Kashmir Petroleum Dealers’ Association, Anan Sharma said, “Not a single wagon (freight trains) has arrived at Jammu from Punjab since October 1 due to farmers’ stir as they have blocked rail tracks there and until the blockade is lifted, normal supplies cannot be restored in the UTs.”He said that the major oil depot at Jammu railway station has stopped supplying fuel to gas stations in J&K and Ladakh.Petrol pumps are now sourcing oil from Jalandhar and Bathinda via tankers to maintain the supply line. “Consequently, 250 oil tankers were dispatched to Jalandhar and Bhatinda on Thursday and over 45 tankers, which had left a day before, returned with stocks today, but not with full capacity,” said Sharma.He added that fuel stations were running short of supplies and the situation can become worse if supplies were not restored. The administration should take up the matter with the Punjab government to ensure a smooth supply.“Fuel stocks from Jammu go up to Leh and we all know that in November, roads are blocked due to snow. Secondly, the apple season is at its peak. Around 3,000 trucks are coming to Kashmir from Delhi every day to receive apple consignments. The government has to resolve the issue to restore normal supplies,” he asserted.“Every day 400 oil tankers used to lift supplies from Jammu depot, which is not the case as of today. Though 100 oil tankers from Manali also reached Leh with supplies, an equal number of oil tankers used to transport supplies from Jammu to Leh on a daily basis,” he said.Out of 400 tankers from Jammu depot, 150 tankers used to cater to the Jammu region, 100 to Ladakh, and 150 to Kashmir. However, state-level coordinator of oil companies— HP, BP and Indian Oil—Rajiv Yadav said, “We have mobilised tank lorries from Punjab for the last three days and bringing supplies from Bhatinda, Sangrur and Jalandhar. Some oil tankers reached Jammu on Thursday and some are on their way. There is no fuel crisis in Jammu and Kashmir.”He also claimed that the J&K administration has reached out to the Punjab government to resolve the issue.“Till wagons resume normal supplies, we are relying upon tank lorries. As far as the Ladakh region is concerned, we do winter stock,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-agitation-hits-fuel-supplies-to-j-k-ladakh/story-KbAxUMcmFn9CvyQth6ub1N.html
08-10-2020||City||Inter-state bus service in Himachal likely to resume next week||The inter-state bus service from Himachal Pradesh is likely to resume next week, after their suspension over six months back, subject to standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the transport department. The state had started intra-state transport in a phased manner in August end. Himachal Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) had been bearing heavy losses after it suspended its bus services in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.“We are fully geared up to resume inter-state bus services and the corporation is waiting for the government’s nod. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all routes were suspended and this has resulted in heavy losses completely ruining the transport business in the region,” said transport minister Bikram Singh Thakur.HRTC will ply buses on 728 routes across the northern states and Union territories including Jammu, Ladakh, Kashmir, Chandigarh, Haryana, Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan.The corporation earns nearly Rs 54 lakh per day and its losses have crossed Rs 1300 crores. Last year alone, it bore a loss of Rs 154 crore. HRTC, which has a fleet of 3,719 buses, has already prepared the SOPs for plying inter-state buses. Overcrowding in buses will not be allowed, drivers and conductors will be provided masks and sanitisers, while buses would be sanitised before starting the journey, said Thakur. Tourism industry stakeholders are demanding the government to start the inter-state bus services ahead of the festive season Tourism industry that has borne heavy losses is hoping for good business in the festive season. The stakeholders have urged the government to start rail services on the heritage Shimla-Kalka track. The stakeholders are apprehensive of the railways’ decision to terminate the Howra-Kalka train at Chandigarh instead of Kalka. “The termination of Howra-Kalka train at Chandigarh will hit the Shimla tourism circuit in particular and of the state in general because Shimla is a gateway for tourists coming to Himachal, said MK Seth, president of Himachal Tourism Stakeholders Association.The majority of tourists set on their journey of Himachal from Shimla. Kalka-Howra train is a popular train and contributes a large number of tourist inflow from West Bengal. He said that this is the most convenient train for tourists coming from Bengal because of its direct connectivity up to Shimla by the World Heritage Kalka-Shimla train. During the Durga Puja holidays maximum tourists from West Bengal travel by this train to Shimla.He said that Howra-Kalka mail is running since the Shimla-Kalka rail line came into existence in 1903.Stakeholders have also expressed anguish over the railways’ decision to terminate the Bandra-Kalka train service at Chandigarh from next week. The tourists from West Bengal and Maharashtra contribute a large Inflow of tourists to Himachal. Suspension of train services will not only hit the hoteliers but also the local taxi operators and travel agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/inter-state-bus-service-in-himachal-likely-to-resume-next-week/story-AoDu84pH8eRmNTMQ81FhZL.html
08-10-2020||City||Pune district records 2,012 fresh Covid +ves, 61 deaths||PUNE: Pune district has recorded 2,012 fresh Covid cases and 61 deaths on Thursday, according to the data released by the state health department. According to the state Covid figures, the infection and positivity rate in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area is coming down, but the death count and positive cases in Pune rural areas have crossed the PCMC numbers.Pune divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “The positivity ratio is coming down in Pune district, including PMC, PCMC and Pune rural. However, many cases are getting reported from rural areas, mainly 100 gram panchayat areas.”Rao said, “Rise in Covid cases was reported in PCMC area post Ganesh festival, but the curve is flattening in the area now.”Pune Municipal Corporation reported 808 new cases on Thursday and 27 deaths. Pune rural saw 678 positive cases and 25 deaths and PCMC 526 positive cases and 9 deaths.Total active cases in Pune district was the highest in state at 57,164. Though Pune is leading in active cases, it is also leading in recovered patient count with 247,147 patients getting recovered from the virus infection, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-records-2-012-fresh-covid-ves-61-deaths/story-g05mwfd2oJBC6vzcH3Ze9N.html
08-10-2020||City||Haryana doctors’ body writes to Khattar over Kaithal CMO’s suspension||A day after the state government suspended Kaithal chief medical officer Dr Jai Bhagwan following a complaint by local BJP MLA Lila Ram Gurjar, the Haryana Civil Medical Services Association (HCMSA) has written a letter to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar seeking his intervention in the matter. In the letter, the representatives of HCMSA alleged that Dr Bhagwan was suspended since he had conducted a raid at a CT Scan centre in Kaithal. “MLA Gurjar had pressurised him to refrain from conducting the raid. An FIR was also registered against the owner of the CT scan Centre under the PNDT Act,” the doctors’ body wrote.Gurjar said he did not have anything to do with the raid conducted at the clinic. The MLA claimed that he was getting complaints of corruption against the CMO and his behavior with elected public representatives was not appropriate. Dr Bhagwan was suspended after Gurjar had written to health minister Anil Vij accusing the CMO of corruption and not disclosing the list of candidates hired under the outsourcing policy. The HCMSA has expressed shock over the CMO’s suspension without any inquiry and termed it ‘very unfortunate and demoralising’. It said the contents of the complaint filed by the MLA with the health minister are ‘disheartening and humiliating’ and defaming the image of doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-doctors-body-writes-to-khattar-over-kaithal-cmo-s-suspension/story-KWmlmg2xExfWIRnQwmLIMM.html
08-10-2020||City||Ban on entry of BJP-JJP leaders in two Fatehabad villages over farm bills||Steering their protest against the farm legislations, residents of Aherwan and Bhani Khera villages in Haryana’s Fatehabad district on Thursday put up posters banning the entry of BJP-JJP leaders.The decision was taken during a meeting at a local gurdwara. Earlier, a similar decision was taken by residents of Baroula village in Ambala district. Gurpreet Singh, a farmer from Aherwan village, said we are enraged because of the police action against protesters at Pipli and Sirsa.“The police had fired tear gas shells and used water cannons on farmers who were protesting in Sirsa seeking the resignation of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and power minister Ranjit Chautala. An FIR was also lodged against seven farmer leaders who were detained for over nine hours on Wednesday,” he said.“We have decided to ban the entry of BJP-JJP leaders as they are supporting these death warrant laws. Any BJP-JJP leader who visits our village will responsible if any untoward incident happens here,” he added.Another villager said five farmers from their village will visit Sirsa dharna with homemade food and milk. “We are forced to sell our paddy and cotton below minimum support price (MSP) and the ruling party leaders are making false claims that the government is purchasing every grain on MSP. These laws are death warrants for farmers and our protest will build a coffin for the coalition government. These politicians have been betraying us for years but now they have passed laws aimed at destroying the farming community,” he added.JJP’s Tohana MLA Devender Babli said no such decisions were taken in his constituency but they will talk to farmers to solve their apprehensions. “The government has assured us that the farmers agriculture produce will be procured at MSP. We will try to solve their grievances over these three legislations,” he added.JJP president Nishan Singh and Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal could not be reached for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ban-on-entry-of-bjp-jjp-leaders-in-two-fatehabad-villages-over-farm-bills/story-imiS6M3KFTsx1HRYcGFekL.html
08-10-2020||City||ASHA workers stage protest against Haryana government in Karnal||The ASHA workers on Thursday held a protest here against the Haryana government for ignoring their demands regarding implementation of a notification dated 2018.While addressing the gathering, Rani Devi, state vice-president of ASHA workers unions, said they have been demanding implementation of the notification dated July 21, 2018 for regularisation of services of ASHA and NHM workers along with incentives for services and risk allowances during the Covid-19 pandemic.The protesters handed over a memorandum to the district administration, which was addressed to the chief minister. They ended the protest after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar agreed to meet their representatives on October 20.The ASHA workers have also threatened to hold a state-level rally at Gohana of Baroda constituency on October 22, if the demands are not fulfilled. “We will also launch a campaign against the BJP during the Baroda bypoll if the issues are not resolved,” Devi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asha-workers-stage-protest-against-haryana-government-in-karnal/story-cb6Mq7POkVo2UNh3SB3qLI.html
08-10-2020||City||Akali Dal extends support to protesting farmers in Haryana||The Haryana unit of the Shiromani Akali Dal has extended its support to farmer union leaders in their protest against the Centre’s newly enacted agriculture bills.The decision to support farmer protests was taken during a state-level meeting of party leaders in Kurukshetra on Thursday. While addressing media persons, president of Haryana unit of SAD Sharanjit Singh Sohta slammed the BJP for ignoring interests of farmers and imposing the new laws without a discussion. He also compared the BJP regime with the British rule. He said the SAD has always stood with the farmers and will continue its support to farmer unions in their fight against these ‘black laws’. “The party leaders will observe black Diwali and Dussehra this year by installing flag atop their houses,” he added.Sahota also said that the leaders of other parties should also follow Harsimrat Kaur Badal and resign in support of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/akali-dal-extends-support-to-protesting-farmers-in-haryana/story-AhgQv8PEcdwcn2133eQssN.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt asks DEOs to clear pending files of private schools||The Haryana government has issued guidelines for granting recognition, permission and no objection certificates to private schools in state. The state government has instructed all district education officers (DEOs) to clear pending files of private schools within 20 days. An official spokesperson said various issues related to recognition, permission and no-objection certificates of private schools were discussed in a meeting chaired by the director of secondary education department here on Thursday. The instructions have been given to all DEOs that the cases of granting recognition, permission and no objection certificates to private schools should be accepted through online mode only. Files submitted by hand will not be considered, he added. The spokesperson said the DEOs have been directed to inspect the concerned school and send all documents to the directorate of school education through e-office or online. Managers or owners of private schools will not be entertained in the directorate or in the office of the district education officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-asks-deos-to-clear-pending-files-of-private-schools/story-6C4NAafZZpi6QAL45dIvKM.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Baroda bypolls: EC issues revised guidelines for inviting star campaigners||The Election Commission (EC) has issued revised guidelines for inviting star campaigners for the Baroda by election amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The new guidelines will come into force with immediate effect. The Baroda assembly bypolls in Haryana will be held on November 3 and counting will take place on November 10. The assembly seat in Sonepat district had fallen vacant after the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda in April. A spokesperson of the office of Haryana chief electoral officer (CEO) said the maximum limit of number of star campaigners for recognised national and state political parties will be 30 instead of 40 and for unrecognised registered political parties the limit will be 15 instead of 20. The spokesperson said the period of submission of list of star campaigners has been extended from seven days to 10 days from the date of notification. “If a political party has already submitted the list of star campaigners, they can now submit the revised list,” he added.He said applications seeking permission for publicity should be submitted to the district election authorities at least 48 hours before the start of campaign so that necessary security measures can be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/baroda-bypolls-ec-issues-revised-guidelines-for-inviting-star-campaigners/story-gnRh6g7eDL8rc12d3C7t2O.html
08-10-2020||City||Now, orchardists in HP to get subsidy on purchase of insecticides, pesticides||The state government has decided not to provide subsidised pesticides and insecticides to state’s orchardists from the next financial year 2021-22 and will be directly depositing the subsidy amount in their bank accounts so that they can purchase insecticides and pesticides of their choices from the open market. An official of the state’s horticulture department said that the decision has been taken to prevent problems in drug procurement and benefit small and medium orchardists of the state.He said that the state government has been purchasing pesticides and insecticides worth crores during every season, however, orchardists have been raising questions about its quality and often complained about not getting it. Due to this, the government had to keep stock of pesticides fungicides, and insecticides. Apart from this, the department had to open distribution centres and deploy employees there.According to this new system, the department will not have to keep the stock nor it will have to set up distribution centres.The orchardists will be able to purchase required material from the market on their own and the subsidised amount will be provided to them after they will submit the bills with the horticulture department.The department will deposit a maximum subsidy of Rs 4,000 directly in the account of the orchardists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-orchardists-in-hp-to-get-subsidy-on-purchase-of-insecticides-pesticides/story-IS8palfCYIH9C8bKMq0suO.html
08-10-2020||City||RTI activist accuses Ludhiana MC staffer of graft, holds protest||A superintending (SE) engineer of the municipal corporation has recommended action against its registered plumber after an RTI activist accused him of demanding Rs 1,000 in bribe for providing him receipts for water connection fee.Earlier, the complainant, Rohit Sabharwal, held a protest outside the office of MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, who was not present there. He lifted the protest after SE (operations and maintenance cell) Ravinder Garg assured him of recommending action against the plumber, Amrish Khanna. “The MC commissioner has been apprised of the matter with the recommendation to cancel the plumber’s licence. The commissioner will take further action on it,” he added.Rohit had alleged that he had paid Rs 19,820 for getting water connection of his two plots on Ferozepur Road on October 1, but was provided no receipts. Instead, his staff informed him that the registered plumber, Amrish Khanna, was demanding Rs 1,000 for handing over the receipts. He alleged that on Thursday, Khanna asked his driver to reach near Dhami Eye Hospital to collect the receipts. He accompanied his driver and filmed Khanna accepting the money.When confronted, Rohit said Khanna claimed the amount was collected as the file and plumber fees, while he got the connection set up through a private plumber.The MC chief was not immediately available for comments. No police complaint has been filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rti-activist-accuses-ludhiana-mc-staffer-of-graft-holds-protest/story-o3J20muP66k0mNq2j1ovkO.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Help pours in for Baba ka Dhaba as video of elderly owners goes viral||Eighty-year-old Kanta Prasad’s eatery in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar ran out of food around 12.30 pm on Thursday. He closed the counter of his 32-square-feet porta cabin even though a long queue waited on the pavement facing it. Rajat Gupta, 24, one of the those in the queue, decided not to spend a minute in disappointment. He pulled out his smartphone and started shooting a Facebook live video of himself. He smacked his lips loud and began: “Ah! What a meal it was. You can see, I am outside Baba ka Dhaba…”Baba ka Dhaba – the name of the eatery owned by Prasad and his wife, Badaami Devi – shot into fame over the last 24 hours with a video of Prasad going viral on social media. In the video, Prasad can be seen interacting with a Delhi-based food blogger, often wiping his tears as he elaborated on the modest menu of home-cooked vegetarian meals and how the Covid-19 pandemic hit his business.Also Read: Suniel Shetty, Swara Bhasker, Raveena Tandon share viral video to save old couple’s eatery: ‘Chalo Baba ka Dhaba’By Thursday morning, ‘Baba Ka Dhaba’ was one of the top trending hashtags on Twitter even as a crowd started trickling in. Prasad said that he was prepared after a neighbour told him about the social media video. “It was still too big a risk to take, especially in the light of bad business. We have run out of savings and we are struggling to make ends meet,” said Devi.Thursday’s menu was Rice, chapatti, dal, rajma (kidney beans), muttar-paneer (fresh cottage cheese cooked with peas) and parathas stuffed with mashed potatoes and onions. Each food item costs anything between Rs 20 and Rs 50. Prasad said that he cooked a slightly larger quantity than usual. He cooked 2 kg paneer on Thursday against 1 kg on usual days. For most dishes, the quantity cooked was doubled, said the couple’s son, Azad Hind, who helps them.By 12 noon, a crowd of around 60-70 people gathered outside the small shop. All of them wore face masks and jostled for space. Officers from the local police station periodically did rounds just to remind people to adhere to social distancing norms.“It was unprecedented,” said Prasad, as he wiped his tears once again.The people in the crowd ranged from college students to young office goers, businessmen, workers in the nearby markets and the local legislator.“I came to know about this place through social media. It had almost turned into a movement by Wednesday night. People are in distress because of Covid-19 and the toll it has taken on health and economy. This is the least we can do,” said Arijit Kumar, a businessman, who came to Prasad’s eatery with his wife and son.Malviya Nagar lawmaker Somnath Bharti said, “I would soon start a survey of all such small eateries in the constituency and provide assistance to those in need.”Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal later quoted photographs shared by Bharti on Twitter and said: “Dilli dilwalon ki [Delhi is the city of people with big hearts].”दिल्ली दिल वालों की https://t.co/QphOjCBo9eWhile most came to the shop for food, several donated cash and offered cheques to the couple.The couple came to Delhi in the early 1970s from their village in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh district and started with a tea stall near Shaikh Sarai. They said that they moved to the present location and started the eatery around 30 years ago.“We have a small shop. On any regular day, we hardly sell around 20 plates of each food item... between 9 am and 3 pm. The number of plates sold per item dropped to below 5 since we reopened the shop in June after two months of [Covid-19] lockdown. We often had to take back food...and eat it ourselves or occasionally distribute among neighbours... Today was a blessing,” said Hind.Around 12.30 pm on Thursday, the food was over. For the next few hours, Prasad and Devi opened a small window in their porta-cabin as they entertained photographers and journalists, who interviewed them. Prasad folded his hands each time customers said that they would visit again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-help-pours-in-for-baba-ka-dhaba-as-video-of-elderly-owners-goes-viral/story-kvyYQbF6Wk4Tf6tzuVbh5N.html
08-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to develop state as medical tourism hub||The Uttarakhand government is seeking the Centre’s help in developing the state as a medical tourism hub. State tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said he met Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and spoke to him about the immense possibilities of medical tourism in Uttarakhand.Also read: Uttarakhand forest dept identifies 34 wild mushroom species, 14 of them edible“India is currently number one in terms of medical tourism in Asia. Countries like Thailand, Singapore, China and Japan are also trying to woo such tourists, but due to the extremely low cost of treatment in India, availability of the latest medical techniques and equipment, it is a preferred location,” said Maharaj. He added Uttarakhand is one of the most suitable states in the country for medical tourism.“Along with tourism, medical tourism also needs to be developed in the state. The environment here is naturally suitable for all types of medicine and many types of herbs are found in Uttarakhand, including many which could be perfect medicines for incurable diseases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-to-develop-state-as-medical-tourism-hub/story-WqjI0vwLM3i2tN1erhG0fK.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Police rule out foul play in ex-CBI director Ashwani Kumar’s death in Shimla||The Himachal Pradesh Police on Thursday ruled out any foul play in the death of former Nagaland governor and CBI chief Ashwani Kumar, 69, at his Shimla house on Wednesday. State director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said, “There is no foul play. The family is also not suspecting any foul play. He has indicated in the suicide note that he is ending his life due to illness and of his free will.” Kundu said the crime site was minutely photographed and the forensic science lab team had gathered evidence. “Police are recording statements of witnesses, including family members. We will be conducting and requesting proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.” Police sources said Kumar was under depression and was being treated. “The bouts of depression had increased as he was stuck in Mumbai with is son who works in a multinational firm during the lockdown. DISEASE AND DISABILITIES CITED IN NOTE Kumar, a former Nagaland governor and Central Bureau of Investigation director, was remembered as “an outstanding professional” but his committing suicide in a room of his three-storeyed house at Brockhurst Colony in Shimla on Wednesday evening came as a shock. Family sources said Kumar, who was known to be soft-spoken, had gone for a walk on Mall Road on Wednesday evening. On returning, Ashwani bolted the door of his room from inside. Family members broke it open at night when they did not get any response only to find his body hanging. Ashwani left a brief suicide note in which he did not blame anyone for his condition. Rather, he cited his ill-health for taking the extreme step. “There is no point living with disease and disabilities. My soul embarks on a new journey. My body should be donated to a hospital for experiments,” reads the suicide note. Ashwani asked is family members not to follow any rituals or hold ceremonies after his death. The body was, however, taken to Indira Gandhi Medical College for autopsy from where it was taken for cremation at Sanjauli. CONGRESS LEADERS, COPS AT CREMATION The cremation was attended by senior police officials and Congress leader Mukesh Agnihotri, Nadaun MLA Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu and former parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur. Terming Kumar an inspiration, Kundu said, “The Himachal Pradesh Police are shocked and it is an irreparable loss for us.” “Ashwani ji was an outstanding officer and hard task master, he has contributed a lot to the police force,” said retired additional director general of police KS Sadyal, 64.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-rule-out-foul-play-in-ex-cbi-director-ashwani-kumar-s-death-in-shimla/story-MDeWyM0W53JRAqffIws4WI.html
08-10-2020||City||Mahakumbh 2021: Uttarakhand assesses capacity of Haridwar, Ganga ghats||With Mahakumbh scheduled early next year, the Uttarakhand government and Kumbh Mela administration have decided to assess the carrying capacity of Haridwar and Ganga ghats for Mahakumbh with social distancing norms in place.Mahakumbh in Haridwar will commence from January and conclude in April. Prior to the Covid-19 outbreak, the state government had assessed that 12-13 crore people would participate in Mahakumbh 2021. In a recent meeting of department officials, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat directed Kumbh mela administration to assess the capacity of Ganga Ghats and Haridwar so that permission can be given to an appropriate number of pilgrims during Mahakumbh fair. Also read: Haridwar gears up for Mahakumbh 2021, paramount focus on cleanlinessGanga ghats in Haridwar are being classified into highly sensitive, sensitive and safer zones and they have been accordingly colour-coded. “Pilgrims will be apprised about red, yellow and green ghats. The authorities will not allow pilgrim footfall that threatens social distancing norms as well as creates congestion at one particular ghat,” said Inspector General, Kumbh Force, Sanjay Gunjyal. According to Mela officer in charge Deepak Rawat, assessment of Ganga Ghats will provide an approximate number of pilgrims when social distancing norms are implemented. “The whole Kumbh mela zone has been divided into 23 zones and respective sectors and zonal magistrates will monitor them. Keeping the pandemic in mind, capacity assessment of Ganga ghats, on daily basis, as well as during royal baths (Shahi snaan ), is being done,” said Rawat. “Project management team is assessing the capacity Ganga Ghats on per sq metre basis. We will have the report in a few days after which the exact number of pilgrims to be allowed on each ghat will be arrived at,” said additional district magistrate (Kumbh administration) Lalit Narayan Mishra. Welcoming the government decision, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad said that Kumbh has always been held in a grand way and next year Kumbh will also be held in the same way. “Maximum people should be allowed to take a dip. But keeping Covid-19 in mind, safety is of paramount importance but the steps being taken by the state government and mela administration are in the right direction,” said general secretary Akshar Parishad Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mahakumbh-2021-uttarakhand-assesses-capacity-of-haridwar-ganga-ghats/story-UbC9vi8mlULN5h2SYw5GLP.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurates Uttar Pradesh’s biggest oxygen plant||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated Uttar Pradesh’s largest oxygen production plant in Modinagar, Ghaziabad, in a virtual ceremony here on Thursday. Medical oxygen is important in the treatment of critically ill Covid-19 patients.“The state’s struggle for oxygen will now be a thing of the past. After the installation of HFNC (high-flow nasal cannula), the demand of oxygen had shot up in the Covid-19 hospitals in the state. The new facility will bridge the gap between demand and supply and it is heartening that such a facility is ready during the trying times of the pandemic, when it is needed the most,” said the chief minister, according to a state government press statement.The chief minister expressed happiness that the company would now set up another plant in central UP and more such plants would come up to eliminate the oxygen supply problem.Also Read: 75% new Covid-19 recoveries, 79% positive cases from 10 states each, says health ministryCommissioned by Inox Air Products, one of the largest producers of medical and industrial gases, the plant has the capacity to produce 150 tonnes of liquid oxygen per day. The plant was set up as part of an MoU (memorandum of understanding) signed between the UP government and the company during the UP Investors’ Summit 2018 in February 2018 and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the plant’s foundation in July the same year, according to a state government press statement. The plant also has the capacity to store 1,000 metric tonnes of oxygen. It will supply oxygen to 200 government and private hospitals in the state.Apart from medical purposes, oxygen from the plant could also be utilised in industries such as pharma, chemical, and electronics.Uttar Pradesh’s industrial development minister Satish Mahana, health minister Jai Pratap Singh and medical education minister Suresh Khanna too were present at the inauguration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-inaugurates-uttar-pradesh-s-biggest-oxygen-plant/story-y2MlqgucqMYbSRydVSFNFK.html
08-10-2020||City||Srinagar: Medical college suspends 7 nurses after protest over new duty roster||Seven nurses, four of them females, have been suspended by Kashmir’s premier health institute, Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), after they protested against the newly introduced three-tier duty roster. Terming their suspension as ‘intimidation,’ the nurses accused the SKIMS administration of punishing them for raising their voice even as the hospital said the protesters were ‘instigating’ others.Also read: J&K witnesses dip in daily Covid count in OctoberSKIMS suspended four nurses on October 3 after a token protest on the institute’s premises and then another three on October 5 when the protest spilled onto the streets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/srinagar-medical-college-suspends-7-nurses-after-protest-over-new-duty-roster/story-6GkGW2vQxTFSEsAOFAQTYI.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai police probes Republic TV for TRP fraud, Arnab Goswami hits back||Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh on Thursday claimed to have busted a racket that involved private television channels manipulating their Television Rating Points, or TRP. One of the three channels is Republic TV, the police commissioner said. The other two are local Mumbai channels.Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami responded soon after, linking the police action to the channel’s coverage of certain events including the police probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and threatened to file a criminal defamation against the police commissioner. “He should issue an official apology and get ready to face us in court,” Goswami said.The police action was initiated on a complaint from Hansa, the firm contracted by Broadcast Audience Research Council, or BARC, to install audience measurement meters installed in selected households to track television channels that are being watched by people. Singh said about 30,000 such meters had been installed across the country; 2,000 in Mumbai. Information about the households where the meters are installed is treated as confidential so that the data isn’t manipulated.But this information was leaked, police said.Singh said the Mumbai police found that a set of households where these meters were installed were paid money to tune to a particular channel. In one case, Mumbai’s top police officer said, investigators found that a household comprising people who were not literate always had an English news channel switched on.The households were paid about Rs 400-500 every month, the police commissioner said.Singh said owners of two local channels had been arrested along with an ex-employee of Hansa suspected of leaking the information about meters installed to the television channels.Republic TV is next on the police’s radar. Officials of the news channels will be summoned either today or tomorrow, Singh said. “No one involved will be spared,” the senior police officer said, recalling that they earlier believed that some news channels carried out propaganda stories to boost their TRP. Now it appears they manipulate audience data too, he said.Singh said a small manipulation of the audience data could lead to increase in advertising revenue running into crores of rupees.“As you are aware, a small manipulation of the TRP translates into advertising revenue running into hundreds of crores... “We will examine bank accounts of the television channels. We will examine the funds received from advertisers. And if this is funds from proceeds of crime, action can be initiated to seize the money or freeze the account,” Singh said.In a statement issued soon after, Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami said it was an attempt to get back at the channel for its coverage of the Maharashtra government. Republic Media Network's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami's statement pic.twitter.com/axhbJZ47eAArnab Goswami’s statement put out on the channel’s Twitter handle said Singh had “made false allegations against Republic TV because we have questioned him in the Sushant Singh Rajput case investigation. Republic TV will file a criminal defamation case against Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. There is not a single BARC report that mentions Republic TV. The people of India know the truth”.“Mr Param Bir Singh’s investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case is under a cloud and this is a desperate measure because of Republic tV’s reportage on Palghar, the Sushant Singh Rajput case or any other case. This kind of targeting only strengthens the resolve of everyone at Republic TV to push for the truth even harder,” Goswami said, threatening to sue the police commissioner.“Param Bir Singh stands completely exposed today since BARC has not mentioned Republic in any single complaint,” the statement said.Earlier this year, the police had investigated complaints that Republic TV’s editor-in-chief and prime time anchor Arnab Goswami allegedly instigating hatred against the Muslim community while anchoring a programme on April 29 on the protests by stranded migrants outside the Bandra railway station on April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-busts-racket-to-manipulate-trp-rating-says-republic-tv-among-3-channels-being-investigated/story-SDaVA2MeStP5z3lJ8nJi7I.html
08-10-2020||Pune||Bhima Koregaon judicial panel requests state to put hearings on hold due to Covid||The Bhima Koregaon judicial commission has written to the chief secretary, government of Maharashtra, requesting the state government to put the extension notification on hold at least till the end of the year due to the aggravating Covid-19 situation in the state.The Maharashtra home department had granted the final extension to the commission to complete its task and submit its report before December 31. It is the seventh extension granted to the two-member commission probing the January 1, 2018, riots at Bhima Koregaon near Pune. The previous extension ended on April 8 when the Centre had announced a nationwide lockdown, bringing the commission’s work to standstill.Commission secretary V V Palnitkar in his letter dated October 6 stated, “Covid-19 pandemic is very much active even today. Thousands of new patients and hundreds of deaths are still being reported every day. Safety measures like use of mask, social distancing and sanitisation are mandatory. There are restrictions on travel in local trains. Travel by other modes of public transport is not safe. Also, most of the staff members of the commission stay out of Mumbai in places like Virar and Navi Mumbai. Staff members of the commission are not treated as government employees. They have not been given regular government IDs. Therefore, they are not allowed to travel by local trains. Some of the staff members are senior citizens and have history of comorbity. Witnesses and advocates may also find it unsafe to travel during this pandemic. The overall situation makes it very difficult to hold sittings without risking life of the concerned people.”“Although the commission is willing to resume its functioning, it is facing the challenges mentioned above. Therefore, the commission requests the government to put the notification dated October 5, 2020, on hold at least till the end of this year ,” he added.The commission also said that it was still waiting for the government to reply to its request seeking additional space for sittings in Mumbai . The communication states, “In anticipation of extension of term of the commission and in view of the safety directions issued by the government about social distancing; the commission vide its letter dated July 7, 2020, informed the government of its difficulties in holding sittings in the small-sized hearing hall situated at the premises of the State Chief Information Commission (SCIC) and requested the government to provide an auditorium and two suites from Sahyadri Guest House and one suite in the Sahyadri annex building so that office of the commission could be shifted temporarily. The commission is waiting for reply. However, the commission has received copy of notification dated October 5, stating that the commission should submit its report by December 31, 2020,” the letter added.“It has become difficult for advocates and witnesses to attend the hearing due to the fear of infection. The staff members have also expressed their fears about contracting the virus. The commission does not want them to come to office in such a situation and moreover, they are not government employees. Earlier, we had to postpone hearings during the lockdown and now the situation has aggravated further. We are finding it very difficult to conduct the hearings. We will have to think about the safety measures,” said Palnitkar.The two-member Bhima Koregaon inquiry commission, headed by retired Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, Jay Narayan Patel, also includes former chief secretary and the present chief information officer of Maharashtra, Sumit Mullick as its member. VV Palnitkar is serving as the registrar of the commission. The commission functions with the powers of a civil court in two locations: the Public Information Office at Madam Cama road, Mumbai and the Zilla Parishad building in Bund garden, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bhima-koregaon-judicial-panel-requests-state-to-put-hearings-on-hold-due-to-covid/story-9xo72RllvpQcjPabNBlC7H.html
08-10-2020||Pune||Four, including shooter, arrested for murder of Pune builder||The Bund garden police have arrested four persons in connection with the daylight assassination of builder Rajesh Kanbar (64), near the district collector’s office on Monday. According to the police, the murder was a fallout of a property dispute and four persons, which includes a history-sheeter from Junagadh, Gujarat, have been nabbed in connection with the incident. The accused have been identified as Rahul Ananda Kamble, Rupesh Ananda Kamble, Ganesh Dnyaneshwar Karhe and Hasmukh Jaswantbhai Patel, who is accused of firing the pistol shots. Patel has four cases of murder, kidnapping, dacoity preparations and hurt offences lodged against him in the city. The murder case was lodged against him at Bund garden police station in 2011 while a dacoity related case was lodged against him at Bibvewadi police station in 2015. An extortion related case was lodged against him at Sinhagad police station in 2015. Kanbar who had come to attend a hearing at the district collectorate was leaving for his home when two motorcycle-riding men arrived at the spot and pumped bullets into Kanbar and escaped. He was rushed to a private hospital, where he was declared dead. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(25) of the Arms Act was later registered at Bund garden police station. The complaint in the murder case was lodged by the driver Vishwas Gangawane (32), a resident of Yerawada who saw the live shooting while he was waiting for Kanbar to return to the car. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said “We have arrested the accused quickly based on our information and technical strength. We will show more such results and not speak before we do something. Our main focus will be to go all out against crime and currently we are on a mission mode to act against criminals in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-including-shooter-arrested-for-murder-of-pune-builder/story-Imhr6YCqGQaL4jthymEJLO.html
08-10-2020||Kolkata||In a first, scientists discover 2.5 million-year-old dragonfly fossil in India||A team of scientists from West Bengal has discovered the first dragonfly fossil in India from Jharkhand’s Latehar district. The fossil is at least 2.5 million years old. A paper on the finding was published in the October 10 edition of Current Science journal.“This is the first dragonfly fossil from India. It is a well-preserved one. The fossil belongs to the late Neogene period, which dates between 2.5 million and five million years ago,” said Subir Bera, a professor with the Centre for Advanced Study of the Botany department, University of Calcutta. The dragonfly is around 3cm long and has a wingspan of around 2.5cm. This is, however, much smaller than the fossils of giant dragonflies, which have been found elsewhere in the world. Experts said that the wingspan of one of the giant dragonflies Meganeuropsis permiana measured around 2.5 feet. It dates back to the Permian era, around 300 million years ago. In 2013, a giant, well-preserved dragonfly fossil, dating back 200 million years, was discovered in China. Also Read: Urban air pollution may make Covid-19 more deadly, says studyResearchers from four universities in West Bengal have been looking for fossils in the sediments of Chotanagpur plateau for almost a year. In January 2020, they dug the dragonfly fossil from a depth of around 5m below the soil surface. The team has also found fossils of various insects, fishes and leaves of some flowering plants. The research was headed by Mahasin Ali Khan, assistant professor of Botany at Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University. “The nearest living member of the fossil is Libellula depressa, a species of dragonfly that is found in any tropical country, including India,” said Manoshi Hazra, one of the team members and the first author of the research paper, which has been published in Current Science. As dragonflies spend most of their lives near fresh water bodies, the scientists said that millions of years ago a freshwater body might have existed there, which has now dried up. The other fossils of plants and fishes, which the scientists have found, also support the theory. “The very fact that the team has found the fossil of an adult dragonfly from the sedimentary bed is very interesting. Usually the prospect of finding an immature dragonfly from the sedimentary bed is huge because dragonfly-larvae live underwater. The prospect of finding insect fossils from sedimentary beds and coal beds is huge, but unfortunately little work has been done in India in this regard,” said TK Pal, a former scientist of the Zoological Survey of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/in-a-first-scientists-discover-2-5-million-year-old-dragonfly-fossil-in-india/story-C8zFc4iW2ikqJsuXkhmrcJ.html
08-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand gets system to communicate with remote areas, can save lives in crises||Uttarakhand state disaster response force (SDRF) has acquired the quick deployment antenna (QDA) technology for effectively tackling the challenges emerging from disasters and to reach out to affected people in the remote areas of the Himalayan state at the earliest. The QDA, which is based on satellite communication, helps authorities to reach out to people or officials in no signal areas and send and receive voice and video data apart from holding video conferencing. The QDA technology was inaugurated by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in Dehradun at SDRF control room on Thursday. The state government has already distributed 248 satellite phones to people living in the remote areas of the state so that timely communication is possible with authorities involved in dealing with disasters and emergencies even without mobile connectivity. To further strengthen the emergency communication set up, the SDRF has now acquired the QDA technology. SDRF commandant Tripti Bhatt said Uttarakhand is the first state in the country which has started using QDA, which till now, was being used primarily by paramilitary forces and the national disaster response force (NDRF). Bhatt said the SDRF has procured six QDA systems including three standing and three mobile ones.“The static (standing) QDAs will be set up at SDRF headquarters in Dehradun while mobile QDAs would be sent to the affected areas by a helicopter, so that communication regarding the disaster rescue and search and other emergencies could be established in a very fast way. This will help in effectively managing rescue and search operations in real-time and will help the authorities in reducing casualties due to various disasters”, she said. Sanjay Gunjyal, inspector general (IG) SDRF and Tripti Bhatt, SDRF commandant, first conducted a trial of QDA systems by establishing communication between SDRF control room Dehradun and Gunji area in Pithoragarh, Malari area in Chamoli and Tiuni area in Dehradun district. After the successful trial, the QDA technology was inaugurated by the chief minister, who interacted with the village heads and others in these areas using the system. After the inauguration, Rawat said the new technology will help the state government in effectively dealing with various disasters and emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-gets-system-to-communicate-with-remote-areas-can-save-lives-in-crises/story-yAfAuXrWudhOR3aWi7cfqN.html
08-10-2020||Pune||Pune civic body collects Rs 5.31 cr in property tax under amnesty scheme||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has received a good response for the newly introduced amnesty scheme for tax defaulters. With the scheme in place, property tax defaulters are receiving an 80 per cent waiver on the total fine. The PMC launched this scheme on October 2, 2020 and the tax collection has seen an upward rise, the initiative is valid until the end of November. PMC property tax department chief Vilas Kanade said, “The administration is hoping to get a good response for this scheme and the collection is increasing every day. A maximum number of people prefer to pay their tax online.” The scheme was launched on October 2, 2020 and a total of 417 citizens took benefit of the scheme and submitted a total tax of Rs 95.75 lakh on the first day itself. On October 5th, a total of 1,062 citizens took the waiver benefit and paid Rs 3.36 crore in property tax. Kanade said, “Until October 5th, a total of 2,052 citizens took benefit of the scheme and a total of Rs 5.31 crore tax was paid to the municipal corporation. The total waiver that was offered by the civic body to all citizens so far amounts to Rs 3.48 crore.” Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “I am hoping to get a good response for this scheme. I am hoping that PMC generates a Rs 1,000 crore revenue through the scheme. During Covid-19 period if the PMC would get these funds, it would help to carry out the planned development works.” According to Kanade, for any scheme, the maximum payments are received when the due date approaches. “It is our experience that maximum citizens take benefit or pay bills when the due date comes closer. The PMC launched this scheme on October 2nd, we are hoping that in the next few weeks, PMC will receive a maximum collection through this scheme.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-civic-body-collects-rs-5-31-cr-in-property-tax-under-amnesty-scheme/story-WZtcX99ZHbVMeGUa0po57J.html
08-10-2020||Pune||5km stretch from Katraj to Navale bridge in Pune, a hotspot for accidents||The 5-kilometre stretch from Katraj to Navale bridge has turned out to be an accident-prone spot with eight accidents and five deaths in the past 16 months, according to data available with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, Dhankawadi. Of the many issues that the stretch faces, the four major shortcomings include vehicles on the wrong side of the road, hawkers selling vegetables occupying a portion of the road, incomplete road widening work and potholes. On Tuesday, one person was killed and eight others were injured, after an out of control truck rammed into 13 vehicles and ran over a motorcyclist. “People drive carelessly, especially the youth. There is an urgent need for increasing signal timing below Navle bridge and more blinkers should be placed to safeguard people,” said Mohan Deshmukh who is part of the accident department at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. After a spot visit by an HT reporter, it was noticed that commuters were carelessly using the wrong side of the road which included two-wheelers, auto rickshaws and also four-wheelers. “It is a daily routine as there are many small lanes passing from both the ends so people tend to put their vehicle in between. Yesterday’s accident was dangerous, I saw how truck rammed the vehicles,” said Suhas Yadav, a paan shop owner at a nearby complex. Overspeeding vehicles and potholes also contribute to the hazards in the stretch from Katraj to Navale bridge. “Since it is a slope, commuters do not follow the speed limit. With many potholes on the stretch, people try to skip the pothole by tilting their vehicles which creates an error of judgement for vehicles coming from the rear side and causes accidents,” added Deshmukh. On the entire stretch, there are no CCTV cameras installed to keep track of speeding vehicles. “CCTV cameras are must on roads, especially on highways. The footage is helpful while conducting an investigation,” added Deshmukh. Nitin Gadkari, union minister for road transport and highways, in February 2019, had approved the road widening project to ease the traffic on Wadgaon-Katraj stretch of Dehu road-Katraj bypass. The contract was awarded to All Grace Infrastructure, Gurugram.Rs 96 crore was sanctioned for the 5-km stretch. Once ready, the six-lane lane road will have paved shoulders and 7-metre wide service road on both sides of the stretch. The Central PWD has prescribed that the entire width of the stretch has to be 60 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/5km-stretch-from-katraj-to-navale-bridge-in-pune-a-hotspot-for-accidents/story-AmViRMQH1EHSvTYeNDz3xH.html
08-10-2020||Dehradun||AAP state president, 50 party workers booked for blocking road in Uttarakhand||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Uttarakhand chief SS Kaler has been booked for allegedly blocking a road and violating Covid-19 norms along with 50 members of the party in Udham Singh Nagar. “AAP workers took out a procession without district administration’s permission and blocked the road. They violated Covid-19 norms. As such around 50 AAP workers have been booked,” said Sanjay Pathak, a local police officer.Also read: Case lodged against AAP MLA Kuldeep Kumar under Epidemic Act, says Hathras SPAAP workers staged a demonstration in Khatima area on Wednesday against the alleged police harassment of e-rickshaw operators and two-wheeler owners. They staged a protest in front of a police station on Sitarganj road.Pathak said the road remained blocked due to their sit-in and several vehicles including ambulances and army vehicles were stuck. “It created problems for commuters also. Moreover, demonstrators were not wearing face masks.”Pathak said the demonstrators have been booked under Indian Penal Code’s sections 186 (obstructing public servants in discharge of public function), 188 (disobedience to order), 147 (rioting), 341 (wrongful restraint), 269 (negligent act), 270 (malignant act), and the Disaster Management Act. Kaler said they did not block the road. “The cases which have been slapped on us due to BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] government’s pressure. Police personnel are harassing e-rickshaw operators and two-wheeler owners slapping penalties on them unnecessarily. We protested against the police’s harassment,” he said. “We are not afraid of police cases and will continue the protests against the harassment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/aap-state-president-50-party-workers-booked-for-blocking-road-in-uttarakhand/story-otOf0LN6YEuU6KglGZ9B4J.html
08-10-2020||City||Nothing more damaging than feeling helpless: NGT warns Goa agency against violations||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pulled up the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) for failing to tackle the issue of illegal constructions within the coastal regulation zone, saying that the moment citizens start feeling helpless, it will damage democracy. The NGT Western Zone bench at Pune took offence to the authority repeatedly seeking more time while the appeal was being heard, thus allowing the structures to remain standing. “The (CRZ) Notification issued in 1991 has not been complied with till date and with the conspiracy aid and assistance of Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA), the polluters and violators of law are still continuing their activities,” an NGT bench comprising justices Sheo Kumar Singh and Satyawan Singh Garbyal said. Also Read: Mumbai records most environmental offences among major cities for second consecutive year“When the law protector becomes the law violator, how will the law be protected? “Under the guise of this pending appeal, the GCZMA promotes only the appeal, fails to submit the reply and [is] continuously delaying in filing a reply and thus indirectly helping the illegal construction and this has become the business of GCZMA. In so many cases, we see that old cases are pending and no action is being taken by the GCZMA and replies are not being filed. This is highly objectionable and in violation of CRZ Rules,” the NGT added. The NGT also warned government servants in positions of power that they would be doing a huge disservice to society at large if they only further feelings of helplessness among the public. “Under our Constitution sovereignty vests in the people. Every limb of the constitutional machinery is obliged to be people oriented. The servants of the government are also the servants of the people and the use of their power must always be subordinate to their duty of service.“Harassment of the common man by public authorities is socially abhorring and legally impermissible. It may harm him (the common man) personally but the injury to society is far more grievous. Crime and corruption thrive and prosper in the society due to lack of public resistance. Nothing is more damaging than the feeling of helplessness. An ordinary citizen instead of complaining and fighting succumbs to the pressure of undesirable functioning in offices instead of standing against it,” the NGT bench said. The parties were given additional time to file their replies while the matter was transferred to the principal bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nothing-more-damaging-than-feeling-helpless-ngt-warns-goa-agency-against-violations/story-W8ufh0M5M3QmDAeMuy1nrL.html
08-10-2020||Real||Realty sector picking up in Mumbai metropolitan region, says report||After getting battered badly during the Covid-19 lockdown between April and June, the real estate sector is slowly picking up as the number of new launches and sales have increased in the last three months in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) says a report by Knight Frank India, a real estate consultancy firm.In the MMR, 7,635 housing units were sold in July to September period compared to 2,687 units sold during April to June quarter. In the pre-Covid-19 quarter (January to March), the number of housing units sold were 15,959.The MMR includes Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane as well as parts of Palghar and Raigad districts.Rajani Sinha, chief economist and national director (research), Knight Frank India, described it as an encouraging trend. “The recent cut of stamp duty by 3 percent has been a big motivation for many of the buyers. In addition, the low interest rates on home loans plus the freebies and discounts offered by the builders have all resulted in increase in sales,” said Sinha.She said, looking at the current trend, the sales may further be boosted during the forthcoming festival season of Diwali.The Maharashtra government on August 26 decided to temporarily reduce stamp duty from 5% to 2% till December 31, 2020. After that the Stamp duty from January 1, 2021 to March 31, 2021, will be 3 percent. Also Read: Housing prices fall 2-7% in July-September in 6 top citiesThe last three months also saw 8,389 new launches which were a significant improvement compared to the 1,011 launches during the period of April to June, 2020.“Builders are getting the confidence as sales are taking place and are hence launching new projects. The construction work is now progressing since the migrant force is coming back to work,” said Sinha.Also Read: Asian markets rise banking on hopes for post-election stimulus in USThe Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI), the apex body of the builders, concurred with the report. “We are seeing the fence sitters taking a plunge as they realise this is the best time to buy a property as they are getting the best deal in the current market,” said Deepak Garodia, president, MCHI-CREDAI and also the managing director of Dosti Group.The real estate sector was already witnessing a slowdown when the situation worsened with the lockdown, imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. With uncertainty over jobs and many establishments cutting salaries of their employees, several prospective house buyers are believed to have put their plans on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/realty-sector-picking-up-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-says-report/story-qULouVNyQZMR8eR4xmmUmL.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||For first time since outbreak, no Covid death at Govt Rajindra Hospital in Patiala in over 24 hours||For the first time in this pandemic, no Covid-19 casualty was reported for 24 hours since Wednesday morning at Government Rajindra Hospital, a tertiary health care institute of Malwa. The hospital reported an average of 10 deaths daily during the peak Covid-19 season and even recorded a maximum 18 Covid deaths in a day. A total of 610 patients have succumbed to coronavirus infection at the hospital since April. The hospital has seen a decline in the number of Covid-19 patients over the past few days. Dr Raminderpal Singh Sibia, vice-principal of Government Medical College, Patiala, said, “There is no major change in treatment procedures. It is as usual. But it’s great moment for us. The death rate is declining at the hospital.” At present, 88 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital and 65 of them are on oxygen support. Dr Vishal Chopra, the nodal officer of the isolation facility, said, “In August and September, the hospital saw around 10 deaths every day but over the past four days, only 12 patients died of Covid.” Dr Chopra said: “Most of the deaths at the hospital were from Ludhiana, Sangrur and Mohali districts and the maximum number of deaths was reported within 24 hours of the patient’s hospitalisation.” Earlier, the hospital faced criticism for the high death rate. The state government had to remove the principal, the vice-principal of the Government Medical College, and the medical superintendent of Rajindra Hospital over poor performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/for-first-time-since-outbreak-no-covid-death-at-govt-rajindra-hospital-in-patiala-in-over-24-hours/story-6uMU0gqTYM9op1XY5dcZTK.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi gets ‘green war room’ to monitor pollution levels this winter||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday inaugurated a ‘green war room’ at the Delhi Secretariat to monitor pollution levels in the city this winter. The minister said a 10-member team has been set up to monitor the levels of primary pollutants, measures taken to curb pollution and status of complaints received through Green Delhi mobile application. Satellite data related to farm fires in the neighbouring states will also be analysed in the green war room.   There are different agencies working to deal with the problem of air pollution in Delhi. The green war room has been set up to coordinate their efforts, Rai said.He said the control room will work towards ensuring stricter enforcement of guidelines to check dust pollution at construction and demolition sites, ready-mix concrete plants, and garbage burning.“This anti-dust campaign will continue in mission mode till October 15 and strict action will be taken against the violators,” he said.  The environment minister said the pollution levels at 13 hotspots in the city and the steps taken to bring them down will also be monitored via the green war room. He added that daily reports on the number of complaints received and grievances redressed will be sent to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-gets-green-war-room-to-monitor-pollution-levels-this-winter/story-gHFLEvFe124mEq5KJ3VjfL.html
08-10-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: BJP workers clash with police during march to state secretariat; pistol seized||Hundreds of workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its youth wing, the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), clashed with police on Thursday afternoon when they were stopped from proceeding towards Nabanna, the state secretariat in West Bengal’s Howrah district, as it was in violation of the prohibitory orders in place.The BJYM had organised ‘Nabanna Chalo’ (March to Nabanna) in protest against issues ranging from alleged lack of employment opportunities in Bengal to law and order problems. However, the government did not give permission for the agitation. Also, Section 144 of CrPC is imposed in and around Nabanna throughout the year. Also read: Bengal govt cites Shaheen Bagh ruling, Covid to stop BJP’s ‘Nabanna March’Around 2 pm, there was chaos on the streets in parts of central Kolkata and Howrah as BJP and BJYM workers clashed with the police. They hurled brickbats; bombs also went off at two locations in Howrah district although it was not clear who hurled them. In Kolkata, police used water cannons, using a purple dye for the first time to mark the agitators, and resorted to baton charge at Howrah bridge, Hastings, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Burrabazar and Brabourne Road. A pistol was also seized from a BJP worker in Howrah. BJYM national president and Lok Sabha MP from Bengaluru, Tejasvi Surya, BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, national secretary Arvind Menon, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and other senior leaders were present with the first batch of BJP workers that clashed with the police around noon. Ghosh alleged that Menon sustained injury in a stampede-like situation near the state BJP headquarters on Central Avenue. BJP state vice-president Raju Banerjee fell ill after he was hit by a cannon jet at Hastings. Vijayvargiya and BJP Lok Sabha member Locket Chatterjee started a sit-in demonstration at Hastings, alleging atrocity by the police. “Police attacked peaceful demonstrators. Stones were pelted on us by some people who were definitely not policemen,” alleged Chatterjee. Surya, who was in Howrah with state BJYM president Soumitra Khan, addressed the gathering before the march. “The youth of India are with you...The Mamata Banerjee government has failed to meet the aspirations of millions of youths. They do not have jobs. You must raise your voice against the misrule West Bengal is witnessing,” said Surya.The Trinamool Congress also took out a procession from Jadavpur University to Golpark in south Kolkata to counter the BJP, accusing the latter of creating unrest in the state. An Indian ordnance factory-made .32 pistol was seized from a BJP worker in the Howrah Maidan area. The man has been detained. While seeking permission for the march, the BJYM had informed the government on Wednesday that each of the four rallies would have around 25,000 people. In reply to the BJYM, the home department cited an order of the Centre which banned gathering of over 100 people. It said the government would allow the BJYM to hold peaceful and democratic rallies at places where prohibitory orders were not violated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-bjp-workers-clash-with-police-during-march-to-state-secretariat-pistol-seized/story-sbcbu49InkpOWXTr9IMb3I.html
08-10-2020||Ranchi||Minor cousins found hanging from tree in Jharkhand forest||Bodies of two cousins, aged 15 and 12, were found hanging from a tree by a single dupatta in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum district on Wednesday two days after they went missing after leaving their homes to a nearby jungle to get some grass. “We recovered the dead bodies late last evening. Their deaths look to have happened in mysterious circumstances. We are investigating the matter and sent the dead bodies for post mortem. Anything more could be said only after we get the post mortem reports,” said Jyotilal Rajwad, a local police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/minor-cousins-found-hanging-from-tree-in-jharkhand-forest/story-mSroKxYCB8iOfq6gc337fP.html
08-10-2020||Lucknow||UP CM inaugurates state’s biggest oxygen plant to aid medical supplies amid Covid crisis||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday inaugurated a state-of-the-art cryogenic oxygen plant- the biggest in the state which will aid medical supplies in hospitals amid the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) situation which requires an ongoing supply of oxygen for treating infected patients.According to news agency PTI, INOX Air Products (INOX AP), which commissioned the oxygen plant, said the ultra-high purity air separation plant with a capacity of 150 tonnes per day (TPD) in Ghaziabad’s Modinagar will produce liquid oxygen, liquid nitrogen and liquid argon.INOX AP, which is one of the largest manufacturers of industrial and medical gases in the country, added the plant will cater to the needs of medical oxygen as well as aid Uttar Pradesh’s industrial growth with a robust supply of industrial gases.The company through a statement said that the newly inaugurated plant will fulfill the oxygen demand of more than 200 hospitals and medical colleges in the state as well as cater to the industrial gases needs of various industries.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who inaugurated the plant virtually, said the facility will help Uttar Pradesh combat Covid-19 in a better way.“On this day of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for ‘Jan Andolan’ for Covid-19, I am happy to inaugurate a 150 TPD capacity Liquid Oxygen Plant in Uttar Pradesh which will help us to fight Corona better,” the chief minister tweeted and described the plant as the biggest in the state.As per the company, the oxygen plant has come up as a part of a memorandum of understanding it entered into with the state government during the ‘Investors Summit 2018’. The foundation stone for the project was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 29, 2018.“With a potential to produce 150 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen per day, the plant now takes the state’s current liquid oxygen manufacturing capacity from 115 metric tonnes to 265 metric tonnes per day,” it added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-cm-inaugurates-state-s-biggest-oxygen-plant-to-aid-medical-supplies-amid-covid-crisis/story-eyXZ6GpvkiyAAwZ9YVrnqL.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||World Post Day: Braving pandemic, postal workers emerge as Covid-19 warriors||In sunshine and in rain, the postal workers brace the weather and numerous other hurdles to deliver letters all year round. Amid the pandemic when life suddenly became locked down, the postal service personnels donned various hats, helping everyone fight back the disease. Right from the distribution of testing kits to delivery of medicines and money, postal employees in India have been providing these all, emerging as corona warriors who continued to work in the face of adverse conditions. On World Post Day (October 9) and National Postal Day of India (October 10), here’s bringing you action from behind the post counters. “We restarted our operations in April, with staggered timings and shifts, so that the transport of letters, urgent medicines was not hampered,” says Ashok Kumar, assistant superintendent of postal services in Chanakyapuri Post Office. Kumar, who has been a postal department employee for almost four decades, adds, “We made arrangements for safety equipment for all our employees, including gloves, masks, sanitisers. People worked in shifts; if extra work was needed to dispatch packages, we put in more time.” The postal staff has also been delivering cash to people, in need, when the latter have been unable to access banks due to the pandemic. To accomplish providing money to people at their doorsteps, some like Delhi-based postman Narendra Kumar RC have been working without any leaves, all this while. “Apart from regular deliveries, I also tried to immediately reach people when they would make a request for money at the post office. Iss time pe kisi ko zarurat hai, toh hum chhuti toh nahi le sakte na,” says Kumar, who has been a postman for 34 years. His memory goes back to the time when he joined the profession to see people happy when they receive their letters, and he adds, “In my locality, there were people who asked me to help them with money from the post office, and I did it. Humne ye job logon ki madad karne ke liye li thi, toh yeh toh humara farz hai.” Lakhs of postal workers around the country, like Kumar, have been instrumental in keeping the postal services running during these difficult times. Vijay Kumar, who works at RK Puram main post office, describes how delivery of medicines has taken priority over the time. “Usually, once we receive packages we take time to set them in order citywise, for cumulative dispatch. But, during the time of Covid-19, we have started making instant dispatches of medicines pan India,” he says. When asked if he became concerned about his personal safety at any point, Kumar says, “Of course, there was a fear! But, we took all precautions, worked over time, and sometimes even with just 50% personnel capacity, so that the work doesn’t suffer.” Isn’t that the spirit of being a warrior?Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/world-post-day-braving-pandemic-postal-workers-emerge-as-covid-19-warriors/story-L4iwgeu7M1xhvoKXPZWmFP.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to fix prices of masks to provide them at affordable rates||The Maharashtra government plans to cap prices of masks to provide them at affordable rates. The N95 masks will be available for Rs 19 to Rs 50 while double and triple layer for Rs 3 to Rs 4, state health minister Rajesh Tope said. Maharashtra will be the first state to cap the prices, he added.The state has made wearing of masks mandatory at public places and found that they were being sold at much higher prices.It formed a four-member committee to determine the prices of various types of masks. The committee has submitted its report and the state government is in the final stages of capping the prices, Tope said.Also Read: Urban air pollution may make Covid-19 more deadly, says study“A comparison of rates in May and the corresponding month last year found an increase in prices in various types of masks between 160% to 437%. Considering this, it was decided that the masks should be made available to the people at affordable prices,” he said.Tope said the committee has conducted a detailed study into prices of raw material, production cost, distribution, transportation, etc before suggesting the capped rates.Maharashtra earlier capped fee for all types of Covid-19 tests, treatment for the disease at private hospitals, and ambulances run by private operators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-fix-prices-of-masks-to-provide-them-at-affordable-rates/story-Oj7TFJ3U18PJErF57gzfnO.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Sale of Memon family graves: Court denies pre-arrest bail to 3||The Mumbai sessions court has refused to grant anticipatory bail to former trustee of Juma Masjid of Bombay Trust, Jazil Nawarange, and businessmen Faiyaz Merchant and Anjum Merchant who were booked over the sale of graves allotted to the family of Tiger Memon at Bada Kabrastan, Marine Drive.Memon was a prime accused in March 1993 serial bomb blasts in Mumbai and among the four graves allegedly sold by Nawarange is that of Memon’s brother Yakub who was executed for his role in the blasts. These graves are the property of the Waqf Board and can only be allotted to a family for maintenance, that too after following a due process.Also read: Yusuf Memon, Tiger Memon’s brother and 1993 Mumbai serial blasts convict, deadThe prosecution said that Nawarange and the co-accused were involved in black marketing and committed the offence in respect of the place which is being used as interment. It also alleged that proceeds of sale were misappropriated.The Memon family was allotted seven graves at the Bada Kabrastan. According to complainant Mohammed Abdul Rauf Memon, a cousin of Yakub Memon’s, when he went to enquire about the annual maintenance fees for the graves early this year, he learnt that four of the allotted graves had been sold to someone else. He also discovered that the sale receipt had forged signatures.In his plea, Nawarange claimed that the forefathers of the complainant (Abdul Rauf) were buried at platform No.HBlock 20, Bada Kabrastan but the family had not deposited the maintenance charges of said platform since 1988.Rauf was allegedly told that the graves had been transferred in the names of Faiyaz and Anjum. He claimed that he paid Rs 3 lakh after negotiation. He alleged that he also managed to obtain the receipts issued to Faiyaz and Anjum but those turned out to be forged so he registered the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sale-of-memon-family-graves-court-denies-pre-arrest-bail-to-3/story-ipDOOcd75XHrjk84KBUOPI.html
08-10-2020||Kolkata||Police use tear gas, lathi charge protesters at BJP youth wing’s Nabanna Chalo rally in Kolkata||A protest rally organised by the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) outside Nabanna, the West Bengal Secretariat, in Howrah district turned violent when protesters tried to break police barricades and forces retaliated with lathi charge and tear gas.“Police is lathi charging our people. Stone-pelting is being done from the Khidirpur side. Can’t the police see that?,” BJP leader Locket Chatterjee said.The BJP’s ‘Nabanna Chalo’ agitation is a protest against the alleged killing of party workers in West Bengal under the Mamata Banerjee-led government. #WATCH Howrah: BJP workers try to break police barricade put in place to stop the Party's 'Nabanna Chalo' agitation against the alleged killing of party workers in the state; police use tear gas to bring the situation under control.#WestBengal pic.twitter.com/ChQdi0NYXjSecurity officials were stationed in large numbers outside the BJP state headquarters on Thursday morning. State police used a drone to keep a vigil on the protesting BJP workers. “We are protesting democratically, but Mamata Ji has tried to turn our peaceful demonstration into a violent protest. Goons along with police pelted stones at us,” BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya said. BJP’s Kailash Vijayvargiya, on being asked whether party workers were wearing masks as precaution against Covid-19, said that all workers were wearing masks, but do the same rules not apply to Mamata Banerjee when she holds demonstrations?“All workers are wearing masks. Are rules only for us? Mamata Ji holds demonstrations with thousands, & we’re being taught lessons of social distancing. Do same rules not apply to her?,” he said.Meanwhile, the state government had announced on Wednesday evening that all the offices in the building will be shut for two days (Thursday and Friday) “for sanitisation purpose”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/police-use-tear-gas-lathi-charge-protesters-at-bjp-youth-wing-s-nabanna-chalo-rally-in-kolkata/story-oMxjHzsuyYgzcuX7qw0lPK.html
08-10-2020||Pune||Maharashtra: MD worth Rs 20 crore seized; 5 arrested from Chakan||Five men were arrested and Mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 20 crore seized by the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch from Chakan on Wednesday evening, according to Pune Police chief Krishna Prakash.The five were identified as Chetan Fakkad Dandavate (28), Anandgir Madhugir Gosavi (25), Akshay Shivaji Kale (25), Sanjivkumar Bansi Raut (44), Tausif Hasan Mohammad Taslim (31), according to the police.“Two of them are from Bihar and all of them are residents of Noida, Uttar Pradesh. The smuggling route is yet to be determined. As per the information received, the car arrived in Pimplegaon but sped past the trap we had set. After a chase, they were caught near a dhaba,” said Prakash, commissioner of police, Pimpri Chinchwad.Along with the drugs, officials of Anti-Narcotic Cell of Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch led by senior police inspector Sriram Paul have also seized a Volkswagen car registered in Pune, which was allegedly used to transport the drugs, and cash worth Rs 23,100 from the five men.A case under relevant sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered at Chakan police station against the five men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-md-worth-rs-20-crore-seized-5-arrested-from-chakan/story-erfTuqF96EKAYPYwUvdR4N.html
08-10-2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills 7-year-old in Uttarakhand, 4th child killed within a month||A 7-year-old girl died in yet another leopard attack in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district late on Wednesday evening. This was the fourth case of a child getting killed by a leopard in the past one month in the state. Divisional forest officer of Pithoragarh, Vinay Bhargav said the incident happened in Bhatti village in Berinag sub-division of the district. “The incident occurred on Wednesday evening when the 7-year-old was attacked by a leopard outside her house. The animal took her to a nearby bush when villagers rushed to rescue her after listening to her cries. The leopard then left her body and fled from there,” said Bhargav. According to the DFO, the forest department has installed a cage to catch the leopard and has alerted the villagers against letting their children come out of houses without being accompanied by elders. Also Read: Uttarakhand govt to home deliver ‘Pahadi mutton’, ‘Himalayan fish’ to boost economy of hilly areas In the last one month, four children have been killed in leopard attacks. On October 1, a 14-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack in Pauri Garhwal district, when he took his cattle for grazing in the forest area. On September 24, an 11-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Pithoragarh district when she was collecting fodder near her house. On September 19, a 7-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard when she was playing near her house in Almora district and on September 22, a 40-year-old man was also killed by a leopard in the Pithoragarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/leopard-kills-7-year-old-in-uttarakhand-4th-child-killed-within-a-month/story-Oez6amZ6w9EY0yBfSMuPcP.html
08-10-2020||Kolkata||Durga Puja celebrations set to be low-key in Kolkata amid Covid crisis||Keeping in mind the risks of Covid-19, big-budget Durga Puja committees in Kolkata have decided not to celebrate the festival in a grand manner. “This year, due to Covid-19, there is a lot of uncertainty about how many people will come out for the festival and maintaining social distancing and sanitisation on such a large scale will be very difficult. This is why members of big-budget puja committees have decided against celebrating in a grand manner. The demand for power supply will be less due to this,” West Bengal Power Minister Sovandeb Chatterjee told ANI.He further said that there was a surplus of power, and without demand from major puja committees, losses would continue. “Every year before Durga Puja, we hold a meeting to evaluate how much electricity usage will be required. Already due to the Covid-19 situation, we are running at a loss of Rs 2,500 crore. The power department is ready to provide electricity and have a surplus, but since pujas will not be taking place on a large scale, there is no foreseeable solution. Lightning arrangements and decorations will not be as elaborate as the previous years so there won’t be an increase in demand,” Chatterjee said.Earlier in September, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said that organising cultural programmes at pandals won’t be allowed during the festival.“During Durga Puja, a pandal needs to be open from all four sides. Hand sanitisers should be placed at entry points of pandals, and the wearing of masks to be mandatory. Physical distancing needs to be maintained. Organising cultural programmes at pandals won’t be allowed,” Mamata said.This year, Durga Puja be celebrated from October 23 to October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/durga-puja-celebrations-set-to-be-low-key-in-kolkata-amid-covid-crisis/story-my5htGhm0wvjisB0lPMYEL.html
08-10-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand allows entry of 50 people at places of worship with strict Covid-19 protocols in place||Amid the coronavirus (Covid-19) crisis and Centre’s guidelines for the reopening of religious gathering with a ceiling of 100 people, the Jharkhand government said a maximum of 50 people can enter a place of worship at a time, adding that devotees must wear masks and maintain social distancing.Religious places in the state have been allowed to re-open on Thursday after a period of over six months.A notification issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Wednesday night read that places of worship in areas other than containment zones are allowed to re-open and heads of these places of worship must adhere to the Covid-19 protocol.Here are some of the instructions put forth under the notification:1. Not more than 50 people will gather at a time at any place of worship and a distance of six feet must be maintained2. No fairs or religious processions will be organised and only those with masks will be allowed to enter the premises.3. Priests or clerics will have to wear masks and devotees should not hug each other or touch idols, sacred texts or bells.4. People are required to bring mats from their homes and they are not allowed to sit together to sing or speak.5. Priests cannot give ‘prasad’ to devotees or sprinkle water on them.6. Sanitisers will be kept at the entrance of the religious institutions and a person who has symptoms will be allowed to enter.7. Floors of the religious institutions will have to be sanitised several times a day.8. Cafeterias and shops near places of worship will have to follow Covid-19 protocols.The notification highlighted that strict action will be taken against those who are found violating the Covid-19 protocols.The Ramgarh district administration made it mandatory for devotees to have online tokens for entry into the renowned Chinnamastaka Temple at Rajrappa.Meanwhile, 829 more people tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand which pushed the state’s Covid-19 tally to 89,702, a health official said. The total cases include 9,759 active cases, over 79,000 recoveries and 767 deaths, the official added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-allows-entry-of-50-people-at-places-of-worship-with-strict-covid-19-protocols-in-place/story-QhsyadXBHXrttmt7CGR2xN.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fire breaks out at Narela industrial area; no casualties reported yet||A fire broke out at a factory in the DSIDC Narela industrial area on Thursday. Fifteen fire tenders have been rushed to the spot to douse the fire, which started at 10.57 am. The fire department said they do not have any reports any casualties. “ The fire started at a PVC sole factory in the D block. Our fire personnel are on the spot to control the fire. It is too early to say what started the fire,” a senior fire officer said, adding that police teams are also on the spot. Last month, there was a similar fire in the industrial area inside a shoe factory. It took 26 fire tenders 6-7 hours to douse the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-fire-breaks-out-at-narela-industrial-area-no-casualties-reported-yet/story-K9phKAD09ngdeyThSuRJBP.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra BJP executive committee to meet today||The newly formed executive committee of Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Maharashtra unit is meeting today. Issues likely to be discussed include the state’s handling of Covid-19, farm losses owing to flooding, Maratha reservation and rise in crime against women.The committee is also expected to pass a resolution congratulating the Centre for its newly enacted farm and labour laws. A BJP functionary said, “The newly released report by National Crime Records Bureau has placed Maharashtra number three in crimes against women. Then, farmers suffered losses due to heavy rains in various parts of the state but no compensation has been paid to them. The state government has also failed to handle the Covid-19 pandemic effectively, resulting in Maharashtra being on the top in the number of cases. All these issues will be deliberated upon in the committee meeting and a strategy will be chalked out to take them forward.”Also read: Maharashtra BJP leaders want onion export ban lifted, says Union ministerParty’s national president JP Nadda will virtually inaugurate the day-long session being held at party’s Dadar office in Mumbai where state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil will join the meeting. Office bearers from other parts of the state will join it online. A resolution is also expected to be passed to congratulate state leaders Pankaja Munde, Vinod Tawde, Vijaya Rahatkar and Sunil Deodhar for their appointment on national executive committee.The jumbo state executive committee has 12 vice presidents, five general secretaries, 12 secretaries, a treasurer, an organisational secretary and 68 executive committee members apart from 139 invitees and 58 special invitees. The core committee of the senior leaders will also meet in the afternoon. Party’s national general secretary BL Santosh and national joint general secretary V Satish will address the office bearers during the meeting.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis will deliver the valedictory address in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-executive-committee-to-meet-today/story-WClv29YkslEj6NDfvoi7uK.html
08-10-2020||Pune||Pune local trains to run for essential services’ staff: All you need to know||After almost six months of shutting operations in the wake of coronavirus disease, local trains in Pune will resume functioning for essential services’ staff from Thursday. These trains are a major mode of transport for working people between Maharashtra’s Pune and Lonavla.Pune police commissioner and the nodal officer to coordinate train operations in the region, Amitabh Gupta, sent an ‘action plan’ letter to the Pune railway division.“Kindly find enclosed herein a detailed SOP for starting local trains in Pune Metropolitan Region prepared by us in consultation with local railway authorities based in Pune. I hereby request you to issue directions to the local railway authorities in Pune to start above stated railway service with effect from October 8,” he said in the letter.Here is all you need to know:- Keeping in mind social distancing guidelines, the number of passengers per local train will be reduced from 1,200 to 700.- A ‘QR code’ based e-pass system has been introduced for passengers which will be monitored by the IT cell of the Pune police department. - In order to travel in the trains, people engaged in essential services would have to get the e-pass with the QR code and identity card. The QR code will be scanned at all entry points.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage- The e-pass will contain all the personal details required for travelling to and from the place of work.- All agencies of essential services will provide the IT cell of the Pune police department with passenger list with details like employee code, name, designation, office station, residence station, mobile number.- Those who are not a part of essential services have been requested not to gather at the railway stations to board the trains. - “We appeal to residents to not gather at the railway stations to board the local trains, if they are not part of the essential services’ workforce. Apart from that all the safety measures to maintain social distancing and avoid the spread of virus will be taken by the railway authorities,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/local-trains-in-pune-to-operate-for-essential-services-staff-from-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-QUtmUryaqKgIK396Mm6mgI.html
08-10-2020||City||Covid-19: Maharashtra task force aims to bring CFR down to 1%||Grappling with its high case fatality rate (CFR), or the number of deaths as against the number of people who have tested positive for Covid-19, Maharashtra is working towards bringing it down to 1% in another month’s time.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state’s Covid task force appointed for clinical management of patients, the state’s newly launched campaign of ‘My family, My responsibility’ aims for early detection and treatment.“We still have a CFR lower than most countries but the existing numbers are mainly owing to a large number of co-morbid patients. The fatality rate has been dropping in the last few months and we aim to bring it down to 1%,” Joshi said.Also read: India crosses 82 million Covid-19 tests in 9 monthsIn a press briefing this week, the Centre’s health department stated that 48% of the Covid-19 deaths in the country have been reported in 25 districts of eight states, and 15 of these districts are in Maharashtra. The health ministry added that it is working to bring down the CFR in these districts.As on Wednesday, Maharashtra is in the second place in the national chart after Punjab in CFR. While Punjab has a CRF of 3.07%, the state’s mortality rate is 2.64% followed by Gujarat at 2.42%.On Wednesday, the state reported 14,578 fresh cases and 355 fatalities, taking its total count to 148,489 cases and 39,072 fatalities. A month ago, Maharashtra and Punjab had a CFR of 2.93% and Gujarat was at the top of the list at 2.98%. In August, however, Maharashtra had a CFR of 3.5%, while Gujarat was at the top of the list at 3.82%.Though the state has brought down the CFR, it continues to be higher than the national average of 1.55% as on October 7 and hovering near the world average of 2.94% on Wednesday, as per the data shared by the state’s medical education and drugs department. Officials say that a weak health infrastructure and lack of contact tracing can be few of the reasons for the high CFR but it has been consistently falling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-maharashtra-task-force-aims-to-bring-cfr-down-to-1/story-IyuSaFKY5DZyYO2wEIej8M.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality turns ‘poor’ as AQI worsens||The national capital recorded ‘poor’ air quality on Thursday with the Air Quality Index (AQI) of areas such as Anand Vihar and Patparganj standing at 210 and 214, respectively, according to the data released by Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC). An AQI between 0-50 is considered good, (51-100) is satisfactory, (101-200) is moderate, (201-300) is poor, (301-400) is very poor and (401-500) is considered severeDelhi witnesses a surge in air pollution levels every year especially during the winter season owing to the practice of stubble burning. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) on Wednesday said that AQI is forecasted to deteriorate for the next three days and will remain in ‘poor’ category with increasing magnitude until Saturday.The Delhi government on Wednesday directed six major construction and demolition sites to stop work in view of the increasing pollution levels. State environment minister Gopal Rai said the first target is to reduce pollution due to dust and around 39 sites have been identified where anti-smog guns will be utilised.Meanwhile, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal pointed out that the recent rise in pollution levels is attributed to stubble burning and other causes. He added that several measures have been taken to reduce the effects of stubble burning by using methods suggested by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-turns-poor-as-aqi-worsens/story-ELeF1jAfYfDnG9amj36u3N.html
08-10-2020||Jaipur||BJP dubs Rajasthan as hub of crime against women, on offensive against Gehlot||Alleging an unprecedented increase in crime against women and Dalits in Rajasthan during the rule of Ashok Gehlot-led government, the BJP has demanded the formulation of a new policy that includes award of Rs 10 lakh as compensation and a government job for rape survivors in the state.A BJP delegation led by leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria met governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday and urged him to direct the state government to frame a new policy for rehabilitation of rape survivors; time-bound investigation of serious crimes against women and Dalits and effective monitoring of such cases. In the memorandum submitted to Mishra, the BJP alleged that there has been an unprecedented increase in crime against women, Dalits, tribals and common people in the last 20 months—when chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s government has been in office.A total of 4.35 lakh cases have been registered in Rajasthan from December 2018 to August 2020, including 11,200 cases of rape, molestation, eve teasing etc. The figures of the national crime record bureau, 2019 reveals that 7% of the country’s crime cases are from Rajasthan. The state stands second in crime against women. There has been an increase in crime by 49.10% in 2019 compared to 2018. “The state stands first in crimes related to rape, as country’s 18.72% crime happens here, which is unfortunate. It is shameful that the state is on top in cases of rape against girl above 12 and below 18 years. Rajasthan is second in crimes against Dalits with 14.81% of the country’s total cases.” Also Read: Post Hathras, UP to set up data analytics centre to identify crime against women hot spotsKataria was accompanied by deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore, state BJP chief Satish Poonia and others.The delegation mentioned the recent incidents of crimes against women such as rape in Banswara, Sirohi, Bharatpur, Dholpur etc to support their point.“The chief minister is also the home minister but is silent on such incidents. The state is embarrassed with such cases and people are living in fear. Congress has no moral right to be in the government,” said Kataria.Also Read: Victim’s family alleges illegal confinement at Hathras home, approaches HCThe institutions such as the women commission and the SC commission, which have powers, are lying vacant, he said. Congress leader Archana Sharma responded to the charges by alleging that the BJP was levelling baseless allegations to hide their own failures across the country. She further stated that the state government was committed towards the welfare of the masses, especially women and Dalits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/bjp-dubs-rajasthan-as-hub-of-crime-against-women-in-offensive-against-gehlot/story-UL2rPWGPcKSiWRCPuhX7oL.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 4 men wanted for murder, extortion and attempts to murder arrested||The Delhi Police on Thursday arrested four men wanted for murders, attempts to murder and extortion in Delhi and Haryana following a brief shoot-out in Rohini. All four men sustained bullet injuries, senior officials said. The police identified the arrested men as Sunil Gahlot, 23, Amit Raj, 26, Rohit, 23 and Ravinder Yadav, 31. The police recovered six pistols, three bulletproof jackets and three bulletproof helmets from them.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said they had received information that men associated with the infamous Lawrance Bishnoi-Kala Jatheri-Sube Gujjar gang, wanted for murders, attempts to murder, extortion and robbery in Delhi-NCR, will come to Rohini from Haryana. Also Read: Man stabbed, his friend injured for resisting snatching bid at GB Road“Acting on this information, a trap was laid in Khera village in Rohini early Thursday. Around 3.30am, a white car was spotted coming from the direction of Khera village. When our team signalled the driver to stop, he tried to speed away. Because the road was blocked with cars, the car hit the divider on the road. The men were asked to surrender; instead, they opened fire,” Yadav said.Three bullets hit a police car that was blocking the road. “One bullet hit inspector Man Singh, and grazed past his arm. Another bullet hit the bulletproof jackets of sub-inspector Ravi Rana. In retaliation, the police team also fired. Two bullets hit Sunil in the legs and one hit his hand. Amit was shot in both legs, while three bullets hit Rohit in the leg. Ravinder was also hit by one bullet in the leg,” Yadav said.The arrested men fired 22 rounds and the police fired 28 rounds in exchange. “The local police were informed and the injured were taken to BSA Hospital, Rohini, in an ambulance,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-4-men-wanted-for-murder-extortion-and-attempts-to-murder-arrested/story-kHueNIMCOOxJCQG0XxIiCI.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sets up Chandrapur human-tiger conflict resolution study group; report by Dec 31||Taking cognisance of the rising human-tiger conflict in Chandrapur, the Maharashtra government has set up an 11-member committee to look into options for conservation, relocation of tigers, and suggest measures to reduce conflict.Forest minister Sanjay Rathod said the committee will submit its report by December 31 and a government resolution on its formation would be published on Thursday.Also read: 1,300 wild animals killed by electrocution in India over a decade, says report“Since Chandrapur has the highest number of tigers in the state, the number of conflict cases has increased. As directed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, this committee will assess different aspects associated with this conflict such as suspected problem areas...views and suggestions from locals, previous cases and actions taken... [the panel will conduct] in-depth study on the rise in cases this year,” said Rathod.Chandrapur’s chief conservator of forest, NR Praveen, will head the panel.Milind Mhaiskar, principal secretary (forest), called the formation of the committee a very important decision. He said striking a correct balance for tiger density is crucial for the entire landscape, and especially in the context of reducing human-wildlife conflict. “Final decisions based on this study also have the potential to enrich other areas in Maharashtra with an increase in the tiger population.”The toll from the human-tiger conflict in Maharashtra mounted to 32 this year when a 70-year-old man was killed in Chandrapur on Monday. Of these, 27 deaths have been reported from Chandrapur alone, according to the forest department. Three tigers have been captured from the district this year, and operations are underway to capture a male tiger (RT1) blamed for killing the 70-year-old. RT1 has also attacked 11 people while evading efforts to tranquilise it since February this year.In May, the forest department submitted a proposal to the government suggesting the translocation of 50 tigers from Chandrapur to areas with low tiger density. It also proposed sterilisation of male tigers. On August 8, Thackeray directed the formation of the panel while turning down the idea for sterilisation.“With coordination among different state departments, awareness drives at villages and developing a protocol with villagers for reporting tiger movement, the forest department has taken a lead in addressing conflict cases in a meticulous manner in Chandrapur by ensuring the safety of both human and tiger lives,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife). “The committee’s suggestions will help develop specific strategies and remedies for addressing this issue.”A National Tiger Conservation Authority and Wildlife Institute of India (Dehradun) study on the status of tigers in 2018-19 found Chandrapur to be the region with maximum human-tiger conflict.Of its 11,443 sq km area, forest areas are spread across 5,206 sq km in Chandrapur.Between 2002 and 2014, 63 deaths were reported due to tiger attacks, according to forest department data. As many as 84 deaths were reported between 2016 and 2020.The tiger population in Maharashtra has increased from 103 in 2006 to 168 in 2010, 190 in 2014 and 312 now. Chandrapur is home to 175 of the 312 tigers.“This year, we have had a difficult time with a very high number of tiger kills,” said Praveen. “Rise in conflict maybe because Chandrapur has more than 50% of total tigers in Maharashtra in one district while at the same time almost 45% of the total geographical area is under forest cover with fragmented forest patches interspersed with the agricultural landscape. There is a high tiger dispersal rate into agricultural areas while large numbers of people are dependent on farming as their mainstay. The clash leads to conflict.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sets-up-chandrapur-human-tiger-conflict-resolution-study-group-report-by-dec-31/story-StlilS7jY12LqkgqhiecBJ.html
08-10-2020||Lucknow||Post Hathras, UP to set up data analytics centre to identify crime against women hot spots||To strengthen the security of women and facing flak over the gangrape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, the state home department has decided to set up a data analytics centre as part of the Women Power Line 1090. The Women Power Line 1090 is a 24x7 contact centre in Lucknow that women can call to register complaints against eve-teasing.At the centre, to be established under the ‘safe city’ project, data would be collected and analysed to identify areas more prone to crime against women, officials said. Also Read: Victim’s family alleges illegal confinement at Hathras home, approaches HCAdditional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the data analytics centre would collect the data regarding crime against women from various sources. “The data, collected from different sources, would be analysed to identify the areas where the women were harassed. The areas from where maximum cases are reported would be marked as hot spots. The district police and anti-Romeo squads would be activated to check crime against women,” he said. Soon after coming to power in the state in 2017, the Yogi Adityanath government had instituted a policy to check stalkers and eve-teasers in Uttar Pradesh by constituting groups of volunteers called anti-Romeo squads. However, there are several reports of self-appointed vigilantes who harass couples in the name of protecting women.According to Awasthi, the cyber cell of the Women Power Line 1090 would be strengthened for quick disposal of cases, using cyber forensic tools. To check the cases of stalking, the Women Power Line had been integrated with the UP-112 line so that police could be immediately dispatched to take action against anti- social elements. “An SMS alert would be sent to the police officer posted in the area and feedback about police action would be collected from the victim,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/post-hathras-up-to-set-up-data-analytics-centre-to-identify-crime-against-women-hot-spots/story-KG8QoyvZGRSEhtwlPNAsyO.html
08-10-2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt cites Shaheen Bagh ruling, Covid to stop BJP’s ‘Nabanna March’||Hours after the Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled in reference to the blockade against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at south Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh that right to protest in public places is not absolute and public places cannot be occupied indefinitely, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government cited the same order to dissuade the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from holding a mega protest outside Nabanna, the state secretariat in Howrah district, on Thursday. The Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of the BJP, has organised the ‘Nabanna Chalo’ (march to Nabanna) programme to raise its voice on issues ranging from an alleged lack of employment opportunities in Bengal to law and order problems. Top BJP and BJYM leaders are to lead four processions from different locations in Kolkata and Howrah to Nabanna on Thursday. The BJYM informed the government that each of these rallies will have around 25,000 youths. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court highlighted the troubles faced by the general public due to the road blockade at Shaheen Bagh by protestors who were opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and ruled that dissent and democracy go hand in hand but protests must be carried out in designated areas. The Shaheen Bagh blockade started in December 2019 and continued till March 2020. TMC chief Mamata Banerjee supported the movement and she still opposes the new citizenship law and the National Population Register (NPR) in public, saying these will trigger social and religious discrimination. A Shaheen Bagh-like agitation was held in Kolkata as well earlier this year. The SC order also asked authorities to ensure that public places were free of occupation by protestors. “Occupation of public places for protests is not acceptable. Authorities must ensure removal of occupation of public places,” the bench held on Wednesday. However, the manner in which occupants should be removed to clear public places is to be decided by government authorities and they should not hide behind or wait for court orders in order to carry out their functions, the court added. Hours later, the West Bengal home department, while replying to a letter from the state BJYM, cited the same ruling, saying it was duty-bound to follow it.“You are probably aware that, only a few hours back, the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India has given a judgement in Civil Appeal No 3282/2020 wherein the Hon’ble Apex Court has held certain principles regarding protest and occupation of sites and public places and public ways. You will kindly appreciate that we are duty-bound to comply with the solemn order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India,” said the letter sent by the special secretary of the home department to the BJYM. HT has seen the letter. In a parallel development, the state government declared that all offices in Nabanna will remain closed for two days so that they can be sanitised. In its bid to discourage BJYM’s ‘Nabanna March’, the state home department also cited the prohibition on large political gathering as per the latest Central guidelines issued to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read: ‘Inspect tyres’: Mamata Banerjee amid concerns trucks are Covid carriers“You are also probably aware that the Government of India, on the strength of the National Disaster Management Act, has issued guidelines banning gatherings and political rallies having more than 100 people in view of the current Covid-19 pandemic. It seems that your protest march is in clear violation of this disaster guideline of the Government of India. Indeed, you have categorically mentioned that each of your rallies will have around 25,000 youths,” said the home department’s letter. “You are probably also aware that Section 144 CrPC is in force in and around Nabanna,” said the letter, adding that the government would help the BJYM hold peaceful and democratic rallies at places where prohibitory orders under Section 144 are not violated. Also Read: Third man arrested in Bengal BJP leader’s murder caseReacting to Wednesday’s order of the Supreme Court on the Shaheen Bagh blockade, Bengal’s deputy health minister Chandrima Bhattacharya said, “The order is applicable to the BJP which blocks roads and holds agitations, causing inconvenience to people.” BJYM leaders said that no matter what the government said they would go ahead with the agitation as planned. “It seems the TMC already knows that its days are numbered. That is why it is emptying Nabanna. Our programme will be held peacefully as planned,” Bengal BJP president Ghosh told the media on Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-govt-sites-shaheen-bagh-ruling-covid-to-stop-bjp-s-nabanna-march/story-U3YZlXmP2jajwysCg5hP2O.html
08-10-2020||Indore||Inquiry into land sale by Indore trust begins after HC held it to be illegal||Economic offence wing (EOW) of MP government initiated a preliminary enquiry (PE) on Wednesday to probe alleged illegal sale of land by an Indore based trust and other irregularities in light of high court’s judgment passed on Monday in this regard, as per department of home, Madhya Pradesh. At the same time, the home department constituted a team of officials including two superintendents of police to assist the EOW in its probe. “A letter from the director general of EOW has stated that the high court has issued a directive to institute an inquiry into charges against trustees of Khasgi (Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Charities) Trust regarding misappropriation, illegal construction and illegal sale of government land. In this regard a preliminary enquiry has been registered,” said an official release. As per the communiqué, a committee of police officers has been formed in view of the magnitude of the inquiry and importance of the case to assist the EOW in its probe. The team members include superintendent of police of police training college in Indore, Awdhesh Goswami, superintendent of police of the anti-terrorism squad, Ramji Shrivastava, additional superintendent of police of the cyber cell in Indore, Vaibhav Shrivastava, inspectors of police, Gopal Parmar, Santosh Singh Yadav, Vinod Dixit, Narendra Raghuvanshi and Manju Yadav and sub-inspector of police JP Trivedi, as per the official information. The home department has additionally requested the director general of police to assign 10 sub-inspectors of police and 20 constables to assist the probing team, as per the communique. Denying any fraud in the transactions, the counsel for the trustees from erstwhile royal family of Holkars, Abhinav Malhotra said, “The fact remains that in the past six decades of existence of the trust only 6 of 246 properties were sold and the proposal for every sale was duly approved by each and every member of the trust. Three of the trustees include Holkar family members and their representative; two trustees are representatives of the state government and one trustee is nominated by the central government.” Malhotra added that the sale of properties was done in a transparent manner to fund the maintenance need for trust properties.“The sale was transparent and entire money was deposited in the trust’s bank accounts to create a corpus for maintenance of the trust properties. This is also a fact that while the state government gives merely Rs 2.91 lakh to the trust for maintenance of the trust properties, the royal family members, who are trustees, have given crores of rupees from their own pockets for maintenance of the properties.” Also Read: MP begins probe into alleged multi-crore rupee scam in govt scheme for farmersNotably, high court’s Indore bench on Monday quashed the judgment of a single judge bench of the same court, passed in 2013 and questioned the sale of endowment properties by the trust while declaring the sale of the land null and void and ordering an inquiry by the economic offence wing (EOW) of MP government into it, as per the judgment copy. Also Read: FIR against ex-MP CM Kamal Nath, 8 others for violating Covid norms during public meet in stateThe properties, 246 in number, are spread over 12,000 acre of land in various states including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Maharashtra etc and include ‘138 temples, 18 dharmshalas, 34 ghats, 12 chhatries, 24 bagicha, kund and other miscellaneous properties’ managed by Khasgi Trust, as per the judgement copy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/indore/inquiry-into-land-sale-by-indore-trust-begins-after-hc-held-it-to-be-illegal/story-oLpfDeATU4qQe5mh53LMHO.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer kills his three children before ending life in Punjab’s Bathinda district||A 35-year-old farmer killed his three children before hanging himself at his house in a village of Bathinda district on Thursday morning. Police said the man, who was marginal farmer, was under emotional stress since his wife died battling cancer last month. In an eight-page suicide note in Punjabi, the man said that he was unable to bear the loss of his wife and had decided to take the extreme step. He said that all assets belonging to the family should be donated to the village gurdwara. The body of the couple’s eldest child, a seven-year-old boy, was found hanging in a room, while two daughters were aged three years and one year were found dead on the bed. The incident came to light when neighbours spotted the bodies and informed the police. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said the post-mortem examination report was awaited and the matter is under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-kills-his-three-children-before-ending-life-in-punjab-s-bathinda-district/story-68VnHZqHfbCKSl7gNq2JnL.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Yamuna body signs pact with Zurich firm for construction of airport in Jewar||The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) on Wednesday signed a concession agreement with Zurich Airport International AG to allow the latter to start work for the development of an international airport at Jewar, around 100km from Delhi in the National Capital Region.The signing was delayed as the Swiss company’s officials could not travel to India for it in view of the ban on international flights because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar will become operational as per schedule by 2023 as we have already been working on all required procedures, such as geographical survey, topographical survey and soil testing, among other things,” said Christoph Schnellmann, chief executive officer of YIAPL.“We will start work at the project site by middle of 2021 after finalising the required agencies.” he added. The Centre on May 19 granted Zurich Airport International AG the security clearance for the singing of the concession agreement. One runway of the Noida international airport will be built during the first phase of construction and around 90 per cent of the air traffic in the initial years will be domestic only, a top official of Zurich Airport International told news agency PTI on Wednesday.The agreement was supposed to be signed by July 2 as per the earlier schedule. But on June 10, the Uttar Pradesh government postponed the agreement signing date to August 17 in view of the pandemic. On August 14, Zurich Airport International AG was given time till October 15 for the signing in view of restrictions on air travel.Authorities have acquired 1,334 hectares of land under phase 1 out of the total 5,000 hectares required for the airport project.Zurich Airport International AG is the owner of Switzerland’s biggest airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yamuna-body-signs-pact-with-zurich-firm-for-construction-of-airport-in-jewar/story-Qiyh8iVqOiJFqFQ6TFGmiJ.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Two crushed to death as truck topples on car in Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar||Two men were crushed to death inside their car after a truck, filled with rice sacks, toppled on their vehicle in south Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar in the early hours of Wednesday, the police said. The victims, Ranjan Kalra and Ankit Malhotra, were both 35-years-old and ran an event management firm for seven years, according to the police. The collapse was such that the police needed to employ the services of two private hydra cranes as well as three cranes of the traffic police to remove the truck, said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east). It took nearly 90 minutes to cut through the mangled remains of the car and pull out both the occupants. “The two men were declared dead on arrival at a hospital,” Meena said. The driver, 25-year-old Vipin Yadav, fled from the scene of the accident soon after the incident, but was arrested later that afternoon, and booked for causing death due to negligence. “Yadav was on his usual trip to Tughlaqabad after picking up rice bags from Ludhiana,” an investigator involved in the matter said.Malhotra lived with his family in east Delhi’s Karkardooma, while Kalra was a resident of Lajpat Nagar. Kalra has left behind a toddler daughter. The two were on their way to the airport when the incident took place on Wednesday.“They had organised an event in Noida on Tuesday evening and were supposed to visit Kolkata for work, and were due to return on Thursday,” the officer said.In the early hours of Wednesday, Malhotra drove out in his Honda City and had picked up Kalra from his Lajpat Nagar home around 3.30am. “Like they often did, they planned to leave the car at the airport’s parking lot,” the officer said. But as they emerged from a service lane in the neighbourhood and turned on to the road under the Lajpat Nagar Flyover to head towards the airport, around 3.45am, the allegedly speeding container truck happened to come right in front of them, the officer said based on the initial probe. “Malhotra tried to save the situation by swerving towards the right, but the truck driver couldn’t stop his vehicle and it ended up toppling over the car,” said the officer. Since there was no way the occupants could be brought out without removing the truck, the police first sought the help of private cranes from nearby. “When that did not help either, we sought the traffic police’s help to use their cranes to remove the truck. The car’s roof was smashed and we had to cut the car to bring out the victims,” said the investigator. They were finally pulled out by 5.15am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-crushed-to-death-as-truck-topples-on-car-in-delhi-s-lajpat-nagar/story-6xQAriF9DRTCwJAvmQQXSL.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Just another day at work||Like many jobs, being a waste collector is hectic. One has to walk along one’s assigned streets, go through piles of garbage to pick up the viable trash, put it in a sack and transport it to the collection point, which can be the collector’s own home.“It’s hard physical labour,” says Shakir Husain. Himself a collector, Mr Husain operates in the central parts of the city. This afternoon he has collected enough stuff to fill up two medium-size bags. Both bags are hanging down from his right arm.Standing by a tea stall, he says he shall now walk back to the room where he lives, deposit the trash there, and go out again for another round. “I’ve already made four rounds,” he says. Mr Husain works daily from 10am to 5pm.Gesturing towards the empty shirt sleeve falling down on his left, he says he lost that arm many years ago. “I got electrocuted by 11,000 volts.”It had happened back home in Moradabad, UP. “Losing one hand was a setback, but one has to make a living to support one’s family.” His wife, kids and mother live in the village and depend on his earning.Not long after the accident, Mr Husain followed the footsteps of some of the folks in his village and arrived in Delhi to find a living. “One is not born a waste collector,” he explains. “Finding an employment in a big city is a matter of luck and kismat (fate)... I could have been something else, perhaps, but my destiny was to be a kabadi walla.”He admits “that the work was very tough in the early days, because I had to manage everything using only one arm.” By now, he says, he has grown used to “the nature of my job.”Suddenly, Mr Husain’s attention is claimed by a pile in the corner. He walks over, bends down over a large plastic bag and fiddles inside it. It has two tin boxes, and some banana peels. He tosses the peels aside and keeps the tins inside one of his two bags.After dropping this load at home, he will take a lunch break before going back to work. “I never cook,” he says. “I always eat outside, much easier.”He walks away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-just-another-day-at-work/story-c0iCmIJwghbq17pmyR3gVO.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Elections of Panjab University Teachers’ Association begin on October 8||With the permission of deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar finally granted, the teachers of Panjab University (PU) will begin casting their votes on Thursday to elect the office bearers of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA).Over 600 teachers hold suffrage in this election, earlier scheduled for September 25 and 26. On Thursday, polling will be held in four slots, from 8.30am onwards, at the English Auditorium and the Evening Auditorium, and end at 5.30pm.On Friday, Day 2 of polling (9am to 1pm at English Auditorium), an annual general body meeting will be held and results will be declared.Two-cornered contestThe Sidhu-Khalid group will be contesting against the Mritunjay-Naura group, which is backed by the syndicate’s Goyal group. Mohammed Khalid of the department of evening studies will be contesting for the post of president against Mritunjay Kumar, who was the vice-president of PUTA for 2019-2020.For the post of vice-president, Amit Chauhan of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) has been fielded by the Khalid group against Supinder Kaur of the Mritunjay group.SOPs for electionsThe polling schedule will be staggered over two days, with time slots for voting groups of teachers. Wearing masks will be mandatory and every individual will undergo thermal screening at entry points. Two different venues have been selected for polling and voters are advised to bring their own pens; gloves will be provided to all.The voters will need to comply with social distancing norms. The services of professional consultants had been procured for complete sanitisation and other precautions at venues. Those who tested positive for Covid-19, or are awaiting reports, or have been quarantined have been requested to refrain from voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/elections-of-panjab-university-teachers-association-begin-on-october-8/story-l73rrkLssRcPsdaEtizzEK.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Fire at dumping ground in Chandigarh’s Dadumajra gives residents burning eyes, choking throats, sleepless night||Foul smell and smoke emanating from the fire that broke out at the garbage dump in Dadumajra on Tuesday gave the residents living in the vicinity a sleepless night. Fire tenders continued to control the fire even on Wednesday, but heaps of waste at the site kept smouldering.Those living in Dadumajra, Sector 38 (West), Sector 25 and New Chandigarh complained of low visibility, thick smoke, foul smell filling up their homes, making it difficult to breathe, and irritation in throats.Several complaints of burning sensation in the eyes due to thick smoke, which continues to engulf the surrounding areas, were also reported. Owing to poor visibility, commuters found it difficult to cross the stretch of road between Dadumajra and Mullanpur.Fire officer Surjit Singh said, “Two water boozers and four fire tenders deployed at the site are continually throwing water to douse the flames. Around 15 trucks are being used to throw mud on the heaps of garbage to prevent the flames from spreading.”Anil Kumar Garg, chief fire officer, said, “The fire is under control and the smoke will also be curtailed soon. The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained. Presence of plastic and other synthetic compounds in the waste is prolonging the smoke and fire.”Cause of fire unclear, theories abundantThough the exact cause of the fire is still unclear, the residents are blaming the municipal corporation (MC) and the authorities suspect it to be the work of scrap dealers.ALSO READ: Fire erupts at Dadumajra dumping ground in Chandigarh“The scrap dealers burn the plastic coating to extract wires that could have led to the fire. As methane gas is emitted from the waste material, the fire spread over a large area,” said a fire official on the ground.“The fire may have been caused by a stray burning bidi or cigarette,” added another official.“In violation of the norms of the NGT, the height of the garbage dump is increasing so those responsible for dumping the garbage here sometimes burn heaps,” said Dyal Krishan, president, Dadumajra Dumping Site Joint Action Committee.Solid waste management is an albatross around the neck for Chandigarh. During one of its hearings, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had observed: “We are sorry to observe that the municipal corporation, Chandigarh, and the project proponent both have left no stone unturned to ensure that the most beautiful city is converted into a junkyard.”Dr PS Bhatti, former medical officer of health (MOH), Chandigarh, who visited the site, said, “At present, only 50 metric tonne (MT) of municipal solid waste (MSW) is being processed. Rest of the 550 MT is being directly thrown in the dumping ground. Methane gas is constantly generated from the unprocessed garbage, leading to frequent fires.”Authorities have failed us: ResidentsResidents took to social media to share videos of the fire at the dumpsite, in an attempt to highlight their plight. “Authorities have completely failed us,” said Dyal Krishan.“Last night, many residents of the surrounding areas reported difficulty in breathing, choking of throat, irritation in eyes, chest congestion and sleeplessness as the smoke entered their houses. The authorities had planned to shift the dumpsite, but no concrete step was taken,” he added.Major DP Singh, patron of Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), said, “Residents of all nearby sectors such as 14, 24, 25, 37, 38, 38W, 39 and surrounding colonies live at the mercy of the wind directions. The fires at the dumping ground have become a regular feature.”Vinod Vashisht, convener of City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO), said, “Ever since the MC took over the plant in June, waste processing has become worse. The plant is not operating to its optimal capacity.” He added that solid waste incineration at the thermax furnace of the plant had not been done for the last six months.Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman of Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said, “How long can we keep on suffering? If need be, our federation will knock the doors of the high court and the National Green Tribunal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fire-at-dumping-ground-in-chandigarh-s-dadumajra-residents-complain-of-burning-eyes-choking-throats-sleepless-night/story-pf49C78FyOkWWvWZheiqbO.html
08-10-2020||City||Wildlife conservation, development go hand-in-hand to maintain biotic cycle: Sadhu Singh Dharamsot||Wildlife conservation and development should go hand-in-hand to maintain the biotic cycle.This was said by Punjab forests and wildlife preservation minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who was presiding over a state-level function organised at Chhatbir Zoo on Wednesday to mark the beginning of Wildlife Preservation Week.The minister said that Wildlife Preservation Week was an ideal occasion to reaffirm our commitment towards conservation of wildlife, which was ingrained in our ethos, tradition and culture.Releasing the teaser of a documentary prepared on Chhatbir Zoo, the minister said that the Zoo had been recognised at the international level and had, thus, acquired the membership of WAZA, the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums.He said that under the animal exchange programme, soon new species of tigers and bears would be introduced to the Zoo.On the occasion, Dharamsot inaugurated a bio-safety chamber in the service entry of the Zoo, constructed in the wake of the pandemic, and announced to the public a Zoo-born rare species of Indian fox pups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wildlife-conservation-development-go-hand-in-hand-to-maintain-biotic-cycle-sadhu-singh-dharamsot/story-ZzoCA9wrBNiYMEdmut0zzJ.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case drug link: All offences under NDPS Act are non-bailable, says Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday held that all offences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 are non-bailable, while granting bail to two house staffers of the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput – Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant – in connection with the drug link that emerged through WhatsApp chats while investigating his death. Rajput was found dead in his Bandra home on June 14. Justice Sarang Kotwal rejected the argument advanced on behalf of the two Rajput staffers and another accused Abdel Basit Parihar, all arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), that all offences involving small quantity of contraband material were bailable and such accused are entitled to bail as a matter of right. The counsels for the accused, advocate Taraq Sayed and advocate Subodh Desai, had relied on a June 2010 decision of a single judge bench of the HC in Stephen Mueller’s case, in support of their contention. Justice Kotwal, however, refused to accept the argument. The judge relied on a 1999 judgment of the Constitution bench of Supreme Court, holding that all offences under the NDPS Act were cognisable and non-bailable. The judge also rejected the argument that the observation of the Constitution bench was merely a passing reference and not a binding decision. Justice Kotwal said the observation has been subsequently referred by the other Apex court benches as a binding precedent and no other court can take any other view on the issue. The HC said the NDPS Act has undergone a change in 1989, owing to which the second part of the schedule to the Criminal Procedure Code, which declares that offences punishable with imprisonment of up to three years under non-IPC Acts shall be bailable, was not applicable to the NDPS Act. Even offences involving small quantity of drugs (which attract lesser punishments) were made non-bailable, the court said. “If the accused claims bail as a matter of right in case of possession of small quantity, no investigation can be carried out to find the source and trade of the contraband,” said justice Kotwal. “This defeats the object of the Act. One cannot overlook the prevailing situation in today’s society. Offenders involving smaller quantity or lesser punishment expose themselves to immediate arrest. They cannot claim bail as of right. The Act needs to have this deterrent effect to curb the spread of drug abuse,” the judge added. The single judge bench, however, granted bail to Miranda and Sawant on furnishing personal bond of ₹50,000 each, along with one or two sureties in the same amount. The HC granted them bail primarily in view of the fact that they were employees of Rajput and purportedly accepted deliveries of contraband material on instructions of the late actor or his girlfriend, Rhea. HC said there was no material to show that they were part of any chain or had sold drugs to earn profit. They acted only at the behest of their employer, the court added. Like actor Rhea Chakraborty, the HC has also given them time to furnish sureties, paving way for their immediate release from prison. Both of them are ordered to surrender their passports and also restrained from leaving India. The HC, however, rejected the bail plea of Parihar, a student of architecture, Chakraborty’s brother Showik and other alleged peddlers and suppliers arrested in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-drug-link-all-offences-under-ndps-act-are-non-bailable-says-bombay-hc/story-3EbbGITWnlmdN0BuvQCFSK.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks NCERT to verify credentials of experts before enlisting help for special education||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the ministry of education and the National Council for Education, Research and Training (NCERT) to verify the credentials of the experts listed by the petitioner for finding a way to provide education for specially-abled children in over 900 special schools across the state. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the National Association of Blind (NAB), was informed by advocate Dr Uday Warunkjikar that as per court directions, he had prepared a list of experts who could provide a solution to the problem of education for specially-abled students. In an earlier hearing, Dr Warunjikar had informed the court that while education for normal students had commenced through virtual classrooms, the same was not viable for specially-abled students, and urged that the state and Centre come out with a solution to ensure that specially-abled students were not denied their right to education. While responding to the contentions of NAB, advocate Rui Rodrigues for NCERT had informed the court that it had started radio lessons for visually-impaired students but a programme for the deaf and dumb would be introduced only after six to eight months as work on it was still going on. As NAB had opposed the same, the court had suggested that NAB form a panel of experts who could come up with an expeditious solution. On Wednesday, Rodrigues submitted that NCERT was striving to make a fool-proof programme but if the court so directed, it was willing to enlist the help of the experts. Thereafter, the court directed Rodrigues to verify the credentials of the experts as one of them had already undertaken some programme on behalf of the ministry of education in the past, and to submit a report on the same by Monday. The court also directed that NCERT address the points raised by the experts in their covering letter and submit a response to it as well. The PIL has been posted for hearing on October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-ncert-to-verify-credentials-of-experts-before-enlisting-help-for-special-education/story-ppVlS4QnnUAmpNHr3hI73N.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police’s EOW books property investment firm for duping 7,000 investors of ₹700 crore||The Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) registered a first information report (FIR) on Wednesday against Expat Projects and Development Private Limited, a Bengaluru-based property investment company, and its nine directors and top executive officials for duping 7,000 investors across various states to the tune of ₹700 crore. Expat Projects and Development Pvt Ltd and its directors and senior executives Sachhinandan Kanchan, Firoj Shaha, Santosh Shetty, Nenumal Bhatia, Arvind Gowda, Lancel D’souza, Parth D’souza, Rakesh Gaekwad, Raina Prasanaa and others have been charged under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating), 120(B) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) (In Financial Establishments) Act.Rajvardhan Sinha, joint commissioner of police, EOW, confirmed the development to HT and said that lookout circulars (LOC) have been issued against the accused and two offices of the company in Bengaluru and Mumbai have been raided.The company is registered in Bangalore and has offices in Bengaluru, Pune and Mumbai. The police said that the company would lure investors to make monthly instalment-based investments in agriculture and non-agricultural plots. “They would ask investors to invest up to 70% of the land price in instalment and then do the registration of the plot. The firm told investors that once they make the payment for the remaining 30%, they would hand over the plot. The company promised the investors that if it fails to give them the plot, then they would return the money with an additional interest of 2% to the interest rate prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India. Initially, the company delivered on their promises, but later started defaulting. They neither gave plot nor refunded money to investors. Our preliminary inquiry has revealed that since 2013 the company has duped around 7,000 investors to the tune of ₹700 crore,” said Rajendra Sangale, senior inspector, unit-7 of EOW.Over 400 investors from Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra, Bengaluru in Karnataka, Goa and other states as well as some NRIs have already approached the police with relevant documents and recorded their statements, an EOW officer said.The company has bought land parcels, most of which are in Raigad district. However, the process of buying the agricultural lands allegedly involved irregularities. “We are trying to find out where exactly investors’ money was used or diverted. The process of collection of evidence has begun,” said Sangale.EOW has been conducting a preliminary inquiry into the matter since the past few months, and after it found that a cognisable offence can be made, a case was registered at Vinobha Bhave Nagar police station. It was later transferred to EOW.The police registered the case on the complaint of Lislot Ludusswami Reddy, an investor, who lost ₹63,76,800 to the fraud.Police sources said investors from Pune have also registered a case against the company around a month ago as the company has plots in Pune district.The firm did not respond to calls and messages from HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-s-eow-books-property-investment-firm-for-duping-7-000-investors-of-700-crore/story-55RzlJC1jVXoUAbI8Q3OHN.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Congress demands SIT probe into use of fake social media accounts||Maharashtra Congress has demanded a thorough probe into 80,000 fake accounts in the Sushant Singh Rajput case by a special investigation team (SIT) and alleged that it was a conspiracy hatched by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress on Wednesday handed over documents, claiming those were proof of a large number of fake social media accounts used to create suspicion around Rajput’s death case, to Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.After meeting Singh, state Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the attempt by the BJP to defame the Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government was a conspiracy against the democracy and it was nothing less than an act of ‘neo-terrorism’. “Nearly 80,000 fake accounts were created overnight to defame Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government by spreading lies and suspicion in SSR case. This is a new trend of maligning the image of other parties by using fake accounts and spreading lies. Mumbai Police should investigate this case by constituting an SIT,” he said.BJP has, however, said that the allegations were levelled by the ruling parties to divert the attention from their failures in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and other crises in the state.Sawant said they have handed over data collated from social media platforms with names of the companies and the fake and original accounts created by them. Sawant said the commissioner assured them about investing the matter. “Some of the twitter handles had sent out 40,000 tweets in the last three months, while some of them tweeted at the rate of 25 tweets a minute. The tweets were on SSR case and were posted with related hashtags. It was a planned and strategic conspiracy against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government by hiring professional agencies. Similar modus operandi was used by the saffron party after Palghar mob lynching case and Delhi riots. There is possibility of use of similar pattern in future too, if not restricted at appropriate time,” he said.BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “The allegations are nothing but an attempt by the ruling parties to divert attention from its failure on various fronts. We are not against any probe. The police should go ahead and book the culprits involved in such activities. At the same time, home minister Anil Deshmukh and the MVA government should tell us about the status in the inquiries announced by them in the past. What happened to the probe in phone tapping case? What is the status of the probe announced by Anil Dehsmukh against Kangana Ranaut in drug dealing case? Why she was allowed to go back to Himachal Pradesh without any probe? If the Congress is talking about Palghar lynching, it should first answer why charge sheet was not filed within stipulated time and why police let the accused get bail due to inept handling of the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-congress-demands-sit-probe-into-use-of-fake-social-media-accounts/story-jyxqFnF5swhet8wUQfdF7M.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police’s EOW files closure report in alleged ₹25,000-crore MSC Bank scam, says it’s civil in nature||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police filed a closure report in the alleged ₹25,000-crore Maharashtra State Co-operative (MSC) Bank fraud. The police filed a C summary in the special anti-corruption bureau (ACB) court after EOW’s special investigation team (SIT) found no criminal aspect to be investigated in the case. The police complaint named 76 people accused in the case including the then deputy chief minister and many other political bigwigs from the state.An EOW source close to the development on Tuesday said the SIT had, on September 15, filed a C summary report in the MSC Bank scam at the special ACB court. C summary is filed when the complaint is neither true nor false or if the offence is of civil nature.The investigation officer of the case and assistant commissioner of police (ACP), EOW, Kiran Patil, has confirmed that a C summary report was filed in the case last month, but refused to elaborate as he is not authorised to speak to the media.An EOW officer, who is aware of the development, requesting anonymity said that the investigation has revealed that all the transactions in the alleged scam were done as per the rules prescribed by the government and National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard). There are certain irregularities, but they are of civil nature and no criminal investigation is required for the same, he said.EOW had filed a first information report (FIR) in the case under sections 406, 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 120B and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, section 13 (a)(b)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and section 29 of Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act. The case was filed in August last year on the direction of the Bombay high court, which was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Andheri-based social activist Surinder Arora, 64, who had alleged police inaction into the fraud.The complaint pertained to thousands of crores obtained in loans by sugar cooperatives, spinning mills and other processing units from district and cooperative banks.MSC Bank, the apex bank that controlled credit to the co-operative sector in the state and was handled by then ruling politicians, landed in trouble in 2011 after an inquiry report by Nabard found the bank was in red with a negative of ₹144 crore. The report indicted the board of directors of the bank for financial mismanagement that led to ballooning of non-performing assets. This was largely due to handing out of loans to sugar co-operatives and spinning mills in violation of all norms.The complainant Arora had then alleged that illegal loans were sanctioned and secured assets were sold out at throwaway prices, contrary to norms.The Nabard report had said that balance sheets had been fudged to show a profit of ₹2 crore when the bank was facing losses of ₹798 crore. The board had 76 directors, of whom 44 were elected representatives — 25 from the Nationalist Congress Party, 14 from the Congress, 2 each from the Bharatiya Janata Party and Peasants and Workers Party of India and one from the Shiv Sena.EOW was already making a preliminary inquiry in the matter but before it could conclude anything, a PIL was filed in this connection in the high court.Senior EOW officers were not available for comment on the development.Advocate Satish Talekar, Arora’s lawyer, said, “EOW filed a 67,600-page closure report in the case last month. However, the court has not accepted it yet as the complainant is yet to be heard by the court. We would soon file our say opposing the closure report. And if the court accepts police’s closure report, then we are going to challenge it in a higher court.”Talekar said, “The investigation officer did not go to any sugar factory, did not record statements of people having key importance in the case. It’s all manipulated. We would soon be filing another PIL seeking investigation by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).”After EOW filed an FIR in August 2019, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) also registered a case of suspected money laundering and initiated a parallel probe. A senior official from ED confirmed to HT that ED had, on Monday, opposed the clean chit given to the politicians named in the multicore scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-s-eow-files-closure-report-in-alleged-25-000-crore-msc-bank-scam-says-it-s-civil-in-nature/story-NTN3CVzNCwYn37Dj1FYk8M.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai’s distance education wing postpones all exams; to start from October 19||After postponing three examinations within a week for students of the distance education wing of the University of Mumbai, the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) on Wednesday announced postponement of all IDOL exams. The rescheduled exams will now commence from October 19, but the timetable for the same will be released later. This announcement comes a day after around 9,000 third-year BCom and third-year BA students could not attempt their paper on Tuesday due to “technical glitches”. Many students complained of not being able to log in to the link on the examination application prescribed to students by the university. In a statement on Tuesday, the university blamed the errors on a cyberattack on the examination software.“In a meeting of the board of examination (BoE) on Wednesday, it was decided to clarify all queries raised by students and ensure no technical errors affect exams henceforth. Therefore, all exams will be conducted starting October 19,” said the statement released by IDOL on Wednesday. However, there’s no clarity on the status of re-examination for students who managed to attempt their paper on Saturday (October 3).Due to Covid-19 pandemic, this year all final-year exams are being conducted online. IDOL exams commenced on October 3. On the first day, several students complained about not being able to attempt the one-hour paper due to server issues, following which, the university announced a re-exam for the paper at a later date. The same problem cropped up the next day as well, following which, thousands of students gathered at the IDOL office at the university’s Kalina campus. “The examination software company is currently working on all queries raised by students, and we want to make sure that such problems don’t crop up in the future. New exam dates will be announced soon,” said a spokesperson for the university.While the university is still unclear on what is causing the “technical glitches”, members of the Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena (MNVS) demanded that the university terminate services of the software company, LittleMORE Innovation Labs, which was hired to conduct exams this year. “All exams should be cancelled till the software company is able to conduct exams for students in large numbers. Students don’t need more anxiety than they are already facing,” said Santosh Gangurde, state vice-president of MNVS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-s-distance-education-wing-postpones-all-exams-to-start-from-october-19/story-PARyE77vpCG4OUm2U6ubEK.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Clear pending dues: MC to cable operators||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has directed the city cable operators to pay their outstanding dues. In a review meeting held here on Wednesday under the chairmanship of MC’s joint commissioner Sorabh Arora with cable operators, it was decided that all cable wires should have identification tags mentioning names of cable operators at every 50-metre distance.The cables will not be hanged on electricity poles on the MC land; no cable will be allowed to pass through the parks, green belts and institutional buildings; and cables should not be hanged on the trees, it was directed. It was also decided that the cables should be installed at the height of at least 12ft from the ground and 6ft away from the road edge.Cable operators have also been directed against running internet services through their overhead cable network lines. Doing so will attract a fine of ₹10,000 per violation and the challan will be issued by the MC.The cable operators, who fail to comply with the directions issued by the MC regarding these guidelines, will face strict action as per law, it was decided. During the meeting, Arora also asked all executive engineers of roads to take action against those defaulting on payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/clear-pending-dues-mc-to-cable-operators/story-sBwVOr6IPHwF6A8zaXzJ0H.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: 700 National Health Mission workers threaten two-day strike from Oct 12||Over 700 contract workers with the National Health Mission (NHM) in Gurugram are planning a two-day strike, on October 12 and 13.In a notice addressed to Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, on Wednesday, the district president of the NHM Karmachari Sangh (Gurugram), Hari Raj, stated that a colleague had been terminated without notice and if she is not reinstated by October 11, a two-day strike will be held the following day by close to 700 people. “These include medical officers, ANMs, ambulance drivers, data entry operators and so on, a huge portion of which are involved in handling Covid-19,” Raj said. The CMO, though having confirmed that he has received a notice from the NHM union in the matter, declined to speak.The NHM Karmachari Sangh (Haryana) had, in late September, warned of a possible strike over the introduction of two contentious termination clauses in their employment contracts, which were up for renewal. On October 1, the matter was resolved in a meeting with Dr Virender Yadav, who agreed to renew the workers’ contracts with the specific clauses rescinded. At the time, too, Dr Yadav had confirmed the development but declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-700-national-health-mission-workers-threaten-two-day-strike-from-oct-12/story-H6ODvK2xDzAI0bvEoKkn8O.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Building plan violations in several houses in DLF Phase 1, DTP to take action||A team from the enforcement wing of department of town and country planning on Wednesday conducted an inspection of houses in DLF Phase 1 and found building, zoning and other violations in 25 dwellings. Officials said that out of these, 10 houses had received occupation certificates but conducted building plan violations recently and action would be taken against the owners as per rules . The enforcement team conducted the inspection along with local MCG councillor RS Rathee and they interacted with area residents and heard grievances raised by them. RS Bhath, who is also the district town planner, said that the inspection started around 11am and they first visited the A block and spoke to residents, who apprised them of problems being caused due to construction activities in the area. “During the inspection it was observed that some of the plot owners had obtained occupation certificates but carried out construction later in violation of norms. We also found that at a large number of places, construction material was not covered and it was causing dust pollution. At few houses construction of stores and other rooms was being done, which has been stopped,” said Bhath. DTCP officials further said that in view of the impending winter season and directions issued by government to curb pollution, they would conduct similar inspections in colonies under their jurisdiction to ensure that dust pollution is curbed. Bhath said that action would be taken against house owners for violations of town and country planning rules within a week. Last week the department had formed four teams to conduct inspection of houses to which occupation certificates were issued to check whether violations had been carried out after obtaining the occupation certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/building-plan-violations-in-several-houses-in-dlf-phase-1-dtp-to-take-action/story-ZHcTUKNUxScYPsTqFELgKK.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Sharpshooters part of sleeper cell, target was to establish supremacy: Gurugram cops||A day after three members of Sube Gujjar’s gang were arrested after a brief exchange of gunfire in Sohna, police said probe has revealed that the main sharpshooter of Gujjar’s gang, Rajesh Kumar alias Fauji had recently formed a ‘sleeper cell’ of shooters and recruited the two arrested suspects, Kamal alias Kamli, 32, and Aman alias Sardar. Two policemen and both the arrested suspects were injured in the shootout. Police said on the directions of Sube Gujjar, Fauji had formed the cell and their target was to commit a series of crimes, starting with the murder of a property dealer in Dhunela on Tuesday, to establish supremacy. Investigators said that other gang members in Gujjar’s gang were unaware of the recruitment of these ‘silent’ sharp shooters. The trio had conducted a recce for two days and assembled a cache of weapons for the murder, but they were arrested after the crime branch sector 39 received a tip-off. Two pistols, two revolvers, a country-made gun, 110 live cartridges, a backpack, and a motorcycle were allegedly recovered from the possession of the suspects. Police said after the arrests of most of his associates, Sube Gujjar, a former sharpshooter of gangster Kaushal, has assumed leadership of the Kaushal gang in the last one year. Gujjar has a reward of Rs 5 lakh for information leading to his arrest. Fauji was Gujjar’s right hand man and most trusted aide, who kept him informed of the gang’s activities, said police. Fauji has been deemed as a bad character — a person with a history of crime — at Sadar police station and is accused in 18 criminal cases, including several murders, extortions and loots in a career that spans over two decades. A resident of Naharpur Rupa, Fauji took to crime in 1998 and was arrested for the first time in 2001 for a conspiracy to loot. Over the next five years, he rose through the ranks and along with Kaushal and Sube, was involved in several gang wars, including murder of gangster Shailu in 2006. From 2006 to 2008, a period when Gurugram witnessed several inter-gang shootings, he was accused in at least four murders and attempt to murder cases, before he was arrested by Delhi Police’s special cell from Bhiwadi. He continued to operate his activities from jail later. More recently in 2019, he was accused in the murder of a nambardar (an official who maintains and verifies land records) in Manesar and murder of a cleric in Hathin. The second suspect, Kamal alias Kamli, a resident of village Badha in Kherki Daula, was a school bus driver till three years ago. He is a cousin of Fauji and was allegedly recruited by him. Police said he had allegedly committed two murders on the direction of Gujjar and his involvement in the gang was always kept under the wraps. He only reported to Gujjar and Fauji. The third aide, Aman alias Sardar, a native of Ludhiana, used to be an auto rickshaw driver and later started smuggling liquor for Fauji. He too was recruited on Gujjar’s directions for the purpose of carrying out a spate of murders. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), crime, said, “The entire gang and their aides are on the radar of the police and we are hopeful of getting them all behind bars. The three arrested persons are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Sohna and shall be taken into custody after they are discharged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/sharpshooters-part-of-sleeper-cell-target-was-to-establish-supremacy-gurugram-cops/story-fuu7QIDIfsxHxvrg2s5caO.html
08-10-2020||Noida||UPPCB identifies 50 air pollution hot spots in Ghaziabad for stricter checks this year||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh pollution control board (UPPCB) has identified 50 different hot spots that are prone to bad air and are likely to aggravate pollution levels in the approaching winter season.Directions have been issued to different agencies to take steps in their respective areas in order to keep a close watch on the hot spots to keep pollution levels in check, officials said.The officials said they identified 17 hot spot areas affected by vehicular pollution and 10 where construction activities are on. Nine spots are affected by road dust while six industrial areas have been identified about which the board often receives complaints of emission. Another eight spots are where there are issues of garbage dumping and burning. Last year, only seven to eight hot spots were identified but the number has been increased this year in order to have stricter checks. “The hot spot areas will be under scanner and different agencies have been asked to keep a tab on pollution-emitting sources. In this connection, UPPCB has already asked for a self-audit of construction sites and installation of cameras. The compliance is to be done by October 10. The cameras will be monitored online by UPPCB. We have also issued directions to various industrial units in the city to install cameras facing the chimneys,” Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, said. The officials have identified about 70 to 100 industrial units that use coal and wood as fuel and will be required to install such cameras and hand over the online control to the board for constant monitoring. The Supreme Court in 2017 had banned the use of pet coke and furnace oil as fuel. Industrial units in areas such as Sahibabad, Pandav Nagar, South Side GT Road, Meerut Road, Loni Road and Dasna are among the hot spots. They have also identified areas such as Siddharth Vihar, Vasundhara, Loni Road, Raj Nagar Extension, NH-9 and Delhi-Meerut Road among others, where construction activities are on. NH-9 and the Delhi-Meerut Road are the two major hot spots where construction activities for the Delhi-Meerut Expressway and the Regional Rapid Transit System, respectively, are already underway. “The unpaved road areas not only result in emission of dust but also lead to traffic issues and aide air pollution. The agencies have been asked to make use of water sprinklers and deploy anti-smog guns, etc., The administration had directed them to repair roads. Construction activities have already started to impact air quality. As a result of the ongoing activities, the Loni monitoring station is showing high AQI levels,” Sharma said. The online monitoring station at Loni already has shown a high average of 241.14 air quality index while the other three at Indirapuram, Sanjay Nagar and Vasundhara had an average AQI of 212.86, 190.29 and 195, respectively, from October 1 to October 7. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.” “The city is largely affected by road dust, construction activities, industrial and vehicular emission. The air quality is already showing signs of deterioration which is also the result of instances of stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana. At a local level, all enforcement measures and checks need to be put in place to ensure local pollution sources are curbed to an extent,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. According to UPPCB figures, in 2019 the city recorded 31 days with ‘severe’ category of air quality index (AQI). It had another 67 days when its AQI was recorded under the ‘very poor’ category and another 112 days when the AQI was under the ‘poor’ category. Hot spots Construction: Siddharth Vihar, Raj Nagar Extension, Loni Road, Vasundhara, NH-9, Meerut Road, Madhuban Bapudham, Northern Peripheral Road, C&D waste facility Road dust/unpaved roads: Tulsi Niketan, Aradhana Cinema to Apsara Border, outside transport department office, near New Bus Stand, outside Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Park, Nehru Nagar, Vasundhara zone Industrial: Sahibabad, Pandav Nagar, South Side GT Road, Meerut Road, Site II Loni Road, Dasna Traffic congestion: ABES crossing, Vijay Nagar crossing, Tigri crossing, Lal Kuan flyover bridge, Ghanta Ghar, Santosh Medical crossing, Sahibabad-Seemapuri crossing, Sihani chungi, Raj Nagar Extension crossing, Old bus stand Garbage dumping/burning: Morta, Hindon Vihar, Surya Nagar, Sahibabad, garbage collection points in residential areas, below Hindon elevated road near river Hindon, Arthala, Anand Nagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/uppcb-identifies-50-air-pollution-hot-spots-in-ghaziabad-for-stricter-checks-this-year/story-kEd7p4X9UW5mdZdGP4pcwI.html
08-10-2020||Noida||Sharda University designs e-scooter for persons with disabilities||Greater Noida: Sharda University has patented an electric scooter it has developed for persons with disabilities (PWD). The scooter, Divya Shakti, was also displayed at the Auto Expo – 2020 in February. The Greater Noida-based private university aims to collaborate with the government and manufacture it for those in need. “There is no such vehicle for PWDs the market. The project has huge social application for the disabled and elderly. It supports a rotating seat in order to make it easier for a person to board or alight,” said project coordinator Abhishek Bhattacharya, assistant professor, department of mechanical engineering, Sharda University. Three students – Piyush Joshi, Arun Joshi and Showket Latif Bandey – worked on this project and developed the viable prototype, he said. “It has a self-start system and can run 75 km on a single charge. It has maximum speed of 60 kmph and the estimated charging time is 3 to 4 hours.” Anil Chhikara, automobile engineering expert working with Delhi government, said, “These vehicles can be used locally. For their commercial use, the vehicles first need to pass safety tests. They also need to be registered by the government. The manufacture of motorcycles/e-bikes also need significant investment. This can be possible if the government or a private company gets involved,” he said.Dr Parmanand, dean school of engineering and technology, said the University will approach local administration and government for a collaboration for this project. “We will work on the model’s testing and registration as well. We are not aiming for commercial benefits, and hence the product would be low cost,” he said. PK Gupta, Sharda University Chancellor, also said that they will collaborate with the government and manufacture the product. “We have filed a patent for the product. We are not going for comm  ercial deal with any private companies but to serve the needy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/sharda-university-designs-e-scooter-for-persons-with-disabilities/story-ke2pfJXA4ew6yVEwiSUUWN.html
08-10-2020||City||Now, dump expired medicines at Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s hub in Sector 43||Gurugram: To keep a check on health complications arising from expired medicines, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has created a hub in sector 43 for collecting such products, the first such facility in Haryana, officials said on Wednesday. According to MCG officials, residents can dump expired medicines at the hub, from where a bio-medical waste collection concessionaire would collect and incinerate them at a designated centre.MCG officials said that until now, there was no mechanism for disposing of expired medicines in the city.“The city only has only basic levels of waste segregation, primarily wet and dry waste. There are many other types of waste segregation levels, each of which have their own set of importance attached. Hence, last month the MCG launched a drive in condominiums to collect expired medicines. The aim was both educating people of its hazards as well as letting them know that a separate collection centre is being opened shortly where they can dump expired medicines in the future,” said Sonia Duhan, waste management expert, MCG, adding the drive was needed in making residents across the city aware about the collection hub.Along with the Iamgurgaon NGO, MCG had launched a drive between September 15 and October 5 to collect expired medicines in more than 25 condominiums.43 kilograms of expired medicines were collected, said officials. Duhan said at MCG’s “samadhaan hub” in sector 43, a separate waste centre was created earlier this week for dumping of expired medicines. The hub also has waste centres for dumping clothes, different types of plastic, and e-waste, officials said. “One of our main aims behind the collection of expired medicines was to keep a check on the formation of superbugs. Due to improper dumping of mosquito coils, chemicals on the coil often get mixed with water bodies and over time, mosquitoes have built a resistance against them, deeming them ineffective. With expired medicines, especially antibiotics, we do not want different types of viruses to lso build resistance and become extremely dangerous for humans,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter. The samadhaan hub is open seven days a week, between 9 am and 6 pm.“The expiry data carries high importance, especially in the case of antibiotics where consumption of sub therapeutic or less than recommended doses of antibiotic drugs will increase chances of resistance apart from not treating the primary disease. In addition, adverse effects can sometimes occur on consumption of expired medication such as injury to vital organs as a result of toxic degradation of the drug. It can also lead to drug allergies and skin rashes, especially in dermatological products,” said Dr Amitabh Parti, Director, Internal Medicine, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram.Dr Col Vijay Dutta, Internal & Respiratory Medicine, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, said discarding expired medicines by flushing down the toilet or disposing them with usual garbage is extremely harmful for the environment, human beings and animals. “The expired medicines can easily mix with water or end up in landfills and be indirectly consumed in several ways. The authorities should run awareness campaigns on segregation of waste at home not only in terms of biodegradable or non-biodegradable, but also emphasise on keeping expired medicines separately and give it to the collector. A strict policy for separating and destroying bioactive compounds at the final stage of segregation is a must,” said Dutta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-dump-expired-medicines-at-municipal-corporation-of-gurugram-s-hub-in-sector-43/story-f05HyjD0ukbOwhHGh9YwcM.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||UT finance department imposes fresh cuts on expenditure||The UT finance department has issued fresh directions imposing strict restrictions on the spending of allocated expenditure.For the next three months, there will be cuts in the budget estimates of 2020-2021 by 8% in October, 6% in November and 6% in December. In total, for the second quarter of 2020-2021, the spending of administration will be reduced by 20%.Significantly, the restrictions on spending will also be applicable on the municipal corporation, which gets grant-in-aid from the UT.There will be moratorium on all new recruitments, except for those ongoing. The DC rate wages of all outsourced employees have been freezed. Also, there is ban on increasing strength of contractual and outsourced employees.There is complete ban on the leave travel allowance (LTA) and purchasing of new vehicles. UT has directed that amounts that remain unspent in a month/quarter will not be carried forward for next month/quarter. The administration has also asked the UT electricity department to exempt government departments from late payment surcharge on bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-finance-department-imposes-fresh-cuts-on-expenditure/story-szJfnHx0jWDALz1PCFu2uO.html
08-10-2020||City||Gurugram: Covid-19 hampers efforts against non-communicable diseases, say officials||Gurugram: The Covid-19 outbreak has dealt a heavy blow to the Gurugram health department’s efforts against non-communicable diseases (NCD) such as heart problems, cancer and diabetes, officials said on Wednesday. This is because population-based screening (PBS) campaigns carried out by ASHA workers and auxiliary midwife nurses (ANMs), to detect prevent, detect and control five common NCDs in the district, have been hampered with resources being diverted to battle the coronavirus disease, they said. Non-communicable diseases, according to a 2017 National Health Mission module for ANMs, are responsible for 60% deaths in India. These are led by coronary heart disease, stroke, and hypertension (45%), chronic respiratory disease (22%), cancers (12 %), and diabetes (3%). Surveillance for these diseases, implemented under the health ministry’s National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS), was greatly expanded in 2017.“Earlier, we used to conduct what we called ‘opportunistic screening’, where anyone above 30 years of age who came to a health care centre would be checked for three diseases, including hypertension, diabetes and oral cancer. In women, we also checked for breast and cervical cancer,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gururgam. Sharma said opportunistic screening was replaced with the PBS method of surveillance in 2017, where 37% of the population (above the age of 30) would be screened for NCDs. In Gurugram, this is now done by about 1,000 trained ASHA workers, 230-odd ANMs, and an estimated 50 nurses and medical officers each. ASHA workers conduct door-to-door campaigns around their respective primary health centres (PHC) and urban PHCs, and refer cases to the nearest health care centre or sub-centre for treatment. They also carry out routine follow-ups with patients. “Last year, the target population for screening was about 870,000 people, men and women. Of these, across 35 UPHc and PHCs in the district, we managed to screen 16.5% of the target, which is around 1.5 lakh individuals,” a medical officer with the health department’s NCD division said. “This year, a few PHCs have not screened even a single person. Others screened only between 100 and 150 people each. By the end of the year, we may reach about 8% of last year’s target,” the doctor said, seeking anonymity. These door-to-door campaigns, the doctor said, have come to a standstill this year after the Covid-19 outbreak in March. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, confirmed this. “PBS cannot be a priority in the middle of a pandemic, as most of our staff are involved in Covid response. ASHA workers and ANMs particularly, which would usually do the PBS exercise for an incentive of Rs 50 per household, are now occupied with contact tracing, following up with Covid patients, door-to-door screening for SARI and ILI symptoms, and so on,” he said.Yadav added, “Checking for these five NCDs requires close contact between the field worker and the patient. Though ASHA workers may still choose to do NCD screening for the financial incentive, we cannot encourage it because it puts them at greater risk of contracting Covid-19 from someone in the community. It is a catch-22 situation.” Dr Sunita Rathi, nodal officer for prevention and control of NCDs, declined to provide a comment for this story, though her office did confirm the medical officer’s claims. “We are just in the process of preparing the quarterly report and can give better data once it is ready,” said an administrative staffer, who also declined to be identified. Experts believe the public health ramifications of this diminished surveillance can be assessed in earnest only after the pandemic has passed. Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, a Gurugram resident and vice-president (research and policy) at the Public Health Foundation of India, said, “In the next four to five years, we may see an increase in background morbidity due to NCDs. They are deadly in themselves but also increase chances of mortality in cases of co-infection with diseases like Covid-19.” “Recent work by WHO shows that these kind of disruptions of routine health services is a global issue. Locally speaking, the challenge isn’t so much about lack of surveillance, but lack of secondary and tertiary care that patients with these illnesses will soon require,” Dorairaj added. “Opportunistic screening is a key strategy of the NPCDCS that has been understandably affected by the ongoing Covid crisis. The recently launched Great Barrington Declaration (by infectious disease epidemiologists and public health scientists) recognises that the current situation can produce devastating effects on short and long-term public health effects, including worsening cardiovascular disease outcomes, fewer cancer screenings and deteriorating mental health – leading to greater excess mortality in years to come, with the working class and younger members of society carrying the heaviest burden. The Declaration recommends a ‘Focused Protection’ strategy to minimise mortality and social harm while better protecting those who are at highest risk.” said Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson, Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health, JNU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-covid-19-hampers-efforts-against-non-communicable-diseases-say-officials/story-xRRg3RcYgPkQdoH5G3EdrO.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records highest 1-day spike of 2,848 Covid infections||Keeping with the plateauing trajectory of Covid-19 cases across the state over the past two weeks, Maharashtra clocked 14,578 new infections, even as Mumbai registered its highest single-day spike of 2,848 infectionsRegions other than the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have seen a drastic drop in cases over the past few weeks. On Wednesday, the state’s case tally reached 1,480,489, which includes 219,961 infections from Mumbai. Mumbai’s toll touched 9,248 after it reported 46 fatalities on Wednesday. With 355 new fatalities reported across the state on Wednesday, the toll reached 39,072, of which, 211 were from last two days, 48 were from last one week and remaining 96 were from the period before it, according to the state health department. Pune district retained its second position in terms of new infections by reporting2,343 cases, which included 966 in city, 851 in rural areas and 526 in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The district reported 40 deaths. Following Mumbai and Pune; Ahmednagar and Nashik districts were top contributors with 902 cases (14 deaths) and 1,108 cases (7 deaths) respectively. With 57,926 patients, Pune tops the chart of active cases, followed by Thane (31,770) and Mumbai (26,544). Total active cases in the state dropped to 244,527, taking the recovery rate to 80.81%, against the national rate of 84.7%.The state has witnessed a steady drop in new infections over the last two weeks, after cases in districts like Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Sangli, Kolhapur saw a dip in the cases. While the cases in peripheral districts succeeded to bring the growth rate down, cities in MMR, which comprises nine municipal corporations including Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli and rural parts of Thane, Raigad, Palghar, reported a rise in cases over the past four weeks. Opening up of activities and lifting of restrictions on mobility are the reasons attributed to the rise. The share in the daily cases in MMR in the state caseload increased to 32.61% on October 6, from 19.20% four weeks ago on September 8 and 21.07% two weeks ago on September 22. Western Maharashtra’s share reduced to 32.61% from 38.98% a month ago. North Maharashtra reported dip in daily cases to 12.56% on October 6, from 14.29% in September 8. Vidarbha and Marathwada cases dropped to 15.58% and 0.90% from 14.59% and 11.10% during this period. While rural parts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad have witnessed a drop over the past four weeks, the cities in MMR have clocked a rise during this period. “We have aggressively opened up activities, including restaurants, industries, and have also increased the number of local services for essential/emergency sectors. Apart from it, the number of tests has been hugely increased over the past few weeks. Lack of sense of Covid-appropriate behaviour among people is another reason for the rise in cases. Mobility within MMR is higher than any other part of the state. All these reasons result in the rise in the cases, although we are hopeful to keep it stable and gradually bring it down in the near future,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).In Mumbai, the highest single-day spike recorded until Wednesday was on September 30 — 2,654 cases being reported in a day. Since the first week of September, the city has been reporting nearly 2,000 cases on a daily basis.Of the total Covid-19 cases recorded in the Mumbai so far, 26, 544 are active cases in the city at present, while 1, 83, 742 patients have been recovered and discharged so far. The recovery rate stands at 83% and case fatality rate is 4.2%. As per BMC’s data, out of 46 deaths, one death was below 40 years of age, 16 deaths were of people between 40 to 60 years and 29 deaths were above 60 years of age. The city’s doubling rate of cases in the city is 67 days. On Wednesday, Dharavi reported 12 new Covid cases with the total cases reaching 3,292 cases.Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday that although the state is reaching a plateau, people should not be negligent and follow the guidelines. Experts, however, feel that the state has reached the plateau and if the trend continued for next two weeks, there could be a drastic fall in cases by the month’s end. “The overall fall in the number of cases is owing to attainment of plateau, herd immunity witnessed in containment areas-hotspots and drop in the tests by the authorities. The natural history of any epidemic disease sees a plateau after third stage. If we continue with the downward trend for next two weeks, we can expect the number of daily tests to fall below 5,000. The hope, however, comes with a rider. The people should not let their guard down and the government should continue tracing and testing susceptible people,” said Avinash Bhondve, Maharashtra president, Indian Medical Association.82,812 tests were conducted in the state in the last 24 hours with a positivity rate of 17.60%. 2,248,741 people are under home quarantine, while 25,655 are institutionally quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-highest-1-day-spike-of-2-848-covid-infections/story-09QFPgSsli45IE5WMxatTM.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Rise in Covid, dengue co-infections a concern||With cases of dengue and Covid-19 both on the rise, doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi say they have recorded at least 20 cases of co-infection of the two diseases — a situation that presents a problem for diagnosis and treatment.With fever and cough the predominant symptoms for both diseases, diagnosing both infections has become a challenge, doctors from the hospital said on Wednesday at the National Grand Rounds, which virtually connects physicians from across the country to discuss Covid-19 management.It also presents a challenge in treatment — Covid-19 patients are often given anti-coagulants to prevent clotting, but the medicine increases the risk of bleeding, which can lead to a shock in dengue patients with low platelet counts. Delhi has reported 266 cases of dengue till October 3, according to data shared by the city’s municipal corporations. Of these, 188 cases were reported in September alone. Meanwhile, the Capital added 2,871 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, which took the city’s tally to 298,107.“Cases of vector-borne diseases like dengue go up after the monsoon, and we are seeing many cases of Covd-19 with dengue. Co-infection with both the viruses becomes challenging to manage — in one disease we have to give anti-coagulants, because the body is in a hypercoagulable state (tendency of clot formation); and in the other you are worried about the fall in the platelets and shock syndrome that might happen. What is important is that if there is an atypical presentation of Covid-19, the clinicians should have a high degree of suspicion for other infections,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS. Of the 20 cases, nine were reported by the department of medicine from the main AIIMS campus, and the other were from their campus in Jhajjar. The analysis of the data of the first 4,200 Covid-19 patients from Jhajjar showed that the most common infection along with Covid-19 was tuberculosis, followed by HIV, and Hepatitis. Data presented by Dr Pawan Tiwari, assistant professor of pulmonary medicine at AIIMS, showed that of the 4,200 patients with Covid-19, 32 had active tuberculosis (TB) and 35 had latent TB. There were 27 cases of HIV, 12 cases of Hepatitis B, and 11 cases of dengue. “From what we have seen over the years, about 25% of dengue patients come in with some upper respiratory symptoms. On the other hand, Covid-19 does not predominantly present as a respiratory infection when the patients first come in. This complicates diagnosis. Another challenge is that if a person who tests positive for Covid-19 is put in home isolation, early diagnosis of dengue might be missed,” said Dr Tiwari. Of the nine patients who came in with both the infections at the main campus, only three had moderate to severe dengue, and all but one had mild Covid-19. All of the patients recovered and were discharged, said Dr Ved Prakash Meena, assistant professor of the department of medicine. At the Grand Rounds, Meena presented the case of a 22-year-old patient from Uttar Pradesh who tested positive for Covid-19 but not dengue initially. He was later diagnosed with the infection when his platelet count started dropping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rise-in-covid-dengue-co-infections-a-concern/story-MSsQBZYcXvkRoeuDnbx3KI.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Schools will not reopen in Maharashtra till Diwali||The Maharashtra government has decided not to reopen schools at least till Diwali, which falls on November 14, against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision came after the Central government, in guidelines issued on September 30, allowed state governments to take a decision on reopening schools, colleges, educational institutions and coaching institutions after October 15, in a graded manner. It, however, also said that online and distance learning should continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and be encouraged.A senior official, who did not wish to be named, said the cabinet decided not to allow schools to open till Diwali festival. “The state has experienced a surge in cases after the Ganesh festival. There are chances that it may happen again as both Dussehra and Diwali are at a gap of 20 days only,” he said.“Though Covid-19 situation in the state has improved, we will have to take precautions as there are countries that have started facing a second wave of the pandemic. Also, we have seen the experience of Andhra Pradesh before us, where many school students have tested positive. We cannot risk the lives of students,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.Around 27 students of classes 9 and 10 in two schools have tested positive for coronavirus in Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh. While the schools were to reopen from November 2, the students were reportedly attending classes informally with parents’ consent, according to news reports.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also directed the school education department to take review on the progress of online classes allowed by the state. On June 15, as the new academic year began for schools in the state, the state government approved a set of SOPs (standard operating procedure) to ensure uniformity in the conduct of online learning across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/schools-will-not-reopen-in-maharashtra-till-diwali/story-83ZGUqtbG6qfIhTSTmUOWM.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Crime branch cracks down on cricket betting, 9 arrested so far||Cracking down against cricket betting rackets in the city, the crime branch of Gurugram Police has arrested at least nine people in separate cases for allegedly making bets on Indian Premier League (IPL) matches in the last fortnight. Since the start of the tournament last month, separate raids have been conducted at four locations - Sushant Lok, sector 107, sector 51 and Sector 69 with all the suspects being booked under relevant sections of the Public Gambling Act. The alleged bookmakers had been on the police radar since the IPL began on September 19. Senior police officials said that typically, such operations mushroom whenever a domestic or international sports league is being telecast. This year, the start of several sports tournaments, which usually take place in the summer, was delayed due to the raging Covid-19 pandemic. With sports returning on television, the illegal betting operations, which had been dormant, too have come back to life. In most cases of betting on cricket matches, the modus operandi is the largely the same. Police officials said that during a match, the suspects are connected to a ‘live line’ where one of their ‘contacts’ is physically present at the match location, who informs them over the phone about the odds. The ‘local’ bookie takes bets from the punters — a person who places the bets. There is an entire chain of ‘bookies’ who communicate over the phone. The odds keep changing as the match progresses. Preet Pal, assistant commissioner of police, (ACP), crime, said, “We are cracking down on all such illegal operations and more arrests are likely. Probe so far has found that these bookies take bets on all such sporting activities. They mostly use encrypted communication and have a nexus with bookies at several locations. We are trying to bust the whole chain.” “Since it is a bailable offence, several accused return to gambling after they are released. It is yet to be established if the accused in these four cases have a common link or they were running independent operations. Four FIRs have been registered at respective police stations,” said ACP. Four days after the start of IPL, on September 23, the crime branch of sector 17 received a tip-off about two bookmakers, operating from a flat in sector 107, who had taken bets on a match between Rajasthan Royals and Chennai Super Kings. Police formed a raiding team and arrested Virendra, 27, and Rakesh Kaushik, 35, both residents of Nangloi, Delhi, while they were taking bets over the phone as the match was screened on a television set. Eight mobile phones, a notebook, a laptop and a pen were recovered from them. Two days later, acting on a tip-off, the same crime unit arrested three more people, identified as Kapil Kumar, Nitin and Avinash, all from a society in sector 69. Police said the trio was operating a book on an IPL match between Delhi Capitals and Chennai Superkings and recovered three phones, a notebook and a laptop. A crime branch official from sector 17, requesting anonymity, said, “In one of the raids, the bookmaker on the phone was communicating that the odds were 39 paise for a bet on the team batting first, which means that a person, placing Rs 100 on that team at that point of time, would receive Rs 139 if it wins. The odds keep changing.” The third raid was conducted on October 1 by a crime branch team from Manesar after police received ‘secret information’ that a similar operating was being run in Sushant Lok. The accused, Tarun Kumar, a resident of Madanpuri, and Nawab Ali, a native of West Bengal, were arrested for taking bets. Along with four phones, LED TV and a laptop, Rs 8000 in cash was seized. Earlier this week on Monday, the crime branch, sector 31, arrested two persons, Rajesh alias Soni, and Nitin Dhareja, both residents of New Colony, from the ninth floor of an EWS flat in Vatika City, sector 51. The duo was running a book on a match between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Delhi Capitals. One LED TV, three mobile phones, a diary, a set top box and pen were recovered from their possession. The accused released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-crime-branch-cracks-down-on-cricket-betting-9-arrested-so-far/story-d5ik5ehb93PkHBezDE5u2O.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Bombay high court grants bail to Rhea Chakraborty||Thirty days after actor Rhea Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) over drug-related charges in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday granted bail to the 28-year-old actor, negating all major allegations levelled by the agency, including being a “part of a drug syndicate” or “harbouring, financing” drug activities. A single bench of Justice Sarang Kotwal granted bail to Rhea, who walked out of Byculla jail at 5.30pm, on a personal bond of Rs1 lakh and one or two sureties of the same amount. She has, however, been granted time to furnish sureties, paving the way for the actor to come out of jail immediately. By way of bail conditions, HC has directed her to surrender her passport to the investigation officer and not to leave India. She has also been restrained from leaving the jurisdiction of the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court in Mumbai without submitting itinerary to the special court, and asked to attend the NCB office on first Monday of every month. However, Justice Kotwal rejected the bail pleas of Chakraborty’s brother Showik, observing that he “appeared to be an important link in the chain of drug dealers” and alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar, while granting bail to Rajput’s domestic aides Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda.On September 8, NCB, after three days of intense questioning, had arrested Chakraborty claiming that she was part of a drug syndicate, and that she financed to procure drugs for her boyfriend and late actor Sushant Singh Rajput under sections 8(C), read with 20(b)(ii) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, ware-house, use, consume, import, export or trans-ship cannabis other than ganja), 27A (financing illicit trafficking into drugs and harbouring offenders), 28 (attempt to commit offences under the Act) and 29 (abetment) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. “I am unable to agree with the submission that giving money to another for consuming drug would mean encouraging such a habit, and would mean ‘financing’ or ‘harbouring’, as envisaged under section 27A of the NDPS Act,” noted Justice Kotwal in his 70-page order. The allegations and material against Chakraborty are that on some occasions she had used her own money in procuring drugs. She facilitated procuring of drugs through her brother. For that purpose, employees of Rajput were also used. “As discussed earlier, her acts would not fall under Section 27A of the NDPS Act,” the order further noted, while it went on detail that the main section which could be attracted in Rhea’s case is violation of Section 8(C) of the NDPS Act, which is made punishable under Section 20 or Section 22. “In that case, it is necessary for the investigating agency to show that her activities or contravention involved commercial quantity of a narcotic drug or psychotropic substance,” noted Justice Kotwal. The investigation did not reveal any recovery either from Rhea or from the house of Rajput. “It is their own case that the drugs were already consumed and hence there was no recovery. In that case, there is nothing at this stage to show that the applicant (Rhea) had committed any offence involving commercial quantity of contraband. The material at the highest shows that she has committed an offence involving contraband, but, the crucial element of incurring rigours of section 37 in respect of commercial quantity is missing,” observed justice Kotwal. “Therefore, I am satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the applicant is not guilty of any offence punishable under sections 19, 24 or 27A or any other offence involving commercial quantity. There are no other criminal antecedents against her. She is not part of the chain of drug dealers. She has not forwarded the drugs allegedly procured by her to somebody else to earn monetary or other benefits. Since she has no criminal antecedents, there are reasonable grounds for believing that she is not likely to commit any offence while on bail,” said Kotwal while granting Rhea bail. The bail order went on to describe the importance, relevance and reasoning behind the incorporation of section 27A, stating that the section as introduced by the legislation “India was facing a problem of transit traffic in illicit drugs. The spill-over from such traffic was causing problems of abuse and addiction. To control the traffic in illicit drugs as the spill over from such traffic was causing problems of abuse and addiction, a separate section 27A was introduced to check these activities, which were the root cause of illicit traffic. “Financing” and “harbouring” such activities were, therefore, specifically mentioned under Section 27A.” Section 27A is of significance because it is independent of the quantity involved. There is no mention of activities involving small, intermediate or commercial quantity in section 27 A, observed Justice Kotwal and noted that it has hence necessary to consider what “financing” and “harbouring” meant. The financing and harbouring parts are specifically made punishable under Section 27A. Justice Kotwal noted that neither “financing” nor “harbouring” was defined under the NDPS Act, and the court chose to derive the meaning of “financing” through Concise Oxford Dictionary and Black’s Law Dictionary and found, “The allegations against the Applicant (Rhea) of spending money in procuring drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput will not, therefore, mean that she had financed illicit traffic.” While it chose a Supreme Court order and Black’s Law Dictionary to define “harbouring”, the court found that Rhea’s act could not be termed as “financing” or “harbouring”. Section 52-A of IPC can be used for a limited purpose as mentioned by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. The key words in that Section are “to evade apprehension”, noted Justice Kotwal and added, “This only means that first of all there has to be another offender who has committed the offence. The person who is charged with harbouring the main offender should have supplied him with shelter, food etc.; and then the next requirement is that that second person should have done this to prevent the main offender’s apprehension.” In the present case, no criminal case or FIR was pending against Rajput. He was residing in his own house and was spending for his own food and other necessities. At that point of time, he had no apprehension of any arrest. “Therefore, the act on the part of the applicant (Chakraborty) cannot be stretched to attract the allegation of harbouring Rajput,” observed the single bench. Kotwal also refused to agree with the additional solicitor general Anil Singh who argued that “the celebrities and role models should be treated harshly so that it sets an example for the young generation and they do not get encouraged to commit such offences.” “I do not agree. Everybody is equal before law. No celebrity or role model enjoys any special privilege before the court of law,” observed Justice Kotwal, while adding, “Similarly, such person also does not incur any special liability when he faces law in the courts. Each case will have to be decided on its own merits, irrespective of the status of the accused.” The single bench also noted that the learned Special Judge under NDPS had observed that Chakraborty may alert others and evidence can be destroyed by them. “There is no basis for such observation,” observed justice Kotwal and went to write in the order that, “It is also important to note that when the applicant was produced before the court for her first remand, the investigating agency did not seek her custody. That means, they are satisfied with her interrogation and she had cooperated in that investigation.” After the order was pronounced, additional solicitor general Anil Singh sought stay of the order for at least one week. “This matter involves number of questions of law and therefore we want to test this order (before the Supreme Court),” said Singh. Justice Kotwal flatly rejected the request. “What do you want to test,” the judge asked Singh. “I have accepted your contention and held that all offences under the NDPS Act are non-bailable,” the judge added while rejecting the request. After Singh’s request, HC ordered Chakraborty to attend the nearest police station every day for ten days, so that she will easily available for re-arrest in case NCB succeeds in its challenge to the bail order. Meanwhile, the judge said that allegations that Showik was in direct contact with drug dealers Ike Abdel Basit Parihar, a last year student of architecture, whose bail application was also rejected on Wednesday, and at lease three others. “Monetary transactions are reflected in his account. The applicant (Showik) was facilitating procurement of drugs from one party, for supplying them to Rajput” said HC. “He was clearly involved in illicit trafficking or illegal trade of drugs. The applicant’s case will have to be distinguished from that of a consumer or an end purchaser.” Showik was arrested on September 4“We are delighted by the order of the Hon’ble Bombay HC, granting bail to Rhea Chakraborty. Truth and justice have prevailed and ultimately the submissions on facts and law have been accepted by justice Sarang V Kotwal,” said advocate Satish Maneshinde, who represented Rhea. “The arrest and custody of Rhea was totally unwarranted and beyond the reach of law. The hounding and witch hunt by three central agencies .. the CBI, ED and NCB of Rhea should come to an end” said Maneshinde. “We remain committed to Truth. Satya Meva Jayate.” Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. After a case of alleged abetment of suicide was registered against Rhea by Rajput’s parents, a parallel probe into alleged drug procurement by her also began on the basis of her WhatsApp chats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-bombay-high-court-grants-bail-to-rhea-chakraborty/story-MflaV1SIPqURY1aAqpDdNK.html
08-10-2020||City||Farmers face tough time availing gate passes at Ambala mandi||On the day when Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel staged a symbolic protest outside the Haryana Vidhan Sabha against delay in paddy procurement in his segment, farmers at the New Grain Market on Hisar Road here faced a tough time to avail their gate passes. Most of the farmers HT spoke to on Wednesday expressed satisfaction with the process, but complained about the trouble they faced while obtaining the gate pass.They claimed they had to wait for three to four hours to get their ‘parchi’ and spend the entire day at the mandi to complete the procurement process. “I entered the mandi around 10am and got my turn to unload the crop at 12.30pm. There was a huge rush as many farmers had come as early as 6am,” Raghubir Singh, a farmer from Khaspura village said, adding that the procurement process, however, had significantly improved.Kulwant Singh from Chamaru village and Vipin Batra from Matehri village also shared similar complaints about the gate passes. An employee with Batra said, “Despite two entry gates at the mandi, the process to get the passes was too slow. We waited for four hours to get the passes for our seven trolleys.”Market board secretary Asha Rani accepted that the distribution of gate passes was slow. However, she said, “There had been server issues previously, but there was no such problem today.” Will protest with Goel: Mullana MLA VarunReacting on Goel’s dharna in Chandigarh, Congress MLA from Ambala’s Mullana segment Varun Chaudhary said, “Goel is my neighbour and if he sits on a protest again, I won’t hesitate to join.”“More importantly, he has accepted that farmers are anxious, but where are the ministers? This also shows that something is not right between the ally partners and we have also witnessed recently that MLAs from both sides are not happy with each other,” Varun added.Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Ambala unit chief Malkit Singh termed Goel’s protest ‘a political stunt’ and said, “He had to sit in Chandigarh as farmers have banned the BJP-JJP leaders from entering their villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-face-tough-time-availing-gate-passes-at-ambala-mandi/story-WA3GA62dDKAENYWbnhaSKN.html
08-10-2020||City||New DTCP policy allows setting up of drive-in theatres, sports academies in Haryana||Gurugram: To streamline the setting up of ventures such as drive-in theatres, sports academies and banquet halls, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has come up with guidelines to grant permission for a change of land use (CLU) to establish such projects outside municipal limits. The policy comes in the wake of interest expressed by landowners and investors, who wanted to set up such projects but waited for the government to define norms first. DTCP officials said CLU permission will be granted in areas marked as open space in the master plan. The policy will ensure construction of illegal buildings and development of unauthorised colonies by land owners is curbed. Explaining why the policy was formed, a DTCP official said that last year, one of the largest dirt-track racing companies in the world had expressed interest in setting up an entertainment project in the Gurugram but the project could not materialised. “There were other proposals also but due to lack of such a policy, these could not materialise. The new norms are very clear about the requirements and this will boost such investments,” the official said on condition of anonymity. Gurugram has only one drive-in theatre on Faridabad Road. There are a number of private sports grounds but most of these have come up on agriculture land. According to government norms, the policy allows setting up banquet halls, sports academies, drive-in theatres in a minimum area of two acres of land. There is no limit on the maximum area. The road approaching such a project in urban areas should be 18 metres wide. In rural area, a road of around nine metres will be required, the policy said.The maximum floor area ratio allowed is 0.5 and the maximum ground coverage is 35%. The policy provides a commercial component of 10% of FAR and 10% is allowed for guest rooms. Parking has to made available within the premises. Anil Rao, president, Gurugram Tent Dealers Association, said this was a positive development as it would provide a boost to the entertainment industry and banqueting. “The norms are clear and this will make it easier to.set up and run such projects,” he said. Apart from boosting investment, the department said, the policy will also curb large-scale violations seen in open space areas. Often, villagers who owned land there would construct houses, warehouses and other structures due to a lack of monitoring and suitable policy to allow proper use of land, officials said. In Gurugram, the enforcement wing of DTCP recently demolished 100 warehouses that had come up in sector 94, which is marked as open space, the officials said. Makrand Pandurang, director, town and country planning department, said the objective of this policy was to allow land owners to set up these projects in open space areas after taking permission. “There was no such policy earlier and it led to violations. Now owners can set up such projects alone or jointly after taking permission. It will boost investment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-dtcp-policy-allows-setting-up-of-drive-in-theatres-sports-academies-in-haryana/story-Hu4dyXmi6s1ra7tYhpDL3M.html
08-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Health teams to go door-to-door to administer deworming tablets||With no clarity on re-opening of schools in Gurugram, the district health department has planned a reach out and will hold deworming campaign for students aged between one and 19 years by conducting house-to-house visits. More than four lakh students are likely to be covered in these visits, which will take place between October 12 and October 20. The challenge, according to officials, will be rationing its workforce of healthcare workers, most of whom are already involved at the ground level in fighting the spread of Covid-19. Currently, teams of Accredited Social Health Activists ( ASHAs), Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANMs) and Anganwadi workers are involved in visiting home-isolated Covid patient every alternate day to check on them.Officials clarified that the health workers will not be visiting any of the 96 identified Covid-19 containment zones in the district to administer the deworming tablet – Elvendazone. Elvendazone is known to prevent the harmful effects of parasitic intestinal worm infection like roundworms, hookworms among others that are transmitted through soil contaminated with fecal matter. Chronic worm infestation leads to under-nutrition and anaemia in children. Before the outbreak of Covid, the deworming campaign had been carried out for a couple of days in schools and anganwadi centres and covered pre-school children and those aged between 1-19 years.However, it is for the first time, district health officials said, that the deworming campaign will last for a whole nine days as teams go from door-to-door . “For the first two days of the campaign, we will observe the working of the ground teams as it is for the first time that they will be visiting households on a mass scale to administer deworming tablets. Also, if there is any update on reopening of schools from October 15 in the state, then we will tweak our coverage strategy accordingly,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. He said that since the department has limited health staff, they will ask the administration to provide additional manpower by involving volunteers from non-government organisations (NGOs). The nodal team for the campaign said that preparations are underway. Sandeep Singh, adolescent health councillor, said, “At the primary health care centre (PHC) level, ASHAs and ANMs, already have certain number of households under them which they have to visit for health programmes. Based on that they have prepared a list of children, who are to be administered the deworming tablets.”According to Sangeeta Rathi, deputy civil surgeon and nodal officer for the deworming campaign, at present the district has a workforce of more than 2500 health workers, who will cover 461,534 children. “While administering the tablets, ASHAs and ANMs will also enquire about the health of the other family members to check for symptoms of Covid-19. “Any child with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) will not be administered the medicine and instead will be referred to the nearby PHC for a test. Each ASHA worker will cover over 1,000 households in the 9 days,” said Rathi.Yadav, on the other hand, said, “Through house to house visits, the teams might be able to trace new Covid-19 cases as well as they will be enquiring about the health of other family members for Covid-like symptoms||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-health-teams-to-go-door-to-door-to-administer-deworming-tablets/story-rIEtkDXhK81WfL5exRe6rK.html
08-10-2020||Mumbai||In Maharashtra, only 10, not 70, licences needed for hospitality business||In a boost to the tourism sector in Maharashtra and to attract more investments, the Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday approved the ease of doing business policy, bringing down the number of licences required to start a venture in the hospitality sector to 10, instead of the earlier 70. “Similarly, nine self-certifications will be required, instead of 15 no-objection certificates from seven departments,” a senior bureaucrat said, requesting anonymity. A statement from the chief minister’s office said: “With a significant decrease in permissions and licenses, it would boost the sector, bring in more investment and subsequently increase employment opportunities.” State tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray in a tweet termed the decision “landmark” and said it was long overdue. The bureaucrat added that the tourism department is also setting up a single-window system for one online application for permissions to facilitate faster approvals. Riyaaz Amlani, CEO, Impresario Entertainment and Hospitality, and a member of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said it is a “move in the right direction”.”Hospitality industry is one of the most over-regulated industries. We need 32 different licences and NoCs to sell a sandwich. There are multiple licences and several duplications in it. We are highly grateful for this ease of doing business because a restaurant owner spends 50% of his time to liason with different government departments. This is a welcome move and offers a ray of hope for this beleaguered industry. Making it easier to set up restaurants and hotels will unleash the true potential of the employment generation capacity of this industry.” In another decision, the state cabinet also approved a proposal to seek financial assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to implement the High Voltage Distribution System (HVDS) programme in the state. The ₹2,248-crore (USD 346 million) loan will help the state connect grids in rural areas which do not have a proper irrigation system and help farmers increase output. The Maharashtra government through Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) will secure counterpart funds worth USD 357.1 million towards the USD 703.1 million programme. The project will be implemented by the Maharashtra Energy Department MSEDCL. The state government approved the HVDS programme on May 5, 2018, for electrification of agricultural pumps. “The HVDS programme is being implemented through MSEDCL for all the agriculture pump farmers who have made the payment by March 31, 2018. Agriculture output in Maharashtra has been impacted due to lack of irrigation, inefficient use of electricity and water and availability of storage and market facilities,” said the bureaucrat. Restaurants and bars can remain open between 8am and 10pm The Maharashtra government on Wednesday said restaurants and bars can remain open from 8am till 10pm. The clarification was issued by the directorate of tourism following confusion over timings for operations of hotels, restaurants and bars started from October||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-maharashtra-only-10-not-70-licences-needed-for-hospitality-business/story-JhfUOFzG8HlFGoZ0BWpYGI.html
08-10-2020||City||Punjab man booked for ₹2-crore GST fraud in Ambala||A Punjab man has been booked for an alleged GST (goods and services tax) fraud worth ₹2.23 crore in Ambala on Wednesday.According to the complainant, excise and taxation officer Satendra Kumar, the accused, identified as Sukhwinder Singh, had registered a fake firm named KS Enterprises at Guru Nanak Enclave in Ambala City’s Sector 20 in 2018 and got the GST number under the Haryana GST Act 2017. “As per his online records, Sukhwinder’s real address was found to be as Vidhi Chand Colony, Sector 23-A, Punjab and pin code was 147301 (Fatehgarh Sahib). No firm exists on the given address and the mobile number, along with the email ID given in the registration form, is also wrong,” he said. “Bills worth ₹12.43 crore were issued from December 2018 to November 2019. He had transferred input tax worth ₹2.23 crore to firms in other states, thus causing a loss to the state’s revenue,” Kumar alleged. An FIR under sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC was registered against the accused at the Ambala City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-man-booked-for-2-crore-gst-fraud-in-ambala/story-KOvZuG8iFFSQC6WtTb8KhP.html
08-10-2020||City||Drive-through testing facility, 3 special centres launched in Mohali||Punjab Youth Development Board chairperson Sukhjinder Bindra on Wednesday inaugurated a drive-through testing facility and three special open-air testing centres in Mohali. The drive-through facility has come up at the sports stadium in Sector 78 while the open-air centres have been set up in Phase 6, Kharar and Lohgarh. Bindra said that maximum people should avail benefit from these centres and come forward for Covid-19 testing to make ‘Mission Fateh’ a success.With the addition of these facilities, the Mohali administration has augmented the testing centres in the district to facilitate maximum public footfall, said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.“Aggressive Covid-19 sampling mandates ample testing facilities. So, we have increased the testing centres. To allay the public fear of going to hospitals, the new testing centres have been set up in open air,” said Dayalan. One open-air testing centre each has come up at Shaheed Major Harminderpal Singh Government College in Mohali’s Phase 6, Ram Bhawan at Kharar’s Dussehra Ground and Lohgarh Government Senior Secondary School. Now, the district has total 13 Covid-19 government testing centres which are being complemented by 16 private testing centres and six authorised labs, the DC said. At the drive-through facility at GMADA sports complex in Sector 78, people can arrive at the testing location in their vehicles. They can register themselves at the entry gate and drive to the sampling counter to give the swab without disembarking from the vehicle. The entire exercise takes about five minutes and the test result is conveyed through a message on phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/drive-through-testing-facility-3-special-centres-launched-in-mohali/story-ADE1g3nTbpgWEfnCTEjLLP.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||We are going to be more aggressive this year to fight pollution: Gopal Rai||As the air quality in the national capital turned ‘poor’ on Wednesday, for the first time since June this year, HT spoke to Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on the government’s action plan to control pollution, which coupled with the Covid-19 pandemic, may pose a big public health crisis. Excerpts:Q. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced a mega plan to control pollution. How is it going to be different from your efforts in the past to reduce pollution?A. We have been working on it for the past five years and have become the first state to have reduced pollution levels by 25% despite increasing traffic and economic activity. This year, because of the pandemic, we are going to be even more aggressive. We are working on a war footing. Unlike last year, we have prepared specific action plans to target major sources of pollution. For instance, an anti-dust campaign has already been launched. Then we have initiated preparation of an anti-stubble burning solution, which will be sprayed across 800 hectares of farmland in Delhi where crop residue is burnt. Q. But farmers have said that they know little about the new technology. Do you think that the drive should have been launched at least a month ahead of the harvest period?A. We had been pursuing it for a long time with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), Pusa, who have developed the technology. The consultations had been going on for long but due to the pandemic, the work was slightly delayed. We have already started creating awareness and around 1,200 farmers have already registered with us for spraying the solution in their fields. We will also ensure that harvest and sowing is not delayed. The farmers can start sowing rabi crops within three days of the solution being sprayed on the field. It will also increase the fertility of the soil. We will set an example for neighbouring states on how to curb stubble burning.Q. The construction activities are picking up slowly after the Covid-induced lockdown. How do you plan to implement the ban on construction, under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap)?A. This year the situation is peculiar because of the lockdown and the resultant economic slowdown. Now that economic activity has started picking up gradually, we will have to consider all aspects. We will not take any step without having a dialogue with the people. We will find out a way to resolve the situation as and when it arises and with proper public consultation.Q. Last year, the odd-even road rationing scheme was announced in October. Any plans of introducing it this year given the fact that public transport has resumed fully now?A. Again, this year is different because of the pandemic. It is a measure taken in emergency-like situations. Also, since we are familiar with the implementation strategy now, even if it has to be brought in, it won’t take us long to prepare. This year, we have added 1,200 new buses to the state-run fleet and, therefore, implementation should not be an issue. However, currently there are no talks to implement the odd-even plan.Q. You said Delhi reduced pollution by 25% over the past five years. What are the major focus areas to reduce it further in the future?A. We have set long-term goals to reduce air pollution levels even further. These include increasing the green cover with massive plantation drives. Even this year, despite the pandemic, we are certain to complete our target of planting 31 lakh saplings by March 2021. Also, the tree transplantation policy is to be approved soon. Experiments have already been done in several areas, where it has been a success. Though there are some problems as well because of different soil conditions at different locations, but they will be resolved in due time. Besides, the electric vehicle (EV) policy is a major step in reducing vehicular emissions and we hope to achieve our target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/we-are-going-to-be-more-aggressive-this-year-to-fight-pollution-gopal-rai/story-hprTks6dudxwiyes9pJnQO.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Air quality poor, may deteriorate further||Delhi’s air quality entered the ‘poor’ zone on the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index on Wednesday -- the first time since June 28, according to the data maintained as per CPCB’s daily AQI bulletin.When air is in the poor zone (AQI value between 201-300) most people can experience breathing discomfort on prolonged exposure, according to the central pollution watchdog. As per the CPCB bulletin, Delhi’s average air quality index (AQI) was 215 on Wednesday with PM2.5 and PM10 being the prominent pollutants. If inhaled, the fine particulate matter can settle in the breathing tract and lungs and studies have shown that it is associated with increased cardiovascular disease.As the air quality in the Capital plunged, the CPCB wrote to Delhi chief secretary, stating that complaints of waste burning and dumping of construction and demolition waste are not being addressed expeditiously. “As many as 1,228 (40%) of the 3,041 complaints regarding these issues received on social media portal are yet to be resolved. Please take swift action to address these complaints and abate air pollution in Delhi,” stated the letter dated October 6.Bhure Lal, chief of the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca), said, “We are observing the air quality trends. A meeting regarding implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) with state governments of Delhi-NCR to curb the deteriorating air quality is scheduled on Thursday.” Delhi witnesses a spike in air pollution every year during winter due to a combination of changing meteorological conditions which makes dispersion of pollutants difficult and burning of crop stubble in the neighbouring states. The Epca enforces several mitigating measures under Grap such as sprinkling of water on roads, ban on construction and use of diesel generator (DG) sets, depending on the severity of pollution levels.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the Central government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting wing, Delhi’s air may deteriorate further till October 10, still remaining in the poor zone though. “Further deterioration in AQI is expected by October 9-10 but it may stay in the poor category. An increase in stubble burning was observed yesterday (Tuesday) around Punjab and Haryana. The wind direction and speed are favourable for transport and accumulation of pollutants in Delhi and worsening of air quality in the coming days is expected,” the Safar bulletin said.According to the Safar bulletin, 336 fire fires were reported across the northern region on Tuesday.This year, after January and February, which had several ‘poor’ days, only two ‘poor’ category days were recorded each in the months of March, May and June. Previously, Delhi had recorded ‘poor’ air quality on June 28 with an AQI of 209 and on June 29 with AQI value of 230. April, July, August and September had only ‘satisfactory’ and ‘moderate’ days. In fact, August was the cleanest month since 2015 when four ‘good’ air days were recorded.“The weather is slowly transitioning to winter. There are calm winds during the early morning hours. The wind speed picks up only during the day and gain slow down by evening. The average wind speed during the day was 15-16 kmph. The wind speed as well as both day and night temperatures will further reduce after October 15. The calm winds and falling mercury coupled with smoke from stubble burning is not favourable for dispersion of pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-poor-may-deteriorate-further/story-OphPqjF0bKtHgUuLI38lWM.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Daring Cities 2020: Kejriwal speaks on EV policy, odd-even scheme at global meet on climate change||Addressing an international summit on climate change, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Wednesday expanded on his government’s recent electric vehicle (EV) policy, the new crop stubble decomposer and other measures taken to tackle air pollution in the national capital over the past few years. Addressing the ‘Daring Cities 2020’ virtual conference, Kejriwal also spoke about how his government had shut thermal power plants and introduced the odd-even road space rationing scheme in order to reduce pollution in Delhi during the winter months.The conference is being hosted in Germany and is a forum for global leaders to interact on how they are tackling climate change, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. Kejriwal was invited to address the delegates, alongside urban leaders and decision-makers from Bogota (Colombia), Sao Paulo (Brazil), Los Angeles (USA), and Entebbe (Uganda), and also to discuss multilevel action needed to tackle climate emergency and ensure environment sustainability, the CM’s office said in a statement.“During the past five years in Delhi, we have taken several measures to tackle the twin problems of climate change and air pollution. This has resulted in a reduction in pollution by 25% , in terms of average PM 2.5 levels. Some of the main initiatives that we took were the introduction of the odd-even scheme, the closure of thermal power plants, the ban on the use of polluting fuels, and the launch of a mega green drive,” Kejriwal said.He further said, “Our aim is to make Delhi the EV capital of the world. The Delhi government has recently notified a very progressive EV policy that will enable large-scale transition to EV vehicles -- 25% of all new vehicles by 2024 will be EVs. With a mix of financial incentives, creation of citywide charging infrastructure, and extra fee/taxes on polluting vehicles, we are laying the ground for the wide adoption of EVs in Delhi. The policy has been widely appreciated and it is our dream to put Delhi among the top cities globally in terms of adoption of electric vehicles.”“In an effort to devise sustainable solutions to crop stubble burning, we have joined hands with Indian Agricultural Research Institute to introduce the bio-decomposer technique. Every winter, in north India, millions of tonnes of crop stubble is burnt in fields at the end of the harvesting season. This is done since there is very little time left between the harvesting of one crop and the sowing of the next. And with a lack of other viable alternatives, farmers are compelled to burn the crop stubble to be immediately rid of it,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/daring-cities-2020-kejriwal-speaks-on-ev-policy-odd-even-scheme-at-global-meet-on-climate-change/story-n6iHUrCYNXajKsV2mdW5YJ.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi records most new Covid cases in 5 days, but testing dips yet again||Delhi reported the highest number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in five days on Wednesday, even as testing fell by over 2,000 from the previous day. The Capital added 2,871 new cases of the viral infection on Wednesday, pushing the positivity rate back over 5% after a single day dip. Positivity rate is the fraction of samples that test positive among total tested and reflects the trends in ongoing transmission.According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. The positivity rate on Wednesday stood at 5.57%, an increase from 4.99% a day before — the first time in several months that the number fell below 5%. Even though the number of new cases have declined from the peak of around 4,400 cases in mid-September, the city continues to report an average of 2,627 cases over the week. The number of tests, however, have gone down since then. In the 11 days between September 9 and 19, when the Capital added a daily average of 4,160 new cases, the city collected a daily average of 58,485 samples for Covid-19 tests. However, around 49,000 tests for detecting the infection were done during the last seven days, while over 54,600 were done the week before that. The number of RT-PCR tests, considered the most accurate diagnosis of the infection, dropped marginally as well on Wednesday. In any case, the gold standard tests only account for 18% of the total tests. The rapid antigen tests that are widely used are cheap, easy to perform and give results within 15 minutes. However, they are more likely to throw false negatives. On average 9,232 RT-PCR tests were performed over the last seven days as compared to an average of 10,203 a week before. The Delhi high court had rapped the government for not using its entire capacity of 14,000 RT-PCR tests a day. The Delhi government had also communicated to the district authorities in the third week of September that there should be no lapse in testing every symptomatic person using the RT-PCR method. This came after they found data of 1,400 symptomatic people who were not checked using the more accurate test. “The RT-PCR test is more accurate and will be better reflective of the situation on the ground. If the number of cases are going up or down we will come to know if we are performing a lot of RT-PCR tests. The rapid antigen tests did help in scaling up, but there are set guidelines for where these tests should be done and that has to be adhered to,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at ICMR. “The number of cases might have gone down for now, but there should be no laxity in control measures. This is because the cases of most respiratory illnesses go up during the winters – people are in close proximity within enclosed spaces increasing the risk of transmission. The immunity also goes down when there is a dip in temperature making people more susceptible to all kinds of infections,” said Dr Neeraj Gupta, head of the department of pulmonary medicine at Safdarjung hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/most-new-covid-cases-in-5-days-but-testing-dips-yet-again/story-qBGFDAgApSrooUxG8oPeUN.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi allows cinema halls with 50% capacity, opens all weekly markets||The Delhi government on Wednesday permitted reopening of cinemas, theatres and multiplexes with up to 50% of their seating capacity from October 15 and allowed all weekly markets to function in the city with immediate effect.An order announcing the fresh relaxations was issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday. All such establishments, however, will remain closed in Covid-19 containment zones, the order said.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Twitter that the decision to reopen weekly markets, in particular, would benefit the poor, who relied on them for employment.“Now all weekly markets in Delhi will open. Till now, only two markets per zone per day were allowed. Poor people will get a lot of relief from the markets being reopened. Cinema halls will also open from October 15. They have to follow guidelines issued by the Centre,” Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi.The DDMA’s decision came after the Centre on Tuesday issued guidelines regarding the operation of movie theatres and multiplexes. In Delhi, cinema halls, multiplexes and theatres are shut since March 12, much before the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25 to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of cinemas, issued by the Information and Broadcasting (I&B) ministry, make it mandatory to have a six-foot distance between people watching films. It mandates staggered entry and exits from cinema halls, including intervals. Also Read | Arvind Kejriwal announces further relaxations for weekly markets, cinemas to reopen from October 15Sanitisation of halls after each screening is mandatory. Seats have to be left vacant for social distancing and marked with fluorescent markers and crowding in lobbies, common areas, and lifts is barred. The guidelines suggest longer intermissions to allow audiences seated in different rows to move in a staggered manner.Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas, said they will follow the global standards of health and sanitisation which have been planned by the company in consultation with the Global Cinema Federation.“We are all set to reopen in a phased manner, wherein the first phase beginning from October 15 will focus on rebuilding the trust in customers to normalise stepping out of their homes. Our idea is to give our consumers sufficient opportunity and reason to act as both, our health inspectors and auditors as well as our evangelists. We have some very promising content lined up in the coming months and are currently extremely grateful for all the developments in the favour of our industry,” said Dutta.The multiplex association of India said in a statement: “We are committed to ensuring a safe, secure and hygienic cinema-going experience for the movie lovers…The permission from the Delhi governments to reopen cinemas will help to ensure that the cinema exhibition sector is able to quickly recover from the dire economic and financial impact of the epidemic. We look forward to welcoming back moviegoers to a safe and amazing brand-new experience at our cinemas.”Weekly markets, the DDMA stated, will be selected by a joint team of district magistrate, district, DCP and zonal deputy commissioners of municipal corporations in consultation with resident welfare associations of the areas.“In case it is observed by the joint team of officers that any weekly market is unable to function on its fixed/regular place or at roadside due to obstruction to traffic, strictly as per the SOP/guidelines of DDMA, then such weekly market can be allowed to function at some other nearby ground/school ground, purely on a temporary basis, where the SOP/guidelines of DDMA can be strictly implemented. If it is found in any market that vendors and/or customers are not following the instructions prescribed in SOP, such market shall be closed forthwith,” it said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-allows-cinema-halls-with-50-capacity-opens-all-weekly-markets/story-hVDw4TOfJt5tXdOH8rxhMP.html
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Educated minors behind more crimes in Ludhiana than illiterate ones: NCRB report||Juveniles who attended school were involved in more crimes in Ludhiana in 2019 as compared to those who did not, figures released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) reveal.Of the total 37 minors apprehended for various crimes in the city last year, while 32 (86.5%) had been educated, five (13.5%) had never gone to school. As many as 22 had studied up to Class 8, while 10 had even received education beyond Class 10.As per the bureau’s report, 2019 saw 28 crimes by juveniles against the 21 reported in 2018 – a jump of 33.3%.From murder to rape, minors were found involved in various types of crimes, with the majority being thefts and burglaries (13), constituting 46.42% of such cases last year.As many as five cases were lodged for assaults by juveniles, while minor boys were also booked for six sexual crimes, including three cases of rape, two sodomies and one molestation. In such cases, the victims were also aged below 18. Five cases of scuffle and causing injuries by minors were also reported last year.The only murder case involving minors was that of an 18-year-old boy, who was bludgeoned to death by his three teenaged friends in July 2019, one of whom was slapped by the victim and wanted to avenge it.Looking further into the juvenile offenders’ backgrounds, the report found that out of the 37 minors arrested by the police, 26 (70.27%) were living with their parents, while 11 were looked after by their guardians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/educated-minors-behind-more-crimes-in-ludhiana-than-illiterate-ones-ncrb-report/story-mTwf8ikn46mE1efLDulFiP.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Focus on students who are still out of contact with online learning, DoE tells govt schools, district officials||The Directorate of Education (DoE) has asked district education officers and principals of all government schools to focus on students who are not attending online classes and are out of touch with their teachers and lessons ever since physical classes were suspended in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.According to an education department official, who requested anonymity, at least 5.5% of the 15.5 lakh students in government schools are completely out of contact with their teachers and are not attached to virtual learning in any manner. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, schools across Delhi are conducting classes online, and sending links for study materials via WhatsApp and emails and as text messages. According to the minutes of a DoE coordination committee meeting held on October 1, DoE director Udit Prakash asked all district education officers to focus on students who are not reverting to WhatsApp communications with respect to online classes. The district education officers also held several meetings with heads of government schools over the past few weeks asking them to step up measures to trace students who are totally out of touch with teachers and online classes. One such meeting was held in district north-west-B on Monday.Keeping in mind that not all have access to gadgets and internet connectivity, government schools have also started giving out hard copies of assignment sheets to students -- these are collected from school once every week. However, despite all efforts, several schools said some students could not be reached either on phone or via SMS and WhatsApp.The senior official from the education department, quoted above, said of the 15-lakh odd students in government schools, 89% are in contact with teachers over phone or WhatsApp. About 5.5% are students who collect hard copies of assignments from schools as they do not have internet connectivity/devices. The remaining 5.5%, the official said, are completely out of contact with teachers and not in any way attached to virtual learning. “Even of the 89% that are connected via WhatsApp or phone, only 70% are responding to teachers’ directions and submitting their worksheets online. The remaining 11% are receiving messages and calls but not participating in the online education. The DoE has directed all schools to step up measures to engage all students in virtual education. Schools have also been asked to make more effort to trace out-of-contact students,” the official said. On August 30, HT had reported that several government schools are making extra efforts to reach out to such students. Besides, sending letters and assignments to their postal addresses, school officials are making door-to-door visits in residential areas and resorting to loudspeaker announcements. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini’s Sector 8, said 60 to 65 of his students were still out of contact. “We have sent out staff to the postal addresses of these students and also sent letters to their permanent addresses in Bihar, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. But 60 to 65 students are still untraceable,” he said.Officials said a majority of out-of-contact students are those who have left for their home states after their parents lost their jobs to the lockdown. Harpreet Kaur, principal of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya (SKV) in Tilak Nagar, said that around 26 of her students, enrolled in classes 6 to 8, continued to remain out of touch. “All of them are not living at the addresses mentioned in school records. Their phone numbers are either not working or have changed,” she said. The schools managed to trace some students who were missing online classes by forming area-wise teams comprising support staff and the school management committee (SMC) members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/focus-on-students-who-are-still-out-of-contact-with-online-learning-doe-tells-govt-schools-district-officials/story-K9iOKU2OrSgnCm1N30xOnN.html
08-10-2020||Delhi||Cluster bus driver involved in two accidents, one of them fatal, held for driving drunk||Police have arrested the driver of a cluster bus that was involved in a fatal hit-and-run accident in north Delhi’s Kashmere Gate on October 1, after their probe and eyewitness accounts revealed that the 45-year-old driver was allegedly drunk at the time of the accident.Police said they questioned scores of potential eyewitnesses and checked the GPS data of multiple cluster buses to zero in on the errant driver, identified as Pardeep alias Nagraj, who had fled the scene of accident.On October 1, the Kashmere Gate police had responded to a call from a passerby and reached the Kashmere Gate Metro station to find a man, a pedestrian, crushed to death. He was identified as 33-year-old Sanjay, the father of three children and a resident of Maujpur in north-east Delhi. He worked as a clerk with a private firm in Chandni Chowk.Police said Nagraj may have gone scot-free had it not been for another accident that his bus was involved in, in west Delhi’s Mayapuri, soon after the one in Kashmere Gate.“In Mayapuri, his bus collided with a truck. He was caught and the bus seized. Nagraj’s medical examination after that accident revealed that he driving under the influence,” said Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north).The marshal and conductor on the bus also said Nagraj was driving in an inebriated condition. “They told us that they had refused to board the bus that night as he was drunk,” the DCP said. Although it is against the rules to ply a cluster bus without the conductor and marshal present on board, Nagraj went ahead anyway, police saidNagraj, police said, was previously involved in 13 other crimes, including murder, attempt to murder and even two cases of fatal accidents. While he was acquitted in both fatal accident cases, he was convicted in a case registered under the Arms Act, the police said. How such a person managed to gain employment as driver of a cluster bus is being ascertained, police said.Police said when CCTV footage failed to provide actionable leads in the Kashmere Gate hit-and-run case, they started speaking to potential eyewitnesses. “We managed to find a few eyewitnesses who said the accident was caused by a cluster bus. After the accident, the bus took a U-turn and travelled on the wrong side of the road,” said the DCP.So, the police got a list of 30 such cluster buses which had left the Mori Gate terminal around the time of the accident. “We checked the GPS locations and movement of all those buses and found that one plying on Route Number 753 had taken a U-turn and travelled on the wrong side of the road,” Alphonse said.Once details of the driver was obtained, Nagraj was arrested from his home in Issapur village in outer Delhi on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cluster-bus-driver-involved-in-two-accidents-one-of-them-fatal-held-for-driving-drunk/story-B9RlKBoHaonmP4WmyoanqM.html
08-10-2020||City||Former Nagaland Guv and ex-CBI director Ashwani Kumar found dead in Shimla||Former governor of Nagaland and ex-director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Ashwani Kumar, was found hanging at Brockhorst in Shimla on Wednesday.Himachal director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu said investigation is on and a team of forensic experts has reached the crime scene and is collecting evidence.Ashwani Kumar, 69, was a retired IPS officer, who had served as the governor of Nagaland from 2013 to 2014. He had also served as governor of Manipur in 2013. He had resigned soon after the NDA government came to power in 2014.Kumar, who hailed from Nahan, was also the Himachal Pradesh DGP from 2006 to 2008 and director of CBI from August 2008 to November 2010.Born on November 15, 1950, Kumar had received early education at Government Primary School at Kothi village near Rekong Peo in Kinnaur.He had later studied at Rashtriya Indian Military College, Dehradun and completed his graduation from Government College Bilaspur and Government College, Nahan.He had done MBA in HR management and doctorate in management. He had joined the Indian Police Service in 1973 and was allotted Himachal cadre. He served on key posts in the police department. In 1985, he was selected for induction in SPG, responsible for security of the PM.He was also a visiting faculty to many universities, colleges and institutions. He taught human resources management, organisational behaviour and leadership. He also provided guidance to the Research Centre for Penology, Criminal Justice and Police Studies in the Jindal Global Law School, and the Research Centre for Leadership and Change in the Jindal Global Business School. He had also served as the pro vice-chancellor of APG University, Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-nagaland-guv-and-ex-cbi-director-ashwani-kumar-commits-suicide/story-hp54zWf3axgkBtqRzPpDEM.html
08-10-2020||Pune||Centre-state blame game leaves insurance claim of 57 pvt docs in Maharashtra on paper||Pune: Insurance applications of at least 57 doctors from Maharashtra, who lost their lives while on duty, have been rejected by the state government at the local level. All 57 doctors died after contracting the Covid-19 infection. The state government is now blaming the Centre for not insuring private hospitals, while the Centre says it does not differentiate on such a basis. Doctors from across the state had applied for the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package – the insurance scheme for healthcare workers fighting Covid-19. Of the 57 deceased doctors, 17 are from Mumbai, 13 from Thane, and six from Pune. The insurance scheme provides insurance cover to healthcare providers, including community health workers, who may be in direct contact with, and taking care of, Covid-19 patients, and who are at high risk of Covid-19 infection. The scheme provides a life insurance benefit of Rs 50 lakh for death due to Covid-19 infection or accidental death during Covid-19-related duty. However, the claims of doctors from private hospitals who applied under the scheme, have been rejected at the state-level. The reason cited in an official document which HT is in possession of, is: “The said doctor was working in a private hospital and was not working in any local civic body DCH, DCHC or CCC, and so, the doctor is not found eligible under the said insurance guidelines.” While the state officials claim that the central government scheme does not cover doctors practising in private hospitals, the Central government’s ministry of family and welfare clarified that the scheme covers all doctors irrespective of private and public hospitals. Sadanand Rawat, additional personal secretary to Harsh Vardhan, Union minister of health and family welfare, said, “I have checked the guidelines of the policy and it does not differentiate between doctors working in private and public hospitals. The scheme is applicable for all in case there is any particular case then that can be investigated. If the state has anything in writing where the central government has stated that the scheme is not applied for doctors working in private hospitals, then they can send it to us. Our scheme does not exempt anyone, be it private or public; doctor is a doctor and we have no partiality.” Another officer from the Union ministry of health, who was part of drafting and sending out the letter to state secretaries, requesting anonymity, said, “The guidelines are quite clear and they are followed. Also, I believe that the matter is now sub-judice as one of the widows of a doctor has taken up the matter in the court.” IMA, in its statement issued to the press, said: “In the official meeting held on 11th August 2020 with the representatives of IMA, Health Minister of Maharashtra, Rajesh Tope had also agreed that the insurance of Rs 50 lakh would be applied to all the private doctors. Accordingly, on 17th August 2020, Dr Sudhakar Shinde, (IRS) Chief Executive Officer, Maharashtra State Public Health Department, State Health Insurance Society, issued a circular in this regard.” Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, IMA Maharashtra chapter, said, “The same government which threatens to take action against doctors under MESMA act for not providing services for Covid-19 patients, or even shutting clinics during the pandemic, is now rejecting claims of all the doctors. We had asked the state government to send condolence letters to the bereaved families and also decorate these warriors to boost the morale of the community. Instead, now, the claims are being rejected despite the fact that a circular has been issued in place for the same.” Dr Shinde, CEO, State Health Insurance Society, said, “I do not look after the package and it is a central government scheme. It is my job to forward the letters that come to the concerned departments. The central government is now saying that the scheme will only be applicable to those who worked in government hospitals or those that the state government later requisitioned to Covid centres. I have only communicated this decision. The families can approach the central government since the scheme belongs to the central ministry. The definition of Covid warriors is defined by the central government. The director of health services is handling this issue.” Dr Archana Patil, director of health services said, “The guidelines framed by the government of India states that only those private doctors, whose services have been requisitioned by the state government, only those would be applicable in its original letter. We cannot change it. Earlier, the claims we were sending to the central health ministry were being rejected. During our weekly meetings too we have raised the issue, but the insurance scheme is already formulated and maybe, now they are not able to change it. So we are not sending the claims. We truly believe that private hospitals are doctors and should also be covered under this insurance. To repeatedly send the claims which do not fit into the central government’s guidelines would not be right.” She also said that currently there is no such scheme offered by the state government currently. She further added, “Currently about 20% of the Covid-19 patients are admitted in private hospitals and the remaining are in medical education, government hospitals or local civic bodies. Of the total active patients now, about 68% are admitted in various hospitals and the remaining are in home isolation.” She also added that the state government has sent about 76 proposals which have been received, of which 19 have been approved, 31 are ineligible and 25 are under process. These 76 include all the proposal claims, including private and public hospitals. She added, “We have approved claims of three doctors from private hospitals as the hospitals were requisitioned by the government, of which two were in Mumbai and one was in Pune.” Dr Bhondwe said, “The state government is putting the blame on the central government, if that is the case then why are they rejecting the claims instead of putting them on hold.” The guidelines mentioned by the central government states, “public healthcare providers including community health workers, who may have to be in direct contact and care of Covid-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by this. Private hospital staff and retired /volunteer/localurban bodies/ contracted/daily wage/ad-hoc/outsourced staff requisitioned by States/Central hospitals/autonomous hospitals of Central/ States/UTs, AIIMS and INIs/ hospital of Central Ministries can also be drafted for Covid-19 related responsibilities” are covered under the insurance scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-state-blame-game-leaves-insurance-claim-of-57-pvt-docs-in-maha-on-paper/story-eZ3qH3BMWcsfwuVZh3NZzO.html
08-10-2020||Pune||Mum-Pune special trains in place of DQ, Indrayani||The Central Railways (CR) has announced the running of five special trains from October 9. Of these five specials, two trains will run between Pune and Mumbai. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, train services between both cities have been shut down, until now. According to information released by the Central Railways on Wednesday, a ‘Mumbai-Pune Superfast Special Daily’ (train number 02123) will leave Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and arrive in Pune the same day, starting October 9. A Superfast Special Daily (train number 02124) will leave Pune railway station, starting October 10, and arrive at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Mumbai, the same day. The halts and timings of these trains will be the same as the Deccan Queen Express (train no. 12123/12124), starting from Pune at 7.15am and reaching Mumbai at 10.15am; starting from Mumbai at 5.10pm and reaching Pune at 8.25 pm. There will be 10 second sitting class coaches, four AC chair cars and two second- class seating coaches in the train. A second Mumbai-Pune Superfast Special train will mirror the timings of the Indrayani Express (train number 22105/22106), starting from Pune at 6.35pm and reaching Mumbai at 10pm; starting from Mumbai at 5.40 am and reaching Pune at 9.05 am. This ‘Mumbai-Pune Superfast Special Daily’ (train number 02015) will leave Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus from October 9 and arrive in Pune the same day. The superfast special (train number 02016) will leave Pune from October 9, and arrive at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Mumbai, the same day. There will be 12 second class seating coaches and two AC chair cars in this train. The other three special trains are the Mumbai-Nagpur Duronto special daily train, Mumbai-Gondia superfast special daily and the Mumbai-Solapur superfast special daily train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mum-pune-special-trains-in-place-of-dq-indrayani/story-0g7vsfjHhqv7EmSu5stpFJ.html
08-10-2020||Pune||Covid impact: 2K of 8.5K restaurants open; several shut shop for good in Pune||PUNE: Many restaurants in the city have closed down permanently owing to the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic as the state government allowed restaurants and bars to restart business after six months. Of the 8,500 restaurants associated with Pune hoteliers association in Pune city, only 2,000 have resumed their services. The dine-in services at restaurants and bars were resumed across Maharashtra from October 5 with 50 per cent customer capacity. Some of the restaurant owners said that they had to take drastic steps as business was severely hit during the lockdown with limited orders unable to cover even 20% of rent and staff salaries. Among the issues listed out by various restaurant owners that led to closing down of eateries in the city are financial burden in view of bank loan, unable to pay rent, salaries of staff and maintenance of restaurant. Sarika Bhagat, the owner of Rayat non-veg hotel in Shaniwar peth area, one of the popular non-vegetarian food outlets in the city that closed down during the lockdown period, said, “We had three restaurants in the city before the lockdown and all premises were on rent. During the lockdown, it became difficult to manage rent, salaries and maintenance of all the three food joints. We had to close down our main restaurant in Shaniwar peth and another hotel near Sarasbaug area. We are running only one restaurant and that too with the help of family members.” Veg Marathon, a restaurant on Tilak road near Swargate chowk, also could not survive the lockdown. Its owner requesting anonymity said, “I was earlier working in another restaurant as manager and quit the job to start my own restaurant. We had hardly started the restaurant for a couple of months and the lockdown began in March. I was left with no option, but to down shutters as I had taken loan and borrowed money to start the restaurant.” On Bajirao road, another outlet, Kiga ice cream, has also been closed down due to lockdown. Besides finance, shortage of staff after workers returning to their hometowns during lockdown have also added to the issues that many restaurant owners face to resume business. Vaishali and Roopali, the two prominent restaurants on Fergusson College road, have not restarted due to shortage of workers. Abhishek Shetty, the owner of Kalinga’s Veg Gourmet restaurant at Erandwane, said, “There are multiple issues, including shortage of staff, that has left us to decide to not reopen.” Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers Association (PRHA) president Ganesh Shetty said, “It’s been three days since restaurants and bars are allowed to restart the dine-in services, but not all of them have resumed. Out of the total 8,500 major restaurants in the city, only around 2,000 have started. Most of them are yet to restart. Many have cited costly rents, financial crunch to pay staff salaries as reasons for permanently closing down. More food joints will reopen once staff return from their hometowns.”Rohan Nalawade, owner of Tasty Punjab veg non-veg restaurant in Katraj, said, “We were running the restaurant in partnership since last three years and during the lockdown we had to shut it down. Initially for a month we thought that we will survive and restart, but as the lockdown got extended we were left with no option but to close down. The rent was very high and few of our staff had stayed back in Pune, so we had to pay them as well. We finally closed the restaurant in May.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-impact-many-restaurants-permanently-closed-some-may-take-time-to-resume-business-in-pune/story-KJeTrg1JYH9oWaIyFsxuMP.html
08-10-2020||Pune||Bhama Askhed dam water project: With 95% work complete, PMC plans to begin trials in two months||PUNE: The civic administration accelerated the work of Bhama Askhed dam water pipeline project even as it is tackling the Covid situation and claims to have completed 95 per cent of the plan. Civic officials said that the trials will be carried out within two months. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) initiated the Bhama Askhed water pipeline project in 2014. It was designed to meet the drinking water needs of 14.5 lakh residents of eastern Pune. As per the plan, a 42-km pipeline will be laid from the Bhama-Askhed dam to Pune. The dam is located near Chakan Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). According to PMC, the lake tapping work was completed when the city was under Covid lockdown. Lake tapping involves the excavation of a tunnel from the bottom of the lake for the water to flow down the tunnel. PMC executive engineer Sudesh Kadu said, “Only 500 metres of the total 42 km water pipeline work is remaining. With the help of police protection, PMC completed the 10 km pipeline work near the dam. Around 200 metres of the pipeline work near the dam that connects to the jackwell is yet to be completed and another 300 metres work is remaining in Pimpri-Chinchwad area. As land acquisition work is not done for roads, PMC is unable to lay pipelines. We are awaiting the land acquisition clearance to lay pipeline in Pimpri-Chinchwad area.” Kadu said that as the project is extensive running into 42 kms, many trials will have to be carried out before getting the final go-ahead. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “Though the administration is busy handling the Covid pandemic, we pushed many development works. The delayed Bhama Askhed water project is nearing completion. Even farmers are now cooperating to complete the project.” Benefitting residents The 42-km water pipeline that is laid from Bhama-Askhed dam to Pune will address the water needs of residents living in eastern Pune mainly Ahmednagar road, Wadgaon Sheri, Kharadi and Kalyaninagar areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhama-askhed-dam-water-project-with-95-work-complete-pmc-plans-to-begin-trials-in-two-months/story-sQ7WI4N7gYGJJ4wkqr4i2N.html
08-10-2020||World||Study says of 24 ‘superhabitable’ planets may exist outside solar system||Scientists have identified 24 planets outside our solar system that they say may have conditions more suitable for life than the Earth.The study, published in the journal Astrobiology, details characteristics of potential “superhabitable” planets, that include those that are older, a little larger, slightly warmer and possibly wetter than Earth.The researchers from the Washington State University (WSU) in the US noted life could more easily thrive on planets that circle more slowly changing stars with longer lifespans than our Sun.The 24 top contenders for superhabitable planets are all more than 100 light years away, but the study could help focus future observation efforts, such as from NASA’s James Web Space Telescope, they said.“With the next space telescopes coming up, we will get more information, so it is important to select some targets,” said Dirk Schulze-Makuch, a professor at WSU and the Technical University in Berlin.“We have to focus on certain planets that have the most promising conditions for complex life. However, we have to be careful to not get stuck looking for a second Earth because there could be planets that might be more suitable for life than ours,” Schulze-Makuch said.The researchers identified superhabitability criteria and searched among the 4,500 known exoplanets beyond our solar system for good candidates.Habitability does not mean these planets definitely have life, merely the conditions that would be conducive to life, they noted.The researchers selected planet-star systems with probable terrestrial planets orbiting within the host star’s liquid water habitable zone from the Kepler Object of Interest Exoplanet Archive of transiting exoplanets.While the Sun is the centre of our solar system, it has a relatively short lifespan of less than 10 billion years, they said.Since it took nearly 4 billion years before any form of complex life appeared on Earth, many similar stars to our sun, called G stars, might run out of fuel before complex life can develop, according to the researchers.In addition to looking at systems with cooler G stars, they also looked at systems with K dwarf stars, which are somewhat cooler, less massive and less luminous than the Sun.The researchers said K stars have the advantage of long lifespans of 20 billion to 70 billion years.This would allow orbiting planets to be older as well as giving life more time to advance to the complexity currently found on Earth, they said.However, to be habitable, planets should not be so old that they have exhausted their geothermal heat and lack protective geomagnetic fields.Earth is around 4.5 billion years old, but the researchers argue that the sweet spot for life is a planet that is between 5 billion to 8 billion years old. Size and mass also matter.A planet that is 10 per cent larger than the Earth should have more habitable land, the researchers said.One that is about 1.5 times Earth’s mass would be expected to retain its interior heating through radioactive decay longer and would also have a stronger gravity to retain an atmosphere over a longer time period, they said.Water is key to life and the researchers argue that a little more of it would help, especially in the form of moisture, clouds and humidity.They noted that a slightly overall warmer temperature, a mean surface temperature of about 5 degrees Celsius greater than Earth, together with the additional moisture, would be also better for life.Among the 24 top planet candidates none of them meet all the criteria for superhabitable planets, but one has four of the critical characteristics, making it possibly much more comfortable for life than our home planet, the researchers added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/study-says-of-24-superhabitable-planets-may-exist-outside-solar-system/story-4iO4wZ2X21vtKYYTZSsbiN.html
08-10-2020||World||Six men charged for plotting to kidnap Michigan governor Gretchen Whitmer||The FBI said on Thursday it thwarted a plot to overthrow the Michigan state government and kidnap its governor, Gretchen Whitmer, and had probable cause to charge six men with a failed operation that involved reaching out to a militia group.The operation will be announced at a press conference of law enforcement officials at 1 p.m. in Grand Rapids, which will be attended by Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel and the state’s leading federal prosecutors.The FBI first got wind that a group of individuals “were discussing the violent overthrow of certain government and law-enforcement components” in early 2020, according to an affidavit by special agent Richard Trask released by the FBI on Thursday.The alleged plot included reaching out to a militia group, which was not named in the affidavit.Trask said there was probable cause to charge six men - Adam Fox, Barry Croft, Ty Garbin, Kaleb Franks, Daniel Harrisand Brandon Caserta - with conspiring to kidnap Whitmer, a Democrat and frequent critic of Republican President Donald Trump.In September, Fox posted in an encrypted chat that he did not want a final training exercise to be held in the last week of October because it would not leave enough time to execute the kidnapping before the national election on Nov. 3, Trask said.“The group agreed to use the time until the final training exercise to raise money for explosives and other supplies,” Trask wrote in the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/six-men-charged-for-plotting-to-kidnap-michigan-governor-gretchen-whitmer/story-O1C6hTS3b4WCfR0whaTcMN.html
08-10-2020||World||Anthony Fauci says ‘reasonably good chance’ Regeneron antibody therapy helped Donald Trump||Top US infectious diseases expert Dr. Anthony Fauci said on Thursday that President Donald Trump’s health was likely helped by an experimental therapy made by Regeneron Inc in which he received antibodies to fight the disease.“There is a reasonably good chance that in fact it made him much better,” Fauci said during an interview on MSNBC.Fauci also said that the Covid-19 pandemic, which has killed more than 210,000 people in the United States and 1 million people globally, is far more serious than the seasonal flu.“There is no doubt about that,” Fauci said when asked about President Trump’s tweet comparing the disease to the seasonal flu. Twitter took down the tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anthony-fauci-says-reasonably-good-chance-regeneron-antibody-therapy-helped-donald-trump/story-U70e7EQmhC6oHaERpg0PWJ.html
08-10-2020||World||Donald Trump calls for two in-person debates with Joe Biden before election||President Donald Trump’s campaign is proposing delaying the two remaining presidential debates by one week to ensure the debates can take place in-person, rather than virtually, after Trump’s coronavirus diagnosis.The Commission on Presidential Debate announced Thursday that next week’s town hall debate in Miami would be held virtually because of Trump had the virus. The president immediately objected to that format, and he said he wouldn’t take part.Trump’s campaign manager Bill Stepien says in a statement that the “American people should not be deprived of the chance to see the two candidates for president debate face to face two more times” before the election.Stepien says the campaign would like to see the town hall postponed by one week, to Oct. 22, and the third debate held on Oct. 29.Democrat Joe Biden’s campaign had also asked that town hall be moved back a week “so the president is not able to evade accountability.”___12 p.m.Joe Biden’s presidential campaign says because of President Donald Trump’s rejection of a virtual presidential debate on Oct. 15, the Democratic challenger will hold his own town hall event the same night.Biden spokeswoman Kate Bedingfield said in a statement late Thursday morning that the Commission on Presidential Debates should reschedule the town hall debate for Oct. 22. That’s the night a third debate was to take place.The commission earlier Thursday had announced that any Oct. 15 debate would be virtual because of Trump’s recent COVID-19 diagnosis. Biden said he was willing to abide by the format change, but Trump blasted the decision and argued without evidence that the commission was trying to help Biden.Bedingfield said in her statement that Trump is trying to “evade accountability” by avoiding facing voters directly.“The voters should have a chance to ask questions of both candidates, directly,” she said. “Every presidential candidate since 1992 has participated in such an event, and it would be a shame if Donald Trump was the first to refuse.”—-8:10 a.m.President Donald Trump, who has the coronavirus, says he will not participate in next week’s presidential debate if it’s held virtually.Trump says in a Fox Business interview that that arrangement is “not acceptable to us.”And he’s accusing moderators of trying to protect his Democratic rival Joe Biden.The nonpartisan Commission on Presidential Debates had announced moments earlier that the second debate between Trump and Biden will take place virtually because of the president’s diagnosis of COVID-19.The commission cited a need “to protect the health and safety of all involved with the second presidential debate” and said the candidates would “participate from separate remote locations” while the participants and moderator remain in Miami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-calls-for-two-in-person-debates-with-joe-biden-before-election/story-M1XopPJbzMPjm6CDtm7EJL.html
08-10-2020||World||Strict Covid-19 lockdowns may speed up economic recovery: IMF||Early lockdowns in an epidemic can substantially reduce infections, and policymakers should be wary of lifting them to jumpstart their economies when infections remain high, the International Monetary Fund said on Thursday.The Covid-19 pandemic showed that government lockdowns succeeded in lowering infections, the IMF wrote in a chapter of its forthcoming World Economic Outlook, but they also contributed to the recession and hit vulnerable groups such as women and young people particularly hard.Voluntary social distancing driven by fears of contracting the disease also contributed heavily to the recession and was unlikely to recede if lockdowns were lifted while cases remained elevated, the researchers warned.“Addressing the health risks appears to be a pre-condition to allow for a strong and sustained economic recovery,” wrote IMF economists Francesco Grigoli and Damiano Sandri in a blog post on the research.“Lockdowns impose short-term costs but may lead to a faster economic recovery as they lower infections and thus the extent of voluntary social distancing,” they wrote, adding that alternatives such as wearing face masks, expanded testing and contact tracing could have even lower economic costs.The IMF research did not single out specific countries, but comes as infections are rising sharply in parts of the United States that moved to end lockdowns early amid pressure from U.S. President Donald Trump, who was determined to boost the economy ahead of the Nov. 3 presidential election.India, second only to the United States in coronavirus infections, is also lifting most restrictions even as the pandemic rages.The IMF said lockdowns needed to be sufficiently strict to curb infections, suggesting that “stringent and short-lived lockdowns could be preferable to mild and prolonged measures,” they wrote.The crisis was hitting more vulnerable groups harder, they noted, with stay-at-home orders and school closures curbing mobility more sharply among women, who shouldered more of the burden in caring for children.Lockdowns also reduced the mobility of younger people aged 18 to 44 more sharply, since they had younger children affected by school closures and often had temporary job contracts that were more likely to be terminated during a crisis.To prevent long-lasting wider inequality, decision-makers should look to strengthen unemployment benefits and offer paid leave to parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strict-covid-19-lockdowns-may-speed-up-economic-recovery-imf/story-WsS5FFVI2H2yhau4OgLUwI.html
08-10-2020||World||The Wild Iris, Averno: Nobel laureate Louise Glück’s notable work||American poet Louise Glück was awarded the 2020 Nobel Prize in Literature on Thursday. She is the 16th woman to win the Nobel prize, and the first American woman since Toni Morrison took the prize in 1993.The academy gave the award to Glück for her “candid and uncompromising” work and praised the writer “for her unmistakable poetic voice that with austere beauty makes individual existence universal.”She has written 12 collections of poetry and two books of essays over the career span of six decades. Currently, Glück is a professor of English at Yale University and lives in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She made her debut in 1968 with “Firstborn,” and “was soon acclaimed as one of the most prominent poets in American contemporary literature,” the Nobel Academy said.Here is the list of her notable work:The Triumph of Achilles: In this collection, divided into three-parts, the Glück explores many themesThe Wild Iris: It was published in 1992, and led her to the Pulitzer award in 1993. It is a collection of beautifully written poems which revolves around universal themes of time and mortality.Averno: It was published in 2006 and was a National Book Award Finalist for Poetry that year. The academy described the book as “a masterly collection, a visionary interpretation of the myth of Persephone’s descent into hell in the captivity of Hades, the god of death,” on its Twitter handle.Faithful and Virtuous Night: It was published in 2014 and is considered to be one of the finest work of Glück. It won National Book Award for Poetry in the same year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-wild-iris-averno-nobel-laureate-louise-gluck-s-notable-work/story-a0nGFsq8Qx29snDqE9ONIL.html
08-10-2020||World||Romance fraud on the rise in UK during Covid-19 pandemic||Millions of pounds have been lost to ‘romance fraud’ when people confined to spells of isolation during the coronavirus pandemic turn to online dating and end up handing over money after fraudsters gain their trust and ask for help in non-existing emergencies.Action Fraud, the UK centre for reporting cybercrime and fraud, said on Thursday that between August 2019 and August 2020, losses reported by victims amounted to £66,335,239, equating to an average loss per victim of over £10,000.From June to August, the centre received more than 600 reports per month for romance fraud, indicating the victims may have met, and begun talking to, romance fraudsters during the lockdown caused by the pandemic.Romance fraud, or dating fraud, occurs when people think they have met the perfect partner online. They gain trust over a number of weeks or months and have the victims believe that they are in a loving, caring relationship. Fraudsters may be based anywhere across the globe.However, the criminal’s end goal is only to get the victims’ money or personal information, Action Fraud said. The centre launched a multi-agency campaign throughout October to raise awareness of romance fraud and provide clear and unambiguous protection advice to the public, following a 26% rise in reports in the past year.Alex Rothwell of the City of London Police (the UK lead force on fraud) said: “Romance fraud is a devastating crime that impacts victims both financially and emotionally…Criminals are experts at impersonating people.” “They spend hours researching you for their scams, especially when committing romance fraud. We’re reminding everyone to stop and think: fall for the person, not the profile, it could protect you and your money,” he added.Diana Fawcett of charity organisation Victim Support added: “Lockdown restrictions meant people could not meet in person for a number of months, which led to many seeking to form new connections online. While using the internet can be a great way to meet people and form relationships, there’s also a great risk of being lured into a romance scam as fraudsters know how to take advantage of people’s desire for human contact.”“Unfortunately, we’ve seen that circumstances caused by coronavirus were in fact used by fraudsters as a ‘hook’ to extort money. For example, some have invented lies about needing medical treatment, or urgent travel expenses to leave a country, or funds to keep afloat after a bogus job loss caused by the pandemic,” she added.The City of London Police said that during October it will co-ordinate enforcement activity across the UK and overseas to target and arrest criminals suspected of committing romance fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/romance-fraud-on-the-rise-in-uk-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-SkR6HQ098d7LCbHl5gW1OL.html
08-10-2020||World||Trump pulls out of October 15 presidential debate with Biden, calls it ‘a waste of time’||President Donald Trump said he will not participate in the next debate with Democratic nominee Joe Biden if it will be conducted virtually as a precaution against the spread of the coronavirus.”No I’m not going to waste my time on a virtual debate,” Trump said in a telephone interview with Fox Business Thursday. “That’s not what debating’s about.”The Commission on Presidential Debates announced earlier that the Oct. 15 forum in Miami, the second of three presidential debates, will be a town hall with the participants appearing from remote locations.The decision was made “in order to protect the health and safety of all involved,” the commission said in a statement. It comes after Trump was hospitalized with Covid-19 over the weekend and the White House has reported that a dozen staffers have become infected with the virus, which has killed more than 210,000 people in the US.The Biden and Trump campaigns didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.Moderator Steve Scully, C-SPAN’s political editor, will be live from the planned location of the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts of Miami-Dade County, and the commission says the White House press pool will “provide coverage.”Trump tested positive for Covid on Oct. 1, two weeks before the next scheduled debate. He was hospitalized Friday before returning to the White House on Monday.The president’s doctor has said he is feeling better but has refused to release key details since Monday, such as Trump’s specific vital signs, when he last tested negative, when he actually fell ill, and whether he’s still receiving a steroid, dexamethasone.The virus has circulated widely throughout the White House. Aside from Trump and the first lady, aides Hope Hicks, Nick Luna, Stephen Miller and Kayleigh McEnany have all tested positive, as has campaign manager Bill Stepien and former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, who helped with debate prep.Trump is pushing to return to normal, having gone to the Oval Office on Wednesday, despite still being in the active phase of the virus. The campaigns had haggled over rule changes after the first debate, which was marked by a series of interruptions from Trump in particular. The campaign has said that Trump “intends to be ready to debate” by Oct. 15, and had opposed rule changes, such as a mute button that would allow moderators to cut off the microphone of a candidate.The idea of having the candidates debate each other from separate locations is not new. In the third debate of the famous 1960 debates between John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon, the candidates sparred remotely with Kennedy in New York City and Nixon in Los Angeles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-going-to-waste-my-time-on-a-virtual-debate-trump-pulls-out-of-october-15-presidential-debate/story-Yk9573OjIZA5uIPaW20NNJ.html
08-10-2020||World||Moderna will not enforce Covid-19 vaccine patents during pandemic||Moderna Inc said on Thursday it would not enforce patents related to its experimental Covid-19 vaccine while the pandemic continues, a move that would allow other drugmakers to develop shots using the company’s technology.Moderna is not asserting its intellectual property rights for its vaccine technology and is willing to license the technology behind its experimental coronavirus vaccine after the pandemic, the company said in a statement.The company is one of the furthest along in the U.S. race for a vaccine seen as essential to ending a pandemic that has claimed more than a million lives worldwide.Moderna has received over $1 billion in government funding to develop and produce its candidate, and another $1.5 billion to supply it to the American public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-will-not-enforce-covid-19-vaccine-patents-during-pandemic/story-Y5iMkBZua90SFkBbzDGSqM.html
08-10-2020||World||Second US Presidential debate with Joe Biden going virtual amid Donald Trump’s Covid-19||The second presidential debate between President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden will take place virtually amid the fallout from the president’s diagnosis of Covid-19.The nonpartisan Commission on Presidential Debates debates made the announcement Thursday morning, a week before the two were scheduled to face on in Miami. The candidates will “participate from separate remote locations,” while the participants and moderator remain in Miami, the commission said.Trump was diagnosed with the coronavirus a week ago and said he looked forward to debating Biden on stage in Miami, saying, “It will be great!”Biden, for his part, said he and Trump “shouldn’t have a debate” as long as the president remains Covid positive.Biden told reporters in Pennsylvania that he was “looking forward to being able to debate him” but said “we’re going to have to follow very strict guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-us-presidential-debate-with-joe-biden-going-virtual-amid-donald-trump-s-covid-19/story-2kiP5fVVPSiwBAL9MIldYP.html
08-10-2020||World||Potential Covid-19 vaccines not affected by recent mutations: Study||Vaccines currently being developed for Covid-19 should not be affected by recent mutations in the novel coronavirus, according to researchers, including one of Indian origin, who said the finding is good news for the hundreds of vaccine candidates around the world. The researchers, including those from the University of York in the UK, noted that most vaccines under development worldwide have been modelled on the original ‘D-strain’ of the virus, which were more common amongst sequences published early in the pandemic. Since then, the virus has evolved to the globally dominant ‘G-strain’, which now accounts for about 85 per cent of published SARS-CoV-2 genomes, they said. There had been fears the G-strain, within the main protein on the surface of the virus, would negatively impact on vaccines under development. However, the research by Australia’s national science agency the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), found no evidence the change would adversely impact the efficacy of vaccine candidates. The study, published in the journal npj Vaccines, tested blood samples from ferrets given a candidate vaccine against virus strains that either possessed or lacked this mutation known as ‘D614G’. “This is good news for the hundreds of vaccines in development around the world, with the majority targeting the spike protein as this binds to the ACE2 receptors in our lungs and airways, which are the entry point to infect cells,” said Professor Seshadri Vasan, who holds an honorary chair in Health Sciences at the University of York. “Despite this D614G mutation to the spike protein, we confirmed through experiments and modelling that vaccine candidates are still effective,” Vasan said in a statement. “We’ve also found the G-strain is unlikely to require frequent ‘vaccine matching’ where new vaccines need to be developed seasonally to combat the virus strains in circulation, as is the case with influenza,” he said. CSIRO Chief Executive Larry Marshall said the research was critically important in the race to develop a vaccine. “This brings the world one step closer to a safe and effective vaccine to protect people and save lives,” Marshall said. he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/potential-covid-19-vaccines-not-affected-by-recent-mutations-study/story-qy6qFAV2FhA2ebhNrhpyoL.html
08-10-2020||World||Taiwan says ‘get lost’ over China’s note to Indian media||China was accused by Taiwan of trying to impose censorship in India after its embassy in New Delhi advised journalists to observe the “one-China” principle after newspapers carried advertisements for Taiwan’s national day.Coming just months after deadly clashes between Indian and Chinese troops on the disputed Himalayan border between the two Asian giants, the controversy has flared at a time when Indian sentiments toward China are filled with antipathy and suspicion.China’s hackles were raised on Wednesday by advertisements placed in leading Indian newspapers by Taiwan’s government to mark the democratic, Chinese-claimed island’s national day on Saturday.The advertisement carried a photograph of President Tsai Ing-wen and hailed India, a fellow democracy, as a natural partner of Taiwan.China, which claims Taiwan and regards it as a wayward province, made its displeasure evident in an e-mail sent by its embassy on Wednesday night to journalists in India, including Reuters.“Regarding the so-called forthcoming ‘National Day of Taiwan’, the Chinese Embassy in India would like to remind our media friends that there is only one China in the world, and the Government of the People’s Republic of China is the sole legitimate government representing the whole of China,” the embassy said.“We hope Indian media can stick to Indian government’s position on Taiwan question and do not violate the ‘One China’ principle.“In particular, Taiwan shall not be referred to as a ‘country (nation)’ or ‘Republic of China’ or the leader of China’s Taiwan region as ‘President’, so as not to send the wrong signals to the general public.” Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu scoffed at Beijing’s advice to Indian media. “India is the largest democracy on Earth with a vibrant press & freedom-loving people. But it looks like communist #China is hoping to march into the subcontinent by imposing censorship. #Taiwan’s Indian friends will have one reply: GET LOST!” he said in a tweet.New Delhi has no formal diplomatic relations with Taipei, but both sides have close business and cultural ties.India’s government has carefully avoided upsetting China over Taiwan. But relations became fraught after 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash with Chinese troops in June, and there have been calls from some Indian nationalist groups for a boycott of Chinese goods. “The Chinese government behaves like a street goon, not like an aspiring super-power. It threatens us,” said Nitin Gokhale, the editor of a defence and security website, after receiving the Chinese embassy’s email.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-says-get-lost-over-china-s-note-to-indian-media/story-mifIvtgFLDo4I7Xr0u1x8K.html
08-10-2020||World||Nobel Prize for Literature to be announced shortly: Here are the probables||After several years of scandals and wildcard picks, the Swedish Academy will on Thursday crown the 2020 Nobel Literature Prize laureate.Speculation in Stockholm’s literary circles meanwhile covers a long list of names, including Caribbean-American author Jamaica Kincaid, Canadian poet Anne Carson, Kenyan writer Ngugi wa Thiong’o, and Hungary’s Peter Nadas and Laszlo Krasznahorkai.In 2018 the award was postponed after sex abuse allegations rocked the Swedish Academy that chooses the winners, and sparked a mass exodus of members.After the academy revamped itself in a bid to regain the trust of the Nobel Foundation, two laureates were named last year, with the 2018 prize going to Poland’s Olga Tokarczuk and the 2019 award to Austria’s Peter Handke.This year the academy is likely to seek a more harmonious choice for the 10 million kronor (more than US $1.1 million) prize.Authors often mentioned as contenders include Kenya’s Ngugi Wa Thiong’o, Canadian poet Anne Carson and Japanese novelist Haruki Murakami.On Monday, the Nobel Committee awarded the prize for physiology and medicine for discovering the liver-ravaging hepatitis C virus. Tuesday’s prize for physics honoured breakthroughs in understanding the mysteries of cosmic black holes, and the chemistry prize on Wednesday went to scientists behind a powerful gene-editing tool.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nobel-prize-for-literature-to-be-announced-shortly-here-are-the-probables/story-k1zxZdipZOYzZdpSV3gtbM.html
08-10-2020||World||American poet Louise Glück wins Nobel Prize in Literature 2020||American poet Louise Glück won 2020 Nobel Literature Prize on Thursday. “Her unmistakable poetic voice that with austere beauty makes individual existence universal,” the academy said while announcing the award. The announcement comes after years of controversy and scandal for the world’s pre-eminent literary accolade.In 2018 the award was postponed after sex abuse allegations rocked the Swedish Academy, the secretive body that chooses the winners, and sparked a mass exodus of members.Last year’s choice of Austrian novelist Peter Handke also unleashed a flood of criticism, leaving many wondering how it could award a writer known for supporting Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic in the Balkan wars and playing down his army’s atrocities.The Academy defended its choice of Handke as one based solely on literary merit.Still to come are prizes are for outstanding work in the fields of peace and economics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nobel-literature-prize-to-be-awarded-shortly/story-gpy9GDcRrxztSrGsmN5t2N.html
08-10-2020||World||Amid anti-Netanyahu protests, Israel extends ban that limits public protests||The Israeli government has extended an emergency provision that bars public gatherings, including widespread protests against Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, for an additional week.Government ministers approved the measure until Oct. 13 by a telephone vote, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement late Wednesday.Israel imposed a nationwide lockdown ahead of the Jewish High Holidays last month to rein in the country’s surging coronavirus outbreak. The Knesset, Israel’s parliament, passed a law last week allowing the government to declare a special week-long state of emergency to limit participation in assemblies because of the pandemic. The government then declared the state of emergency, limiting all public gatherings to within a kilometer (0.6 miles) of a person’s home.Netanyahu has said the restrictions are driven by safety concerns as the country battles a runaway pandemic, but critics and protesters accuse him of tightening the lockdown to muzzle their movement and expression of dissent.Thousands of Israelis have participated in weekly demonstrations outside Netanyahu’s official residence in Jerusalem for months this summer, calling on the longtime prime minister to resign while on trial for corruption.Since the restriction was approved last month, tens of thousands of Israelis have staged protests on street corners and public squares near their homes against the government’s perceived mishandling of the coronavirus crisis and its economic fallout.On Thursday, an Israeli protester painted the Hebrew word “Go” — an increasingly popular slogan among anti-Netanyahu protesters — in large letters across Tel Aviv’s Rabin Square.Israel was initially praised for its swift imposition of restrictions in February to curb the spread of the coronavirus. But after reopening the economy and schools in May, new cases increased quickly. It imposed a second lockdown on Sept. 18 as the infection rate skyrocketed to one of the highest per capita in the world.The Health Ministry has recorded over 282,000 confirmed cases of the disease and over 1,800 deaths in the country of around 9 million people.After nearly three weeks of lockdown, the number of new cases is gradually decreasing, but infections are still spreading, particularly among the country’s hard-hit ultra-Orthodox Jewish community.Israel’s ultra-Orthodox community, which makes up around 10% of the country’s population, accounts for more than a third of Israel’s virus cases. Some members of the community have flouted the rules and held prayers in enclosed spaces, large festive gatherings and clashed with police over their enforcement of regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-anti-netanyahu-protests-israel-extends-ban-that-limits-public-protests/story-cTSiaDZISKUKGhIoKaQ3ZP.html
08-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: ‘Felt sorry for Pence,’ says Kamala Harris’ Indian uncle||Kamala Harris’ uncle back in India watched her vice-presidential debate with pride on Thursday, feeling “a little sorry” for Mike Pence, who he said came up against a better-qualified foe.“Expectations were too much of Kamala -- ‘she’ll wipe the floor’, etc. But Pence has also been a Congressman knows how to debate. But Pence has an albatross around his neck -- and that’s Trump,” Balachandran Gopalan, 79, told AFP in New Delhi after the US election debate in Salt Lake City.“I felt a little sorry for Pence. You can’t ask about the judiciary -- she was on the judiciary committee, was attorney general, on Black Lives Matter she’s an expert, on the pandemic, he’s on weak ground,” the academic said.The debate saw Harris call US President Donald Trump’s Covid-19 response a historic failure, in a pointed but mostly civil discussion compared with Trump’s chaotic confrontation with Joe Biden last week.Harris, 55, was the first black attorney general of California, the first woman to hold the post, and the first South Asian American senator ever.She was born in California in 1964 to a Jamaican father, economics professor John Harris, and breast cancer specialist Shyamala Gopalan -- Balachandran Gopalan’s late sister.“My daughter in Washington watched (the debate), my sister in Toronto watched and my younger sister in Chennai also watched it,” the uncle said Thursday.“Her mother would have been happy for Kamala.”“Although maybe Shyamala was far more impatient than Kamala at times,” he added. “I wouldn’t be surprised if Shyamala was the debater or in the audience -- she would have said ‘what rubbish are you talking, vice-president’.“But Kamala was kinder.”ash-stu/leg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-felt-sorry-for-pence-says-kamala-harris-indian-uncle/story-kL8ET9Js8G2PHqBkkKY2iN.html
08-10-2020||World||US vice presidential debate: What is the Green New Deal climate plan?||The proposed Green New Deal by the Democrats took centre stage at the vice-presidential debate between US vice president Mike Pence and his Democratic challenger in the upcoming polls Kamala Harris on Wednesday.The Green New Deal, which could be worth $1 trillion dollars, is a 14-page resolution asking the US government to take a strong position in matters like cutting carbon emissions, making buildings energy efficient, rehauling the transportation system and improvising low tech solutions to stop emissions of greenhouse gases along with other proposals aimed.WATCH | Mike Pence Vs Kamala Harris: Full vice-presidential debate | US Election 2020During the debate, vice president Mike Pence said the proposed New Green Deal and the trillions of dollars that would go into its implementation is not necessary as it would bring in new mandates for every American family.Pence questioned Harris, “You were the first Senate co-sponsor of the Green New Deal. ... We don’t need a massive $2 trillion Green New Deal that would impose all new mandates on American businesses and American families.”Harris, who co-sponsored the bill backed by the Democrats, in late July told Pence that the money will be used to build renewable energy resources. Reiterating the Democrat commitment towards increasing dependency towards green energy, Harris said, “Joe is about saying we’re going to invest that in renewable energy. We’re going to be about the creation of millions of jobs. We will achieve net zero emissions by 2050, carbon neutral by 2035. Joe has a plan.”Democrats allege that the Republican lawmakers are not committed towards the Green New Deal because they do not want to reduce carbon emissions since US President Donald Trump pulled the US out of the climate deal signed in Paris in 2015 after winning the elections.The Republicans also continue to allege that these measures will impose rules on the US families and new measures would cost the taxpayer dearly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-vice-presidential-debate-what-is-the-green-new-deal-climate-plan/story-6Pw6aLTQfdYzGhkGPFBxkJ.html
08-10-2020||World||‘Only thing better winning Nobel Prize yourself is...’ Jennifer A Doudna’s professor reacts to her win||American biochemist Jennifer A Doudna won the Nobel Prize in chemistry for developing a method of genome editing known as CRISPR along with French scientist Emmanuelle Charpentier. Reacting to the great achievement his former student conferred, Doudna’s Harvard professor said, “The only thing better winning the Nobel Prize yourself is having one of your former students win it.”“You were always a star” Jack Szostak, who mentored Doudna for her PhD at Harvard University also said.On Wednesday, the Nobel Committee awarded the prize for chemistry to two women. It was the first time a Nobel prize was shared by two women.Doudna celebrated her win at her lab in University of California, Berkely. Doudna is Professor in the department of chemistry and the department of molecular and cell biology.“My greatest hope is that it’s used for good, to uncover new mysteries in biology and to benefit humankind,” news agency AP quoted Doudna as saying after her win in Stockholm.“I’m always excited about doing science because I love the people I work with and I love the discoveries,” she also said Jennifer Doudna in a virtual address on Zoom.The breakthrough research done by Charpentier and Doudna was published in 2012, making the discovery very recent compared with a lot of other Nobel-winning research, which is often honoured only after decades have passed.CRISPR is a very simple technique for cutting a gene at a specific spot, allowing scientists to operate on flaws that are the root cause of many diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/only-thing-better-winning-nobel-prize-yourself-is-jennifer-a-doudna-s-professor-reacts-to-her-win/story-uMSqGuH89uOd2XeC7nmUGO.html
08-10-2020||World||North Korea likely to unveil weapons at weekend military parade, says South Korea||For months, North Korea has been relatively uncombative, as leader Kim Jong Un grapples with the coronavirus pandemic, natural disasters and the deepening economic pain under years of tough US-led sanctions.But ahead of the 75th founding anniversary of his ruling party this weekend, speculation has risen that Kim may hold a massive military parade and unveil newly developed, powerful missiles. The goal, experts say, would be to bolster internal unity and draw US attention amid deadlocked nuclear diplomacy between the countries.“His people are considerably wearied and his economy is in trouble ... so Kim Jong Un would want to mobilise his people and stress a self-reliant policy to quell their complaints and draw their loyalty,” Nam Sung-wook, a professor at Korea University in South Korea. “To do so, he would need new weapons, powerful weapons that would send a message to the entire world.” Recent satellite images showed thousands of troops assembling in formation along with vehicles in an apparent rehearsal at an airfield on the outskirts of Pyongyang, where the North Koreans have practiced past parades. South Korean Defence Minister Suh Wook told lawmakers Wednesday that North Korea is expected to unveil unspecified “strategic weapons” during a military parade marking the October 10 anniversary.North Korea typically celebrates major state anniversaries with big military parades during years that end in zero and five. But it has sometimes made those parades less provocative when it was seeking better relations with the outside world.During a parade marking the 70th birthday of its socialist government in September 2018, Kim didn’t speak and avoided displaying any of his long-range missiles, as the event came three months after he held his first summit with President Donald Trump in Singapore on the future of his nuclear arsenal. In celebrations marking his late grandfather’s birthday in 2012 and 2017, Kim still paraded his intercontinental ballistic missiles in a display of military might as he raised the stakes in the standoff with the United States.Kim met Trump two more times, but their nuclear diplomacy has been stalled for more than a year because of disputes over exchanging sanctions relief and disarmament steps.Kim entered 2020 declaring his intent to strengthen his nuclear deterrent and achieve a “frontal breakthrough” against US-led economic pressure. But the North’s broken economy was further ravaged by border closures amid the coronavirus pandemic, which significantly reduced its trade with China, its major ally and economic lifeline. The heavy floods and strong typhoons that battered the North’s major farming regions this summer will certainly worsen the country’s chronic food shortages, outside observers say.“It’s clear that the North is running out of foreign currency and the country could be approaching a point where it leads to instability in exchange rates and market prices, which would make people’s everyday lives harder and thus create a political burden for Kim,” Lim Soo-ho, an analyst at Seoul’s Institute for National Security Strategy, said.The National Assembly Budget Office in Seoul, a South Korean parliamentary research arm, said in a recent report that North Korea’s imports from China declined by nearly 67 % and its exports to China about 72 % during the first half of this year. The report said China accounted for more than 95 % of North Korea’s external trade last year.North Korea has steadfastly argued it hasn’t had a single coronavirus case, a claim widely disputed by foreign experts. The South Korean and U.S. militaries said Kim ordered troops to shoot smugglers and others illegally crossing its border as part of anti-virus measures. Last month, North Korean soldiers fatally shot a South Korean found in its waters, an incident that prompted Kim to apologize to Seoul.“Kim has nothing show to his people on the 75th anniversary. Can he say his economy is doing well, his people are being fed well or his government is overcoming the coronavirus?” said Kim Yeol Soo, an analyst with South Korea’s Korea Institute for Military Affairs. “So he will stage a parade to unite his people who are demoralised.” The new weapons systems that North Korea could unveil this weekend could be a new solid-fueled intercontinental ballistic missile, a missile with multiple warheads, an upgraded submarine-launched ballistic missile or a sophisticated missile launcher, Kim Yeol Soo said.It’s unclear whether Kim would make a public speech during the event at Pyongyang’s Kim Il Sung Square. If he does, there won’t be much for Kim to say other than calling for his people to stay united and resilient in the fight to overcome national hardship.“Kim is trying to manage relations with the United States so that they don’t get worse, but he isn’t in an ideal position to do more than that and issue a new external message toward rivals right now,” said Moon Seong Mook, a retired South Korean army brigadier general who participated in inter-Korean military talks.Moon said North Korea may conduct a mid-range SLBM test around the anniversary as such a missile won’t pose a direct threat to the U.S. homeland. But other experts say North Korea will likely perform major weapons tests after the U.S. presidential election in November to boost its leverage in possible new negotiations with the US, whoever wins the election.“They would think firing a missile now won’t benefit them because they want Trump to be reelected,” Nam said. “But after the election, whether it’s Trump or (Democratic candidate Joe) Biden, they’d want to send a message: ‘Don’t forget me. We need your sincere attention and a summit.’” (AP) PMS PMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-likely-to-unveil-weapons-at-weekend-military-parade-says-south-korea/story-o5qKYJ1fjLft8pNt8XsjXP.html
08-10-2020||World||Former Minneapolis cop Derek Chauvin charged in George Floyd’s death freed on $1mn bond||The former Minneapolis police officer charged with murder in the death of George Floyd posted bail Wednesday and was released from jail, leading Minnesota’s governor to activate the National Guard to help keep the peace in the event of protests.According to court documents, Derek Chauvin posted a $1 million bond and was released from the state’s facility in Oak Park Heights, where he had been detained. Hennepin County jail records show he was released shortly before 11:30 a.m.Floyd, a Black man in handcuffs, died May 25 after Chauvin, who is white, pressed his knee against Floyd’s neck for several minutes as Floyd said he couldn’t breathe. Floyd’s death was captured in widely seen bystander video that set off protests around the world. Chauvin and three other officers were fired. Chauvin is charged with second-degree murder, third-degree murder and manslaughter; Thomas Lane, J. Kueng and Tou Thao are charged with aiding and abetting both second-degree murder and manslaughter.Upon news of Chauvin’s release, Gov. Tim Walz activated the National Guard to help local law enforcement. Walz said the Guard was mobilizing 100 soldiers and providing equipment and facilities “out of an abundance of caution” in light of public safety concerns. Walz said 100 state troopers and 75 Department of Natural Resources conservation officers were also mobilized to help local authorities.As darkness fell Wednesday evening, hundreds of people took to the streets in south Minneapolis where protests were centered in the days after George Floyd’s death. They marched several blocks and blocked an intersection for a time, with chants including, “No Justice, No Peace — Prosecute the Police.”Floyd family attorneys Ben Crump and Antonio Romanucci released a statement saying Chauvin’s release “is a painful reminder” that the family is far from getting justice.“The system of due process worked for Chauvin and afforded him his freedom while he awaits trial. In contrast, George Floyd was denied due process, when his life was ended over a $20 bill. There was no charge, no arrest, no hearing, no bail. Just execution,” the attorneys wrote.Floyd’s aunt, Angela Harrelson, told FOX-9 that she was still trying to process the news.“It’s something that I’m not happy with. I’m not pleased with it. But I know I have to accept it because this is what the judge allowed to happen. ... I know our family is not happy with this decision,” Harrelson said.It was not immediately clear where Chauvin got the money to pay his bond. In Minnesota, someone who posts bond is required to pay 10%, in this case $100,000, to the bail bond company. Then, the company and the defendant work out an arrangement for collateral to back all or part of the rest of the bond amount, said Mike Brandt, a criminal defense attorney who is not connected to the case.A message left with the company that posted the bond, Allegheny Casualty Company, was not immediately returned.The Minnesota Police and Peace Officers Association, which has a legal defense fund, did not provide any money for bail, a spokeswoman said. Bob Kroll, president of the Minneapolis Police Officers Federation, said his union was not involved.The website GiveSendGo.com, which says it is a free Christian crowdfunding site, has a Derek Chauvin Bail Fund that says it was created by his family. According to the site, as of midday Wednesday that fund raised $4,198 of its $125,000 goal, with donations from more than 35 people. A posting on the site dated Sept. 12 said it took time to set up a fundraising effort due to the high-profile nature of the case.Chauvin had the option of posting bail for $1.25 million without conditions or $1 million with conditions. Under the conditions of his release, he must attend all court appearances, cannot have any direct or indirect contact — including social media contact — with any members of Floyd’s family, cannot work in law enforcement or security, and must not possess any firearms or ammunition.Chauvin’s attorney had no comment Wednesday.Chauvin’s wife, Kellie Chauvin, filed for divorce shortly after Floyd’s death. The records in that case have since been sealed and Kellie Chauvin’s divorce attorney didn’t immediately reply to a message seeking comment.In July, the Chauvins were charged with multiple felony counts of tax evasion for allegedly failing to report income from various jobs, including more than $95,000 from Derek Chauvin’s off-duty security work. The criminal complaints in that case allege that from 2014 through 2019, the Chauvins underreported their joint income by $464,433 and owe the state $37,868 in unpaid taxes, interest and fees.The tax evasion case also listed other assets, including the couple’s second home in Florida and a $100,000 BMW.The Chauvin home in the St. Paul suburb of Oakdale was sold on Aug. 28 for $279,000, which was $26,000 less than the price it was listed at a month after Floyd’s death, according to online real estate records. It was not clear where Chauvin was staying after his release, but one of the conditions of his bail was that he not leave Minnesota without permission.The other three officers charged in Floyd’s death had previously posted bond amounts of $750,000 and have been free pending trial. Currently, all four men are scheduled to face trial together in March, but the judge is weighing a request to have them tried separately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-minneapolis-cop-derek-chauvin-charged-in-george-floyd-s-death-freed-on-1mn-bond/story-GxIRbJ3qppxGmt1QGCmm3M.html
08-10-2020||World||Mike Pompeo denounces China’s exploitation, corruption, coercion of neighboring countries||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has reprimanded the dragon (China) for using its economic power to increase its hegemony over the neighbouring countries in South Asia.The threat posed by China resulted in Pompeo’s trip to Japan this week wherein he discussed the simmering tensions with the trio of key Indo-Pacific allies, Australia, India, and Japan, which is a rare meeting in times of the coronavirus pandemic, reported Washington Examiner.The US is trying to rally democratic allies to counter the threats posed by Beijing, who is simultaneously modernising its military might through espionage and reverse engineering (Intellectual Property theft).Pompeo brought to the forum a denunciation of China’s “exploitation, corruption, and coercion” of neighboring countries. He said, “This is for the soul of the world. This is about whether this will be a world that operates in this sense that we’re on a rules-based international order system or one that’s dominated by a coercive totalitarian regime like the one in China.”The Quad members have also reiterated their support to Pompeo. “If you look at the single thing that’s driving all this, it’s a sudden turn toward gross aggression by the Chinese government in its entire periphery,” the senior State Department official said.The development has made the Dragon anxious that the bloc would develop into a “mini-NATO,” but US officials put an emphasis on other forms of cooperation, reported Washington Examiner.Meanwhile, the ministerial revealed a consensus that the Quad should be broadened to include other democratic nations when possible. Such an expansion could change the perception of the Quad as “a military grouping”.“When one talks about security, one’s talking about economic capacity and the rule of law, the ability to protect intellectual property, trade agreements, and diplomatic relationships. It’s not just military. ... It’s the kind of power that democracies have that authoritarian regime can never deliver on,” told Pompeo.The initiative will put an end to the economic coercion tactics of China and cooperation with Japan and other allies will checkmate Chinese development assistance and its hegemony in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-denounces-china-s-exploitation-corruption-coercion-of-neighboring-countries/story-0PUV5n9SArnlZ4umliygSM.html
08-10-2020||World||Europe battles to contain Covid-19 as cases spike in Spain, France||France, Spain and the Czech Republic posted record increases in coronavirus cases, underscoring growing alarm in Europe as it struggles to control the pandemic.Politicians at the national level are leaning on local authorities to take the lead in limiting late-night activity in cities and towns, as they fear the economic impact of more wide-ranging measures. That’s led to more severe restrictions in several European cities.In France, President Emmanuel Macron’s government ordered bars in Paris to close for a two-week period and said more curbs will be announced on Thursday. The Czech Republic is considering additional steps to prevent the disease from spreading.“There must be more restrictions such as the ones put in place” in the region of Marseille, where bars and restaurants were shut, Macron said in a TF1 interview.Daily infections in France increased by 18,746, health authorities said on Wednesday, bringing the seven-day rolling average to the highest level yet. Spain reported a record 5,075 new cases, while infections in Germany in the past 24 hours exceeded 4,000 for the first time since early April.France’s health minister will announce measures on Thursday that will focus on places where the virus is circulating faster among elderly people and where hospitals are the fullest, Macron said. The number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care in Paris hospitals has tripled since the start of September, similar to the situation in the Marseille region.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicLike Paris, Berlin is fighting against a surge in infections and will close bars at 11 p.m., starting on Saturday.The German capital has the worst outbreak among the country’s 16 states, with 40.5 cases per 100,000 people over the last seven days, according to the public health authority. The city’s residents would be restricted from domestic travel if the figure rises above 50 -- some districts already exceed this threshold.Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government and state leaders reaffirmed the rules during a conference call on Wednesday.Coronavirus infections across the whole of Germany climbed by 4,010 in the 24 hours through Thursday morning, the highest since April 10, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That brought the total to 311,137.Also Read: UK considering more local curbs as Covid-19 spreads, says ministerNew EpicenterAcross the border from Europe’s largest economy, the Czech Republic on Thursday posted a record 5,335 new cases for the previous day. The country’s 14-day cumulative number of cases per capita is now the highest in the EU, surpassing Spain.The government will announce “more significant” measures to stem the outbreak at the end of the week, Health Minister Roman Prymula said Wednesday, reaffirming a pledge not to impose another full-scale nationwide lockdown.The virus’s resurgence in Italy -- where numbers have been more contained than in some neighboring countries -- twice prevented parliamentary votes earlier this week on new measures to combat the pandemic, as a number of lawmakers were in quarantine.A cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte extended emergency powers to counter the pandemic to Jan. 31. The government again made wearing face masks outdoors compulsory nationwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-battles-to-contain-covid-19-as-cases-spike-in-spain-france/story-eapM2FCD07uvI0TznuAoJP.html
08-10-2020||World||‘Hostage diplomacy’: Canada asks NATO to track China moves in South China Sea||Canada’s defence minister Harjit Sajjan has said that NATO needs to “monitor” China’s activities as the actions that it has been “demonstrating in the South China Sea are obviously concerning”.Sajjan made these observations while participating in a panel discussion titled A Compass of Stability - NATO’s Ageless Utility, organised by the GLOBSEC Bratislava Forum, based in the Slovakian capital. Sajjan, who appeared from Ottawa via video link, also accused China of indulging in “hostage diplomacy” by taking two Canadians, including a former diplomat, into detention in retaliation for the arrest of Meng Wanzhou, chief financial officer of Huawei, in Vancouver in 2018.“This type of hostage diplomacy is not what good rules-based-order nations do. So, if you want to be part of the global rules-based order, we need to have greater predictability,” Sajjan said, as per the agency Canadian Press.Sajjan also said that such actions raised questions about China’s “true ambitions”, during the discussion hosted by the Slovakian think tank GLOBSEC. “These are some of the things that we will continue to monitor, and we need to monitor in NATO,” he said, adding, “This is not just about being reactionary to a problem. It’s about making sure any nation out there sees the collective will of what NATO brings to the table, and that’s the strong message of defence and deterrence.”These remarks came as relations between Canada and China continue to deteriorate. It started after Wanzhou was detained in a case related to bank fraud that could see her being extradited to the US. That resulted in a sharp response from Beijing, including the arrest of the two Canadians and the sentencing of others to death. Canada has abandoned the possibility of a free trade deal with China as ties have worsened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-s-defence-minister-urges-nato-to-monitor-china-s-activities/story-0r2dgHQnchRTNFaBKa4emL.html
08-10-2020||World||Hurricane Delta lashes Mexico, heads towards United States||Hurricane Delta regained strength as it headed towards the United States early Thursday after lashing Mexico’s Caribbean coast, where some tourists complained about conditions in crowded emergency shelters during a pandemic.There were widespread power outages after Delta slammed into the Yucatan Peninsula in southeast Mexico as a Category 2 storm, toppling trees and ripping down power lines.The region appeared to have escaped major destruction and there were no reports of deaths as the storm headed out into the Gulf of Mexico where it weakened to Category 1 as it churned towards the US Gulf Coast, before regaining its Category 2 status.In an update at 0600 GMT Thursday, the US National Hurricane Center (NHC) said Delta was packing maximum sustained winds of 100 miles (155 kilometers) per hour and moving at about 17 mph (28 kph) about 485 miles (780 kms) off the coast of Louisiana.Earlier strong winds whipped Cancun, one of Mexico’s most popular tourist destinations, where cars were hit by falling trees, street signs were blown over and stores were damaged, according to AFP reporters.‘Not safe’Thousands of tourists hunkered down in emergency shelters along the Riviera Maya coastline as the storm blew through, prompting concerns about the risk of exposure to the coronavirus.“They took us into an abandoned building, no heat, no air conditioning, no fans, no kind of ventilation at all,” said 42-year-old American tourist Nick Fifis.“The staff are trying to help everybody, but there’s a mess. No masks, no social distancing. It’s just not safe,” he said.Mandy Sears, however, said she was just glad to be out of danger from the storm.“Were we comfortable? No, but we were safe. Our experience has not been excellent, it has been miserable. But this is a catastrophe. We knew we were coming during hurricane season,” said the 47-year-old from the United States.Delta was downgraded from an “extremely dangerous” Category 4 as it neared the peninsula, but is expected to become a major hurricane again as it moves over the Gulf of Mexico, the NHC said.On Friday the storm is expected to approach the northern Gulf Coast of the United States, where a hurricane watch has been issued for an area from High Island, Texas to Grand Isle, Louisiana, it said.A “life-threatening storm surge and damaging winds” are increasingly likely along parts of the northern Gulf Coast, it added.Soldiers deployedAt least 6,500 soldiers were deployed across the region to help affected communities, authorities reported.Troops were seen removing tree branches and other debris, while residents used machetes to clear roads.More than 40,000 mostly Mexican tourists in Cancun and neighboring resorts were evacuated as the hurricane approached, the head of the area’s hotel association, Roberto Citron, told AFP.In Cancun alone, more than 160 shelters were set up.The authorities said the emergency shelters had been sanitized and masks were being used to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, which has killed more than 81,000 people in Mexico and led to a sharp drop in visitor numbers.But some tourists said that was not the case.“Nobody is wearing masks, (everyone is) laying on floors, there’s no air conditioning, no fans, there’s no circulation of air,” said Janet, a 67-year-old from the United States who declined to give her last name.Delta is the 26th named storm of an unusually active Atlantic hurricane season.Over the weekend, six people died and thousands were forced from their homes as Tropical Storm Gamma triggered floods and landslides in southeastern Mexico.In September, meteorologists were forced to break out the Greek alphabet to name Atlantic storms for only the second time ever, after the 2020 hurricane season blew through their usual list, ending on Tropical Storm Wilfred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-delta-lashes-mexico-heads-towards-united-states/story-kncjmJpMEfQm1k5IAogD3H.html
08-10-2020||World||Nobel Literature prize to be awarded after years of tumult||The Nobel Prize for Literature is set to be awarded Thursday after several years of controversy and scandal for the world’s pre-eminent literary accolade.In 2018 the award was postponed after sex abuse allegations rocked the Swedish Academy, the secretive body that chooses the winners, and sparked a mass exodus of members.After the academy revamped itself in a bid to regain the trust of the Nobel Foundation, two laureates were named last year, with the 2018 prize going to Poland’s Olga Tokarczuk and the 2019 award to Austria’s Peter Handke.Handke’s prize caused a storm of protest: a strong supporter of the Serbs during the 1990s Balkan wars, he has been called an apologist for Serbian war crimes. Several countries including Albania, Bosnia and Turkey boycotted the Nobel awards ceremony in protest, and a member of the committee that nominates candidates for the literature prize resigned.This year the academy is likely to seek a more harmonious choice for the 10 million kronor (more than $1.1 million) prize.Authors often mentioned as contenders include Kenya’s Ngugi Wa Thiong’o, Canadian poet Anne Carson and Japanese novelist Haruki Murakami.British bookmakers Ladbrokes have ranked Carson as the 5-1 favorite, followed by Russian novelist Lyudmila Ulitskaya, Canadian author Margaret Atwood and Guadeloupe-born writer Maryse Conde.On Monday, the Nobel Committee awarded the prize for physiology and medicine for discovering the liver-ravaging hepatitis C virus. Tuesday’s prize for physics honored breakthroughs in understanding the mysteries of cosmic black holes, and the chemistry prize on Wednesday went to scientists behind a powerful gene-editing tool.Still to come are prizes are for outstanding work in the fields of peace and economics.___Read more stories about Nobel Prizes past and present by The Associated Press at https://www.apnews.com/NobelPrizes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nobel-literature-prize-to-be-awarded-after-years-of-tumult/story-0pJl5QhT05LYv5ByQ1b3oJ.html
08-10-2020||World||UK considering more local curbs as Covid-19 spreads, says minister||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government is considering additional local Covid-19 restrictions for parts of northern England as the second wave of the novel coronavirus accelerates, Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick said on Thursday.New coronavirus cases are rising by about 14,000 a day in the United Kingdom and millions of people are living under a patchwork of different restrictions, though there is growing alarm about the economic cost of such rules.“The virus is rising, in terms of the number of cases, quite significantly in the north west, in the north east and in a number of other cities like Nottingham,” Jenrick told Sky.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“We are currently considering what the right action would be to take in those places,” he said. Asked if the actions would be similar to those in Scotland, he said a range of actions were being considered - including a more consistent approach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-considering-more-local-curbs-as-covid-19-spreads-says-minister/story-W8qBfYZK35I8pHET48Xr3I.html
08-10-2020||World||India among targets of shadowy cyber espionage group uncovered by Canada-based Blackberry||A group behind a sophisticated hackers-for-hire operation that has been targeting India among other South Asian countries, as well as some West Asian nations, has been uncovered by the Canadian cyber security company Blackberry.Blackberry, based in Waterloo in Ontario province and once famous for its smartphones, published a 92-page report in which it dubbed the unnamed cyber espionage group “BAHAMUT: Hack-for-Hire Masters of Phishing, Fake News and Fake Apps”. BlackBerry’s research and intelligence team linked the “cyber espionage threat group to a staggering number of ongoing attacks against government officials and industry titans, while also unveiling the group’s vast network of disinformation assets aimed at furthering particular political causes and hampering NGOs”, according to a statement from the company that accompanied the report.The shadowy group ran fake news websites and harmful smartphone apps, according to Blackberry. “The sophistication and sheer scope of malicious activity that our team was able to link to BAHAMUT is staggering,” said Eric Milam, vice-president, research operations at BlackBerry.Blackberry said in its report, what “emerged from the past research was clustered targeting around two primary areas: South Asia (particularly India and Pakistan), and the Middle East (particularly the UAE and Qatar)”.Some of the activities of the group may have been aimed at bringing down the digital presence of separatist groups such as Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and those engaged in terror activities in Kashmir, such as Jamaat-ul-Islami and Jaish-e-Mohammad.In its South Asia operations, Blackberry said, the “phishing targets are focused on individuals of greater importance in private industry, in contrast to the heavy government-themed phishing in the Gulf”. It added that it did “not find any Indian government agencies or individuals among its current target sets”.According to a Reuters report based on Blackberry’s findings, Reliance was among the Indian companies targeted, as the group attempted to compromise an employee there “around the time that the company was negotiating the sale of a stake in its oil-to-chemicals business to Saudi Aramco”. Reuters said Apple and Google removed several of the apps mentioned in the report. Among them was one called Doctor Health, which was first released in India and accessed location information and health data, and a password app that not only saved credentials for accessing email but could also hack into accounts.Gurpatwant Pannun, legal counsel for the SFJ, one of the targets of the shadowy group, said, “We have been the subject of cyber attacks, on an individual as well as group level, since the July 4 launch of Referendum Voter Registration for people living in Punjab.”Blackberry said the “range of tools, tactics and targets suggest the group is well-funded, well-resourced and well-versed in security research”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-among-targets-of-shadowy-cyber-espionage-group-uncovered-by-canada-based-blackberry/story-OciycN7fo3UbiZDoNWM9PM.html
08-10-2020||World||Alvin Cole killing: No charges for Wisconsin police officer||A Black Wisconsin police officer who fatally shot a Black teenager outside a suburban Milwaukee mall in February won’t be charged because he had reasonable belief that deadly force was necessary, a prosecutor said Wednesday.Wauwatosa Officer Joseph Mensah shot 17-year-old Alvin Cole outside Mayfair Mall on Feb. 2 after police responded to a reported disturbance at the shopping center.Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm, in a 14-page letter laying out his rationale, said evidence showed Cole fled from police carrying a stolen 9 mm handgun. He cited squad car audio evidence, along with testimony from Mensah and two fellow officers, that he said showed Cole had fired a shot while fleeing and refused commands to drop the gun.“He did not surrender the weapon and was fired upon by Officer Mensah causing his death,” Chisholm wrote. He concluded: “(T)here is sufficient evidence that Officer Mensah had an actual subjective belief that deadly force was necessary and that belief was objectively reasonable.”Cole was the third person Mensah has fatally shot since becoming an officer, and his death has sparked periodic protests in Wauwatosa and the Milwaukee area. Gov. Tony Evers announced earlier Wednesday that he had activated National Guard members as a precaution, though he didn’t say how many or how they were being used. Guard spokesman Maj. Joe Trovato later said “hundreds” of troops were at the ready.The city of Wauwatosa issued a nightly 7 p.m. curfew after Chisholm’s decision was announced, to run until next Monday. Late Wednesday evening and well past the curfew, a group of a few hundred protesters marching in the city confronted a police line. Police tweeted that some in the group were throwing rocks at law enforcement and buildings and that they used “gas” to disperse the protesters. Footage posted on social media showed the gas and the crowd retreating.Scores of people surrounded the Milwaukee County Public Safety Building as Cole’s attorney and family members met with Chisholm, some chanting, “Say his name! Alvin Cole!” and “Justice! When do we want it? Now!”Chisholm’s report noted that Cole’s gun had a spent round in the chamber — the one that investigators believe he fired while running, possibly striking himself in the arm — and that the magazine was recovered in his sling bag, meaning the gun had no more bullets in it when he was shot. Mensah and two other officers at the scene said Cole pointed the gun at them.Cole’s sister, Taleavia Cole, insisted the shooting wasn’t justified because her brother could not have fired at Mensah. She said he should not be allowed to continue working as an officer.“The fight continues. It doesn’t end here,” said his sister, Taleavia Cole. ”... It’s time for DA Chisholm to retire or step down.Chisholm also said that he didn’t believe the state had enough evidence to disprove that Mensah was defending himself or others, so he couldn’t meet the burden required to bring charges. Kimberley Motley, a family attorney for the Coles, seized on Chisholm’s wording.“Chisholm did not say that the shooting was justified,” Motley said. “And that’s really important.”Motley, who also represents the families of the two other people killed by Mensah, said if he had been fired earlier then Cole would still be alive.“We are not done fighting,” she said. “We are still going to fight for a conviction of Officer Joseph Mensah.”Chisholm told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel in an interview that he understood some people would be angry or disappointed by his decision, but he said he wouldn’t change his “objective review” because of it. He said that although Mensah had been cleared in all three of his shootings, Chisholm was concerned about his involvement in so many.“This creates an incredible dilemma for the city of Wauwatosa and the Wauwatosa Police Department and the community,” he told the newspaper. “I’ve never been cavalier about that.”… What is unique about this case is that it just creates such a liability for (shooting) number four. Everybody recognizes that.”The Wauwatosa Police and Fire Commission suspended Mensah with pay in July, and he has appealed that suspension. The commission hired former U.S. Attorney Steven Biskupic to investigate the case with an eye toward what discipline Mensah might face. In a report released earlier Wednesday, Biskupic recommended that Mensah be fired, saying the risk he might shoot a fourth person is too great.Biskupic also wrote that Mensah violated department policy when he spoke to the media about the shooting in July.An attorney for Mensah didn’t respond to a phone message from The Associated Press.There’s no body-camera video of the Cole shooting because Wauwatosa’s officers aren’t equipped with them. The city did release squad car dashcam video that shed little light on what happened.Cole’s death sparked protests in Wauwatosa throughout the summer, including in and around the mall and outside a house where Mensah was staying. Two men were charged in an August altercation at the house after a shotgun was fired.Mensah was not charged in the 2016 death of Jay Anderson Jr. or the 2015 death of Antonio Gonzales. Police have said Mensah shot Gonzales eight times after he refused to drop a sword. In Anderson’s case, Mensah approached a parked car where Anderson was sleeping and said he saw a gun and thought Anderson was reaching for it, so he shot him six times.Wauwatosa Police Chief Barry Webber said in a recorded message that his department “concurs’ with the decision but “hears the message” from the public. He said the department has taken steps to improve policing, such as providing added training, posting department police and procedures online and requiring body cameras for all officers by January.Evers also activated the state’s National Guard in August, the morning after a Kenosha police officer shot Jacob Blake, a Black man, in the back. The shooting sparked three days of protests over police actions and racism, and caused an estimated $50 million in damage to roughly 100 downtown businesses. Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz also activated Guard members after George Floyd’s death in police custody in Minneapolis set off protests and damaging riots and arson in that state.In anticipation of protests after the announcement of the charging decision, Wauwatosa officials shut down City Hall and the library for about three days, beginning at noon Wednesday. News of the decision comes after high-profile deaths of Black people during interactions with police sparked protests that spread around the world over the summer and led to a national reckoning on race in America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alvin-cole-killing-no-charges-for-wisconsin-police-officer/story-EDUmDRignfnSbPaAdnA7AK.html
08-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: A fact check as Pence echoes Trump misfires in vice presidential debate||Although more buttoned-up on the stage than his boss, Vice President Mike Pence nevertheless echoed many of President Donald Trump’s falsehoods Wednesday in the one and only debate with Democratic rival Kamala Harris.Pence muddied the reality on the pandemic, asserted Trump respects the science on climate change when actually the president mocks it, overstated the threat of voting fraud and misrepresented the Russia investigation in the Salt Lake City debate.Harris got tangled in tax policy at one point and misleadingly suggested that Trump branded the coronavirus a hoax.Altogether, the debate wasn’t the madhouse matchup of Trump vs. Joe Biden last week. But there were plenty of distortions. A sampling:ECONOMYPENCE: “Joe Biden wants to go back to the economic surrender to China, that when we took office, half of our international trade deficit was with China alone. And Joe Biden wants to repeal all of the tariffs that President Trump put into effect to fight for American jobs and American workers.”THE FACTS: The tariffs were not the win claimed by Pence.For starters, tariffs are taxes that consumers and businesses pay through higher prices. So Pence is defending tax increases. The tariffs against China did cause the trade deficit in goods with China to fall in 2019. But that’s a pyrrhic victory at best as overall U.S. economic growth slowed from 3% to 2.2% because of the trade uncertainty.More important, the Trump administration has not decreased the overall trade imbalance. For all trading partners, the Census Bureau said the trade deficit was $576.9 billion last year, nearly $100 billion higher than during the last year of Barack Obama’s presidency.___HARRIS, on Trump’s tax cuts: “On Day 1, Joe Biden will repeal that tax bill.”THE FACTS: No, that’s not what Biden proposes. He would repeal some of it. Nor can he repeal a law on his own, much less on his first day in office. Harris also said Biden will not raise taxes on people making under $400,000. If he were to repeal the Trump tax cuts across the board, he would be breaking that promise.___CORONAVIRUSPENCE, on the Sept. 26 Rose Garden event after which more than 11 attendees tested positive for COVID-19: “It was an outdoor event, which all of our scientists regularly and routinely advise.”THE FACTS: His suggestion that the event followed public-health safety recommendations is false. The event, introducing Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett, drew more than 150 people and flouted safety recommendations in multiple ways. And it was not all outside.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says large gatherings of people who have traveled from outside the area and aren’t spaced at least 6 feet apart pose the greatest risk for spreading the virus.That’s exactly the type of high-risk event the White House hosted.Guests were seated close together, not 6 feet apart, in rows of chairs outside. Many were captured on camera clapping backs, shaking hands and talking, barely at arm’s length.The CDC also “strongly encourages” people to wear masks, but few in the Rose Garden wore them. There was also a private reception inside the White House following the Rose Garden ceremony, where some politicians, including North Carolina Republican Sen. Thom Tillis, who has since tested positive, were pictured not wearing masks.___HARRIS on the virus: “The president said it was a hoax.”THE FACTS: That’s misleading.She’s referring to a Feb. 28 campaign rally in South Carolina in which Trump said the phrases “the coronavirus” and “this is their new hoax” at separate points. Although his meaning is difficult to discern, the broader context of his words shows he was railing against Democrats for their denunciations of his administration’s coronavirus response.“Now the Democrats are politicizing the coronavirus,” he said at the rally. “You know that, right? Coronavirus. They’re politicizing it.” He meandered briefly to the subject of the messy Democratic primary in Iowa, then the Russia investigation before returning to the pandemic. “They tried the impeachment hoax. ... And this is their new hoax.”Asked at a news conference the day after the rally to clarify his remarks, Trump said he was not referring to the coronavirus itself as a hoax.“No, no, no.” he said. ”‘Hoax’ referring to the action that they take to try and pin this on somebody, because we’ve done such a good job. The hoax is on them, not — I’m not talking about what’s happening here. I’m talking what they’re doing. That’s the hoax.”___ENVIRONMENTPENCE: “The both of you repeatedly committed to abolishing fossil fuel and banning fracking … President Trump has made clear we’re going to continue to listen to the science” on climate change.THE FACTS: Pence is correct when he says Harris supported banning fracking, incorrect when he says Biden does, and false when he says Trump follows the science on climate change.At a CNN climate change town hall for Democratic presidential candidates last year, Harris said, “There’s no question I’m in favor of banning fracking. Starting with what we can do from Day One on public lands.” Now, as Biden’s running mate, she is bound to his agenda, which is different.Biden has an ambitious climate plan that seeks to rapidly reduce use of fossil fuels. He says he does not support banning hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, however, and says he doubts such a ban is possible.As far as Trump and climate change, Trump’s public comments as president all dismiss the science on climate change — that it’s caused by people burning fossil fuels, and it’s worsening sharply. As recently as last month, Trump said, “I don’t think science knows” what it’s talking about regarding global warming and the resulting worsening of wildfires, hurricanes and other natural disasters. He’s ridiculed the science in many public comments and tweets.His regulation-cutting has eliminated key Obama-era efforts to reduce fossil fuel emissions.___HEALTH CAREPENCE: “President Trump and I have a plan to improve health care and to protect preexisting conditions for all Americans.”THE FACTS: No, there is no clear plan. People with preexisting conditions are already protected by the Obama-era Affordable Care Act, and if the Trump administration succeeds in persuading the Supreme Court to overturn it, those protections will be jeopardy.Trump has signed an executive order declaring it the policy of the U.S. government to protect people with preexisting conditions, but Trump would have to go back to Congress to work out legislation to replace those in “Obamacare.”Various Republican approaches offered in 2017 would have undermined the protections in the ACA, and Trump has not offered details of how his plan would work. Although Trump has been in office nearly four years, he has yet to roll out the comprehensive health proposal he once promised.___MORE ON THE VIRUSPENCE: “He suspended all travel from China, the second-largest economy in the world. Joe Biden opposed that decision, he said it was xenophobic and hysterical.”THE FACTS: Trump’s order did not suspend “all travel from China.” He restricted it, and Biden never branded the decision “xenophobic.” Dozens of countries took similar steps to control travel from hot spots before or around the same time the U.S. did.The U.S. restrictions that took effect Feb. 2 continued to allow travel to the U.S. from China’s Hong Kong and Macao territories for months. The Associated Press reported that more than 8,000 Chinese and foreign nationals based in those territories entered the U.S. in the first three months after the travel restrictions were imposed.Additionally, more than 27,000 Americans returned from mainland China in the first month after the restrictions took effect. U.S. officials lost track of more than 1,600 of them who were supposed to be monitored for virus exposure.Biden has accused Trump of having a record of xenophobia but not explicitly in the context of the president’s decision to limit travel from China during the pandemic. Trump took to calling the virus the “China virus” and the “foreign virus” at one point, prompting Biden to urge the country not to take a turn toward xenophobia or racism in the pandemic.___HARRIS, on the effects of the pandemic: “One in five businesses, closed.”THE FACTS: That’s not accurate, as of now. We don’t know yet how many businesses have permanently closed — or could do so in the months ahead.What we do know is that the National Federation of Independent Business said in August that 1 in 5 small businesses will close if economic conditions don’t improve in the next six months.Many small businesses survived in part through the forgivable loans from the Payroll Protection Program. Larger employers such as Disney and Allstate insurance have announced layoffs, as have major airlines. Restaurants that survived the pandemic with outdoor eating will soon face the challenge of cold weather. So it’s too soon to tell how many businesses have closed or will.___RUSSIA INVESTIGATIONPENCE, on the conclusions of special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation: “It was found that there was no obstruction, no collusion. Case closed. And then Senator Harris you and your colleagues in the Congress tried to impeach the president of the United States over a phone call.”THE FACTS: That’s a mischaracterization of Mueller’s nearly 450-page report and its core findings.Mueller did not absolve the president of obstructing the investigation into ties between Trump’s 2016 campaign and Russia. Instead, his team examined roughly a dozen episodes in which the president sought to exert his will on the probe, including by firing his FBI director and seeking the ouster of Mueller himself. Ultimately, Mueller declined to reach a conclusion on whether Trump had committed a crime, citing Justice Department policy against indicting a sitting president. But that’s different than finding “no obstruction.”Mueller also didn’t quite find “no collusion.” His investigation identified multiple contacts between Russians and Trump associates and outlined sweeping Russian interference that he said the Trump campaign welcomed and expected to benefit from. Mueller said that he did not have enough to establish a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia; collusion is not a precise legal term.___VOTINGPENCE: “President Trump and I are fighting every day in courthouses to prevent Joe Biden and Kamala Harris from changing the rules and creating this universal mail-in voting that will create a massive opportunity for voter fraud.”THE FACTS: Pence is vastly overstating the potential for fraud with mail-in ballots, just as Trump frequently does.Broadly speaking, voter fraud has proved exceedingly rare. A 2017 report from the Brennan Center for Justice ranked the risk of ballot fraud at 0.00004% to 0.0009%, based on studies of past elections. A panel commissioned by the Trump administration to explore the issue uncovered no evidence to support claims of widespread voter fraud.Trump and his allies have tried to argue that absentee balloting is fine — when someone has to request a ballot as opposed to automatically getting one in the mail — while universal mail-in balloting is open to fraud because all the state’s registered voters receive a ballot through the mail. It’s true that some election studies have shown a slightly higher incidence of mail-in voting fraud compared with in-person voting, but the overall risk is extremely low.There is ongoing litigation in several states over a host of election issues, including absentee ballots. States nationwide expect a surge in mail-in voting due to the ongoing risk posed by the coronavirus.Five states routinely send ballots to all registered voters, allowing them to choose to vote through the mail or in person. In November, four other states — California, New Jersey, Nevada and Vermont — and the District of Columbia will be adopting that system, as will almost every county in Montana.___Associated Press writers Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, Colleen Long, Amanda Seitz, Michael Balsamo and Eric Tucker contributed to this report.___EDITOR’S NOTE — A look at the veracity of claims by political figures.___Find AP Fact Checks at http://apnews.com/APFactCheckFollow @APFactCheck on Twitter: https://twitter.com/APFactCheck||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-a-fact-check-as-pence-echoes-trump-misfires-in-vice-presidential-debate/story-ETSJfpoyKuqjOwdklKIgaK.html
08-10-2020||World||New Zealand’s ruling Labour Party maintains double-digit lead in latest poll||Support for New Zealand’s ruling Labour Party was unchanged with just over a week to the general election and it continued to enjoy a double-digit lead over the main opposition party, an opinion poll showed on Thursday.The closely watched 1News-Colmar Brunton poll showed support for Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern’s party, which is seeking a second term in office, at 47%, unchanged from the last poll on Sept. 28.The opposition National party was down by one percentage point at 32%. Smaller parties continued to get good support, the poll showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-s-ruling-labour-party-maintains-double-digit-lead-in-latest-poll/story-c99Zslz52gcUFyOWTxRIPN.html
08-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: Fly on Pence’s head generates buzz in vice presidential debate||The vice presidential debate featured plexiglass barriers to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. They were no match for the night’s most talked-about intruder — a fly that briefly buzzed around the stage before landing and staying on Mike Pence’s head.The incident went unmentioned onstage, with the Republican vice president and Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris continuing to focus on the discussion of systemic racism in the justice system.But as the insect took up residence on Pence’s white hair, the social media firestorm was immediate — and intense. It easily created more, well, buzz than nearly anything else that occurred.“That’s not on your TV. It’s on his head,” tweeted MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow. “The fly knows,” tweeted author Stephen King. Others joked about the creature perhaps getting stuck in hair spray — or possibly now being a prime candidate for coronavirus testing.Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden immediately got in on the act, tweeting a photo of himself clutching an orange flyswatter under the heading “Pitch in $5 to help this campaign fly.” Moments later, he tweeted again, this time highlighting “Flywillvote.com,” which took users to a website set up for his campaign to help supporters make plans to vote.Pence had spent much of the night shaking his head in response to Harris’ answers. But the vice president didn’t appear to notice the fly’s arrival. Despite his talking and normal body movements, the hot stage lights and those virus-fighting barriers, the fly was unperturbed. It finally flew away on its own.Wednesday night’s visitor wasn’t the first fly to take center stage at a presidential debate. In 2016, one briefly landed between Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton’s eyes during a town hall-style debate with now-President Donald Trump. Clinton didn’t flinch.President Barack Obama, however, took action when confronted with an airborne distraction during the taping of a television interview in 2009. Obama stopped speaking to swat at a buzzing fly and tell it to “get out of here.” As interviewer John Harwood quipped, “That’s the most persistent fly I’ve ever seen,” Obama concentrated on its path and swatted it dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-fly-on-pence-s-head-generates-buzz-in-vice-presidential-debate/story-YjvCPULupjACyNeRy7CzSO.html
08-10-2020||World||Nobel for the creators of genetic scissors||Two scientists won the Nobel Prize in chemistry Wednesday for developing “molecular scissors” to edit genes, offering the promise of one day curing a host of inherited diseases.Working on opposite sides of the Atlantic, Frenchwoman Emmanuelle Charpentier and American Jennifer A. Doudna developed a method known as CRISPR-cas9 that can be used to alter the DNA of animals, plants and microorganisms.The award marked only the fourth time in the 119-year history of the prizes that a Nobel in the sciences was given exclusively to women.Charpentier and Doudna’s work allows for laser-sharp snips in the long strings of DNA that make up the code of life, enabling scientists to precisely edit specific genes to remove errors that lead to diseases.Dr. Francis Collins, who led the drive to map the human genome, said the technology “has changed everything” about how to approach diseases with a genetic cause. “You can draw a direct line from the success of the human genome project to the power of CRISPR-cas to make changes in the instruction book,” said Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, which helped fund Doudna’s work.But many also cautioned that the technology raises serious ethical questions and must be used carefully.Much of the world became more aware of CRISPR in 2018, when Chinese scientist He Jiankui revealed he had helped make the world’s first gene-edited babies, to try to engineer resistance to infection with the AIDS virus. In September, an international panel of experts said it is still too soon to try to make genetically edited babies because the science isn’t advanced enough to ensure safety.“Being able to selectively edit genes means that you are playing God in a way,” said American Chemistry Society President Luis Echegoyen, a chemistry professor at the University of Texas El Paso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nobel-for-the-creators-of-genetic-scissors/story-QFkRKehqTrSl2Nzp5j2Y0J.html
08-10-2020||World||Pandemic effect: India’s economy set to contract 9.6%, says World Bank||The World Bank on Wednesday said the Indian economy was projected to contract by 9.6% in fiscal year 2020-21 because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and it was in a far graver situation than it was during the balance of payment crisis of the 1980s leading up to 1991.South Asia as a region is set to plunge into its worst ever recession with a sharper than expected contraction of 7.7%, the World Bank said in its half-yearly South Asia Focus update released on Thursday.“The situation is much worse in India than we have ever seen before,” Hans Timmer, World Bank’s chief economist for the South Asia region, told reporters. He added that it was “much worse” than the balance of payment crisis, which had marked a record low for India and the region.India was forced to pledge parts of its gold reserves in 1991 - physically shipped to the Bank of England and Bank of Japan - to secure a bailout package from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to avoid defaulting on overseas payment obligations. The year 1991 also marked the start of economic reforms.Timmer said one reason why India was hit hard was the “lockdown that was imposed initially (that) was very strict”. It was reflected in the quarterly growth of -25%, he added.Akhil Berry of Eurasia Group, a global consultancy, said, “The estimated contraction is shocking but is in line with other projections, given that India imposed one of the world’s most stringent lockdowns and the caseload in major economic centres such as Mumbai and Delhi are still high.”Fitch has projected India’s economy will contract by -10.5%, Goldman predicts a contraction of -14.8% and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) at -9%.The World Bank said Covid-19 caught India as its economy was already slowing down and it was weakened by financial sector problems, and commended the Modi government’s “swift and comprehensive” response: a strict lockdown, complemented by social protection measures for the poor and support for businesses.“Nonetheless, there was a massive contraction in output and poor and vulnerable households experienced significant social hardship - specifically urban migrants and workers in the informal economy,” the report said. It added, “Overall, the pandemic has likely raised urban poverty, creating a set of ‘new poor’ characterised by non-farm employment and secondary or tertiary education.”The bank has projected growth will rebound to 5.4% in the financial year 2021-22. But Timmer said what has been made clear by this crisis is that India “has to rethink federal policies, especially the policies related to the informal sector… there are no systems in place to support those people”.While the poor suffered due to rising food prices, Covid-19 delivered “a further blow to many informal workers” who experienced a sharp drop in earnings and didn’t have social insurance or savings to fall back on, the report said, urging governments in the South Asia region to “design universal social protection as well as policies that support greater productivity, skills development, and human capital”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pandemic-effect-india-s-economy-set-to-contract-9-6-says-world-bank/story-8NLwyerMKzoxqbxebvDRXJ.html
08-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: Catching Covid-19 was ‘blessing from God,’ says Donald Trump||U.S. President Donald Trump declared that catching the coronavirus was a “blessing from God” that exposed him to experimental treatments he vowed would become free for all Americans, in a video address released on Wednesday.Trump, eager to revitalize his ailing re-election campaign two days after his release from Walter Reed military hospital, repeatedly stressed how well he felt so far in his recovery from Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. It was unclear if he was still testing positive for the virus.“I think this was a blessing from God that I caught it. This was a blessing in disguise,” Trump said, adding that his use of the medication from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc
08-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: Five takeaways from the only vice presidential debate||Wednesday night’s matchup between Vice President Mike Pence and Democratic challenger Senator Kamala Harris opened without the fireworks that marred last week’s chaotic debate between President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden.But Trump’s Covid-19 infection, and his and Biden’s advanced age, makes this perhaps the most consequential U.S. vice presidential debate in living memory. Here are a few things to watch:COLORING INSIDE THE LINESFollowing last week’s chaotic, insult-laden debate between Biden and Trump, moderator Susan Page warned both candidates that she would strictly enforce rules designed to ensure decorum. “We want a debate that is lively. But Americans also deserve a discussion that is civil,” she said. Both candidates were on their best behavior at the outset and wrapped up their statements when warned by Page.“Senator Harris, it’s a privilege to be on the stage with you,” Pence said - after Harris said that the Trump administration’s coronavirus response was “the greatest failure of any presidential administration in the history of our country.”DINGING BIDEN ON PLAGARISMCandidates typically show up with a quiver of prepared one-liners, and Pence loosed one early. He accused Biden of copying the Trump administration’s plan to fight the coronavirus, dredging up charges of plagiarism that helped sink Biden’s first presidential run in 1988.“It looks a little bit like plagiarism, which is something Joe Biden knows a little bit about,” he said.OUTSIZED IMPORTANCEIn 2008, when he was Barack Obama’s running mate, Biden said that “no one decides who they’re going to vote for based on the vice president.” Yet this debate has outsized importance. Biden, 77, would be the oldest president in U.S. history if he were to win the election, and he has hinted he might only serve one term.Trump, only slightly younger at 74, spent the weekend at a military hospital outside Washington after contracting the novel coronavirus.From purely an actuarial standpoint, Pence, 61, and Harris, 55, would be more likely to step into the presidency than other vice presidential candidates. That is sure to be a major subtext on Wednesday night. Pence also carries an additional burden as he has been tasked with campaigning for the ticket as Trump has been sidelined because of his COVID-19 infection. BARRIERS AND MASKSEager for every advantage, campaigns often battle over everything from the format of the debate to the height of the podiums.This time around, they have been at odds over coronavirus protections. The Salt Lake City debate stage will feature a Plexiglas barrier between the two candidates, which was installed over the objections of Pence’s aides. They also will stand more than 12 feet (3.6 m) apart on stage.Debate organizers handed out salmon-colored masks to all debate attendees and cordoned off alternative rows in the theater where the debate will be held to promote social distancing.It will be a potent reminder that opinion polls show the coronavirus is the most important issue for voters, outstripping traditional concerns like the economy and national security. Pence has headed the Trump administration’s coronavirus task force as the pandemic has killed more than 210,000 Americans and shut down wide swaths of the economy.Members of Trump’s entourage refused to wear masks at last week’s debate in Cleveland, just two days before he and his wife, Melania, tested positive. The Commission on Presidential Debates has said anyone who does not wear a mask will be “escorted out.”GUEST LISTAlong with the usual campaign insiders and VIPs, both candidates have invited a handful of guests as a symbol of their priorities.Pence has invited the parents of Kayla Mueller, who U.S. authorities say was tortured and sexually abused by Islamic State militants before being killed in 2014. The Justice Department said on Wednesday that two suspects in her death had arrived in the United States to face trial.Carl and Marsha Mueller have said Obama’s administration should have done more to rescue her and spoke in support of Trump at the Republican nomination in August.Pence also invited business owner Flora Westbrooks, whose hair studio was destroyed in riots in Minneapolis following the police killing of Black man George Floyd, and Ann Dorn, the widow of a retired police officer who was killed during protests in St. Louis.Harris has invited Utah Democratic state Representative Angela Romero and Deborah Gatrell, a candidate for Salt Lake City Council and former military helicopter pilot who currently works as a teacher. The campaign said in a press release that “they both showcase the resolve hard-working Americans have shown as Donald Trump has failed to control the virus and save the economy.” (Reporting by Andy Sullivan; Additional reporting by Michael Martina in Salt Lake City; Editing by Scott Malone and Peter Cooney)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-five-takeaways-from-the-only-vice-presidential-debate/story-UzgI8QGLRzOexrFyYhOqML.html
08-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: If Donald Trump tells us we should take it, I’m not taking vaccine, says Kamala Harris||United States Vice president Mike Pence and Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris kicked off their first and only debate on Wednesday night in Salt Lake city, Utah — in what also marked the debut of an Indian origin person on the podium for the vice presidential debate. The debate was moderated by USA Today’s Susan Page who said the format of the debate will include nine segments of 10 minutes in length, with time for questions to each candidate. Discussion over the ongoing pandemic and an effective vaccine against Covid-19 dominated a large part of the debate. “If the public health professionals, if Dr Fauci, if the doctors tell us that we should take it, I will be the first in line to take it, absolutely. But if Donald Trump tells us we should take it, I’m not taking it,” Kamala Harris said in distain as the topic of vaccine came up. “That fact that you continue to undermine public confidence in a vaccine, if a vaccine emerges during the Trump administration, I think is unconscionable,” Mike Pence retorted.Here are the top quotes from Kamala Harris’ first vice presidential debate1. The American people have witnessed what is the greatest failure of any presidential administration in the history of our country. Whatever the vice president is claiming the administration has done, clearly it hasn’t worked, when you’re looking at over 210,000 dead bodies in our country.Watch l ‘Not if Trump asks me to..’: Kamala Harris’ jibe over Covid vaccine l US VP debate 2. They knew what was happening (Coronavirus) and they didn’t tell you. They knew, and they covered it up. They said they didn’t tell you because the President wanted Americans to be calm. Now tell me, how calm you were when your children were sent back home.3. We believe in transparency in disclosing both health and tax details. It will be good to know whom President Donald Trump owes money. Americans should know what is influencing his decisions. 4. Joe and I share a purpose of lifting up the American people. We were brought up by same values. It was best day in my life when I got a call from him. 5. Joe Biden believes the health of economy should be measured by the health of the American workers. But Donald Trump believed the economy should be measured by how rich people are. Joe will invest in innovation, education, clean energy, infrastructure. He believes in investing into the people of America. 6. Joe Biden will never raise the taxes. He has been very clear about that. Biden was responsible to bring America back from Recession. 7. If the public health professionals, if Dr Fauci, if the doctors tell us that we should take it, I will be the first in line to take it, absolutely. But if Donald Trump tells us we should take it, I’m not taking it8. Donald Trump betrayed friendships and embraced the dictators of the world. Take for example, Russia. 9. Joe and I are particularly proud of the coalition we built around our campaign. Seven members of George W Bush’s cabinet are supporting our campaign. They are doing that because they know Joe Biden is fighting for integrity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-if-donald-trump-tells-us-we-should-take-it-i-m-not-taking-vaccine-says-kamala-harris/story-w9gNaeMpNThk3xMSa12z2M.html
08-10-2020||World||Facebook to pause political ads as US election day ends||Facebook on Wednesday said it will stop running political or social issue ads after the US polls close on November 3 to reduce chances of confusion or abuse.The leading social network said that any posts prematurely declaring a winner or contesting the count will be labeled with reliable information from news outlets and election officials.“If a candidate or party declares premature victory before a race is called by major media outlets, we will add more specific information in the notifications that counting is still in progress and no winner has been determined,” Facebook executives said at a press briefing.Rules on ads and posts about voting or politics are being tightened by Facebook and Instagram as they brace for the US election.The California-based internet giant has been under pressure to avoid being used to spread misinformation and inflame social division as was the case during the presidential election in 2016.Policies against voter intimidation instituted by Facebook four years ago have been consistently expanded to account for new trends and tactics to intimidate or prevent voting, according to vice president of content policy Monika Bickert.“As we head into the last days of this election, we know we will see spikes in efforts to intimidate voters,” Bickert said at the briefing.Wednesday’s tightening of rules included barring posts that reference weapons or armies in encouraging people to monitor polling places on election day, according to Bickert.“We will remove statements of intent or advocacy to go to an election site with military language,” Bickert said.“We will also remove calls to go to polls to monitor if it involves exerting control or showing power.”Facebook already banned posts directly urging people to go to polling places with weapons or to stop people from voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-to-pause-political-ads-as-us-election-day-ends/story-4UR7j592MQ38NDoRkswjrM.html
08-10-2020||World||New rules to raise pay for workers on H-1B, will narrow eligibility||The Trump administration on Tuesday announced new rules that will significantly raise wages paid to foreign workers on H-1B and narrow the eligibility criteria to qualify for these high-skilled visas. Both measures are aimed at preventing this programme from being used to displace Americans.The White House said in a statement that President Donald Trump wanted to improve work visa programmes to “prioritise the highest-skilled workers and protect American jobs and wages” and intended H-1B visas to “be reserved for specialised talent that helps support a strong economy”. Indian professionals are the largest recipients of H-1B visas, accounting for more than 70% of the 85,000 issued every year.“These regulations seem to be based on misinformation about the programme and runs counterproductive to their very objective of saving the American economy and jobs,” said Nasscom, a trade body of India IT businesses. The changes will be introduced as “interim final rules” and will go into effect separately, issued by separate federal agencies. The rule on higher wages goes into effect from Thursday. It will be aimed at “strengthening wage protections, addressing abuses in these visa programs, and ensuring American workers are not undercut by cheaper foreign labour”, said secretary of Labor, Eugene Scalia. US employers hiring foreign workers on H-1B and other work visas will be required to pay foreign workers prevailing wages or the actual wage paid to other employees with similar experience and qualifications. “The prevailing wage rates in these programs thus play an integral role in protecting US workers from unfair competition posed by the entry of lower cost foreign labour into the US labour market,” said the department. Critics have long argued it has been used to displace American workers. The Department of Homeland Security’s IFR changing the definition of “speciality occupation” is expected to become effective in 60 days. The department said its interim rule will narrow the definition of specialty occupation by “closing the overbroad definition that allowed companies to game the system”.A basic college degree will not be sufficient any longer to quality for an H1-B. An applicant for a job in electrical engineering, for instance, will be required to have a degree in electrical engineering, not computers. “We have entered an era in which economic security is an integral part of homeland security. We must do everything... to make sure the American worker is put first,” said DHS acting secretary Chad Wolf. The new rule is expected to cut the number of H-1B petitions filed every year — around 200,000 — by a third, according to a senior DHS official. The department will also monitor closely third-party employers, who hire H-1B workers and contract them out to work for US companies. The rules are expected to be challenged in courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-rules-to-raise-pay-for-workers-on-h-1b-will-narrow-eligibility/story-MuDKey3bpaQdvR3yBH7KWO.html
08-10-2020||World||Donald Trump back in Oval Office days after positive Covid test||US President Donald Trump was on Wednesday back at work in the Oval Office just six days after testing Covid-19 positive, despite warnings that his return could put others at risk.The behavior of the president -- who has faced fierce criticism for his handling of the outbreak -- is under scrutiny as the number of positive cases climbs among people working at the White House.After contradictory statements whether the president was back at work on Tuesday, a senior administration official told AFP that Trump was present Wednesday with an “extremely limited” number of staff in his office.Trump, who was hospitalized Friday with the virus that has killed over 210,000 in the US, arrived by an outside door to avoid passing through the crowded corridors of his residence, the official said.“Was just briefed on Hurricane Delta,” the president tweeted, eager to project his return as a personal triumph over the disease as he trails badly in polls against Democratic challenger Joe Biden.Trump’s illness, like his dismissive stance on the virus, has fueled multiple controversies, including his made-for-television exit from the hospital on Monday.Just after stepping off a helicopter at the White House, he climbed the stairs of his residence and pulled off his face mask -- a tool against the virus that he has frequently downplayed.“Don’t let (Covid-19) dominate you. Don’t be afraid of it,” he urged Americans in his homecoming speech, despite the US having the largest total number of coronavirus infections and deaths in the world. - ‘Wacko for years’ -By Wednesday, doctors reported the president had been free of Covid-19 symptoms for 24 hours and has not had a fever in four days.“The president this morning says ‘I feel great,’“ doctor Sean Conley said in a brief update. In an apparent attempt to provide greater clarity over how the disease has progressed, the update also detailed that Covid antibodies were found in Trump’s blood tests on Monday.Florian Krammer, professor at Icahn School of Medicine in New York, told AFP those results don’t mean much at this stage.“It could well be that the majority of what is detected came from the transfusion,” he said referring to the experimental antibody treatment Trump got Friday.Trump has vowed to return to campaigning shortly and to participate in the second presidential debate against Biden in Miami on October 15.As Trump seeks to revive his reelection campaign in the face of weak polling data just four weeks away from the November 3 election, he labeled Biden “a wacko”.Latest polls forecast a clear victory for Biden, with CNN giving the Democrat a national advantage of 57 percent to 41 percent among likely voters, and women voters going 66 to 32 percent in his favor.“He’s been a wacko for years, and everyone knows it,” Trump tweeted. “Notice how all of the bad things, like his very low IQ, are no longer reported? Fake News!”Biden traded blows with Trump in last week’s chaotic debate, but the former vice president has also appealed to a broad-based yearning for calm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-back-in-oval-office-days-after-positive-covid-test/story-epUOSqYcvItL0dFlg5ftdN.html
08-10-2020||World||Medical journal calls for Donald Trump’s removal over coronavirus||The New England Journal of Medicine says President Donald Trump’s administration should be voted out of office. In a jab at Kamala Harris, Vice President Mike Pence’s campaign said it had set aside a ticket for dead rapper Tupac Shakur at the debate Wednesday. And Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden is resuming negative advertising now that Trump is out of the hospital.There are 27 days until the election and 68 days until the Electoral College meets.Other Developments:New England Journal of Medicine Calls for Trump Administration’s RemovalThe New England Journal of Medicine is calling for Trump’s administration to be voted out of office for its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, the first time in the prestigious publication’s 208-year history that it has denounced a political candidate.In an editorial titled “Dying in a Leadership Vacuum,” the journal’s editors say U.S. leaders “have taken a crisis and turned it into a tragedy.” While it doesn’t explicitly endorse Biden, the editorial clearly ascribes blame to the Trump administration and calls for a change of government. “When it comes to the response to the largest public health crisis of our time, our current political leaders have demonstrated that they are dangerously incompetent,” the editors wrote. “We should not abet them and enable the deaths of thousands more Americans by allowing them to keep their jobs.”The editorial itemizes failures that it says are of “astonishing” magnitude, comparing the U.S. response to those of countries that implemented early testing and were able to contain the virus.“Our current leaders have undercut trust in science and in government, causing damage that will certainly outlast them,” the editorial says. “Instead of relying on expertise, the administration has turned to uninformed ‘opinion leaders’ and charlatans who obscure the truth and facilitate the promulgation of outright lies. -- Max Berley||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/medical-journal-calls-for-donald-trump-s-removal-over-coronavirus/story-mftchCw1JsNgaB1lW92g3M.html
08-10-2020||World||‘As far as the candidate from Democrats is concerned’: Putin takes note of Biden’s anti-Russia rhetoric||Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday he had noted what he called “sharp anti-Russian rhetoric” from US Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, but that he had been encouraged by Biden’s comments on arms control. Putin, in comments on state television ahead of the US presidential election on Nov. 3, said Russia would work with any US leader, but praised Republican incumbent Donald Trump for saying he wanted better ties with Moscow.“Of course we value this,” said Putin, who also denied once again Washington’s charge of Russian meddling in US elections. He said that a bipartisan US consensus on the need to restrain Russia had held back the possibility of that happening, but that a lot had nonetheless been done and that bilateral trade had grown despite US sanctions and the pandemic. “As far as the candidate from the Democratic Party is concerned ... we also see quite sharp anti-Russian rhetoric. Unfortunately, we are used to this,” Putin said in an appearance on state television. But he added that Biden had made what he regarded as encouraging statements on New START, the last major nuclear arms pact between Russia and the United States, which is due to expire in February. Moscow and Washington have so far been unable to agree a new treaty or an extension, though Trump’s envoy for arms control said on Tuesday that “important progress” had been made at bilateral talks. “Candidate Biden publicly said he was ready for an extension of New START or to reach a new treaty to limit strategic ... weapons, and this is a very serious element of our cooperation in the future,” Putin said.Last month, Putin proposed a cyber reset in ties with Washington and called for a bilateral agreement that they would not engage in cyber-meddling in each other’s elections.On Wednesday he said Washington had ignored that proposal.“Unfortunately... there has been no answer on this... very important issue, although there are continuing claims against us about our apparent hyperactivity... in interfering in elections ... which are completely groundless.” (Reporting by Moscow newsroom; Writing by Tom Balmforth; Editing by Kevin Liffey and Gareth Jones)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-far-as-the-candidate-from-democrats-is-concerned-putin-takes-note-of-biden-s-anti-russia-rhetoric/story-goERrGvf8C1FfhoViKZcZM.html
08-10-2020||India||PM lauds people-driven Covid fight||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a massive campaign to ensure people continue to take adequate precautions and behave appropriately during the coming festive season, even as the number of daily cases in the country has seen a dip, and people are beginning to tire of the safeguards that have affected normal life since late March.  “India’s COVID-19 fight is people-driven and gets great strength from our COVID warriors. Our collective efforts have helped saved many lives. We have to continue the momentum and protect our citizens from the virus,” the PM tweeted as he launched the star-studded campaign. HT reported on October 3 that the government would launch a campaign to urge people to be cautious about their behaviour in the upcoming festive season that will see more social gatherings and outdoor activities amid the prevailing Covid pandemic. The PM also reiterated the basic safety precautions in another tweet: “Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori.’ Together, we will succeed. Together, we will win against COVID-19.” The campaign, government officials added, will continue for at least three months to cover the entire festive season including the New Year celebrations. The new campaign for Covid-appropriate behaviour also comes at a time when most restrictions on movement and business activities have been removed (schools are still shut, though), which means the only thing that stands between people and possible infection is their own good sense. The campaign will include region- specific targeted communication in high case-load districts -- simple and easily understandable messages aimed to reach every citizen. It will have banners and posters at public places, involve front line workers and target beneficiaries of government schemes. National influencers from the worlds of cinema, sports and culture will drive home the message of health safety by appearing in ads and messages. These will be showcased on hoardings, wall paintings and electronic display boards in government offices. There will also be mobile vans , audio messages, pamphlets and brochures on awareness. Local cable operators too, have been asked to spread health safety messages. Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting on September 28 to detail the entire plan. Cabinet secretary Rajeev Gauba, Niti Ayog’s member health Dr. VK Paul, secretaries of home affairs, health, information and broadcasting, rural development and panchayeti raj were also present in the meeting. “As part of the nation-wide campaign, Central Government Ministries and Departments and State Governments and Union Territories will reach out to citizens with region-specific communication, tailored to the needs especially of districts where there is a high case load of COVID-19. Cautionary measures that need to be adopted will be communicated using a variety of suitable media platforms, throughout the country,” said a release. Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said that special focus will be laid on simple and easily understandable messaging, so that it benefits every citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-lauds-people-driven-covid-fight/story-q3a5DkqzB6m07o5MSBwqvL.html
08-10-2020||India||‘If they had common sense…’: HD Kumaraswamy on polls amid Covid||Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy on Thursday criticised the Election Commission, Centre and the state governments for conducting polls amidst a raging pandemic in the country. Stating that the polls would only lead to a spike in cases, Kumaraswamy said: “If they (EC, Centre and state governments) had any common sense, the polls would not have been held now, amidst a countrywide pandemic.”Asserting that it was impossible to maintain social distancing during an election campaign, Kumarswamy pointed out how he had come down with a fever after two days of campaigning in Sira assembly constituency. “It would not have been the end of the world if the EC had advised imposition of the President’s rule in Bihar for six months and then held the polls. This (polls and bypolls) would only lead to a spike in cases.”The JDS leader was referring to the assembly polls scheduled in Bihar as well as several bypolls across the country, including the RR Nagar and Sira assembly seats. Both the assembly seats go to polls on November 3, apart from four teachers and graduates constituency to the upper house, which will be held on October 28. Expressing confidence of winning both the bypolls, he hit out at both national parties - BJP and Congress - for luring JDS leaders. “They are so bereft of leaders that they have to lure from our party to put up candidates. But voters are wiser and they will back JDS.”The Congress has put up Kusuma, the wife of former IAS officer DK Ravi - who died by suicide - as its candidate in RR Nagar and former minister T B Jayachandra in Sira. While the BJP is yet to announce its candidates for the assembly seats, JDS has given the Sira ticket to Ammajamma the wife of former MLA B Satyanaryana whose death caused the vacancy. However the regional party is yet to announce its candidate for the RR Nagar seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-they-had-common-sense-hd-kumaraswamy-on-polls-amid-covid/story-oc1rgBQb0uSnEzDIj6JrUN.html
08-10-2020||India||Scientists find dragonfly fossil, 2.5mn years old, in J’khand||Kolkata: A team of scientists from West Bengal has discovered the first dragonfly fossil found in India in Jharkhand’s Latehar district, according to a study published in Current Science. The fossil is said to be at least 2.5 million years old. “This is the first dragonfly fossil from India. It is a well-preserved one. The fossil belongs to the late Neogene period which dates between 2.5 million and five million years ago,” said Subir Bera, a professor with the Centre for Advanced Study in the botany department of Calcutta University., and one of the authors of the study. The study, published in the October 10 edition of the journal said the dragonfly fossil has a well-preserved head, thorax and a long cylindrical abdomen with terminalia (nether regions) and four wings with longitudinal veins, cross-veins and a characteristic small pterostigma (a pigment spot ) at the apex. The fossil is around 3 cm long and has a wing-span of around 2.5 cm. This is much smaller than the fossils of giant dragonflies, which have been found elsewhere in the world, the study said.Experts said the wing-span of one of the giant dragonflies, Meganeuropsis permiana, measured around 2.5 feet; it was found by Frank Carpenter in Elmo, Kansas in the US in 1939. It dated back to the Permian era which made it around 300 million years old. In 2013, a giant, well preserved dragonfly fossil, dating back 200 million years, was discovered in China. The researchers from four universities in West Bengal were looking for fossils in the sediments of the Chotanagpur plateau for almost a year when, in January, they found the dragonfly fossil at a depth of around 5m below the soil surface. The team also found fossils of various other insects, fish and flowering plants.The study said the find suggested that this dragonfly thrived under a “tropical, warm, humid climate” during the depositional period and the fossil specimen was associated with prolific and diversified tropical angiospermic plant remains, vertebrates and invertebrates that provided a suitable environment for the dragonfly to survive.“The nearest living member of the fossil is Libellula depressa, a species of dragonfly that is found in any tropical country including India,” said Manoshi Hazra, the first author of the research paper. As dragonflies spend most of their lives near fresh water bodies, the scientists said that millions of years ago a freshwater body might have existed in the plateau, which has now dried up. The other fossils of plants and fish, which the scientists have found, also suggest so.“The very fact that the team has found the fossil of an adult dragonfly from the sedimentary bed is very interesting. The prospect of finding an immature dragonfly from the sedimentary bed is huge because dragonfly larvae live underwater, and the prospect of finding insect fossils from sedimentary beds and coal beds is also huge, but unfortunately, little work has been done in India in this regard,” said TK Pal, a former scientist at the Zoological Survey of India. According to the study, which was led by Mahasin Ali Khan, assistant professor of botany at Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University in West Bengal’s Purulia, dragonflies are known as “guardians of the watershed” and “wetland bio-indicators” and are carnivorous, feeding on other insects such as moths, flies, mosquitoes, bugs and midges. “The presence of fossil flies, midges and butterflies in the fossil locality suggests that the dragonflies probably fed on these insects at that time. Thus, the late Neogene tropical forests of Jharkhand comprising abundant flora and fauna provided a suitable environment for the libellulid dragonfly to survive,” the study said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-find-dragonfly-fossil-2-5mn-years-old-in-j-khand/story-Iwvn4FRBzsGzMyo0drYCuK.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Early withdrawal of US troops will have consequences’: Abdullah Abdullah||A premature withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan will have consequences, especially if the Taliban don’t deliver on commitments to prevent the use of Afghan soil by groups such as al-Qaeda, Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah said on Thursday. The chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation in Afghanistan made the remarks hours after US President Donald Trump tweeted that he intended to bring home all American troops from Afghanistan by Christmas, months ahead of the earlier deadline of May 2021. Abdullah, in New Delhi to seek the Indian leadership’s support for intra-Afghan negotiations underway in Doha, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi who, he said, had assured him that India will back any settlement acceptable to the Afghan people. Shortly after the meeting with PM Modi, Abdullah addressed a gathering at the think tank Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA), where he was asked about Trump’s plan to withdraw all US troops by December. He noted there was only Trump’s tweet so far and details such as troop numbers and the timing were unclear, but acknowledged Afghanistan should be prepared for “any eventuality”. “The US withdrawal will happen one day and Afghanistan should be able to stand on its own feet, but if it is premature, it will have its consequences,” he told the gathering that included retired and serving diplomats and military officials. “If other conditions attached to their withdrawal are not met, for example, if the terrorist groups like al-Qaeda continue to pose a threat against the people of Afghanistan, or ISIS and the others, there will be consequences as a result of that,” he added. According to a UN report issued in June, some 6,500 Pakistani nationals are among foreign terrorists operating in Afghanistan, and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) play a key role in bringing foreign fighters into the country. Trump tweeted he wanted “the small remaining number of our BRAVE Men and Women serving in Afghanistan home by Christmas”. The deal signed by the US and the Taliban in February envisages the withdrawal of all US troops by May 2021. There are currently less than 9,000 US troops in Afghanistan, and the number was expected to drop below 5,000 by November. Abdullah said in his address at IDSA that the peace process is aimed at achieving a democratic and peaceful Afghanistan which is friendly with all countries in the neighbourhood and preserves the rights of all citizens, including women and minorities. “There can be no military solution. There are no winners in a war and there is no loser in a peaceful inclusive settlement,” he said. Abdullah said he had a “very good meeting” with Modi. “He [Modi] said whatever settlement is acceptable for the people of Afghan, we [will support it],” he added. The external affairs ministry said the prime minister reiterated “India’s commitment towards sustainable peace and prosperity in Afghanistan and welcomed efforts towards a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire”. Abdullah also told the gathering at IDSA he had been encouraged by his talks with Pakistan’s civil and military leadership during a visit to Islamabad last week. He said more flexibility on the part of the Taliban could lead to an “understanding to live in a sovereign country that isn’t a threat to others in the neighbourhood” While hoping for a change in the Taliban’s attitude, he said: “There is a thinking amongst the Taliban that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan, which they will eventually, and then they will take advantage of the situation and take Afghanistan back three decades. “They may be able to take advantage of the situation temporarily but they will not be able to impose their rule on the people of Afghanistan by force, that’s a reality.”Abdullah met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval on Wednesday and is scheduled to hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-withdrawal-of-us-troops-will-have-consequences-abdullah-abdullah/story-yfMpZNZK0W7ySPYKOcphnN.html
08-10-2020||India||Maharashtra Governor, Thackeray, Pawar condole Paswan’s death||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday condoled the death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and said he was a popular leader who stood for deprived and weaker sections of the society.NCP chief Sharad Pawar and BJP leader Nitin Gadkari also expressed grief over the death of the veteran politician and paid rich tributes to him.The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder, one of the most prominent Dalit leaders of the country, died on Thursday in a Delhi hospital at the age of 74.Koshyari said Paswan was one of the most popular leaders from Bihar and enjoyed strong mass support.He had the distinction of serving as a Union minister in various governments and handling different portfolios ably, the governor said.“We have lost a great parliamentarian and a popular leader,” Koshyari said.Thackeray said Paswan was connected with ordinary people all through his long political career.The country has lost a leader who stood for deprived and weaker sectionsof the society, the CM said.Pawar also expressed grief over Paswans death.Saddened to hear about the demise of Shri Ramvilas Paswan. He was a veteran leader and founder of Lok Janshakti Party.“I had a long association with him as a Parliamentarian. My sincere condolences to his family. RIP, Pawar tweeted.In Nagpur, Gadkari, a Union minister, said Paswan had an important contribution in upliftment of the poor, deprived and underprivileged sections of the society.Gadkari tweeted, “I am numbed by the news of passing away of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. My emotional tributes to him.“Paswanji had an important contribution in the development of poor, deprived and underprivileged. May the Lord Grant peace to his soul and strength to his family,” said the BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-governor-thackeray-pawar-condole-paswan-s-death/story-8V1xbpw0WSkq4xL1RyeAYM.html
08-10-2020||India||Why Goa is accusing Karnataka of clandestinely diverting Mhadei river||A slow trickling stream in what once used to be a raging torrent during the monsoon months is what first prompted puzzlement among those living in the villages of the Sattari taluka located along the lower reaches of the Western Ghats along the Goa border with Karnataka. In the village of Surla, the last frontier of Goa located at an elevation of 800 metres on a small plateau atop the Western Ghats the onset of the monsoon used to be a time of roaring waterfalls, fast flowing streams and living amid the clouds as they crash against the Sahyadris. What makes the village famous is the ‘Ladkyacho Vozar’ sometimes referred to only as the Surla waterfalls as the Mahadayi River comes crashing down the steep cliffs of the Western Ghats and into Goa. But this year was different. “This year the river has been reduced to a trickle. There was diversion earlier too but it was not in as much quantity. This year the water has been reduced to a trickle,” Rajendra Kerkar an environmentalist who hails from the village Keri in Sattari and has been an active member of the Mhadei Bachao Andolan, a group of citizens and activists that was formed to lobby for Goa’s share of the Mhadei waters. Photographs from the site show that Karnataka has completed the digging of trenches and now water that would otherwise flow through the Mhadei now flow eastwards and into the east flowing Malaprabha river in Karnataka rather than westwards into Goa from the point of diversion.“They (Karnataka) have been doing work of building canals earlier too, but water has not been diverted like it has been this year,” Kerkar said. Three streams -- the Kalasa, Bhandura and Haltara and make up the source of the River Mahadayi in Karnataka that flows into Goa as the River Mandovi meets the sea at the state capital Panaji.The Bhandura stream, the biggest of the three originates at a village in Degaon in Karnataka along with the Kalasa stream and the two along with other smaller streams meet to form the Mahadayi which then flows into Goa. The Haltara also begins in Karnataka but takes another route flowing through Maharashtra and into Goa meeting the river further downstream in Goa. The Goa government has now filed a plea alleging that Karnataka has begun diverting water from the river in violation of the orders of the Tribunal which has decreed that no work or diversion can begin until fresh project reports are prepared based on the award adjudicated by the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal and all the necessary permissions are obtained. “The Tribunal has passed its order even though the award has been notified and in its order it has said that until all permissions are obtained, no diversion can be done. Karnataka does not have any permissions from the forest or wildlife authorities,” Goa’s Advocate General Devidas Pangam told HT. “They have been building the canals for the last several years, it is unclear whether they have sped up the work this year,” he added.The Goa government has filed a separate plea before the Supreme Court challenging the water sharing award that was issued by the Tribunal.Controversy over the sharing of the water of the Mhadei or Mandovi River (as it is called in Goa) between the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa is more than 30 years old. Attempts for negotiations have been initiated by the central government as far back as 1985.The water sharing issue appears to have reached a flashpoint in 2002, when the Karnataka government decided to implement the inter-connecting canal from Kalasa stream to Malaprabha river for diversion of waters of Mahadayi basin to Malaprabha basin.The Malaprabhha river also begins in the Western Ghats not far from where the Mahadayi begins but flows eastwards.In its verdict passed in 2018, the Tribunal awarded Karnataka 3.45 TMC (thousand million cubic feet) from their total claims of 7.56 TMC. According to the breakup, Karnataka has been allowed to divert 1.18 TMC from the Kalasa Nala and 2.27 TMC from the Banduri Nala from their claims of 3.56 and 4 TMC respectively. The award is yet to be notified by the central government and all states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa -- have challenged various portions of the award before the Supreme Court. Goa is opposed to any diversion claiming that the Mhadei is itself a water deficit basin and that the tribunal has incorrectly calculated the total yield of the River. Goa has claimed irreparable damage on account of the illegal diversion and has sought before the Supreme Court that Karnataka be directed “to take remedial and curative actions to make good the loss of water to the state of Goa pursuant to their acts of diversion and to further restore the natural flow of the Mhadei river towards the state of Goa.”Karnataka has, however, denied Goa’s claims. Karnataka’s water resources minister Ramesh Jarkhiholi while speaking to media persons in Belgaum in North Karnataka said that Karnataka had done “nothing illegal”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-goa-is-accusing-karnataka-of-clandestinely-diverting-the-mhadei-river/story-MAyRgyTkLAJqskUnGx9aPL.html
08-10-2020||India||Daily Covid-19 count falls this week, but India inches closer to 7 million Covid-19 cases||India has been gradually relaxing the tough restrictions imposed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak after slowing down of the rate of infection. In this week so far, the number of daily cases has fallen but the overall caseload is heading close to the seven million-mark.The cases this week have declined from more than 80,000 a day to a little over than 70,000. While on Monday the country recorded 74,442 cases of the coronavirus disease, on Tuesday the number dropped to 72,049, according to Union health ministry figures. There was an upward revision in the number of cases (78,524) on Wednesday, the daily figures have stayed below 80,000 so far this week.India already is the second worst-hit country globally and the nationwide Covid-19 tally has reached 6.8 million. The United States has the highest number of cases - 7.7 million.The country’s Covid-19 tally had crossed two million on August 7, three million on August 23 and four million on September 5. It went past the five million mark on September 16 and crossed six million on September 28.The number of deaths due to the disease has crossed one lakh in India, with the Case Fatality Ratio (CFR) at 1.54 per cent, according to the health ministry. The country has also recorded gradual improvement in recovery rate which reached 85.25 per cent on Thursday, the health ministry data showed.Though the slim improvement in the number of cases has given a glimmer of hope, many experts have voiced concerns due to the upcoming festive season. They say that the curve may rise again if people let their guard down during the celebrations.At least 22 states and union territories (UTs) have a Covid-19 positivity rate less than the national average which is at 8.19 per cent, according to the health ministry said.These states are Bihar (2.61), Gujarat (3.30), Jharkhand (3.82), Uttar Pradesh (3.92), Himachal Pradesh (4.93), Rajasthan (5.11), Madhya Pradesh (5.98), Punjab (5.99), Haryana (6.65), Odisha (6.71), Uttarakhand (7.13), Jammu and Kashmir (7.24), Telangana (7.38) and West Bengal (8.15).Additionally, 75 per cent of new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs.This week, Covid-19 testing in the country has picked up exponentially, with around 82 million cumulative number of samples having already been tested so far, according to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-count-falls-this-week-but-india-inches-closer-to-7-million-covid-19-cases/story-oxw7MKv6rtV3Z3uIX9fCYO.html
08-10-2020||India||Mike Pompeo expected to travel to India for 2+2 dialogue this month||The India-US 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers of the two sides is expected to be held in New Delhi during October 26-27 to take forward strategic cooperation and security ties, people familiar with developments said on Thursday. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper are expected to travel to India for the meeting with their counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. This will also be the second meeting between Jaishankar and Pompeo in the space of about 20 days, as they met in Tokyo on October 6. The move to hold in-person meetings at a time when such discussions have mostly moved online because of the Covid-19 pandemic reflects the importance attached by both sides to the 2+2 dialogue, the people said. As with the Jaishankar-Pompeo meeting and the Quad ministerial meeting in Tokyo this week, the 2+2 dialogue is also expected to focus on China’s actions across the region and the Indo-Pacific. Trade and investment too is expected to figure in the upcoming discussions though it is unlikely that there will be any major developments or deals as the US is set to head into the presidential election on November 3, the people said. Differences in trade and investment, including on issues such as market access and data laws, continue to be among the few irritants in the India-US relationship, whereas cooperation in areas such as counter-terrorism, defence and security has grown in scope in recent years. The two sides were unable to reach even a mini trade deal despite protracted negotiations ahead of US President Donald Trump’s visit to India in February. During the last 2+2 dialogue between India and the US that was held in Washington in December last year, the two sides had reaffirmed their commitment to work for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and agreed to deepen cooperation on regional and global threats, combating terrorism, and promoting transparent and sustainable infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mike-pompeo-expected-to-travel-to-india-for-2-2-dialogue-this-month/story-yH6OhzvK2U6xYXu90OJCHJ.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Ram Vilas Paswan’s death a great loss to country’: Former PM Deve Gowda||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda on Thursday expressed grief over the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who had served as the Railway Minister in his cabinet, and said it was a great loss to the country. Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago, died on Thursday. “I am deeply saddened by the demise of Union Minister and 8-term MP Shri. Ram Vilas Paswan ji. He was very dear to me and had worked as the Railways Minister in my cabinet. Losing a very senior leader like him is a great loss for our country,” Gowda tweeted. “May god give his family and well-wishers the strength to bear this pain,” the JD(S) patriarch said. Paswan was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel also expressed grief over the passing away of Paswan. He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was a senior Dalit leader, he said. Congress legislature party leader Siddaramaiah in a tweet said, “Saddened by the demise of Union Minister Shri. Ram Vilas Paswan. He was one of the finest leaders of our country and his work speaks for his commitment. My deepest condolences to his family members and well-wishers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-s-death-a-great-loss-to-country-former-pm-deve-gowda/story-SiggIpiZavMg84ybWf3WTI.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Veteran politician, leader and a long-time Parliamentarian’: Mamata condoles Paswan’s death||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday expressed deep grief over the passing away of union minister Ram Vilas Paswan.She extended her condolences to his family members, colleagues and admirers.“Deeply saddened to hear the news of the passing away of Ram Vilas Paswan Ji. He was a veteran politician, leader and a long-time Parliamentarian. My condolences to his family, colleagues and his many admirers,” Banerjee tweeted.Paswan (74) died on Thursday, his son Chirag Paswan tweeted.Paswan, who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital in Delhi a few days ago.He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was one of the country’‘s most noted Dalit leaders.He was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-politician-leader-and-a-long-time-parliamentarian-mamata-condoles-paswan-s-death/story-yyqrP9FkOXW4vfimMjTO0H.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Poor, Dalit have lost a strong voice’: Congress leaders condole death of Ram Vilas Paswan||A host of Congress leaders condoled the demise of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Thursday with Rahul Gandhi saying that with his passing away, the poor and Dalits have lost a strong political voice.“The news of untimely demise of Ram Vilas Paswan ji is tragic. The poor and Dalit have lost a strong political voice today. My condolences to his family,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel described Paswan as a champion of the downtrodden, who had immense faith in India’s pluralism and diversity.“Chirag, shocked to hear about the demise of your father. Ram Vilas Paswan ji was a champion of the downtrodden and had immense faith in India’s pluralism and diversity. It’s a big loss for the nation. My condolences to you, your family and all his supporters,” he said on Twitter.Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said he was shocked to hear the sad news of the death of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. “He was deeply committed to the upliftment of the downtrodden. His demise has left a vacuum which will be difficult to fill. My heartfelt condolences to his family. May the departed soul rest in peace,” he said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, “Ram Vilas Paswan ji has been a neighbour of my mother for years and we had a personal relationship with his family. Deeply saddened over the news of his demise. My deepest condolences to Chirag ji and all the family members. We are with you in this sad hour.” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said he was deeply hurt by the demise of Paswan.“Shri Paswan left an indelible mark in the country’s politics and raised the voice of the underprivileged. He played an active role in the eradication of poverty in the UPA government along with Mrs Sonia Gandhi and Dr Manmohan Singh. Emotional tribute,” he said on Twitter. Union minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan died on Thursday.Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago.He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was one of the country’s most noted Dalit leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poor-dalit-have-lost-a-strong-voice-congress-leaders-condole-death-of-ram-vilas-paswan/story-0J5dZ4dQnxaoVw5ozGky8H.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s food minister Paswan dies after weeks in hospital||Veteran politician Ram Vilas Paswan, a federal minister and an ally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ruling coalition, died on Thursday after weeks in hospital, his son Chirag Paswan said in a Tweet. He was 74.Paswan, India’s Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, was admitted to a city hospital on Sept. 11 and underwent heart surgery on Oct. 4.In his role as food minister, Paswan oversaw the world’s biggest food welfare programme. Under its multi-billion dollar food aid, the government gives ultra-cheap rice and wheat to India’s millions of poor people.“I am saddened beyond words,” Modi said in a Tweet reacting to news of his death. “There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled.”In his long political career, Paswan worked with many prime ministers and served as India’s mines, steel, and telecommunication and information minister among other portfolios. As the chief of the Lok Jan Shakti (People’s Power) Party (LJP), Paswan joined Modi’s right-wing National Democratic Alliance (NDA) that swept India’s general election in 2014. The NDA was voted back to power with a bigger majority in 2019.Paswan and his party represented India’s socially disadvantaged classes, which make up about three-quarters of the majority Hindu population that is about 80% of India’s 1.3 billion people.The LJP enjoys considerable support in Paswan’s home state of Bihar in the east.State elections in Bihar will start at the end of October and will be spread over three days, and Chirag Paswan, a lawmaker, is leading the LJP into the voting to the state legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-food-minister-paswan-dies-after-weeks-in-hospital/story-IjJdZTZsiCUnmLrEcenDEN.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Big signature in the Indian politics’: Nitish, Lalu and Sushil Modi fondly remember Paswan||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and RJD president Lalu Prasad on Thursday condoled the death of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan in Delhi. Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital in the national capital a few days ago. His son Chirag Paswan informed about his demise. A veteran dalit leader, Paswan was the Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. He was born on July 5, 1946 in Khagaria district of Bihar. The Bihar chief minister in his condolence message said “Paswan was a big signature in the Indian politics.” He highlighted Paswan’s start of political innings with a win in the Bihar legislative assembly election in 1969.Paswan hit the national headlines after a thumping victory from Hajipur Parliamentary constituency for the first time in 1977, he said. Fondly remembering his old ties with the veteran leader, Kumar said “I am personally pained by his death.” Jailed RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, who has known Paswan since the 1970s when the former was a student leader and the latter a young member of the Bihar assembly, offered his condolences on his twitter handle. “Shocked by the news of the death of Ram Vilas bhai (brother). Memories of an unbroken friendship that lasted for 45 years, during which we waged various social and political battles, are floating before my eyes. Ram Vilas bhai, you left us too soon. “I am unable to say much more. Om Shanti!”, tweeted Prasad who was also Paswans cabinet colleague in the UPA-1 government. Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, a senior BJP leader who was like Prasad a dynamic student leader in the 1970s, also recalled his decades old relationship with Ram Vilas Paswan. “He left an indelible imprint as a minister who held numerous portfolios in his career. The people of Bihar can never forget his contributions. “He was a Dalit leader who took all sections of the society along, a reason why he enjoyed the support of the OBCs and the upper castes as well”, Modi said in his condolence message. Former chief minister Rabri Devi and her son Tejashwi Yadav also condoled the death of Paswan and recalled his close ties with their family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-signature-in-the-indian-politics-nitish-lalu-and-sushil-modi-fondly-remember-paswan/story-uapMZVctAJ1aPKUTPwh6TK.html
08-10-2020||India||News of Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise ‘unbelievable’: Dharmendra Pradhan||The news of passing away of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Ram Vilas Paswan is unbelievable, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday.Speaking to ANI, Pradhan said, “Ram Vilas Ji was in the hospital for last few days due to his health condition and we all were worried. This news is unbelievable. He was a leader of the masses and a long-serving parliamentarian, his life was devoted to the cause of the poor and the vulnerable. My condolences are with the family. May Lord Jagannath grant peace to his departed soul.”Union Minister and founder of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Ram Vilas Paswan passed away on Thursday following an illness.He was 74. Chirag Paswan, MP, paid condolences to his father.Ram Vilas Paswan was Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution in the Narendra Modi government. He was also a minister in the previous NDA government.He had undergone heart surgery in a Delhi hospital.Paswan was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1977 on a Janata Party ticket from Hajipur in Bihar. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-of-ram-vilas-paswan-s-demise-unbelievable-dharmendra-pradhan/story-S6UgcgAaBy89g2vPkrx4JI.html
08-10-2020||India||President, PM Modi condole death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were among those who condoled the death of Union minister and veteran leader Ram Vilas Paswan, saying he had an enviable rapport with the masses and ardently strove for their welfare.In his condolence message, President Kovind said in the death of Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of Parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalised, Kovind said.Paswan died on Thursday, his son Chirag Paswan tweeted in the evening. Paswan (74), who was the Lok Janshakti Party’s patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago.In a series of tweets, Prime Minister Modi said working together, shoulder to shoulder with Paswan has been an incredible experience. His interventions during Cabinet meetings were insightful. From political wisdom, statesmanship to governance issues, he was brilliant, Modi recalled.In his condolence message, Vice President Naidu said Paswan was an exemplary leader who served the people and nation till his last breath. He was a distinguished parliamentarian and always strove for the empowerment of the marginalised, Naidu said.Rahul Gandhi said the news of the untimely demise of Paswan is saddening. The poor and the downtrodden have lost a strong political voice, he said on Twitter. Senior BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah said, “Ram Vilas Paswan ji always fought and worked for the downtrodden and the poor of the country. His demise has created a void in the politics.” In his condolence message, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said that following the footsteps of Jai Prakash Narayan, he strengthened socialist movement in the country. “From student politics to as an MP, he held various posts by upholding democratic values. His life was inspirational to us,” he recalled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-pm-modi-condole-death-of-union-minister-ram-vilas-paswan/story-OerUfZYkKnd7ae5sm1fGyM.html
08-10-2020||India||UP top court dismisses plea alleging Hathras family illegally held||The Allahabad High Court on Thursday dismissed a petition alleging that district authorities had illegally confined family of Hathras rape victim in their house. The family was represented in the petition by an organization working for Valmiki samaj.A two-judge bench, comprising justice Pritinker Diwaker and justice Prakash Padia, dismissed the petition as the matter is already before the Supreme Court, and said the petitioners can file appropriate application before the top court while raising their grievances, if any. The petition was filed on behalf of Om Prakash, who is father of the victim, along with mother, two brothers and two more family members. In the petition it was claimed by Surender Kumar, National General Secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Valmiki Mahapanchayat, that he was approached by the family members of the victim over telephone and did it on their behalf. Advocate Kashif Abbas Rizvi appearing for Petitioners argued, “Family members have been prevented from meeting or communicating freely, thereby violating their Right to freedom of speech and expression as well as the right to receive information.”“The body of the victim was not handed over to the family and the family of the victim wants to travel to Delhi but are being stopped from doing so by district administration without any lawful reason and by use of illegal force and measures,” argued Advocate Rizvi. Counsel for the state government argued that the matter is before the Supreme Court and the family had in writing denied that they authorised anyone to file this petition.“State government had provided adequate security to the family as per directions of the Supreme Court, including installation of CCTV near their house. Further, the family is free to move,” argued the government counsel.The bench without entering into the merit of the case, dismissed the petition while observing, “In the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, judicial propriety demands that it will not be proper for this court to entertain the present petition on merits, especially when security has been provided to petitioners 1 to 6 and other family members of the deceased victim-girl on the observation made by the Hon’ble Apex Court and also on the basis of the directions issued by the Lucknow Bench of this Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-top-court-dismisses-plea-alleging-hathras-family-illegally-held/story-mr1JX8BxUgkFpfuHtCBMTL.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Strove for welfare of the masses’: President Kovind remembers Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday expressed condolences on the demise of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. The news of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) patron’s death was announced by his son Chirag Paswan on Twitter.Taking to Twitter, the President of India said, “A firebrand socialist in youth, mentored by the likes of Jayaprakash Narayan during anti-Emergency movement, Paswan ji had enviable rapport with masses and he ardently strove for their welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters.”A firebrand socialist in youth, mentored by the likes of Jayaprakash Narayan during anti-Emergency movement, Paswan ji had enviable rapport with masses and he ardently strove for their welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters.The President also said that Paswan was among the most active and longest-serving members of Parliament. He further said, “In the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalised.”Ram Vilas Paswan was in the hospital for the past few weeks. He died at the age of 74.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firebrand-socialist-leader-in-his-youth-president-kovind-remembers-union-minister-ram-vilas-paswan/story-e58SYaXz2pgNtRZWF2DyLP.html
08-10-2020||India||Assam CM condoles death of Paswan, terms him stalwart of Indian politics||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Thursday condoled the death of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and termed him a stalwart of Indian politics who contributed immensely towards India’s development.Paswan, 74, passed away here at a hospital, where he was admitted for past few days.“Saddened to learn about the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan ji, a stalwart of Indian politics who contributed immensely towards the development of the nation. “My sincere condolences to his bereaved family members and well-wishers in this hour of grief,” Sonowal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-condoles-death-of-paswan-terms-him-stalwart-of-indian-politics/story-4JETTltnmFzMb8ortMH0VO.html
08-10-2020||India||Sexual offenders cannot access victim’s statement before probe is complete: SC||Attaching utmost confidentiality to statements given before a Magistrate by victims of sexual exploitation, the Supreme Court on Thursday held that such a statement cannot be shared with the accused till the investigation by the police in all aspects is over.The decision has come as a big relief to the victims of sexual crime as there was a grey area with regard to the stage at which the statement of the victim recorded before the Magistrate under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) could be shared with the accused. This is the most crucial evidence given by the victim in a sexual crimes and has evidentiary value unlike the statement recorded before the police under Section 161 of CrPC. If the victim goes against her Section 164 statement, the trial court can proceed with perjury against the victim for lying on oath, besides discarding the same.In 2014, the Supreme Court had held in State of Karnataka v Shivanna that soon after the victim’s Section 164 statement is recorded, the same must be handed over to the Investigation Officer with a specific direction that “contents of such statement under Section 164 are not disclosed to any person till charge sheet was filed.”The present case decided by the apex court arose out of a November 7, 2019 order passed by the Allahabad High Court. This case related to a sexual assault complaint filed by a young woman in Shahjahanpur against former Union Minister and BJP leader Swami Chinmayanand.The woman had recorded her Section 164 statement before a Judicial Magistrate on September 16, 2019. The next day, Chinmayanand sought a certified copy of her statement. His application was rejected by the Additional District and Sessions Judge, Shahjahanpur. Pursuant to this he was arrested and a charge sheet was filed by the police on November 5, 2019. He appealed to the Allahabad High Court and on November 7 obtained the Section 164 statement through an order passed in his favour by the HC. The HC referred to the 2014 SC ruling but held that the same applied to the police and not courts.Setting aside this order, the SC held, “The High Court has completely erred in appreciating the directions of this Court, especially in a matter where offences alleged against the accused are of sexual exploitation. In such matters, utmost confidentiality is required to be maintained.”Advocate Satya Mitra who assisted the Supreme Court in this matter said, “In trials involving sexual crimes, the victims can now be assured that whatever they tell the trial judge will be kept confidential. This decision has given hope to victims to seek justice against their perpetrators. Sadly, the victim in this case could not get benefit of this order.”The victim in this case had filed the appeal in the Supreme Court on November 13 but by then her statement was made available to the alleged perpetrator of the crime. Although her lawyers received no instruction to pursue with the case, the Court proceeded to lay down the law after hearing both sides.Going a step further in its 2014 decision, the bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran and SR Bhatt said, “No person is entitled to a copy of the statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC till appropriate orders are passed by the court after filing of charge sheet.” The Magistrate after receiving the charge sheet has the option to take cognizance of the charge sheet or has power under Sections 207, 208 of CrPC to order further investigation on certain aspects of the case.“The right to receive a copy of such statement will arise only after cognizance is taken and at the stage contemplated by Sections 207 and 208 of the Code and not before,” the bench held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sexual-offenders-cannot-access-victim-s-statement-before-probe-is-complete-sc/story-U7KBb0IDeXJA3LGa8bdSgJ.html
08-10-2020||India||India ‘among lead countries’ facilitating peace restoration in Afghanistan, says Abdullah Abdullah||Afghanistan leader and Chairman of High Council for National Reconciliation, Dr Abdullah Abdullah on Thursday said that India has been amongst the countries that helped Afghan in its journey towards peace and stability. “In our journey in the past two decades, many countries have helped us, contributed and made sacrifices alongside our own people. India has been amongst those lead countries in this regard,” Abdullah said in his address to the ‘‘Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses’ (IDSA) in the national capital today.The chief negotiator in the intra-Afghan peace process further said that there is a chance to “look at the light at the end of the tunnel” if everyone “works towards restoring peace, stability” of Afghanistan.“We know that now we have a chance to look at the future -- a future of peace. Afghanistan was peaceful. Despite the tensions, we enjoyed a higher degree of connectivity, trade, transit, people to people relation in all types of exchanges. We might have been on the trail for tourism but no one had to worry about terrorism at that time,” he added.Things soon changed, he said when his country was invaded by the Taliban 40 years ago: “We now have a chance to rebuild the new region, deeper ties and wider connectivity if we can work towards restoring peace, stability of Afghanistan.”Abdullah earlier today met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and re-affirmed the long-term commitment to further deepen India-Afghan ties.This is the first visit of Abdullah to India after the formation of a new government in Afghanistan.His visit comes at a time when the Afghanistan government and Taliban are trying to negotiate a deal in order to restore peace in the country.The peace talks between the Afghanistan government and the Taliban began on September 12 in Qatar’s capital Doha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-among-lead-countries-facilitating-peace-restoration-in-afghanistan-says-abdullah-abdullah/story-ykrNWTVCLVEiY4QNzWecTJ.html
08-10-2020||India||Address ‘core issues’ in Kulbhushan Jadhav case, India tells Pakistan||India on Thursday called on Pakistan to address “core issues” that will allow former naval officer Kulbhushan Jadhav to effectively challenge the death sentence given to him by a military court for alleged involvement in spying. Earlier this week, India missed a second deadline set by the Islamabad high court to appoint a lawyer to Jadhav for filing the appeal. Islamabad has said he can be represented only by Pakistani lawyers whereas New Delhi has insisted on appointing an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s Counsel. “We have said on a number of occasions that Pakistan has failed to respond on core issues pertaining to this case, and the core issues are provision of all documents related to the case and providing unimpeded, unconditional and unhindered consular access to Kulbhushan Jadhav,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “These core issues need to be addressed if we have to have an effective review and reconsideration as ordered by the International Court of Justice (ICJ). I think Pakistan must show its intention to deliver on these core issues,” he said. Pakistani legal experts believe the Islamabad high court will now name legal representatives to represent Jadhav for mounting the appeal against his death sentence. A three-judge bench of the Islamabad high court that took up Jadhav’s case on Tuesday said it was “important to proceed with abundant caution” in view of the importance of the case, “particularly when the right to life and right to free trial” of Jadhav are involved. After asking Pakistan’s attorney general to explain the scope of the obligation of “providing effective review and reconsideration” in line with the ICJ’s order staying Jadhav’s death sentence, the bench adjourned the case till November 9. Jadhav was arrested on March 3, 2016 in Balochistan on charges of espionage, and sentenced to death by a military court the following year. India has rubbished the charges levelled against Jadhav and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/address-core-issues-in-kulbhushan-jadhav-case-india-tells-pakistan/story-QOSKCG8YZQzBfzc6kKKmoO.html
08-10-2020||India||Nation has lost a visionary leader: President Kovind on Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday said the nation has lost a visionary leader in the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Paswan was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalised, Kovind said condoling his demise. “In the demise of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, the nation has lost a visionary leader. He was among the most active and longest-serving members of parliament. He was the voice of the oppressed, and championed the cause of the marginalized,” the president tweeted. Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Paswan died at the age of 74 on Thursday. “A firebrand socialist in youth, mentored by the likes of Jayaprakash Narayan during anti-Emergency movement, Paswan ji had enviable rapport with masses and he ardently strove for their welfare. Condolences to his family and supporters,” Kovind said in another tweet. Announcing Paswan’s death, his son Chirag Paswan tweeted in Hindi, “Papa...you are not in this world today but I know no matter where you are, you will always be with me. Miss you papa.” Ram Vilas Paswan, who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital here a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-has-lost-a-visionary-leader-president-kovind-on-ram-vilas-paswan-s-demise/story-iE5kxOAc4kcNdxC7ZHZwmL.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Saddened beyond words’: PM Modi on Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that the demise of Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Ram Vilas Paswan has left a void that will perhaps never be filled.“I am saddened beyond words. There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled. Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji’s demise is a personal loss. I have lost a friend, valued colleague and someone who was extremely passionate to ensure every poor person leads a life of dignity,” he said in his condolence message posted on Twitter.“Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji rose in politics through hardwork and determination. As a young leader, he resisted tyranny and the assault on our democracy during the Emergency. He was an outstanding Parliamentarian and Minister, making lasting contributions in several policy areas,” he said in subsequent tweet.Paswan passed away on Thursday, his son and current LJP chief Chirag announced on Thursday. The 74-year-old had undergone a heart surgery at a hospital in New Delhi a few days ago.“Papa...you are not in this world today but I know no matter where you are, you will always be with me. Miss you papa,” Chirag Paswan said in his tweet.He had been in active politics for more than five decades and was one of the country’s most noted Dalit leaders.Paswan held the portfolio of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-beyond-words-pm-modi-on-ram-vilas-paswan-s-demise/story-yVxoWt9YmZnbhTyyJnNkNI.html
08-10-2020||India||Kolkata’s top private hospitals running out of beds as Covid-19 cases rise||There are no beds left to treat Covid-19 patients in several of Kolkata’s top private hospitals amid a steady rise in virus cases in the city ahead of Durga Puja, the biggest festival in Bengal. There are at least 58 private medical facilities in Kolkata, including super-specialty hospitals, satellite centres of hospitals and nursing homes, which treat Covid-19 patients. At least 21 of them, which include some of the city’s top health care establishments, reported no vacancy on Wednesday. Another 15 facilities had less than 10 beds left till Wednesday. Patients from the neighbouring districts are also being rushed to the city hospitals adding to the crisis. “There is demand for a particular category of hospitals which can’t be guaranteed during a pandemic situation. We can only ensure that patients would get adequate treatment by the best experts. Government hospitals are providing very good treatment at free of cost,” said a senior official of the state government. Senior officials of the state government said that even though private hospitals are running out of beds, there is still a lot of vacancy in government run-hospitals. More than 60% of the beds are still vacant in government hospitals, according to official figures. Private hospitals have fewer beds and hence are running out fast. Less than 25% of the 2,791 beds in private hospitals are vacant now. “People living in cities like Kolkata and urban areas are mostly inclined towards private health care facilities. This is despite the fact that state-run hospitals offer the best treatment,” said an expert associated with the global advisory body that has been set up to advise the Mamata Banerjee administration. This comes at a time when Kolkata is witnessing a steady spike in Covid-19 numbers amid the festive season. While city had registered 428 new cases on August 30, on October 7, the number of new cases reported from Kolkata stood at 758. “Puja shopping has started. People are crowding the streets and markets. The positivity rate is increasing because of this. We have to be very cautious and strictly ensure that people wear masks,” said a senior official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had recently warned that the disease is spreading through air borne transmission and that community spread has started. While the festive season started from mid-September with Viswakarma Puja and Mahalaya, the Durga Puja, Bengal’s biggest festival that continues for over a week, is scheduled in the last week of October. The West Bengal Doctors Forum on Thursday sent an open letter to chief minister Mamata Banerjee warning that if the puja celebrations are held without any restrictions then there would be a massive surge in Covid-19 cases after Durga puja. The letter cited the example of Kerala which registered a 750% spike in Covid cases after Onam following which the state had to invoke Section 144 of the CrPc restricting public gatherings. “Several of our doctors are down with Covid and at least 50 of them have died. The health infrastructure care will collapse if there is a massive surge in Covid-19 cases after the puja,” the letter states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-s-top-private-hospitals-running-out-of-beds-as-covid-19-cases-rise/story-8ZDNiRDhLvVyJLdSj1ocFJ.html
08-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Andhra launches another welfare scheme for govt students and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In Jagan Reddy’s new move, students in classes 1-9 get free school kitsAndhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday launched another welfare scheme - Jagananna Vidya Kanuka – aimed at helping students of government schools at the Punadipadu village in Krishna district. Read more‘Covid-19 has made India realise need for a strong healthcare system’: Harsh VardhanUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has made India realise the need for a strong healthcare system. Read moreX-ray of alligator reveals foreign object in its stomach, most likely a coin. WatchDuring a check-up of a pair of Chinese alligators, veterinary staff at the Saint Louis Zoo in Missouri, US made a bizarre discovery. An X-ray of the female alligator revealed a foreign object, most likely a coin, inside her stomach. A video of the medical evaluation has since caught the attention of many. Read moreVampires vs the Bronx movie review: New horror comedy saves Netflix’s soul, breathes life into done-to-death genreIn the fine tradition of films such as Attack the Block and Cockneys vs Zombies, Vampires vs the Bronx is a low-key ode to both genre cinema and the power of minorities. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘I trusted Rohit Sharma blindly, did everything he told me and it worked’ - Mumbai Indians batsman Suryakumar YadavIt’s not easy to be Suryakumar Yadav. He has got everything the hard way right from his childhood. Want to play professional cricket? First show everyone you can score runs against the big boys in tennis-ball cricket. Read moreGoogle Maps starts showing Covid-19 containment zones in MumbaiLate last month Google announced that it has introduced a new layer in its Google Maps app that will show Covid-19 case trends in the area around you. At that time, it wasn’t revealed where and when this feature will roll out. Now, the search giant has rolled out this feature for those residing in Mumbai. This means users in Mumbai can now see COVID-19 containment zones across the city in their Google Maps app. Also mentioned is that demarcated zones will be displayed via a shaded grey area. Read more‘Where does he get such drugs?’: BJP leader’s jibe over Rahul’s ‘China’ remarkMadhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday ridiculed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his remark that the UPA government would have thrown out China in 15 minutes, and sought to know from where does he get such “intoxicating stuff”. Referring to the Ladakh standoff, Gandhi on Tuesday said had the UPA been in power, “we would have evicted and thrown out China and it would not have taken 15 minutes to do so”. “In ten days, loan will be waived off. China will be wiped out in 15 minutes. I bow to that teacher who has taught him. I am unable to understand from where he gets such high quality ‘nasha’ (intoxicating stuff),” Mishra said. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-andhra-launches-another-welfare-scheme-for-govt-students-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ii44hDNYBs60vfq13kd9HI.html
08-10-2020||India||In Andhra Pradesh, YSRC MLA, son test positive for Covid-19 a second time||Senior YSR Congress party lawmaker Bhumana Karunakar Reddy has been re-infected with Sars-Cov-2 for a second time in the last one-and-a-half months, officials said Thursday. Reddy, who represents Tirupati assembly constituency in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, tested positive for Covid-19 at an authorised private laboratory in the temple town on Wednesday evening, after he developed symptoms of fever and body pain. “The MLA was admitted to Sri Venkateshwara Ramnarayan Ruia Government General Hospital in Tirupati, where he got tested again. And on Thursday, it was confirmed that he contracted the virus,” Ruia Hospital development committee chairman B Chandrasekhar told Hindustan Times. Reddy, who was also former chairman of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), was shifted to Apollo Hospital for Chennai for better treatment. His son Abhinay Reddy, who also tested positive for Covid-19 for a second time, is undergoing treatment in Ruia Hospital.This is the first known case of a high-profile person contracting Covid-19 for a second time in the Telugu states.The MLA had first contracted the virus in August. “On August 25, he was admitted to Ruia Hospital with symptoms of Covid-19 and tested positive for the virus. He underwent treatment for one week and was discharged on September 3 after he tested negative,” Chandrasekhar said. After that, Reddy took part in various government programmes. “During the visit of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to Tirumala on September 24, too, he underwent test for Covid-19 again along with other leaders who attended the Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateshwara. He tested negative then,” the hospital committee chairman said. The MLA’s son, too, had first tested positive for Covid-19 in the first week of September but recovered within 10 days. “On Wednesday, both father and son developed symptoms of Covid-19 again and underwent tests in a private lab. Later, they got tested at Ruia Hospital,” Chandrasekhar said. When contacted, Dr K Rambabu, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said there was every possibility of a person contracting Sars-Cov-2 for a second time. “One cannot rule out the possibility of people getting re-infection of Coronavirus after certain period. A person would develop antibodies for the virus and they would be there in the body for a certain period. But if the virus attains a mutant form, the person might get the re-infection if he doesn’t take enough precautions,” Rambabu said. In case of the Tirupati MLA, he said, one has to make a thorough study of viral form before drawing any conclusions. “We were told all the vital parameters of the MLA, as observed in CT scan and other tests, are normal and he has normal fever and related symptoms,” Rambabu said. Meanwhile, YSRC parliament member from Eluru constituency Kotagiri Sridhar also tested positive for Covid-19. The MP went into home quarantine in Hyderabad and appealed to all those who had come in contact with him in the last few days to undergo test for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-andhra-pradesh-ysrc-mla-son-test-positive-for-covid-19-a-second-time/story-CUzDk90m3YXHUVcSAWcb8L.html
08-10-2020||India||In Jagan Reddy’s new move, students in classes 1-9 get free school kits||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday launched another welfare scheme - Jagananna Vidya Kanuka – aimed at helping students of government schools at the Punadipadu village in Krishna district.Under this scheme, each student will be given a kit that comprises three pairs of uniform, one pair of shoes, two pairs of socks, prescribed text books, notebooks, belt and a school bag – all free of cost.In all, 42,34,322 kits, each costing around Rs 1600, would be distributed across the state at an estimated cost of Rs 650 crore. Students from Class 1 to 10 would be provided with these kits.At the launch, the chief minister said unlike in the past, the new scheme sought to provide all essential requirements to the students without causing any burden on their parents. “It heralds a new chapter in the education sector in the state and will strengthen the enrolment rate in government schools,” he said.The recent literacy statistics released by the National Statistical Organisation (NSO) has put the state’s literacy rate at an embarrassing 66.4 percent, the lowest in the country.The chief minister said through the ‘Naadu - Nedu’ programme, the government created or improved facilities in all its schools. The buildings were painted to look new and bright.He said the government was already paying Ra 15,000 per annum as a cash incentive under “Amma Vodi” scheme to every mother for sending kids to schools.The kits will bring relief to the parents and will help them save money, motivating them further to send their children to school and continue their education, Jagan Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-jagan-reddy-s-new-move-students-in-classes-1-9-get-free-school-kits/story-I07y9Ie1idqZ3Td6F12FVO.html
08-10-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Kerala dip day after hitting highest single-day record||A day after reporting highest number of Covid-19 cases, there was some relief for Kerala on Thursday after caseload dipped to 5,445 and test positivity rate also came down to 8.62 from 13, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The state also recorded its highest single-day recovery of 7,003 on Thursday. But still it remained at the third spot in actives cases (90,579) after Maharashtra and Karnataka. Once lauded for its pandemic control measures, a mounting caseload has set off alarm bells in the state and experts warned if the situation continued like this it will be the next virus hotspot of the country. On Wednesday, Kerala recorded its highest single-day surge of 10.606 cases of Covid-19.Despite a brief lull, experts said the state was in the midst of a community transmission and cases may go up sharply once it increased tests. They asked the government to increase tests on a priority basis and give more emphasis on RT-PCR tests. They pointed out that more than 60% per cent of the total 34 lakh tests were antigen tests. Test positivity rate (TPR) has come down after two weeks. TPR is the number of people infected when 100 people are tested. The World Health Organisation wants TPR should be below 5 per cent.“We have been asking the government to increase tests. It is time for it to do at least one lakh tests daily. The state is in a crucial stage and it is time for it to be on a fast mode streamlining its strategies,” said Dr S S Lal, a public health expert who earlier served with the World Health Organisation.Many health experts like him want the government to rope in more experts to redraw strategies. Another solace is the state’s mortality rate is still lowest in the country, 0.4 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent, statistics show. “The situation is serious as caseload is spiralling at a rapid pace. Our priority should be to ensure quality and timely medical attention to the critically ill. It is time for the state to be on its toes,” said Dr A S Anoop, critical care medicine expert who played a key role in containing nipah virus two years ago. Epidemiologists said the latest Covid-19 strain, suspected to have come from Maharashtra, is highly infectious.In view of rise in cases the government has decided not to announce more steps to open up and has shelved plans to open bars and cinema halls. Health experts have warned that easing of norms at this juncture will be counter-productive. Bar owners have been petitioning the government for some time saying most of their employees are on the verge of starvation. Similarly number of people in religious places was limited to 20. With 5,445 new cases on Thursday, Kerala’s Covid-19 tally has gone up to 2,58,830. A total of 1,67,256 people have recovered while there are 90,579 active cases. With 24 casualties the death toll has gone up to 931. Five ministers tested positive in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-kerala-dip-day-after-hitting-highest-single-day-record/story-MBrbFe4JZ9tSXxcIgKe03M.html
08-10-2020||India||‘PM Modi only cares about his image, not soldiers’: Rahul Gandhi in latest attack on purchase of VVIP planes||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not spending effectively on requirements of Indian soldiers and instead using funds on planes. Gandhi was referring to the delivery of two VVIP aircraft - custom made B777 aircraft which will be used to fly the President, Vice President and the Prime Minister on October 1.“PM bought a plane worth 8400 crores for himself. In this, so much could have been purchased for our soldiers posted at the Siachen-Ladakh border,” Gandhi said in a tweet.PM ने अपने लिए 8400 करोड़ का हवाई जहाज़ ख़रीदा।इतने में सियाचिन-लद्दाख़ सीमा पे तैनात हमारे जवानों के लिए कितना कुछ ख़रीदा जा सकता था:गरम कपड़े: 30,00,000जैकेट, दस्ताने: 60,00,000जूते: 67,20,000ऑक्सिजन सिलेंडर: 16,80,000PM को सिर्फ़ अपनी इमेज की चिंता है सैनिकों की नहीं। pic.twitter.com/uQf038BiJjAlso read: PM’s new special aircraft, equipped with missile defence systems, lands in DelhiHe further said that the same money could have been used to provide warm clothes, jacket, gloves and oxygen cylinders to soldiers. “PM is only concerned about his image and not soldiers,” the former Congress president said.The total cost of purchase and retrofitting the two planes has reportedly been estimated to be around Rs 8,400 crore. The B777 planes will have state-of-the-art missile defence systems called Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS), according to people in the know.The arrival of the first aircraft triggered a verbal duel between the government and the Congress leader, who accused PM Modi for “wasting” thousands of crores of rupees on the plane just because “his friend Donald Trump” has one. Gandhi was referring to the Air Force One used by the US President Donald Trump.Also read | Boeing 777 aircraft, part of Air India One fleet for PM Modi: All you need to knowThe government maintained that the procurement of the aircraft had begun under the UP government and the BJP-led government at Centre has only brought it to a logical conclusion, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-only-cares-about-his-image-not-soldiers-rahul-gandhi-in-latest-attack-on-purchase-of-vvip-planes/story-wndrvyY27hqEk5HQgRkrVL.html
08-10-2020||India||Fuel stocks start depleting in J-K, Ladakh as farmers’ stir in Punjab chokes supply||Ahead of the winter, the farmers’ stir in neighbouring Punjab over controversial farm laws bills has set alarm bells ringing in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as fuel stocks start depleting at various filling stations in the two union territories bordering Pakistan and China, dealers said Thursday. President of the Jammu Kashmir Petroleum Dealers’ Association, Anan Sharma said , “not even a single wagon has arrived at Jammu since October 1 from Punjab due to farmers’ stir. Farmers have blocked rail tracks there and until the blockade is lifted, normal supplies cannot be restored in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh”. He said that the Jammu depot at Jammu railway station has stopped supplying fuel to filling stations in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. “Consequently, 250 oil tankers were dispatched to Jalandhar and Bhatinda on Thursday for bringing fuel. Forty-five tankers, which had left a day before, returned with stocks today but they are also not bringing back full load because distributors in Punjab have to cater to all,” he said. Sharma said that fuel stations were running short of supplies and the situation can turn critical, if the rail blockade is not lifted and if J&K government doesn’t take up the matter with the Punjab government. “Fuel stocks from Jammu go up to Leh and we all know that in November roads are blocked due to snow. Secondly, the apple season is at its peak. Around 3,000 trucks are coming daily to Kashmir from Delhi to take apple consignments. The government has to resolve the issue to restore normal supplies,” he asserted. “Four hundred oil tankers used to lift supplies from the Jammu depot daily, which is not the case as of today. Though 100 oil tankers from Manali also reach Leh with supplies, equal number of oil tankers used to ferry supplies from Jammu to Leh on daily basis,” he said. Out of 400 tankers from Jammu depot, 150 tankers used to cater Jammu region, 100 served Ladakh and 150 were for Kashmir. However, Rajiv Yadav, state level coordinator of the oil companies -- HP, BP and Indian Oil in J&K said, “We have mobilized tank lorries from Punjab for the past three days and bringing supplies from Bhatinda, Sangrur and Jalandhar. Some oil tankers reached Jammu today and some are on their way. There is no product crisis in J&K.” He also claimed that the J & K government has reached out to the Punjab government to resolve the issue. “Till wagons (freight trains) resume normal supplies, we are relying upon tank lorries. As far as Ladakh region is concerned, we do winter stocking in advance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-stocks-start-depleting-in-j-k-ladakh-as-farmers-stir-in-punjab-chokes-supply/story-4nZyXYlW14MGIysvCOLbcP.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Covid-19 has made India realise need for a strong healthcare system’: Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has made India realise the need for a strong healthcare system.“In 2019, UNGA adopted a declaration on Universal Health Coverage which India aims to make a reality for citizens. Then Covid made us realise the need for a strong healthcare system,” Vardhan said at Ministerial Meeting on Universal Health Coverage.He added that India needs to integrate public health surveillance and data sharing in the primary and secondary health care, spurred by design reforms to expand and build IT enabled disease monitoring systems.“ We also need to strengthen epidemiological intelligence gathering,” he said.Vardhan warned people of Covid-19 ahead of festival season and urged people not to forget to wear mask above the nose.Speaking to reporters, Vardhan said, “As the festival season is around the corner, hence we should be more vigil towards taking precautions against Covid-19. Never forget to wear your masks above your nose, frequently sanitise and wash your hands and maintain social distancing.”With a spike of 78,524 new cases and 971 deaths reported on Thursday, India’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 68-lakh mark, as per the Union health ministry.The Covid-19 count in the country stands at 68,35,656 including 9,02,425 active cases and 58,27,705 cured and discharged or migrated cases.As per the MoHFW, with 971 deaths the toll due to the disease has now reached 1,05,526 in the country.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-has-made-india-realise-need-for-a-strong-healthcare-system-harsh-vardhan/story-INAEqIDQIgvVDBCUGmRCjO.html
08-10-2020||India||How changes in taxation policy are affecting Indians living abroad from October 1||The Union Budget this year introduced the provision for tax collected at source (TCS) under which the Indian government imposed a tax to be collected at source from individuals on remittances made through the Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).Under the revised rules, five per cent tax will be imposed on all remittances above Rs 7 lakh under the scheme. The rate of tax will increase to 10 per cent in absence of PAN or Aadhaar details.As per the initial order, the changes were supposed to come into effect from April 2020, but were delayed in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The latest changes do not directly affect Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) or Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs) living outside the country. But people studying abroad, going on packaged tours or making an investment outside the country will have to shell out a little more money.The changes came into effect from October 1 and here is how they have affected NRIs and PIOs:After the revision in taxation policy, TCS is being deducted on remittances of Rs 7 lakh ($9,529) or more. It will be collected at source by the remitting banks. Amount below Rs 7 lakh will not be subjected to TCS.Payments for foreign tour packages are also subjected to five per cent TCS. However, if a person is booking tickets, hotels on their own, they are not liable to the tax. Under the LRS, Indian residents can remit up to $250,000 every year for medical treatment abroad, education, investment in stocks, real estate, or bonds. The same will be applied for remittance for relative maintenance outside the country.The TCS will not apply to buyers of the foreign exchange who are already subject to Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) under the Income-Tax Act, 1961. The collected tax paid under TCS can be claimed back, fully or partially, while filing for an income tax return, just like TDS. The person’s total income should be below the tax threshold limit for the year.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-changes-in-taxation-policy-are-affecting-indians-living-abroad-from-october-1/story-8RFGLs6BpzYSRMIvwk94zO.html
08-10-2020||India||Haryana’s AQI plunges as farm fires increase, Covid-19 patients may face higher risks||An increasing number of farm fires in Haryana is now affecting the air quality in many parts of the state with the Air Quality Index (AQI) in many cities of the state turning poor.According to the central pollution control board, the AQI in several cities of Haryana including Faridabad (212), Charkhi Dadri (275) Dharuhera (229) Jind (202), Kurukshetra (203) Panipat (213) and Yamunanagar (275) was categorized as poor on Thursday afternoon.Even, Charkhi Dadri has very poor air quality as the AQI was measured at 351. Last month, the AQI in almost all the cities of the state was in ‘satisfactory’ and ‘moderate’ categories and it started worsening soon after the harvesting started after September 20. Officials in the health department said the poor air quality could increase the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and there is a need to put a check on the stubble burning before the AQI deteriorates further.“The stubble burning is increasing pollutants and it may affect the respiratory conditions of the Covid19 infected persons. Moreover the poisonous gasses emitted from the stubble burning are very dangerous for human health, thus the stubble burning may cause severe problems for Covid-19 patients”, said Dr Shailnder Mamgai, superintendent of LNJP government hospital Kurukshetra.The number of active fire locations (AFL) in the state had increased to 621 by October 7 after the state reported around 95 incidents of fires in 24 hours.Officials in the state pollution control board say the government needs to focus on the districts of Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Ambala and Fatehabad as 464 or 75 per cent of total AFLs were reported.Since, the incidents of AFLs were two and half time more than the last year, Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan has directed the Deputy Commissioners to achieve the goal of zero burning of stubble in the state and also directed them to ensure the availability of crop residue management machinery to small and marginal farmers on a priority basis.The state government has also announced that it will provide cash awards to the Panchayats falling under red zone, for making efforts to curb stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-s-aqi-plunges-as-farm-fires-increase-covid-19-patients-may-face-higher-risks/story-ULqT4R0m6AjV3ru7IMsFuL.html
08-10-2020||India||Prez Kovind urges citizens to stand united to defeat Covid-19 through collective determination, discipline||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday urged citizens to stand united to defeat coronavirus through collective determination and discipline. He also asked them to wear masks, wash hands and practice social distancing.“The nation stands united to defeat Covid-19 through collective determination and discipline. I urge fellow citizens to #Unite2FightCorona! Let us all - Wear a mask, Wash hands, Practice social distancing. Together we will fight, we will win!,” Kovind tweeted. The Union government on Thursday launched a public awareness drive as part of its fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-kovind-urges-citizens-to-stand-united-to-defeat-covid-19-through-collective-determination-discipline/story-UtTzkSHE05zuOvK13WhlcJ.html
08-10-2020||India||‘The India story is strong today, will grow even stronger tomorrow’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India is one of the most attractive centres of investments as there are opportunities for everyone to set up units and run investments in the country while virtually addressing the Invest India Conference in Canada.Speaking to Canadian investors, he highlighted that both nations India and Canada have contributed to each other’s growth. He said, “Canada is home to some of the largest & most experienced infrastructure investors. Canadian Pension Funds were among the first investors to start investing in India. Many of them have already discovered great opportunities in a range of areas like highways, airports, logistics.”He said investors have an opportunity to grow in India and work with governmental as well as private bodies. PM Modi said, “In the post-Covid world, you will hear that there are multiple problems, problems of manufacturing, supply chains etc. but problems are natural. But, India has emerged above these problems and by showing resilience we have made it a land of solutions.”PM Modi highlighted that despite ‘disrupted logistics’ India has been able to deposit money directly to farmers, poor and needy people and women. He also said that foodgrains and cooking gas was supplied to those who needed it the most during the pandemic. Speaking to investors, Modi said during the pandemic India has played the role of ‘pharmacy of the world.’ He said, “Before the pandemic, India hardly manufactured PPE kits. Now, India is one the largest manufacturers of PPE kits.” He reiterated that India is ready to help the world with Covid-19 vaccine production and storage.Highlighting the liberalisation of the foreign direct investment PM Modi said that India has created a ‘friendly regime for sovereign wealth and pension funds.” He said, “We have undertaken several reforms to develop robust bond market.”PM Modi assured investors present in the virtual conference that incentive schemes have been brought up for several sectors like pharmaceuticals and medical devices and electronical manufacturing. “We want to ensure high-level intention and effective handholding for investors,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-answer-to-all-your-questions-is-india-there-is-opportunity-for-everyone-pm-modi-tells-canadian-investors-at-invest-india-conference/story-k0GbXHjPMnvOVF2H5KoBBL.html
08-10-2020||India||Two virtual expos breathe life into Bhadohi’s carpet industry with Rs 250-cr orders||Bhadohi’s handmade carpet exporters, whose business had plunged amid the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, received a much-needed shot in the arm after foreign buyers placed orders worth Rs 250 crore recently, Carpet Export Promotion Council (CEPC) chairman Siddhnath Singh said Thursday.The orders came on the heels of two virtual exhibitions organized by the CEPC.“The pandemic badly hit carpet export due to which there was an extremely disappointing scenario in the carpet industry. There were no orders from foreign buyers from February till mid-August this year. Carpet manufacturers, exporters, workers and weavers all were upset due to it,” Singh said. “In July, the carpet manufacturers suggested an international virtual exhibition to draw foreign buyers to get the industry going. Thereafter, the first ever international virtual carpet expo was held from August 21 to August 26,” he said.“Nearly 365 overseas buyers from 61 countries and 191 buyers’ representatives from across the world visited the virtual carpet expo and evinced interest in handmade carpets and floor coverings. In fact, the virtual expo infused fresh life into the carpet industry,” Singh further says.Overwhelmed by the response, the CEPC organised a second international virtual carpet expo-cum-international buyers/sellers meet from September 29 to October 1 with special focus on Oceania markets. The second exhibition also received an overwhelming response. “The two exhibitions together brought orders worth about Rs 250 crores from the foreign buyers,” Singh said.Oceania is a geographic term referred to the region comprising Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea and several other island nations in the surrounding area. The idea behind the virtual meet of buyers and sellers was to bridge the gap between Indian handmade carpet products and their demand across the globe in the post pandemic period.India exports carpets worth about Rs 12,000 crore annually. Bhadohi and its neighbouring districts, including Mirzapur, Varanasi and certain pockets of Chandauli, together make up a carpet hub that accounts for Rs 7,000 crore of the exports, according to CEPC data.Singh said the virtual exhibitions have emerged as a potential platform for carpet export promotion. Echoing a similar view, senior CEPC member and carpet manufacturer Umesh Gupta said, “There has been around 10 per cent increase in the business ever since the first exhibition took place in August.” “Covid-19 has changed the world forever. Carpet industry and business sector are no exception. International buyers cannot come and exporters cannot visit foreign lands to showcase our products. Under such circumstances, the virtual platform has been proved to be a boon for us. We exhibited both handmade and factory manufactured carpets in the virtual expos,” said Gupta who has received more than 10 orders from the international buyers. Alpa Mewawala, a Bhadohi-based carpet exporter, also endorsed the virtual expo.“The virtual expo was a pretty good experience. Several international buyers watched and inquired about the carpets. Of them, five placed orders including two each from Sweden and Germany and one from the USA. Besides, potential international buyers inquire about our products almost daily.”Buoyed by the overwhelming response, the CEPC has decided to organise four more international virtual carpet exhibitions in the next two months.Of them, two exhibitions, including one each for Canada and Latin American countries, will be held in November and one each for Persian Gulf countries and Europe will be held in December. The carpet hub of Bhadohi generates direct and indirect employment to about 10 lakh people, including over three lakh weavers. Among the carpet weavers, over 50 per cent are women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-virtual-expos-breathe-life-into-bhadohi-s-carpet-industry-with-rs-250-cr-orders/story-CgNjDraSAMugA6E8RoPjxI.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Will sue police chief’: Arnab Goswami on Mumbai police’s probe naming Republic TV in TRP fraud||Television anchor Arnab Goswami on Thursday said he will take legal action against Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh who named his Republic TV among three channels for rigging Television Rating Points (TRP). The Mumbai top cop claimed to have busted a racket that involved private television channels manipulating their TRPs. Republic TV and two other local Mumbai channels have been found guilty of manipulating the crucial data, the police commissioner said.Threatening criminal defamation, Goswami issued a statement saying, “Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has made false allegations against Republic TV because we have questioned him in the Sushant Singh Rajput case investigation. Republic TV will file a criminal defamation case against Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. “ Republic Media Network's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami's statement pic.twitter.com/axhbJZ47eAAlso read: Mumbai police probes Republic TV for TRP fraud, Arnab Goswami hits backThe statement further stated that the probe by Mumbai police is a ‘desperate measure’ because the police commissioner-led investigation in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death ‘remains under a cloud’.“There is not a single BARC report that mentions Republic TV. The people of India know the truth. Mr Param Bir Singh’s investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case is under a cloud and this is a desperate measure because of Republic TV’s reportage on Palghar, the Sushant Singh Rajput case or any other case. This kind of targeting only strengthens the resolve of everyone at Republic TV to push for the truth even harder.” “Param Bir Singh stands completely exposed today since BARC has not mentioned Republic In any single complaint. He should issue an official apology and get ready to face us in court,” the statement read. According to the Mumbai police, its probe found that a 30,000 audience measurement metres were purchased by a private firm, out of which 2,000 were installed in Mumbai.At a press conference, Mumbai police chief said their probe found that a set of households where these metres were installed were paid money to tune to a particular channel. In one case, Mumbai’s top police officer said, investigators found that a household comprising people who were not literate always had an English news channel switched on.These particular households were paid about Rs 400-500 every month for viewing an English news channel.The Mumbai police commissioner has said that Republic TV is next on their radar and officials of the news channels will be summoned soon.“No one involved will be spared,” the senior police officer said. Singh said that they earlier believed that some news channels carried out propaganda stories to boost their TRP and “now it appears they manipulate audience data too”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-sue-police-chief-arnab-goswami-on-mumbai-police-s-probe-naming-republic-tv-in-trp-fraud/story-eQ8IwIc75DiFAXQLgFi3wI.html
08-10-2020||India||Wildlife-friendly roads pay off, 18 species using special underpasses in Pench||Scientists from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) Dehradun who conducted a two-year study have found that 18 wildlife species are using special underpasses on National Highway-44 which passes through the Pench Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra. WII scientists said this is India’s first and largest road stretch where such mitigation measures have been used on such a scale and studied. The scientists came to the conclusion after observing the movement of wild species for the past two years, through the nine underpasses built on the National Highway-44. As part of a study on, “Ecological Impact Assessment of Existing and Proposed Road Infrastructure on Important Wildlife Corridors in India for Strategic Planning of Smart Green Infrastructure,” three sites were studied in India. These included the Central Indian tiger landscape including major roads cutting across the animal corridors in the landscape, the National Highway 37 (now 715) cutting through the Kaziranga-Karbi Anglong landscape in Assam, and the State Highway 33 passing through the Nagarhole Tiger Reserve, Karnataka. “As part of the project, we also monitored the animal underpasses constructed on the National Highway 44 passing through the Pench Tiger Reserve, Maharashtra. We used camera traps to capture the movement of animals under the nine crossing structures during March-December 2019. We found 18 species of wild animals that were using the crossing structures, with varying frequencies. Seven species of small mammals were also found to use the structures,” said the report published by the institute on this project. The wildlife species included Indian hare and jungle cat, which are the most frequent users of the underpasses, and the rare rusty spotted cat. “Among wild ungulates, the five major species that were captured on camera included spotted deer, gaur, nilgai, sambar and wild pigs,” the report said.“Tigers, leopards, wild dogs, sloth bears and jackals, the major carnivore species in the landscape, were found using the structures with varying frequencies. Wild dogs were found to use the structures the most, followed by tigers. A total of 89 tiger crossings were recorded from six of the nine structures, by 11 individual tigers,” it said.Bilal Habib, senior scientist at WII and principal investigator in this study said that in the past nine months of monitoring, more than 5,000 animals were seen to be crossing the road through these underpasses. “We have more than 5,000 animal crossings including that of 11 individual tigers which are using this area. These roads actually fragment the wildlife habitat and the landscape. It was being upgraded which would have led to more traffic affecting animal movement from one place to another or cross properly, which is why these mitigation measures of underpasses were important. So far, these are the first such mitigation measures at such a scale that have been put in place for wildlife in the country,” said Habib. Elaborating more on the need for making wildlife-friendly roads in the central Indian landscape, Akanksha Saxena, a researcher on the project said that the Pench Tiger Reserve acts as a source population of tigers for the landscape making it an important area for conservation. “The Central Indian landscape is one of the tiger conservation landscapes with the highest potential of long-term tiger conservation in the country. The landscape has some prime tiger habitats and the most genetically diverse tiger population in India. The landscape is also one of the most fragmented due to human activities. It is therefore very important to maintain the connectivity in this landscape through wildlife-friendly roads,” said Saxena. The scientists have suggested improving mitigation measures and reducing pressure of human activities on the crossing structures. These include, levelling/ terracing/merging with surrounds, planting of shrubs or grass, regular patrolling, painting of pillars walls with camouflage paints, weekly cleaning of underpasses, creation of trails to enhance use by wildlife among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wildlife-friendly-roads-pay-off-18-species-using-special-underpasses-in-pench/story-shrXxuxfnuyssdn7npZ78I.html
08-10-2020||India||2 TV channel owners arrested for ratings fraud, Republic TV on radar: Cops||The Mumbai police have arrested two television channel owners while the directors and promoters of the third channel - Republic TV - will be investigated for allegedly manipulating television rating points or TRPs. “The arrested accused are owners of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema channels while Republic TV’s directors and promoters are yet to be questioned. We will be calling some of the employees of the Republic TV channels for inquiry,” said Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.The police swung into action after rating agency Hansa Services Private Limited, a contractor of BARC, which functions under Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB) and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) filed a complaint.The complainant firm claimed that it powers Rs 32,000 crore Indian television advertisement industry by providing sharp insights about television channels. It has installed approximately 30,000 barometers in various parts of India which monitor various programmes and channels. Based on the statistical metrics, BARC awards ratings to various television channels and advertisers pay the channels at the rates fixed on the basis of the ratings.Manipulated TRP ratings adversely result in miscalculated targeted audience for the advertisers, said the firm, adding, that this further results into losses of hundreds of crores of rupees because of the manipulated statistics of TRP.Hansa Research Group found manipulations in the TRP and approached the Mumbai police. Following their complaint, the Mumbai police arrested an ex-employee of Hansa and recovered cash of Rs 20 lakh from his residence. Police also arrested his associate and recovered Rs 8 lakh in cash from his residence.During inquiry they revealed that they were paid by certain channels to distribute money to the households, where barometers were installed, to keep the English channel on throughout the day.The police then inquired with some of the households and learnt that they were paid Rs 400 to Rs 500 for per month to keep the channel on. At some places police found people not familiar with English staring at the television sets with the English channel on, said Singh.“During the inquiry, we also found that one of the arrested accused persons and some of the wanted accused were employees of Hansa and they have misused the confidential information with them. It has apparently been done for wrongful gain to certain television channels which resulted in wrongful loss to advertisers and advertising agencies,” Singh added.Preliminary investigations also revealed that these accused persons have manipulated the sampling metering services by inducing the barometer users by paying them periodically to watch particular television channels. Many of the people in whose homes these barometers have been installed, have accepted that they have been monetarily beneficial for keeping their TV sets on even if they actually didn’t watch.The case has been registered in the Kandivali police station for breach of trust and cheating against the accused. They were arrested and produced in the court and sent to police custody till October 9. Republic Media Network's Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami's statement pic.twitter.com/axhbJZ47eARepublic TV has, however, issued a statement saying, “Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh has made false allegations against Republic TV because we questioned him in the Sushant Singh Rajput case investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-cops-arrest-2-tv-channel-owners-will-probe-republic-tv-now/story-CjYGaoghgCFUAB2OXIiUcP.html
08-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Teesta Setalvad takes Hathras gang-rape case to Supreme Court, accuses UP cops of complicity||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Hathras gangrape: Teesta Setalvad moves Supreme Court, accuses UP cops of complicitySocial activist Teesta Setalvad has accused the Uttar Pradesh Police of “complicity” in shielding the men accused of gangraping and fatally assaulting a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, following recent attempts by the police top brass to underplay the offence. Read moreNIA busts 14-member IS module in BengaluruThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) has busted a module of the so-called Islamic State (IS) and arrested its two alleged operatives, Ahamed Abdul Cader, 40, and Irfan Nasir, 33, from Bengaluru on Wednesday, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreAmerican poet Louise Glück wins Nobel Prize in Literature 2020American poet Louise Glück won 2020 Nobel Literature Prize on Thursday. “Her unmistakable poetic voice that with austere beauty makes individual existence universal,” the academy said while announcing the award. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Can’t stop theft till thieves repent, I can’t be police forever,’ R Ashwin talks about not Mankading Aaron FinchWhether he gives a warning before going for a ‘Mankad’ or not, Ravichandran Ashwin is certain to be in the news with whatever he does at the bowling crease when a batsman backs up too far. Read moreMy family has been destroyed’: Rhea Chakraborty’s mother says she’s considered suicide, is paranoid about what will happen nextActor Rhea Chakraborty’s mother, Sandhya, admitting that she contemplated suicide, has said that she hasn’t been able to eat properly or sleep on the bed ever since her children were arrested and put behind bars. Read moreLong working hours and night shifts amid Covid-19 got you losing sleep? Here are some expert tips to help you outWorking from home during the coronavirus has proven to be a lot more stressful than most of us imagined, and with more flexibility in working hours, more and more people are working during the nights too. Read moreEQC, the first all-electric Mercedes SUV, launched in India at ₹99.30 lakhMercedes EQC has officially been launched in India at ₹99.30 lakh (ex showroom, India, for first 50 units only), available in six cities in phase 1 - Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai and Hyderabad. Read moreBritish lecturer invites Twitter’s wrath after calling idlis ‘boring’. Here’s what happenedAn innocent tweet by Zomato and a seemingly regular response to it caused something of a storm on Twitter. Read moreWatch: The fly that set Twitter abuzz during VP debate between Pence & HarrisAfter a 90 minute long US vice presidential debate between Mike Pence and Kamala Harris, a fly seems to have emerged as the star, at least on social media. During a heated debate on the issue of racism, a fly landed on the vice president’s head and stayed put for several minutes. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-teesta-setalvad-takes-hathras-gang-rape-case-to-supreme-court-accuses-up-cops-of-complicity/story-6kpDxpI8uoipjQL1yVf5OL.html
08-10-2020||India||2 Haryana villages resolve to boycott Covid-19 tests, list reasons||Two village panchayats in Haryana’s Fatehabad district have passed resolutions not to allow tests to detect coronavirus to be conducted on the residents in these villages.The panchayats of Tamaspura and Alipur Bharota villages unanimously passed a resolution on October 6 that their residents will not undergo a Covid-19 test. The resolutions signed by sarpanches Balam Singh of Tamaspura and Maina Devi of Alipur Bharota villages stated that government health teams would not be allowed to collect samples for Covid-19 testing from their villages.Sarpanch Balam Singh of Tamaspura village said the resolution was passed after villagers asked the panchayat to ban the entry of health officials and refused to give samples for Covid-19 test.“The decision was taken as all the residents in the village are healthy and they are scared that any asymptomatic health official, who has not been tested for coronavirus, can spread the disease in the village. Now, we are creating awareness among the villagers to appear for the test,” he added.He further said that the villagers were also apprehensive that if anyone found infected in the village was taken away by a health official then it would cause an atmosphere of terror in the village.Last month, Nakta village in the district had stopped the health officials and destroyed their Covid-19 testing kits when they visited the village to collect samples. The police had registered a case against the villagers for obstructing health workers on duty and for burning the rapid antigen test kits.Also Read: Haryana mulling to reopen schools for classes 6 to 9 studentsThe other village head Maina Devi of Alipur Bharota mentioned the same reasons in the resolution passed by the panchayat. However, she could not be reached for a comment.A health official pleading anonymity, said the stance taken by the villagers was problematic as no one will likely come forward to take responsibility for any resident showing symptoms of the virus.“Such resolutions were passed because of rumours and lack of awareness. It will take time to convince people that testing is more important to stop the chain of infections. Many people had shared rumours that the quarantine and treatment protocols are not good and there are no medicines to treat an infected person,” he added.Also Read: Home ministry modifies Covid-19 guidelines for 12 poll-bound states, allows political rallies with immediate effectFatehabad deputy commissioner Narhari Singh Banger said he has ordered the district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) to issue show cause notices to both the village heads for passing such resolutions.“The government is conducting Covid-19 tests to detect the spread of infection and to save people’s lives. I am surprised how a village head can pass such resolutions by ignoring the health concerns. We will take action against both the village heads,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-haryana-villages-resolve-to-boycott-covid-19-tests-list-reasons/story-gfd5EPbettBNToTqPd1lXO.html
08-10-2020||India||Hathras gangrape: Teesta Setalvad moves SC, accuses UP cops of complicity||Social activist Teesta Setalvad has accused the Uttar Pradesh Police of “complicity” in shielding the men accused of gangraping and fatally assaulting a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, following recent attempts by the police top brass to underplay the offence. In an application, Setalvad demanded a court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and urged witnesses in the case to be provided with protection by central paramilitary forces.On Monday, the Supreme Court took up a Public interest litigation (PIL) filed by three lawyers led by Satyama Dubey demanding the Uttar Pradesh Police investigation to be transferred to CBI. The court had termed the incident “horrific” and asked the state government to highlight steps taken to provide protection to the woman’s family and witnesses in the case.Also read: Hathras case: Wanted ‘Swaraj’ not for ‘Raj’ to be back, says Sibal after journalist booked under UAPAIn the PIL, expected be heard next week, Setalvad said she was alarmed by the repeated statements issued by top police officers and elected representatives denying the rape even before the investigation in the case had concluded.On October 1, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said that the forensic reports in the case did not establish rape. In her application, Setalvad, through her NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace, said, “In view of the fact that the victim was found naked by her mother with vaginal bleeding indicates that sexual violence has indeed taken place. The statement being made to the contrary is irresponsible and indicates malafides as well as complicity.”Also Read: ‘No govt ever invoked sedition after rape’: Congress to Yogi AdityanathHer lawyer Aparna Bhatt, who filed the application, said, “It is alarming that when the Supreme Court has held that cases of sexual violence have to be handled with utmost sensitivity, these brazen statements are being made in the public domain.” The application has sought a court-monitored probe with regular progress reports of investigation to be submitted before the top court.Setalvad also demanded a judicial probe into the decision to cremate the woman’s body in the dead of the night under vigil of policemen and district officials. “There has to be an investigation into the line of command as to who ordered the cremation….The decision (to cremate) was not spontaneous but well planned and organised.” The application has asked for a former Supreme Court judge to probe the circumstances that led to the cremation of the woman after midnight in an open field near Hathras.Highlighting a statement issued by the UP government spokesperson on October 2 that mentioned subjecting the woman’s family members to polygraph and narco analysis tests along with the accused, Setalvad said, “Subjecting the family members to such tests when they are neither accused nor booked under any charges in the matter is a great defiance of law. Moreover, a Supreme Court Constitution bench in Selvi v State of Karnataka (2010) has held that no individual can be forcibly subjected to narco analysis as doing so would amount to an ‘unwarranted intrusion into personal liberty’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-teesta-setalvad-moves-supreme-court-accuses-up-cops-of-complicity/story-C8ZocEYfXr0o1jLz6FGEGP.html
08-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand forest dept identifies 34 wild mushroom species, 14 of them edible||Uttarakhand forest department’s research wing has identified 34 mushroom species that grow in the Sal forests of Kumaon region, of which 14 have been found to be edible. The study over the last three month was conducted in five different sites in the Sal forests of the Kumaon region. Out of the five sites, three were in Nainital district and two were in Udham Singh Nagar district. According to the study conducted by the forest research wing’s junior research fellows Kiran Bisht, Tanuja Pandey, Jyoti Prakash, and Kanish Kumar (forest guard), a total of 34 different species of mushrooms or macrofungi were collected from Sal forests of Kumaon region). “Out of the 34 wild mushroom species that have been identified, fourteen species are edible. The most common edible species collected from Sal forests included Termitomyces and Xylaria hypoxylon,” said Kiran Bisht. “The local people have good knowledge of wild edible mushrooms which they have achieved through their experience and the knowledge passed on from generation to generation. Since these mushrooms are being sold in the markets during monsoon by the local people, this survey will further help people here and create more awareness about mushroom diversity”, said Jyoti Prakash Wild mushrooms fetch local people good income as their price ranges between Rs 150 to 200 per kg for common mushrooms like Button mushrooms to Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 per kg for morel mushrooms. Tanuja Pandey said some of the edible mushrooms that they identified include Coprinellus disseminatus, Coprinus comatus, Hygrocybe Cantharellus, Rusulla brevipes, Macrolepiota procera, Ganoderma lucidum, Coprinellus micaceus and so on. Sanjiv Chaturvedi, chief conservator of forests (CCF) and in-charge research wing said study of mushrooms in Sal forests hold significance as wild edible mushrooms are a source of food and income for the local people, who collect them mainly during the rainy season. Chaturvedi said the Sal forest in Baggha area of Khatima in US Nagar showed maximum diversity of mushrooms followed by the Sal forest in Musabandar. “This is the first kind of its survey in Sal forests here. On the basis of soil analysis, it was observed that the nitrogen content was the highest in the Baggha Sal forest followed by Sal forest near Nandhaur area However, the moisture content was almost equivalent in all the sites”, he said. Talking about the importance of studying mushrooms, Chaturvedi said mushrooms are a major group of decomposers and as such essential for the survival of other organisms in the ecosystem as they contribute to the nutrient cycle and the maintenance of local ecology. “Mushrooms play a significant role in soil formation, soil fertility, and improvement of the habitat where they grow. They are also indicators of good health of forests”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-forest-dept-identifies-34-wild-mushroom-species-14-of-them-edible/story-kVnbJ9nTPYdhHIaJCtUetK.html
08-10-2020||India||India to see pre-Covid air traffic numbers by January 1: Minister Hardeep Puri||Projecting a positive forecast for India’s civil aviation sector, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said that with more than 1.5 lakh passengers travelling by air today and 1.2 crore domestic passengers since May 25, Indian skies can expect air travel numbers to reach pre-Covid numbers by January 1, 2021.“Our skies are opening up further. Flying is considered as a safe & efficient mode of transport by people. More than 1.2 crore domestic passengers have flown since 25 May 2020. We had 1,56,565 passengers on 1525 flights today. We should touch pre-COVID numbers by New Year,” the Union minister for civil aviation said.Air traffic and revenue has been drastically hit in India due to the coronavirus disease outbreak since March this year, when all the flights were grounded. The flights are still operating in a graded manner.Puri added that airlines may be allowed to operate at 75 per cent of their pre-Covid operations on the domestic front, provided that the passenger numbers continue to show a healthy trend in the next 7-10 days. Indian airlines are currently operating up to 60 per cent of its pre-Covid capacity within the country.The minister had also issued a stern warning to foreign airlines and their operations which will come at the expense of the Indian carriers.“Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa. The issue is not about allowing foreign carriers in or not. We are all for foreign carriers operating here. Make no mistake. But I think the time has come for the message to go out loud and clear that it will not be done at the expense of the Indian carriers,” Puri said while addressing the reporters.The minister was referring to the move by Lufthansa which cancelled its flights operating between India and Germany for 21 days, starting September 30 after DGCA withdrew permissions for them, citing restrictions on Indian travelling to Germany.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-see-pre-covid-air-traffic-numbers-by-january-1-minister-hardeep-puri/story-IB6wK1QtasHmGgH06gBM4H.html
08-10-2020||India||14-member IS module that returned ‘disillusioned’ from Iraq, Syria busted: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has busted a module of the so-called Islamic State (IS) and arrested its two alleged operatives, Ahamed Abdul Cader, 40, and Irfan Nasir, 33, from Bengaluru on Wednesday, people familiar with the matter said. The agency has found at least 13-14 people from Bengaluru travelled to Iraq and Syria in 2013-14. Two of them are believed to have been killed in Syria while fighting for the IS while some returned quietly in 2014, the people said. Many of them are still absconding.The IS overran swathes of Iraq and Syria in 2014. Iraq declared a victory over the terror group in 2017. In March 2019, US-backed forces in Syria said they have defeated the group in Syria as well and marked an end to the group’s territorial control.Also Read: Islamic State group Al-Hind plotted to build province in jungles of South India: NIA charge sheetThe people said NIA has identified all members of the module and they are being examined to know about those they were in touch with and their activities. They added the returnees from the module in Bengaluru were disillusioned by the life IS promised as there was nothing Islamic about its activities.Cader, a business analyst with a bank, and Nasir, who runs his family business, allegedly radicalised most of the members of the module and arranged finances for the travel of at least its five members.A larger 22-member module travelled to Iraq and Syria in 2016 from Kerala’s Kasaragod and Palakkad districts. This is believed to be the biggest group to have ever travelled to the region from India.Officials said several operatives have travelled to IS-held territories in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan since 2014 but in smaller groups or individually. “Kasaragod module was the biggest module and now this latest Bengaluru module seems to be big as 13-14 people went together,” said an official on condition of anonymity.Also Read: NIA court sentences IS recruit from Kerala to life imprisonmentOfficials said the agency learnt about the Bengaluru module while questioning Abdul Rahman, an ophthalmologist arrested from Bengaluru in August in connection with the case involving Jahanzaib Sami and Hina Bashir Baig, the couple arrested for their alleged links with IS.They cited Investigations and said Cader, Nasir and some of their associates were members of Hizb ut-Tahrir (HuT) and later formed a group named Quran Circle and radicalised gullible men in Bengaluru. They allegedly collected funds and funded their visits to Syria to aid the IS and further its ideology and activities.Officials said Cader allegedly collected funds from HuT and sent them to Syria through his bank account. Cader, Nasir and their other associates arranged funds for facilitating the visit of accused Abdur Rahman and other men from Bengaluru to Syria to join IS, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-busts-14-member-is-module-in-bengaluru/story-SWQ9TKFXtsWFqgigRvNUrL.html
08-10-2020||India||Missing woman’s body found in UP’s Fatehpur, kin allege gang rape||Protests rocked a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Fatehpur district late Wednesday night and Thursday morning after a 20-year-old woman who had been missing for several hours, was found dead in a field.Superintendent of police, Fatehpur, Prashant Varma said the police registered a case of murder and arrested one man and a probe is on.The woman’s family and villagers in Kasgava village, 80 km from Kanpur, did not allow the police to send the body for a post mortem examination for more than 10 hours and alleged that she was gang raped before being murdered.People confronted the police at the district mortuary late in the morning on Thursday as they feared the police could cremate the body and not allow it to be taken back to the village.The two-hour deadlock ended after the police agreed to the cremation in the village. A massive police force has been deployed in the village. Movement of outsiders towards the village was allegedly restricted.The woman had gone to the family’s field at night, but did not return, prompting a search by her family members and other villagers who found her body in a field around 10 pm.Her dupatta was tied around her neck and there were no clothes on the lower part of the body. Police found a cell phone on her body. Screening the calls, the police officials said she had spoken to a man 13 times the night before. The man, identified as Ashok Raidass, was arrested from his house and booked for murder.The family refused to accept the police theory and said the woman was raped and alleged that more than one person was involved in the crime. Officials said the post mortem was later conducted by a panel of doctors and they were waiting for the autopsy report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-woman-s-body-found-in-up-s-fatehpur-kin-allege-gang-rape/story-yOWGrApD0uXhtg9RqSjAGK.html
08-10-2020||India||Foreign airlines’ flights will not be allowed at expense of Indian airlines: Hardeep Singh Puri||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said the time has come to send a loud and clear message that foreign airlines’ flights will not be allowed at the expense of Indian airlines. On September 28, Lufthansa had to cancel its flights between India and Germany from September 30 to October 20 as the DGCA withdrew permission for them saying there are restriction on Indians who want to travel to Germany and this puts “Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa”. During a press conference, Puri said, “The issue is not about allowing foreign carriers in or not. We are all for foreign carriers operating here. Make no mistake. But I think the time has come for the message to go out loud and clear that it will not be done at the expense of the Indian carriers.” “Under the regulated (air bubble) arrangements, we are not insisting on total parity. Even near parity will do,” the minister added.After the aforementioned Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA)decision that led to cancellation of Lufthansa’s flights, Air India was forced to cancel all Frankfurt flights till October 14 as Germany withdrew permission for them.Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been allowed since July under the bilateral air bubble pacts formed by India with around 16 countries, including Germany.Puri said, “There is an opportunity in India for all foreign economic entities. But equally, where the commercial advantage is concerned, we also expect our carriers - when they go there (to those countries) - to also get those facilities.” In September, Lufthansa was operating around 20 flights per week to India while Air India was operating around three flights per week to Germany.“If the (air bubble) arrangement is being carried out only for sixth freedom right, then obviously we would want parity because we have direct flights between us and the US and between us and Canada. And we would like the US and the Canadian carrier (to operate). So, there is no difficulty in negotiation either,” Puri mentioned.Sixth freedom right allows an airline to fly passengers from one country to the hub airport in its home country, and then put those passengers on a connecting flight to a third country.A significant number of Indians use European carriers like Lufthansa or Gulf carriers like Emirates to go to the US or Canada. The DGCA told Lufthansa a few weeks back to not carry any sixth freedom passengers on its India-Germany flights. An airline operating flights under an air bubble pact cannot carry sixth freedom passengers from India, as per the DGCA.Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola said at the press conference that India and Germany are in talks on how to re-establish the air bubble arrangement between the two countries.“We had the first round of talks with Germany on Tuesday. They were held in a congenial atmosphere and they were very constructive talks. They put forth their viewpoint and we put our viewpoint. We are going to meet them in a day or two once again and the air bubble arrangement will be finalised with Germany,” Kharola said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-airlines-flights-will-not-be-allowed-at-expense-of-indian-airlines-hardeep-singh-puri/story-4VO3cT00yWipseEmPzADeN.html
08-10-2020||India||TN CM requests Yediyurappa to fill vacancies of Tamil teachers in Karnataka||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Thursday requested his Karnataka counterpart B S Yediyurappa to take steps to fill vacancies of Tamil teachers in government and state-aided schools, citing an association’s plea.Palaniswami said, over the years, while the Karnataka government started many Tamil schools in various districts to enable Tamil students to study in their mother tongue and granted approval as well as grants to private Tamil schools, a representation has now been received by his government on vacancies.In a letter to the Karnataka Chief Minister, he said: “We have received a representation from the Karnataka Tamil School and College Teachers Association, indicating that there are many vacancies of Tamil teachers in government and government aided schools and that the state government has also not given approval for opening new private Tamil schools.I enclose a copy of the representation for your kind perusal.” Palaniswami urged Yediyurappa to accord permission to open new private schools with Tamil as a medium of instruction and grant them recognition and reopen recently closed schools.Also, he urged “restoration of Tamil schools, which have been converted into other language schools” besides filling up vacancies of Tamil language teachers.He said Tamilians have been contributing significantly to the all-round economic development of Karnataka and “in particular, Tamilians have made immense contribution in developing Kolar Gold Mines, Hutti Gold Mines, Sandur Manganese Mines, Coffee Estates in Chikmagalur, Mangalore etc.” They have also been playing a major role in construction and agriculture sectors in Karnataka, he said and requested action to protect the interests of Tamil speaking people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-requests-yediyurappa-to-fill-vacancies-of-tamil-teachers-in-karnataka/story-YdgiMLfTfFxO6LbkE4JbqN.html
08-10-2020||India||Home ministry modifies Covid-19 guidelines for 12 poll-bound states, allows political rallies with immediate effect||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday modified its Covid-19 guidelines issues on September 30 for 12 states where elections are scheduled to be held.The new MHA order allows political rallies to be held in these states with immediate effect. These gatherings were originally prohibited till October 15.The announcement will have an impact on Bihar’s electoral preparations as large gatherings were not allowed under the Covid-19 preventative rules due to which political parties could not hold electoral rallies and gatherings.Apart from Bihar, the other states where elections (bypolls) are scheduled to be held are Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Manipur, Nagaland and Odisha. Poll preparations are underway for the bypoll elections in Madhya Pradesh which are being contested on 28 seats.The home ministry has asked all political parties to ensure that people follow all measures taken to prevent the curbing of Covid-19. It has said that all the rules mentioned in its guidelines issued on September 30 must be adhered to.Bihar will vote in three phases - the first phase of voting will be held on October 28, November 3, and November 7. The results of the election will be declared on November 10. The voting for 28 assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh will be held in November 3 and the results will be announced on November 10. Bihar will also be among the first Indian states where the polls will be held under the shadow of the pandemic. The Delhi Assembly Elections were also held when the coronavirus pandemic was spreading in China and Italy but it had not impacted India largely during those months. Other countries which held elections amid Covid-19 are Korea, Belarus, Israel, Hong Kong and Poland. United States will also contest presidential elections on November 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-modifies-guidelines-for-12-poll-bound-states-allows-political-rallies-with-immediate-effect/story-GN6RQi8RlBV7tN9tstrQXI.html
08-10-2020||India||Almost everyone injured in Kerala crash discharged, 1 undergoing plastic surgery: Air India chief||One person injured in the Air India Express flight crash-landing in August this year is undergoing plastic surgery, the national carrier’s CMD Rajiv Bansal said on Thursday.The accident happened on August 7 when an Air India Express flight from Dubai with 190 people onboard, including a six-member crew, overshot the tabletop runway at Kozhikode in Kerala. The incident happened due to heavy rain.The narrow-body B737 plane fell into a valley 35 feet below and broke into pieces, killing 18 people, including both pilots.“21 passengers, including 2 pilots, died. Almost everybody has been discharged from hospital, but two are still receiving some treatment - one of them is undergoing physiotherapy and another is undergoing plastic surgery,” Bansal said on Thursday.He also said that all expenses of injured and kin of the deceased have been looked after by the insurance agency. “They have already been paid interim compensation. We have also received the first tranche of interim compensation for aircraft that we lost,” Air India CMD said.The crash-landing is under-investigation by a five-member panel of the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board. The headquarters of the investigation will be in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almost-everyone-injured-in-kerala-crash-discharged-1-undergoing-plastic-surgery-air-india-chief/story-ANGe2KHUnu7cmsUwEMDCYP.html
08-10-2020||India||13-yr-old specially-abled boy missing from UP 5 years ago, reunites with mom in Assam||Nearly 63 months after he went missing from his home in Uttar Pradesh, 13-year-old Shom reunited with his mother on Wednesday, nearly 1,250 km away in Assam. It was an emotional scene at Destination, a Guwahati-based NGO working with special children, when Shom Soni met his mother Rita for the first time since July 13, 2015 - the day he went missing from Handia, around 35 km from Prayagraj in UP.“We had been searching for Shom since the day he went missing. Though we never lost hope, with each passing day it seemed impossible we would find him. It’s a miracle he was found after so long and so far away,” said Rita. The emotional mother hugged her son, who is severely autistic and suffers from bouts of epilepsy, and cried with joy after years of separation and desperation.“Shom was playing outside our home in the morning on the day he disappeared. We don’t know how he ended up in Assam. The past five years, we have searched almost all parts of UP and Bihar looking for him,” said Rita. Shom appears to have boarded a train and reached Bongaigaon in Assam where child welfare department officials found him and handed him over to Destination. Later he was brought to the organisation’s Guwahati office. “The child wasn’t able to recollect many details about his family. But he knew his name and the school where he was studying. From the way he talked, we assumed he could be from UP,” said Rupa Hazarika, founder of Destination. “Many attempts were made to find out the exact location of the school, but we failed. Shom started living with other children in our facility where we took care of his needs,” she added. Despite months and years passing, like Shom’s family Hazarika too didn’t give up the search to trace his home. Since Hazarika is also a member of the Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (ASCPCR), she reached out to the child welfare board in Uttar Pradesh last year. “After lot of back and forth, the child welfare committee in Prayagraj was able to trace Shom’s family in February this year. But they couldn’t come to collect him all these months because of the lockdown. We are happy to see Shom reunite with his family, but a bit sad too to see him leave,” said Hazarika.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-yr-old-specially-abled-boy-missing-from-up-5-years-ago-reunites-with-mom-in-assam/story-UyJ5GnbOxLOCoBNKmprt1K.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s sulfur dioxide emissions see first decline in 4 years||India’s sulfur dioxide emissions dropped in 2019, the first decline in four years for the world’s largest spewer of the pollutant responsible for human health risks and acid rain.Emissions from India dropped 6% last year as the country consumed less coal, mirroring a similar decline in global emissions of the toxic gas, according to a report by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, and Greenpeace. All three of the world’s top emitters -- India, Russia and China -- saw reductions in sulfur dioxide, according to the report which analyzed NASA satellite data.The reduction in sulfur dioxide, which increases the risks of heart and lung diseases, is good news for Indian cities that have some of the world’s dirtiest air. Still, dangers remain as coal is set to dominate the nation’s energy mix for years to come.“In India we’re getting a glimpse of what reduced coal use means for air quality and health,” Avinash Chanchal, campaigner at Greenpeace India, said in a press release. “But our air is still far, far from safe. We must speed up the energy transition away from coal and toward renewables, for our health and the economy.”India accounted for 21% of global SO2, mostly from coal-fired power plants that lack pollution-curbing equipment, the report said. In contrast, China, the world’s biggest coal burner, saw SO2 emissions plummet 5% last year and 87% since 2011, thanks to strengthened emissions standards and increased use of scrubbers at power plants.India’s environment ministry in 2015 set new standards for emissions of SO2, nitrogen oxides and mercury, asking power plants to comply in two years. The generators instead successfully lobbied to get the deadline pushed back until 2022, and are now seeking a further extension, citing lack of clarity on how the costs will be compensated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-sulfur-dioxide-emissions-see-first-decline-in-4-years/story-u86AxEBOK34wNsoOlS319M.html
08-10-2020||India||BJP govt to stay for 30-35 yrs if Vivekananda’s pictures hung at homes: Tripura CM||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb said that the BJP-led government in state would remain in power for another 30-35 years if at least 80% houses in the state hung pictures of Swami Vivekananda along with his messages at their doors.He urged members of the Mahila Morcha, the women wing of the ruling BJP, to distribute pictures of Swami Vivekananda to every household in the state and ensure that they are put up at their doors.“I have personally seen, even in my village, that the communist leaders have pictures of Jyoti Basu, Joseph Stalin, Mao Zedong in their drawing rooms. Their pictures were hung at the doors where we hang pictures of our gods. Did we hang pictures of Swami Vivekananda in our houses in the past two and a half years? Our party will keep our ideologies and sanskars (values) – If 80 percent of Tripura houses hang pictures of Swami Vivekananda, then this government will remain for another 30-35 years,” Deb said this at a programme of Mahila Morcha organised at state BJP headquarters in Agartala on Wednesday.“Swami Vivekananda said one should talk less, keep silence and concentrate on work. Our energy gets wasted if we talk too much. So, we should not waste our energy,” said Deb.Earlier in August, Deb had distributed books on Swami Vivekananda to Covid-19 patients with a stated intent to keep them “mentally strong and motivated”.Also Read: Tripura BJP’s ally to hold strike for separate statehood demandLater during the function, the chief minister said the BJP-IPFT government had hiked the amount given under different social pensions, salaries of government employees, monthly allowances of village panchayat pradhans and their deputies, introduced e-public distribution system, Ayushman Tripura health scheme, increased allocation of funds for MLA fund relief scheme etc.Also Read: Police use tear gas, lathi charge protesters at BJP youth wing’s Nabanna Chalo rally in KolkataDeb also asked the women wing activists to learn about all initiatives taken by the central and state governments including for women empowerment along with details of their implementation.“There is a difference between taking an initiative and its implementation. Former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi took the initiative of introducing three-tier panchayat system, but the results started coming during ex-Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee’s tenure. And after Narendra Modiji came to power, he decided to give a fund of Rs 80 lakh directly to the village panchayats to strengthen them. So, Modiji implemented Gandhiji’s Gram Swaraj,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-to-stay-for-30-35-yrs-if-vivekananda-s-pictures-hung-at-homes-tripura-cm/story-gJEYL7qOHoqS2wm5o5GTwL.html
08-10-2020||India||27-year-old unemployed engineer dies by suicide in Dehradun||A 27-year-old man died by suicide at his home on Wednesday afternoon in Dehradun’s Indra Colony area. He was an engineer but was unemployed, police said. No suicide note was found from the spot. “The Kotwali police station of Dehradun got information about the suicide from the hospital where he was taken by his family. He used to live with his family including his parents and three brothers in the Indra Colony area where he took the drastic step in the afternoon,” said Arun Mohan Joshi, senior superintendent of police, Dehradun. “He was the youngest among five brothers and was an engineer but was out of job. He was in the room during the afternoon when the incident happened. He was then rushed to hospital by his family members where doctors declared him brought dead,” said Joshi. He said no suicide note was found from the spot and reasons behind the suicide are not known yet. Meanwhile, in another incident, police found the body in the Yamuna river of a 32-year-old man who went missing while bathing on September 12. The deceased identified as one Ashish Rawat, a resident of Dehradun had gone for a picnic near the river with three of his friends.According to the police, the four men were bathing in the river when he was swept away by the current. The local police and state disaster response force men tried to find him but failed. His body was found stuck between two boulders in the river on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-year-old-unemployed-engineer-dies-by-suicide-in-dehradun/story-U2vpnm4NXXmfUCrsbILtOJ.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi assures Abdullah Abdullah of India’s support for Afghan peace process||Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah on Thursday of India’s continued backing for the peace process in Afghanistan. Abdullah, chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation in Afghanistan, met Modi at his official residence to brief him on the peace process and the talks currently being held by the Afghan government and the Taliban at Doha in Qatar. “Pleased to meet HE Narendra Modi @narendramodi, the Prime Minister of Republic of #India. In our friendly discussion we took stock of the latest developments on the #AfghanPeaceProcess, the talks in Doha, & India’s support for the peace efforts,” Abdullah tweeted. HE PM assured me of India’s continued support for the peace process, & Afghanistan. I thanked him & the people of India for the invitation, & generous hospitality. I also thanked India for its principled position on the #AfghanPeaceProcess. 2/2“HE PM assured me of India’s continued support for the peace process, & Afghanistan. I thanked him & the people of India for the invitation, & generous hospitality. I also thanked India for its principled position on the #AfghanPeaceProcess,” he added in another tweet. Abdullah arrived in India on Tuesday for a five-day visit as part of an outreach to key countries in the region for seeking support for the negotiations in Doha. He travelled to New Delhi after a three-day visit to Islamabad last week. He is also scheduled to deliver a speech at the Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA) and hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday. Before arriving in India, Abdullah said in a statement that India is a “strategic partner of Afghanistan”. He added “the role of India in establishing a lasting peace in Afghanistan and the region is vital”, and that he would discuss the need for regional consensus and support for the Afghan peace process with the Indian leadership. Also Read: NSA Ajit Doval meets Afghan peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah in DelhiOn Wednesday evening, Abdullah met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who told him India favours a democratic and sovereign Afghanistan “where no terrorists can operate”. Doval also hosted a dinner for Abdullah’s delegation that was attended by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, army chief Gen MM Naravane, senior officials of the external affairs ministry and key members of the High Council for National Reconciliation. In Islamabad, he had met Prime Minister Imran Khan, foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi and army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa. Abdullah told the Pakistani leadership that a message about reducing violence and showing greater flexibility in negotiations should be communicated to the Taliban leadership participating in the negotiations in Doha. India, the region’s largest provider of development aid to Afghanistan, has expressed concern at a recent spike in violence by the Taliban and terror attacks on minorities such as Sikhs. It has said intra-Afghan negotiations must ensure the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society and reduce violence across Afghanistan and its neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-modi-assures-abdullah-abdullah-of-india-s-support-for-afghan-peace-process/story-OM0hjqdNYzViMC8DdzG1PM.html
08-10-2020||India||One dead, six injured in clash over naming of village square in MP||A man was killed and six others were injured in a clash between people of two communities over the naming of a square at a village in Bhopal district late Wednesday night, police said. The deceased was identified as Shivam Meena, 22, a resident of Dobra village of the district. Six injured from the same village were admitted to Hamidia hospital in Bhopal where their condition is stated to be stable, according to police. Two FIRs were registered by both the sides at Eintkhedi police station against more than 35 people from both sides under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 146 (rioting), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Thursday morning. Seven of the accused have been arrested, said Dinesh Kaushal, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Bhopal zone-4. Kaushal said the two groups had been fighting over the naming of a newly constructed square in their Dobra village for the past two days. “On Wednesday, some people from Pal samaj led by Sanjay Pal and Pradeep Pal put up a board at the square naming the square in the community’s name. Meena samaj members took exception to it and staged a protest. In the night, Pradeep Pal fought with Shivam Meena over the issue following which some members of Meena samaj vandalized his shop at the village.” “Later in the night, more than 100 people of both communities gathered at the square and attacked each other with canes and sticks. An unidentified man from the Pal community started firing with his 12 bore gun resulting in death of Shivam Meena,22, and bullet injuries to Karan Meena, 32,” said the ASP. A team from Eintkhedi police station reached the spot and called in reinforcements from at least three police stations before the situation was brought under control at 4 am on Thursday, police said. The members of both the communities lodged FIRs against each other this morning. “A heavy police force has been deployed in the village to meet any eventuality. Police are trying to nab the accused and an investigation is on,” Kaushal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-dead-six-injured-in-clash-over-naming-of-village-square-in-mp/story-S32ewy5tX5RgpORxrxizQL.html
08-10-2020||India||22 states/UTs report positivity rate less than national average: Health Ministry||At least 22 states including union territories (UTs) have a Covid-19 positivity rate less than the national average which is at 8.19 per cent, informed the Union Health Ministry on Thursday.These states include--Bihar (2.61), Gujarat (3.30), Jharkhand (3.82), Uttar Pradesh (3.92), Himachal Pradesh (4.93), Rajasthan (5.11), Madhya Pradesh (5.98), Punjab (5.99), Haryana (6.65), Odisha (6.71), Uttarakhand (7.13), Jammu and Kashmir (7.24), Telangana (7.38) and West Bengal (8.15).While India is fulfilling the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) advise of 140 tests per day per million population, the country is testing more than 15 lakh Covid-19 samples every day, said the health ministry.Nearly 12 lakh tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in the country. With 11,94,321 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tests have crossed 8.34 crores (8,34,65,975), it said.In another row of achievements, 35 states/UTs have exceeded the advised number of tests. The national average of tests per day per million population stands at 865.About 83,011 single day Covid-19 recoveries were registered in last 24 hours as against 78,524 new confirmed cases. The total recovered cases stand at 58,27,704. The gap between the total number of recoveries and active cases has crossed 49 lakh (49,25,279).Active cases in the country are less than 10 lakh for the 17th day in a row. Presently, the 9,02,425 active cases comprise merely 13.20 per cent of the total positive cases.A higher number of recoveries has aided the national recovery rate to further improve to 85.25 per cent, said the health ministry.According to the government, about 75 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states/UTs. Maharashtra alone has contributed the maximum with more than 16,000 single day recovery.At least 78,524 new confirmed cases were recorded in the last 24 hours while 79 per cent of the new cases are from 10 states and UTs. Maharashtra continues to be the state reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 14,000 cases followed by Karnataka with nearly 11,000 cases.The government said that at least 971 Covid-19 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours.Of these, nearly 82 per cent are concentrated in ten state/UTs of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, and Madhya Pradesh.More than 36 per cent of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra i.e 355 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-states-uts-report-positivity-rate-less-than-national-average-health-ministry/story-opwxUZuF8POnqsTKvA9rDL.html
08-10-2020||India||Meet two Samaritans — Baba Siddique and Mudassar Patel||On the occasion of MLA, Zeeshan Baba Siddique’s birthday, on October 3, Haji Mudassar Patel of Ya Ma Patel’s Foundation team organised a charity function where the team helped the needy in the city. Speaking about it, Patel says, “Our Team is always there for this noble cause, it’s our honour to serve our people of Mumbai by helping the needy during this pandemic .” Patel is a social activist and vice-President from the minority department of a political party in India. Patel feels it’s his duty to stand with those in need in these challenging times. “I’m more than happy that our team could once again provide food grain kits to families in Mahim west and Bandra west for which I invited former minister Baba Siddique,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/meet-two-samaritans-baba-siddique-and-mudassar-patel/story-3wp1fTKYInearm3e03uQJI.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Not hard for govt to fight China’, Shiv Sena taunts Centre over border standoff||Amid India’s standoff with China in Ladakh, the Shiv Sena attacked the Centre on Thursday over its stand on national security and taunted that it should not be difficult for the government, which can fight political opponents through cyber attack, to take on China.Referring to the 80,000 fake social media accounts that were created in June to discredit the Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government in the investigation into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, an editorial in the Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana, said, “It is not hard for a government that can launch a cyber attack on political opponents in the country to fight China. Despite creating 80,000 fake accounts, ultimately they had to taste defeat but we will have to win in Ladakh and in Kashmir valley.”In a veiled jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the editorial said, “Why is the one who used to issue threats to Pakistan not ready to even name China? Why is China not taught a lesson like they claimed to have taught Pakistan?” The editorial went on to say that focusing on China has given Pakistan a free run to infiltrate into Kashmir that has led to skirmishes where our soldiers are being martyred. “By conducting surgical strikes elections were won but we were not able to break the spine of Pakistan. The earlier we accept this truth it will be better for our national security,” it said.The Sena mouthpiece also backed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s attacks on Modi earlier this week. It said, “Rahul Gandhi has said that Chinese troops will withdraw in 15 minutes (had his government been in power). Prime Minister Modi must speak to him (Rahul Gandhi) on what plan he has to ensure this. After all, this is a matter of national security.”Backing Gandhi’s statement to push back Chinese troops behind the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, the editorial said, “Those who think what Rahul Gandhi said was ‘rubbish’ must examine the statements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Who had made statements of bringing Pakistan-occupied Kashmir into India and who had promised ‘ghar wapsi’ of Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-hard-for-govt-to-fight-china-shiv-sena-taunts-centre-over-border-standoff/story-uzlYnaXbyF6MDuzoxjodQL.html
08-10-2020||India||IAF’s Dhruv helicopter makes precautionary landing in UP’s Saharanpur||An ALH Dhruv helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on routine training sortie carried out a precautionary landing in the rural areas of Saharanpur district on Thursday. People gathered in the area while the ALH Dhruv helicopter carried out the precautionary landing here. The landing was carried out in an open field here. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-s-dhruv-helicopter-makes-precautionary-landing-in-up-s-saharanpur/story-eQerVYI2qc4Cn76PwF7SdI.html
08-10-2020||India||Ramping up cold storage facilities critical as India preps for Covid-19 vaccine: Experts||The safe delivery of vaccines for mass immunisation against Covid-19 is a massive challenge and India will need to significantly ramp up its cold chain facilities, say experts as the world’s second most populous nation moves into the next stage of management of the disease and looks towards a preventive.  With most frontrunner vaccine candidates likely to require ‘extra cold’ storage, the private sector could also be roped in for effective delivery of a preventive when it is available, suggest several experts and industry insiders.  Some vaccine frontrunners are in advanced stages of trial and could hit the market by early next year, making the task of securing “last mile connectivity” and ensuring that nothing goes wrong before the shot is administered more urgent.  Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said earlier this week that the government expects to receive and utilise 400-500 million vaccine doses for Covid-19, and cover approximately 20-25 crore people by July 2021. The Centre has also reportedly directed states to make a robust plan for vaccine storage and distribution by October 15.  “Most if not all the current frontrunners require extremely stringent cold chains, making them immensely challenging for India to implement,” said Satyajit Rath from New Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology (NII).  The immunologist noted that some Covid-19 vaccines will need storage temperatures that simply cannot be realistically managed in any large-scale Indian campaign.  He said the real problems will arise once vaccines are ready to go into the market.  Vaccine candidates by Moderna and Pfizer will require stringent standards for refrigeration that may hamper how they are distributed to millions of people across India’s length and breadth, according to scientists.  Unlike drugs, virtually all vaccines need to be transported at cold temperatures, usually between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius, said Raghavan Varadarajan, professor at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru.  “The necessity is to keep the vaccine product cold, either refrigerated or frozen. This is a constraint especially with large numbers of doses,” Varadarajan told PTI, explaining the particular problems of India that has a population of 1.3 billion, second only to China.  Many vaccines lose potency when exposed to higher temperatures, he said, and re-cooling does not help.  Thus we need what is called the cold chain of handling before use, said Varadarajan whose team at IISc is working on a “warm vaccine” that can be stored for over a month at 37 degrees Celsius, and needs no cold chain for storage.  Pawanexh Kohli, the founding CEO of India’s National Centre for Cold-Chain Development (NCCD), agreed that protocols will require Covid-19 vaccines to be kept between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius, while in transport and storage until delivery.    “The Moderna vaccine candidate is shipped in minus 20 degrees Celsius and held at 2-4 degrees for seven days. The Pfizer (vaccine) that requires minus 70 degrees temperatures,” Kohli, honorary professor of post-harvest Logistics at the University of Birmingham in the UK, told PTI.  Both the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines use a synthetic version of genetic material from part of the coronavirus.  The genetic material called messenger RNA (mRNA) then prompts the cells to make a tiny piece of the virus, which the immune system recognises as foreign. If the person is later exposed to the real virus, the immune system will attack it.  Noting that RNA vaccines have never been used on humans, Vardarajan said it is possible high temperatures can affect these structures and thus affect the efficacy of the formulation.  While a bulk of the vaccines will be distributed through the Centre’s Universal Immunization Programme (UIP) mechanism, experts also suggest that the government rope in private cold chain operators.  The vast scale of India’s UIP is supported by more than 27,000 functional cold chain points of which 750 (3 per cent) are located at the district level and above. The rest are located below the district level, according to the government’s comprehensive multi-year UIP plan for 2018-22.  This includes 76,000 cold chain ‘equipment’, 2.5 million health workers, and 55,000 cold chain staff, the plan report said.  Cold chain logistics involves many moving parts, including cold storage  facilities that store products waiting to be transported, cooling systems to keep it at an appropriate temperature during all aspects of the supply chain such as storing and transporting. Gel packs are also often used for medical and pharmaceutical shipments.Approximately 390 million doses are administered annually at nine million sessions held across the country to immunise 26 million children and 30 million pregnant women, it said.  Noting that cold storage protocols are well established in India, Kohli said the public health network is limited in capacity.  “Luckily, the food cold chain has synergistic use for this purpose and should assist in this battle. Existing cold chain enterprises may need to allocate specific resources in their network,” noted Kohli.  He added that the food cold chain has the maximum reach, with extensive last mile connectivity, and will require minor redesign to designate storage space and transport load for this purpose.  “Almost every cold chain owner I have spoken to is willing to contribute space and assets towards this, should the need arise,”  Kohli added.  Kohli also believes that India must restructure with purpose to start and finish the immunisation programme within a short time period to be effective.  “Even if the vaccine is ready, the programme should not be commenced until the last mile for administering the vaccine is prepared,” he said. According to the World Heatlh Organisation, at the higher levels of the cold chain, i.e. at primary and regional intermediate stores, the oral polio vaccine must be kept frozen between minus 15 degrees Celsius and  minus 25 degrees Celsius. At other levels of the cold chain, the vaccines should be stored between 2 degrees Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramping-up-cold-storage-facilities-critical-as-india-preps-for-covid-19-vaccine-experts/story-0J9R6atCAvEt7N4RIGVqZJ.html
08-10-2020||India||IMD reviews preparedness, plan for cyclone season October-December||The meeting was participated by experts from IMD, National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting (NCMRWF), Indian Air Force (IAF), Central Water Commission (CWC), India Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) among several others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-reviews-preparedness-plan-for-cyclone-season-october-december/story-w5WTLAaD7AXOoUy0VTbGNN.html
08-10-2020||India||PLA at its doors, India looks at new security rule to punch Chinese firms||Indian national security planners are mulling over a security architecture that weeds out inimical countries from participating in core sectors such as power, telecommunications and roads by verifying origins of equipment imported into the country and testing its trustworthiness, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.Besides, India will opt for collaborative partnerships in development of critical technologies such as 5G and 5G plus at each stage through government-to-government or industry-to-industry partnership rather than go for off-the-shelf purchases in future.“India will no longer buy black box units and will instead participate through the entire development process so that it has the option to go for a different partner in case of any technology denial. Foreign companies participating in the Indian core sector will not be allowed to mask their origins and will have to go for full disclosure in case of any suspicion,” said a senior government official involved in the move.Also Read: The internal drivers of China’s Ladakh offensiveThe “verifying of the origin” debate started in July this year against the backdrop of China throwing all bilateral agreements on the Line of Actual Control out of the window and attempting to occupy Indian territory in East Ladakh. The face-off escalated in mid-June when soldiers from two sides clashed leading to loss of lives on both sides. India has deployed nearly 50,000 soldiers with support elements in Ladakh after the Chinese side made it clear that it would not step back.Also Watch: Ladakh | Tanks, combat vehicles: Indian Army ready to counter China amid tension Since then, the power ministry has decided to come up with specific testing guidelines that requires importers to declare the country of origin of the equipment and ensure there is no malware embedded in the critical sector equipment.Also Read: How will China’s offensive play out in Ladakh? IAF war games have an answer“The new testing guidelines for power equipment ensure that the country of origin does not install a malware that can be activated to engineer a power crisis in India,” said a senior power ministry official.Although national security planners and the technology advisors to the government are on the same page on this rule, there is some push back from the industry and telecom department, which believes that this could raise the cost of clean equipment and there is a need for a defined threshold for disclosing the country of origin.Even in developing 5G and 5G plus technologies, India is keen to know the provenance of the imported technology with test bed collaboration being the first step in achieving clean telecommunication equipment. While India is very keen to collaborate on 5G with Japan, it has kept open the option of European and US telecom companies in case of any opaqueness in the joint venture.In the past two decades, it has come to the notice of the government that foreign companies bidding for core sectors often mask their country of origin through third country and use state subsidy to qualify for the lowest bidder guideline of the central vigilance commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-pla-at-its-doors-india-looks-at-new-security-rule-for-foreign-companies/story-kLibBVaqTDBhTwKLuelzHI.html
08-10-2020||India||Freedom of speech is most abused, says SC on ‘fake news’ on Tablighi Jamaat||Freedom of speech is one of the most abused freedoms during recent times, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while hearing a case seeking action against television channels for allegedly disseminating fake news about the Tablighi Jamaat and communalising the Nizamuddin markaz incident. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde, also took strong exception to the affidavit filed by the central government in response to the petition and stated that it has been filed by a junior officer and also does not address any specific instances of bad reporting raised by the petitioner.“You cannot treat this court this way. The affidavit is filed by a junior officer. It is also extremely evasive and does not respond to the incidents of bad reporting,” CJI Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.Also Watch | ‘They acted as Corona carriers, action justified’: Yogi on Tablighi Jamaat Mehta said that he will see to it that a fresh affidavit is filed.The court asked Mehta to ensure that the concerned department’s secretary files the fresh affidavit.“Secretary must tell us what he thinks of the specific incidents (cited by the petitioner) and not make nonsensical averments like what has been done now,” Bobde said and posted the case for further hearing after two weeks.Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who was representing the petitioner, submitted that the government has claimed that the issue involves muzzling of free speech.“Freedom of speech is one of the most abused freedoms of recent times,” CJI Bobde remarked.The court was hearing petitions filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, Peace Party, DJ Halli Federation of Masjid Madaaris and Wakf Institute and one Abdul Kuddus Laskar alleging that the media was reporting the incident in a skewed manner and demonising the Muslim community.Also Read: Transfer all Tablighi Jamaat cases in UP to three chief judicial magistrates: Allahabad HCThe Nizamuddin area in Delhi was sealed on March 30 after it came to light that several people, who had attended a religious event held in March at Nizamuddin by a Muslim sect called Tablighi Jamaat, were found to be infected with coronavirus.At least 16,500 people had visited Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin between March 13 and 24.The petitioners have submitted that the reportage of the incident by certain sections of the media were in violation of journalistic norms and the provisions of the Cable TV Networks Regulation Act and the programme code under that Act which prohibits telecast of programmes containing attacks on a religion or communities or promoting communalism.Also Read: SC directs Rajasthan EC to notify election program for civic polls within weekThe petition also pointed out that a number of such fake news has been debunked by fact checking organizations like Altnews.During the hearing on Thursday, the court also asked the centre to clarify which provision would specifically be used by the government to impose a bar on the broadcast of television channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freedom-of-speech-is-most-abused-sc-while-hearing-case-seeking-action-against-tv-channels-for-spreading-fake-news-on-tablighi-jamaat-congregation/story-AIny7fcoKPFmtZrsHH0ZHM.html
08-10-2020||India||75% new Covid-19 recoveries, 79% positive cases from 10 states each, says health ministry||With India recording 83,011 Covid-19 recoveries and 78,524 new infections in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry on Thursday said 75% of new recoveries and 79% positive cases were from 10 states and union territories each.“83,011 single-day recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours across India as against 78,524 new Covid-19 confirmed cases. 75% of new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and union territories. 79% of the new positive cases are from 10 states and UTs,” the ministry said. 83,011 single-day recoveries were registered in the last 24 hours across India as against 78,524 new #COVID19 confirmed cases. 75% of new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states/UTs. 79% of the new positive cases are from 10 states & UTs: Ministry of Health pic.twitter.com/3Agdu2soD3The 10 states/UTs contributing 75% of new recoveries are: Maharashtra (16,715), Karnataka (9,832), Andhra Pradesh (6,349), Kerala (6,161), Tamil Nadu (5,524), Uttar Pradesh (4,219), Odisha (3,455), Delhi (3,370), Chhattisgarh (3,277) and West Bengal (3,024).Meanwhile, the 10 states and UTs which reported 79% of new positive cases are: Maharashtra (14,578), Karnataka (10,947), Kerala (10,606), Tamil Nadu (5,547), Andhra Pradesh (5,120), West Bengal (3,455), Uttar Pradesh (3,389), Odisha (2,995), Delhi (2,871) and Chhattisgarh (2,846).The ministry further said India has performed ‘remarkably’ on the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) advice of 140 tests per day per million population. “National average of tests per day per million population stands at 865 with 35 states/UTs performing more than 140 tests per day per million population,” it said.With 78,524 new Covid-19 cases, India’s caseload crossed the 6.8 million mark to reach 6,835,655, as per the health ministry’s dashboard.With 83,011 recoveries, the number of recovered cases stand at 5,827,704 . Active cases are at 902,425 and death toll at 105,526 with 971 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-new-covid-19-recoveries-79-positive-cases-from-10-states-each-says-health-ministry/story-aMpr2UjXfbFuAAJW8doLoL.html
08-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Prahlad Patel to hold virtual meet of state/UT tourism ministers ahead of festive season||Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel will interact with state tourism ministers and senior officials on October 15 and 16 ahead of the peak tourist season, sources said on Thursday. The minister is expected to discuss the post Covid protocols and put plans in motion to ensure that the tourism sector opens up with safety measures in place.The virtual meetings would see Patel interacting with tourism ministers of the northern and western states and Union territories on October 15 and those of the southern, eastern and northeastern states the next day, they said. These meetings are a part of confidence building measures by the minister who has over the last two months met industry leaders and stakeholders of the travel and tourism sector.The tourism sector has, according to industry estimates, suffered a loss of over Rs 5 lakh crore due to the coronavirus driven shutdown.The government has announced several stimulus packages for the sector, including extended moratorium from RBI on term loans till August 31, the Atma-nirbhar Bharat package’ of Rs 3 lakh crore, and easy PF withdrawals.The central government has also rolled out relief from regulatory compliances under the Income Tax Act, Companies Act and the GST Act for different time frames in order to help with business continuity and survival.Last month, Patel held a brainstorming session on promotion of Incredible India campaign post Covid-19 with influencers and travel media organisations, assuring them that the ministry would help them in any way possible to speed up tourism-related activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-prahlad-patel-to-hold-virtual-meet-of-state-ut-tourism-ministers-ahead-of-festive-season/story-GIwxm9o5tMgIRxWEqLcGbP.html
08-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 500 pages of electronic records trace evidence against Vikas Dubey, step by step and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.500 pages of electronic records trace evidence against Vikas Dubey, step by stepUttar Pradesh police is relying heavily on 500 pages of purported electronic evidence included in the 1700 pages long charge-sheet filed with the hope to mount a foolproof case against slain Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides, accused of involvement in a planned ambush of a police raid party on July 2. Read moreFarm bills: Congress to continue opposition, could move Supreme Court against legislationThe Congress plans to continue its opposition to the farm laws passed last month politically even as it has not ruled out the option of going to the Supreme Court against the legislation. Read moreInduction of Rafale, Apache, Chinook will transform IAF, says President KovindPresident Ram Nath Kovind said the ongoing process of modernisation with induction of Rafale, Apache and Chinook will transform the Indian Air Force (IAF) into an even more formidable strategic force. Read moreMG Gloster premium luxury SUV aims big, launched at ₹28.98 lakhMG Gloster SUV has been officially launched in India at an introductory starting price of ₹28.98 lakh, going all the way to ₹35.38 lakh for the top-end Savvy variant (introductory, ex showroom). Read moreIPL 2020: MS Dhoni explains reasons behind CSK’s fourth defeat of seasonAfter a resounding 10-wicket mauling of Kings XI Punjab, it looked as if Chennai Super Kings were back doing what they do best, but a 10-run defeat to Kolkata Knight Riders has once again pegged back the three-time champions. Read moreNobel laureate Emmanuelle Charpentier has a special message for young girlsScientist Emmanuelle Charpentier from France and Jennifer A. Doudna, America recently won the prestigious Nobel Prize for their contribution to the world of chemistry. They were awarded for developing a genome editing known as CRISPR. Read moreHathras Case: Dalit Perspective with Suraj Yengde | On The RecordIn the latest episode of On The Record, Hindustan Times’ Sunetra Choudhury speaks to author Suraj Yengde about what the Hathras case tells one about the status of Dalits in India. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-500-pages-of-electronic-records-trace-evidence-against-vikas-dubey-step-by-step-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Uxvc0FUQFO0VMkrbqOr1fN.html
08-10-2020||India||Rajasthan police arrest prime accused in gang rape of minor girl in Barmer||The prime accused in the gang rape of a 14-year-old girl in Barmer was detained late Wednesday night and was arrested Thursday morning, police said.Barmer superintendent of police Anand Sharma said the accused was identified as Gangaram Bheel, a resident of Dantal village in Jaisalmer district. He said the accused confessed his crime during interrogation.Police said the accused is a farm labourer and worked in the fields of the girl’s grandfather. On Tuesday when the victim’s family members had gone out to vote in the panchayat election, the accused took the girl to an isolated place and raped her.The accused fled from the spot after the assault.Sharma said that investigation so far revealed that there was only one accused. He, however maintained that at this stage they were not denying the survivor’s statement about there being one more accused. The girl had told the police that the other accused filmed the assault.Meanwhile, rape has not been confirmed in the medical examination. “Medical board has reserved the opinion and a sample has been sent for the swab test to the FSL,” Sharma said. There was no sign of injuries in the survivor’s genitalia, the SP added.Barmer police registered a case of gang rape on Wednesday. According to the complaint, the two accused fled the crime scene leaving the survivor unconscious by the roadside in the evening. Her family members found her after searching for her.Sharma and Barmer district collector (DC) Vishram Meenahad had visited the hospital to enquire about the case. In her statement to the police, the survivor said the accused who were on a motorcycle, abducted her about a few metres from her home. She was, however, unable to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-arrest-prime-accused-in-gang-rape-of-minor-girl-in-barmer/story-Y6YdbsQcgQSBXkkEPQDyXK.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi to deliver keynote address in virtual Invest India conference in Canada||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will deliver a keynote address at the Invest India conference in Canada through video conferencing on Thursday.Representatives from banks and insurance companies, investment funds, companies from various sectors like aviation, electronics and manufacturing, consulting firms, universities etc are expected to take part in the conference.“The forum aims to give Canadian business community a first-hand perspective of the opportunities to invest in India,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.PM Modi will deliver the address at around 6:30pm today.The long list of speakers includes Howard Davies, British economist and chairman of the Royal Bank of Scotland; Ridham Desai, Managing Director of Morgan Stanley; and Nouriel Roubini, professor of economics at New York University’s Leonard N. Stern School of Business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-deliver-keynote-address-in-virtual-invest-india-conference-in-canada/story-03MjTVbzOJaCE9r6hD6svJ.html
08-10-2020||India||International flights: Travel bubbles likely to continue till March-April, says Hardeep Singh Puri||Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said the future of international flights is now depending on the availability of a vaccine. Answering a question on whether travel bubble arrangements will continue till March-April, the minister said, “It is difficult to say as there is no country which has completely opened its borders for all. It depends on the availability of a vaccine as countries will feel more confident once a vaccine is there.”Air bubbles are specific arrangements between countries to allow airlines of both the countries to carry passengers. Regular international passenger flight services have been suspended till October 31. The minister hinted that this suspension is likely to be in place till March-April. “There are basically three issues to consider before resuming regular international flights. One, resuming domestic connectivity connecting bigger cities to smaller town, which we have already done. Second, the nature of the virus on which I can’t comment and the third is international restrictions. Every country wants their people to return, but for others there are plenty of restrictions,” Puri said.Domestic airlines will soon be allowed to increase their capacity to 75 per cent. At present, they are operating at 65 per cent capacity, after domestic flights resumed operations on May 25 — following a gap of two months of lockdown. “There is no deadline. But this can happen soon as the domestic numbers are going up. Before this I said that the pre-covid domestic number will be achieved between Diwali and New Year. Now I am confident that by the first quarter next year, we will be able to surpass the pre-covid number,” the civil aviation minister said.“This marks the beginning of the second phase of domestic travel as we are now gearing up to face the challenge of welcoming more people in the airports as the festive season is almost upon us. We had a meeting with the airlines recently in this regard,” Pradeep Singh Kharola, civil aviation secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-allow-domestic-airlines-to-increase-capacity-to-75-per-cent-soon/story-uqXhq3gUykc0kVX5H6Lv8H.html
08-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Wanted ‘Swaraj’ not for ‘Raj’ to be back, says Sibal after journalist booked under UAPA||Senior Congress leader and lawyer Kapil Sibal on Thursday slammed the government for booking a journalist, among others, under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and sedition in connection with the Hathras incident in Uttar Pradesh.An FIR lodged in the Mant police station, against four who were arrested near Mathura, enroute to Hathras, on Monday charges them under various laws, for promoting enmity between groups and UAPA, apart from others.Sibal, taking to Twitter, reminded that earlier in the Parliament he had said that the UAPA would be used to “target our own” and to “silence dissent”.“UAPA. Journalists booked under UAPA: “Alleged conspiracy behind their visit to Hathras” Intervening in debate in Rajya Sabha I said UAPA will be used to target our own. Being used to silence dissent. Wanted “Swaraj” not for the “Raj” to be back,” Sibal’s tweet read. UAPAJournalists booked under UAPA : "Alleged conspiracy behind their visit to Hathras"Intervening in debate in Rajya Sabha I said UAPA will be used to target our own Being used to silence dissent Wanted "Swaraj" not for the "Raj" to be backEarlier, an FIR has been registered against four people, with links to Popular Front of India (PFI), in Mathura. The registered FIR states that pamphlets, six smartphones and a laptop had been recovered from the possession of Atiq ur Rehman, Alam, Siddiqui and Masood Ahmed.Also Read: Journalist, 3 others on way to Hathras arrested, charged with anti-terror lawAccording to the FIR, four persons who were apprehended from Mathura on October 5 and had links with PFI “were going to Hathras to disrupt peace as part of larger conspiracy”. It also states that media reports have pointed out that some antisocial elements are plotting to harm social harmony by instigating caste factions using the pretext of the Hathras incident.Prashant Kumar, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order), had earlier said that they received credible information about the movement of some suspicious people towards Hathras from Delhi, after which police started a checking drive at Mathura toll plaza, during which they were nabbed.Kumar said they came to know about their connection with the PFI and its co-organisation, the Campus Front of India, during interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-wanted-swaraj-not-for-raj-to-be-back-says-sibal-after-journalist-booked-under-uapa/story-Y1Aedh5vHw8vdv2a1xN86O.html
08-10-2020||India||500 pages of electronic records trace evidence against Vikas Dubey, step by step||Uttar Pradesh police is relying heavily on 500 pages of purported electronic evidence included in the 1700 pages long charge-sheet filed with the hope to mount a foolproof case against slain Kanpur gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides, accused of involvement in a planned ambush of a police raid party on July 2. The electronic evidence in the charge-sheet contains the call details report (CDR) of all the 36 accused in the case. The investigators built a matrix analysing the numbers and locations to show that the accused were at one place and in touch with each other. The police investigation has placed the numbers in chronological order to establish a step by step sequence of events, which led to brutal killings of eight policemen. For example, the first CDR placed in the charge-sheet is of sub-inspector KK Sharma, establishing that he spoke 13 times with Vikas Dubey and his men. It places emphasis on the conversation Sharma had at 11.44 pm on July 2 with Ram Singh, one of the accused. The investigation claims it was during this conversation, which took place 10 minutes before the FIR was registered and the police party left for the gangster’s village, that the details related with the raid were leaked. This follows the CDR of Vikas Dubey, which establishes that he called police constable Rajeev Singh of Chaubeypur police station and threatened to kill the police team coming to raid his house. In corresponding calls, he spoke to his aides Amar Dubey, Prem Prakash Pandey and Prabhat Mishra, all of whom were killed in various encounters with the police.Other CDRs of accused were mentioned in the charge-sheet to establish that they called each other in Bikru to coordinate the ambush on the police team. Also Read: Kanpur’s Bikru ambush was planned; women helped in carnage, says chargesheet The call records of four women accused in the case have been attached separately in the charge-sheet. Officials said Manu Pandey, whose audio clips confirmed the involvement of women in the attack, according to police, hadn’t been given a clean chit either. She would be made an accused in the supplementary charge sheet, said an official. An official said the police tried to explain through these records how the attack was planned, how the accused remained in touch with each other, how they escaped, the routes they took after killing the policemen and how the police officers accused in the case were in touch with some accused and helped them. Also Read: UP gangster killed in road accident in police car. It is Vikas Dubey reduxDistrict government counsel (DGC) Kanpur Dehat, Prashant Mishra, said the charge-sheet was comprehensive and enough evidence was on record to secure conviction of the accused. But Shivakant Dixit, a lawyer representing a minor accused, Khushi Dubey, said the charge-sheet was riddled with loopholes. There were 500 pages of CDR but how the police would establish what conversation took place between the accused, he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/500-pages-of-electronic-records-trace-evidence-against-vikas-dubey-step-by-step/story-gfrWjFLdXxC74bALpdaz2L.html
08-10-2020||India||Be happy, wrote ex-CBI chief Ashwani Kumar before death by suicide||Former governor and ex-CBI director Ashwani Kumar found dead in his Shimla house left a note for his family that attributed his decision to “disease and disability”, Himachal Pradesh police chief Sanjay Kundu said. Kundu, according to news agency ANI, confirmed that the police and the family did not suspect foul play.Kumar, the 1973-batch Indian Police Service officer, was found dead in the attic of his Shimla house by his son and daughter-in-law soon after they returned from a walk at about 7 pm on Wednesday. The retired police officer, who once headed the Himachal Pradesh police and the Central Bureau of Investigation, left behind a note for his family.“We found a suicide note in which he wrote that he is ending his life due to disease and disability, of his own free will. He said his soul is embarking on a new journey and everyone needed to be happy, and that there should be no rituals or ceremonies,” Sanjay Kundu told reporters, according to the ANI report.Kundu confirmed that the family did not suspect foul play.“He used to meditate in the attic around 7 pm every day, with all doors open. On Wednesday when his son and daughter-in-law were going for a walk, they found all the doors of the attic locked. They broke the door and found Kumar hanging from a rope there,” the Himachal DGP, also an IPS officer, said about the death of Kumar, 16 years his senior in service.Ashwani Kumar was the Himachal Pradesh police chief from 2006 till 2008 when he returned to the Central Bureau of Investigation to lead the investigation agency. Kumar led the central investigation agency from August 2008 to November 2010. It was during his tenure as the CBI chief that the investigation agency arrested Union home minister Amit Shah in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. The 22 accused who faced trial in this case were acquitted in December 2018.Kumar also oversaw the agency’s investigation into the 2008 Aarushi murder case. He had expressed his displeasure over the probe into the case and had taken upon himself to take it to a logical conclusion. In 2013, the Manmohan Singh government appointed him as the governor of Nagaland and Manipur governor. Kumar stepped down from the post after the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power after the 2014 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-happy-wrote-ex-cbi-chief-ashwani-kumar-before-death-by-suicide/story-4OeJeVht9kxZNa5csLin2H.html
08-10-2020||India||SC directs Rajasthan EC to notify election program for civic polls within week||The Supreme Court, while refusing to interfere with a plea to extend the dates for Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota municipal corporation elections, on Thursday directed the Rajasthan Election Commission to notify the election program within one week.A bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar asked the Rajasthan government to file an application for extending the date of municipal polls. “We direct the State Election Commission to notify the election program within one week from today,” the bench said.The state government had moved the apex court challenging the Rajasthan High Court order dismissing its application for extending the poll dates from October 31, 2020, to March 20, 2021, for Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota municipal corporations.During the hearing, the bench observed that it will not interfere with the High Court order but asked the government to approach the High Court and convince it.“No further indulgence is required from this court. Go and convince the High Court to give you further time. First, notify the election and then go to the High Court. Explain to the High Court why the election in October is not possible,” the bench noted.The top court also took into the submission of the State Election Commission that it is already in the process of conducting the Panchayat elections.Recently, the High Court while rejecting the application moved by the state government had directed that the elections should be completed by October 31.The civil polls in the three municipal corporations were due in November 2019 but were first postponed for delimitation of wards, following the government decision to bifurcate the corporations in the three and then again due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government had then assured the court that the elections would be held within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-rajasthan-ec-to-notify-election-program-for-civic-polls-within-week/story-WK1XBorKwDuPGgQTHapCON.html
08-10-2020||India||Induction of Rafale, Apache, Chinook will transform IAF, says President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind said the ongoing process of modernisation with induction of Rafale, Apache and Chinook will transform the Indian Air Force (IAF) into an even more formidable strategic force. On the occasion of 88th foundation day of the IAF, the President tweeted that the nation remains indebted to the contribution of the force in securing our skies and assisting civil authorities handle humanitarian crisis.“On Air Force Day, we proudly honour our air warriors, veterans, and families of the Indian Air Force. The nation remains indebted to the contribution of the IAF in securing our skies and assisting civil authorities in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief,” his tweet read.ALSO WATCH | Air Force Day 2020: Rafale & other jets showcase prowess in air display He expressed faith in the force and said that he was confident it will maintain its high standards and continue to prove its mettle. “Confident that in the years to come, the Indian Air Force will continue to maintain its high standards of commitment & competence,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/induction-of-rafale-apache-chinook-will-transform-iaf-says-president-kovind/story-a1ldlrdwM2E9Mo0RuTOgQI.html
08-10-2020||India||Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat train to resume soon: Union minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Thursday said the Vande Bharat train from Delhi to Katra, home to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, will resume soon.  He said the matter of resumption of train to Katra in Jammu and Kashmir ahead of Navratri festival was discussed with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal.“Discussed with Railway Minister Sh @PiyushGoyal. #VandeBharatExpress train from Delhi to #KatraVaishnoDevi to resume soon. This should be a reassuring piece of information for pilgrims from across the country planning a visit to Holy shrine during #Navratri festival,” Singh tweeted. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, is Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur constituency.Train services in the country, which were halted in late March due to coronavirus induced lockdown, are being resumed in a graded manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-katra-vande-bharat-train-to-resume-soon-union-minister-jitendra-singh/story-8xt6HeTAChSqDNy0RTp1vO.html
08-10-2020||India||Fire breaks out at a Narela factory in Delhi||A Delhi Fire Service official said they are trying to douse a fire at a PVC sole factory in outer Delhi’s Narela.DFS Director Atul Garg said a fire incident was reported at the factory around 11 am and 10 fire tenders were rushed.Fire-fighting operations are underway, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-a-factory-in-delhi-10-fire-tenders-rushed-to-the-spot/story-umf4PbjQu2sKC920zqhB0K.html
08-10-2020||India||Farm bills: Congress to continue opposition, unlikely to move court||The Congress plans to continue its opposition to the farm laws passed last month politically and is unlikely to move the Supreme Court against the legislation.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led a tractor rally in Punjab and Haryana this week as the party stepped up its attack on the government over the laws. The laws were passed amid protests that led to the suspension of eight Opposition lawmakers from Parliament’s Upper House.Gandhi hit out at the government on Monday saying none of its policies over the last six years has benefitted the poor. “They passed the three black farm bills amid the coronavirus outbreak. What was the haste in doing it at this time? They did it because they thought the farmers would not be able to do anything, but they do not know the power of the farmer,” he said at a Kheti Bachao Rally in Punjab’s Sangrur. He also criticised the government over the implementation of Goods and Services Tax and demonetisation.Also Read: ‘Would’ve thrown out China in less than 15 mins’, says Rahul GandhiThe party has asked the Congress-ruled states to call special assembly sessions and pass their own farm bills. Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi has prepared a draft of the proposed laws.With political protests gathering steam and Congress-ruled states set to push their own bills, the party believes it is not the time yet to move the Supreme Court as the matter would take a different turn when it will be sub-judice.“There is time and scope for the political movement. Similarly, there is time and scope for asserting legal remedies in the court. The Congress retains the right to go to court and will do so at an opportune moment,” said Singhvi.Another Congress leader said, “I have strongly advised avoiding [legal option] completely. Let us focus on the political movement.”The party leaders feel that if the Congress goes to the court, the move to pass bills in state assemblies might get affected too as the issue would be sub-judice. “The President, who has to give his assent to every bill for becoming law, can very well cite the ongoing cases to not sign the state bills,” said a third Congress functionary.The party is also unsure of the outcome in the court. “If the apex court rules in the favour of the government, we will lose ground and it will be difficult to continue the agitation. The Rafale [fighter jet deal] episode was an eye-opener,” said another leader.The Supreme Court last year rejected petitions seeking an investigation into the fighter jet deal with France’s Dassault Aviation.Congress lawmaker TN Prathapan has moved the court over the farm legislation. But the Congress has not taken a final decision on moving the court as a party. Prathapan has clarified that he has challenged one of the three laws passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-bills-congress-to-continue-opposition-could-move-supreme-court-against-legislation/story-O80t367diXv5wXxqyEQW2N.html
08-10-2020||India||French envoy extends best wishes to IAF on 88th Air Force Day||French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain on Thursday extended best wishes to the Indian Air Force (IAF) on 88th Air Force Day.In a tweet, Lenain mentioned that from Ouragan/Toofani in the 1950s to Mirage2000 and now Rafale, France has always partnered with the IAF.“Congratulations @IAF_MCC on 88th Air Force Day2020! From Ouragan/Toofani in the 1950s to Mirage2000 and now Rafale, France has always partnered with the Indian Air Force!” he tweeted. Earlier this year, India received five of the 36 rafale fighter jets from France, as part of a 2016 deal worth Rs 60,000 crores. It was the largest-ever defence deal signed by India. ALSO WATCH | Air Force Day 2020: Rafale & other jets showcase prowess in air display On the Air Force Day 2020, President Ram Nath Kovind, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh have also extended their wishes.The IAF was established on October 8, 1932, in undivided India which was under colonial rule. It was given the prefix “Royal” by King George VI for its contribution during the Second World War. The prefix was later dropped in 1950 when India became a republic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-envoy-extends-best-wishes-to-iaf-on-88th-air-force-day/story-wdQHZjwo0qmjAQc7nfdhNO.html
08-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh girl’s death mystery persists amid conflicting claims by kin, cops||Nearly two months after a 17-year-old minor girl died by suicide after she was allegedly gang-raped by five persons in Chhattisgarh’s Kondagaon district, her body was exhumed for further examination by the police amid allegations of inaction by one of her family members. Police claimed that the incident was not reported to them and the victim’s family claimed that the police were informed after the incident in July, but no action was taken. “We have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident,” said Sundarraj P, Bastar range’s inspector general of police (IGP). He added that as per the statement of the victims’ family, total five persons were involved in the alleged gang-rape. “As per the statement of her family members, on July 19, the girl had gone along with them to attend a wedding in nearby Kanagaon village. On the same night at around 11 pm, she was sexually assaulted by five persons in a nearby forest. Next morning, the victim returned home and died by suicide without informing anyone about the incident,” the IG said. “Unaware of the incident of sexual assault, the family members performed the last rites and buried the deceased girl on the outskirts of their village,” he added. The IG said that three accused have been detained by police.“Her body was exhumed from the grave for the post-mortem in presence of the police team and the tehsildar on Wednesday. A case of gang-rape was registered and three accused have been detained,” the IG said. Also Read: BJP dubs Rajasthan as hub of crime against women, on offensive against GehlotThe uncle of the victim, however, told reporters that after the girl’s death, two boys from the locality had told him that his niece was sexually assaulted by some men in Kanagaon. Just two days after that revelation, Dhanora station house officer (SHO) had called him to the police station and asked why he did not report the matter to police, he claimed. He alleged that the SHO had assured him that he would lodge a case, but no further action was taken. Also Read: Educated minors behind more crimes in Ludhiana than illiterate ones: NCRB reportThe IG, however, ruled out any lapse on the part of the police. He said that after the girl’s death, a police team had gone to the village and asked her family members to report the matter if they get any clue about the reason behind her extreme step. “We learnt that the family was later told about the rape incident by one of the friends of the victim, but they did not approach the police,” he claimed. “Recently, the girl’s father also tried to kill himself by consuming poison, but he was saved after he got timely medical treatment. The exact reason behind his suicide attempt was not known,” Sundarraj added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-girl-s-death-mystery-persists-amid-conflicting-claims-by-kin-cops/story-EHq81DEY976QzBTBcjJUKN.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Ever ready to safeguard nation’s sovereignty’: Air chief Bhadauria on IAF Day||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief, Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria, on Thursday addressed the force on its 88th foundation day, saying it stands ever ready to protect the nation’s sovereignty and interests ‘in all circumstances.’Addressing the air warriors after inspecting the parade at the Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad, Bhadauria said as it enters its 89th year, the IAF is undergoing a transformational change. “As we enter the 89th year, the IAF is undergoing a transformational change. We are entering an era which will redefine where we employ aerospace power and conduct integrated multi-domain operations,” he said.“I want to assure the nation the IAF will evolve and be ever ready to safeguard our nation’s sovereignty and interests,” the air chief further said.ALSO WATCH | Air Force Day 2020: Rafale & other jets showcase prowess in air display On the ongoing standoff with China in Ladakh, Bhadauria said, “I commend all air warriors for a quick response in the recent standoff on the northern frontiers, when we deployed our combat assets at short notice to handle any eventuality and provided proactive support to all requirements of deployment and sustenance for Indian Army.”The air chief also remarked how 2020 has indeed been an ‘unprecedented year.’ He said the nation’s response was firm as Covid-19 spread across the globe. “The tenacity and resolve of our air warriors ensured that the IAF continued to retain its capability to undertake full-scale operations throughout this period,” Bhadauria added.Earlier, a host of politicians, including President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh and others extended their greetings to the IAF on its 88th anniversary.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief General MM Naravane and navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh are also attending the ceremony at the Hindon airbase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-day-2020-ever-ready-to-safeguard-nation-s-sovereignty-says-air-chief-rks-bhadauria/story-GeloLfOf1Xq91AbM4MBTLM.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally crosses 68 lakh-mark, ‘our fight is people-driven,’ tweets PM Modi||India’s Covid-19 tally has crossed 68 lakh-mark with 78,524 new cases reported in the last 24 hours on Thursday. In the same period, India registered 971 deaths. Over 11 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 test on Wednesday, taking the total number of testing done so far to over eight crore, Indian Council of Medical Research data revealed.Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Kerala, Odisha, Telangana continue to the top 10 states with maximum number of cases. Following the recent number of active cases as against the number of recoveries, experts have hinted that the first wave Covid-19 appears to be receding for the first time across the country. The seven-day average of daily cases in India touched 93,617 on September 16, the highest till date. In the three weeks since, this number has dropped every single day and on Wednesday it stood at 74,623, though on Thursday it went up to 78,524.As the festival season is coming up, it is apprehended that the curve may rise again. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch an awareness campaign to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour ahead of the upcoming festive season and amid reopening of the economy.Ahead of the launch on Thursday, PM Modi tweeted several Covid-19 preventive measures. “Let’s unite to fight Corona! Always remember: Do wear a mask, keep your hands clean, follow social distancing, maintain ‘two yards’ distance from others,” he tweeted.“India’s COVID-19 fight is people driven and gets great strength from our COVID warriors. Our collective efforts have helped saved many lives. We have to continue the momentum and protect our citizens from the virus,” PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-68-lakh-mark-our-flight-is-people-driven-tweets-pm-modi/story-uOTsbcpHxQBSrhT763M95L.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 fight people-driven, let’s #Unite2FightCorona: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that India’s Covid-19 fight is people-driven and asked the citizens to #Unite2FightCorona.In his clarion call, the Prime Minister said India’s fight against Covid-19 gets strength from Covid warriors, and the country has to continue the momentum and protect the citizens from the virus.“India’s Covid-19 fight is people-driven and gets great strength from our Covid warriors. Our collective efforts have helped saved many lives. We have to continue the momentum and protect our citizens from the virus. #Unite2FightCorona,” the Prime Minister tweeted.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePM Modi asked citizens to remember wearing a mask, wash hands, and practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori’to win against Covid-19.“Let us #Unite2FightCorona! Let us always remember: Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice ‘Do Gaj Ki Doori.’ Together, we will succeed. Together, we will win against Covid-19,” he said in another tweet. Earlier today, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare tweeted that India’s Covid recoveries have witnessed a steep exponential rise from 50,000 in May to over 57 lakh in October.“IndiaFightsCorona India’s #Covid Recoveries have witnessed a steep exponential rise - from 50,000 in May to over 57 lakh in October. A high level of more than 75,000 recoveries reported every day. Recoveries are 6.3 times the Active Cases (currently only 13.4% of total cases),” the Ministry tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-fight-people-driven-let-s-unite2fightcorona-pm-modi/story-sTUjf4k9fSFq8aF18KEfNI.html
08-10-2020||India||President Kovind, PM Modi lead nation in wishing IAF on foundation day||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is observing its 88th foundation day on Thursday. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and others took to Twitter to wish India’s air warriors.Here are some top political reactions on 88th IAF Day:President Ram Nath Kovind: On Air Force Day, we proudly honour our air warriors, veterans, and families of the Indian Air Force. The nation remains indebted to the contribution of the IAF in securing our skies and assisting civil authorities in Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief.Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu: I extend my warmest greetings to all Air Force personnel on the 88th Air Force Day. Our Air Warriors are known for their professionalism, excellence and courage. They have made the country proud in war and peace. May they touch the sky with glory.Prime Minister Narendra Modi: Many congratulations to all the brave warriors of the Indian Air Force on Air Force Day. You not only keep the skies of the country safe, but also play a leading role in the service of humanity in times of disaster. Your courage, valour and dedication to protect Mother India is inspiring everyone.Defence minister Rajnath Singh: The nation is proud of its men and women in blue and salutes the prowess of the IAF as it stands today ready to face challenges and deter adversaries. We remain committed to enhancement of IAF’s combat compatibility through modernisation and indigenisation.Home minister Amit Shah: Greetings on Indian Air Force Day! From safeguarding our skies to assisting in all odds, our brave Air Force personnel have served the nation with utmost courage and determination. Modi govt is doing everything possible to keep our mighty air warriors roaring loud in the skies.UP CM Yogi Adityanath: Best wishes to all the airmen on “Indian Air Force Day”. The entire nation is proud of your unforgettable duty from the wartime to the peacetime.US ambassador to India Ken Juster: Congratulations to @IAF_MCC on their 88th anniversary. Defence cooperation is a cornerstone of the US-India relationship, as we work together to secure a free, open and rules-based Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-day-2020-president-kovind-pm-modi-lead-nation-in-wishing-indian-air-force-on-88th-foundation-day/story-c7QbOArshMO4JKg41XAd3O.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi greets IAF on its foundation day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday greeted the Indian Air Force on its foundation day, saying the courage, valour and dedication of its soldiers to protect the country inspire everyone. In a tweet on the Air Force Day, he lauded the force and said its brave soldiers do not only protect Indian skies, but also play a leading role in serving humanity during any crisis.The prime minister also posted a brief video in which he speaks of the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) beginning in 1932 as a force of six pilots and 19 airmen and its rise to become one of the strongest forces in the 21st century.It is a memorable journey, Modi said, as he praised the IAF and noted the pride and respect it commands from people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-iaf-on-its-foundation-day/story-8CnH7g2T0AA1UCjcN9iT3H.html
08-10-2020||India||DGCA issues detailed refund guidelines after Supreme Court verdict||Aviation regulator DGCA issued detailed guidelines on Wednesday regarding a refund of the ticket price for the flights cancelled amid the coronavirus-triggered lockdown.The guidelines came six days after the Supreme Court directed that a full and immediate refund should be given to passengers for the air tickets cancelled between March 25 and May 24. No domestic passenger flights operated in the country in this period.The top court had, on October 1, also passed directions about the refund and credit shell formation for the bookings and cancellations done during the other time periods around the lockdown.Based on the court order, the DGCA categorised passengers in three categories -- those who booked tickets between March 25 and May 24 for travelling within the same period, those who booked tickets prior to March 25 but the travel period was till May 24, those who booked tickets anytime but for a journey post May 24.The regulator said the passengers belonging to the first category must be given a full refund by the airline concerned for the tickets cancelled.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said the airlines should “make all endeavours” to refund the passengers belonging to the second category within 15 days.“If on account of financial stress, any airline/airlines are not able to do so, they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected (to the passenger),” it added The passengers can then use the credit shells to book any ticket by March 31, 2021, the DGCA noted.Those belonging to the third category will be given a refund in accordance with the existing DGCA rules.The Indian aviation industry has been hit hard due to the coronavirus pandemic and as a result, all airlines in the country have opted for cost-cutting measures such as layoffs, leave without pay for the employees etc.Scheduled domestic passenger flight services resumed in the country after a gap of two months on May 25. Currently, airlines are permitted to operate only up to 60 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23. However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat mission since May and under air bubble arrangements formed with various countries since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-issues-detailed-refund-guidelines-after-supreme-court-verdict/story-0tT93evbCIQxTeYZOmkY7K.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi to launch Covid-19 awareness campaign, tweets preventive measures||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch an awareness campaign to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour ahead of the upcoming festive season and amid reopening of the economy.Ahead of the launch on Thursday, PM Modi tweeted several Covid-19 preventive measures. “Let’s unite to fight Corona! Always remember: Do wear a mask, keep your hands clean, follow social distancing, maintain ‘two yards’ distance from others,” he tweeted. आइए, कोरोना से लड़ने के लिए एकजुट हों! हमेशा याद रखें: मास्क जरूर पहनें। हाथ साफ करते रहें। सोशल डिस्टेंसिंग का पालन करें। ‘दो गज की दूरी’ रखें। #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/L3wfaqlhDnThe campaign, launched to encourage people to help deliver messages of mask wearing, physical distancing and hand hygiene, got the Union Cabinet’s nod on Wednesday.“Mask, social distancing and washing hands are the only weapons to remain safe, in the absence of a Covid-19 vaccine,” information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said.According to an official statement released Wednesday, the campaign will be conducted in various languages across the country and a Covid-19 pledge will be taken by all.“An action plan will be implemented by central ministries and state and UT departments,” the statement said.“Dissemination throughout the country using all media platforms, banners and posters at public places, involving frontline workers and targeting beneficiaries of government schemes, will be part of the plan,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-tweets-covid-19-safety-measures-hours-before-launching-jan-andolan-campaign/story-kq1zUwOllGBMzmIfY2q4LP.html
08-10-2020||India||Covid-19: India won’t allow trial of Russia’s Sputnik V in large study||The Drugs Controller General of India has declined the proposal of pharma company Dr Reddy’s laboratories to conduct the third phase trial of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine as the early trials have been condicted on a small group of overseas population.After Russia became the first country that claimed to have come up with an effective Covid-19 vaccine, Dr Reddy’s Lab joined hands with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine as well as its distribution.However, global experts raised concerns over the safety of the vaccine as it was rolled out in a short time. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan recently hinted that India has not given its nod to Dr Reddy’s to go ahead with the trial of the vaccine among Indian population yet. No final decision on #SputnikV vaccine developed by Russia has been taken yet. #ModiGovt will take a decision which is in the best interest of the people of India.@MoHFW_INDIA #sundaysamvaadwithdrhv #VaccineSafety pic.twitter.com/gCuAWBf9bsThe phase-3 trial of Sputnik V is underway in Russia on around 40,000 subjects since September 1.“After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should follow the regulatory requirements and conduct phase 2/3 trial in the country with proper monitoring for humoral and cell mediated immune response,” the committee that looked into Dr Reddy’s proposal said. What next?Instead of jumping straight to a large-scale trial, Dr Reddy’s has been advised to consider a small trial.Other vaccine updatesThree vaccine candidates are at present under trial in India. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate, is conducting phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials. The vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the other developed by Zydus Cadila Ltd. are in the second phase of human trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-won-t-allow-trial-of-russia-s-sputnik-v-in-large-study/story-0N9UirQqVn5cabYQRcLHlL.html
08-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India’s first coronavirus wave finally recedes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s first Covid-19 wave finally recedesThe first wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) appears to be receding for the first time across the country, with cases seeing a steady drop for three consecutive weeks now. Experts warn that with the festive season coming up, the curve may rise again if people let their guard down during the celebrations. Read morePM Modi to handover 132K property deeds in landmark rural reformPrime Minister Narendra Modi will, on Sunday, hand over physical copies of property titles of their homes and the surrounding areas they own (as opposed to the cultivated land) to around 132,000 land owners across 763 villages in a significant land ownership reform. Read moreUS Election 2020: If Donald Trump tells us we should take it, I’m not taking vaccine, says Kamala HarrisHere are the top quotes from the only vice presidential debate between incumbent Mike Pence and his Democratic Party opponent Kamala Harris. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Can’t stop theft till thieves repent, I can’t be police forever,’ R Ashwin talks about not Mankading Aaron FinchRavichandran Ashwin had divided the cricketing world when he ran Jos Buttler out for backing up too far without a warning in last year’s IPL, and this year, he grabbed the headlines after giving a warning to Aaron Finch for the same offence. Read moreAkshay Oberoi: ‘If I could, I would just be a stay-at-home dad. I love it’Akshay Oberoi seems to have his hands full with multiple projects, releasing one after the other on OTT platforms. Born and brought up in the US, the actor is well aware of his good looks and consistently picks up roles to prove his acting prowess and versatility, in order to not be passed off as just a good looking face. Read moreSamsung Galaxy F41 to launch in India today, all you need to knowSamsung Galaxy F41 is scheduled to launch in India later today. Galaxy F41 is the first phone from Samsung’s new Galaxy F series. Samsung has been teasing its upcoming phone on Flipkart where it will be available. Read moreMG Gloster luxury SUV launch today: Live and latest updatesMG is all set to officially launch Gloster SUV as its fourth offering in India in little over a year since the company made its India debut. Read moreAutomatic door opens only for those wearing mask. Watch viral videoMasks are a necessity of the current times. It is a safety gear that one should always wear whenever they’re stepping outside their house. In other words, adding mask to their regular wardrobe is something that everyone should do. Time and again, various posts on social media also remind people about its importance. Read more‘Blessing in disguise that I caught Coronavirus’: Donald Trump lauds RegeneronUS President Donald Trump has said that it was a blessing in disguise that he caught Coronavirus. Trump said that he was not feeling very well when he went in to the Walter Reed Medical Centre and then he was administered Regeneron which worked wonderfully for him. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-s-first-coronavirus-wave-finally-recedes-and-all-the-latest-news/story-AJO11bJL3U90LKNUj7mqoI.html
08-10-2020||India||NHRC asks states to expand category of prisoners who can be released||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked all the states and union territories to consider expanding the categories of prisoners who could be released in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, as social distancing is difficult to observe inside the prisons, and hiring medical officers at a “war-footing”. It has also asked police departments not to arrest persons accused of minor and bailable offences so as to keep public interaction minimum. On Monday, the rights body issued an advisory to all the states/Union Territories (UTs) and the Centre on the rights of prisoners and police personnel based on an impact assessment by a Committee of Experts formed by it to look into the human rights and future response. Also Read: Covid-19: India crosses 82 million tests in 9 monthsThe Supreme Court had, in March this year, asked the chief secretaries of all the states/UTs to release a certain category of prisoners to avoid overcrowding in the jails in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. A large number of under trial inmates has been released by states in the past five or six months. In its communication, NHRC has said that all inmates should be provided with soaps, sanitisers, masks and their regular use must be mandated. It has also asked the jail authorities to fill up vacancies of medical officers and paramedical staff on a “war-footing”—preferably within the next six months. “In the meantime, where there are only visiting doctors available, efforts may be made to explore collaboration with local private doctors as the pressure on public health care system would be immense,” states the advisory. The rights body has suggested that jails can also collaborate with local and specialist hospitals so that inmates and jail staff can be provided appropriate testing and treatment quickly. Sufficient stocks of medicines like paracetamol, Vitamin E, Zinc and others should be maintained in all jails, for which extra budget should be given to prison authorities, NHRC said. NHRC also issued an advisory for the police, asking them to not arrest persons accused of minor, bailable offences. In its advisory related to the rights of police officers, who are most vulnerable to contracting Covid-19 due to the nature of their job, NHRC said, “Arrests and remand to be undertaken only in serious [cases]. In non-bailable offences, the accused be produced before the court at the earliest if he or she is no longer required for investigation.” Police departments have also been asked to have a worst-case scenario business continuity plan—ensuring the continuity of core functions of police services, while supporting the public health services and general governance of the state. For managing big crowds or protests, NHRC has said that police should use proportionate force only when necessary. The rights body said that law enforcement officers are likely more heavily impacted as they are one of the “essential workers” that must continue to work and respond to calls for service while others shelter at home. It also said that police departments should use a single spokesperson as a source of authoritative information for the public. Police stations have been asked to prepare detailed SOPs (standard operating protocols) for the overall sanitisation of the reception area, lock-up, waiting areas, toilets, and interview rooms while dealing with public work. The Station House Officers (SHOs) of police stations have been told to form a WhatsApp group of all personnel in their jurisdiction for sharing important information. As of September 28, 124,000 police personnel have already tested positive for Covid-19 across the country, of which 674 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-asks-states-to-expand-category-of-prisoners-who-can-be-released/story-Y6CE8EQ3tLdNuql17a4GuO.html
08-10-2020||India||Covid-19: India crosses 82 million tests in 9 months||Testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has picked up exponentially in the past 9 months, with around 82 million cumulative number of samples having already been tested so far.At least one million samples are being tested for Covid-19 each day on an average since past month and a half, with country’s current Covid-19 testing capacity being 1.5 million tests each day.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that is spearheading the Covid-19 testing initiative in the country has currently approved 1,893 laboratories from across the country that also include several standalone labs.Also read: What you need to know about Covid-19 todayOf all ICMR approved laboratories performing Covid-19 tests in India, 1,104 are in the government sector and 789 labs are in the private sector.There are at least 15 more applications pending for approval before ICMR that are currently being processed. Of these, 15 are in Maharashtra, and 1 each in Sikkim and Andhra Pradesh.There are 973 laboratories in all that are performing the gold standard real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test; 791 that perform Covid-19 tests using the TrueNat testing platform; and about 129 labs that perform CBNAAT testing for Covid-19.Both TrueNat and CBNAAT testing platforms are used to conduct tuberculosis testing, and have been re-purposed to also conduct Covid-19 tests in a bid to enhance country’s overall Covid-19 testing capacity. “There are multiple factors behind India’s low death rate; from implementing public health measures such as nationwide lockdown, to inter-ministerial collaborations for launching several make-in-India initiatives, and increasing testing,” says Dr Samiran Panda, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR. “Testing was increased by not only enhancing laboratory network in a short span of time but also by repurposing of existing diagnostic platforms, for example that for tuberculosis, to use for Covid-19 testing. All these were crucial in identifying the infected, and isolating them as per requirement very early on in the disease stage,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-crosses-82-million-tests-in-9-months/story-0hP0CWROjGsxsL6N2l6FkN.html
08-10-2020||India||GJM reiterates Gorkhaland demand||The Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) on Wednesday reiterated its demand for a separate Gorkhaland state comprising Darjeeling and its adjoining areas in a meeting with the minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy and Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla. A tripartite meeting was called by the Union home ministry (MHA), with GJM and the West Bengal government, to discuss issues related to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA). However, the West Bengal government skipped the meeting, which was attended by a seven-member GJM delegation at North Block. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, GJM working president Lopsang Lama said that they submitted a memorandum saying that their only demand is for a separate Gorkhaland state. “We have not discussed anything about GTA. We have submitted a memorandum on how and why GTA has failed... Our only demand is a Gorkhaland state, and we have raised that,” Lama said, adding that the minister assured them he would take up the matter with Union home minister Amit Shah. The BJP won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat three times since 2009 by forging an alliance with GJM. In 2019, the BJP’s alliance was with the GJM (Gurung faction), the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), and other small political parties in the Darjeeling hills. Its candidate, Raju Bista, beat the TMC candidate by over 300,000 votes. The BJP has promised to find a permanent political solution to the demand for a Gorkhaland, which has been raised by the Nepali-speaking Gorkhas living in the Darjeeling hills and adjoining Siliguri, the Terai and the Dooars region in north Bengal, and has mentioned this in its election manifestos in 2014 and 2019. The demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland in the hills of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kursegaon, ethnically dominated by the Gorkhas, has been made since 1980s. Welcoming the Wednesday’s development, Mahendra Chhetri, the GNLF spokesperson said “The Centre should start dialogues to find a permanent political solution as promised by the BJP in the last Lok Sabha election manifesto.” The West Bengal government has repeatedly claimed that the Centre is trying to divide the state, which is not acceptable to Trinamool Congress (TMC)-led government. Lama said in a statement after meeting that the delegation raised the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland and grant of Scheduled Tribe status to 11 Gorkha sub-communities. “When the issue of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration was raised, GJM delegation submitted that the delegation was there to discuss the statehood demand and grant of Scheduled Tribe (ST) status and not GTA since the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) signed between the Union of India, government of West Bengal and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in 2011 was not honoured by the state of West Bengal,” the statement said. The TMC accused the BJP government of playing mischief. “There was no compulsion to call a meeting on GTA now. This is mischief making by the Centre...,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and spokesperson Saugata Roy. “The GTA was an outcome of a tripartite agreement. The state and the Centre are equal stakeholders in it. Legally, the GJM cannot even raise the Gorkhaland issue at a meeting called on GTA. Politically, the BJP will lose the ground it gained in Bengal in 2019 if splits Darjeeling, Terai and Dooars from the state. Bengalis will not accept that,” said Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gjm-reiterates-gorkhaland-demand/story-GH88K1jMxwsaqDwqD9F57N.html
08-10-2020||India||Edappadi K Palaniswami is AIADMK’s chief minister face for 2021 elections||Tamil Nadu’s ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagm (AIADMK) on Wednesday said it would project Edappadi K Palaniswami as its chief ministerial face in the assembly elections due in the first quarter of 2021. The announcement was made by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who is also the joint coordinator of the party, at AIADMK’s headquarters in Chennai. AIADMK also announced the setting up of a 11-member steering committee to guide the party as a part of a deal between factions owing allegiance to the CM and deputy CM. The announcement that Palaniswami, popularly known as EPS, will be the chief ministerial face of the AIADMK in the next polls and the formation of the steering committee signalled a truce between the two top leaders, who were rivals at one time.Panneerselvam, or OPS, has been chief minister thrice in the past - twice when former AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa had to step down from the post and once after she died in December 2016. He had wanted to be projected as the CM face in the next polls, but EPS, a former loyalist of Jayalalithaa’s confidante Sasikala Natarajan and who had established firm control over the party since she was sentenced to four years in prison in 2017 for amassing wealth disproportionate to her sources of income, and made sure he won the race. The six EPS loyalists who are a part of the steering committee include forest minister Dindigul C Sreenivasan, minister for municipal administration S P Velumani, minister for electricity, prohibition and excise P Thangamani, minister for fisheries D Jayakumar, minister for law, courts and prisons C Ve Shanmugam and minister for food and civil supplies R Kamraj.Former MP’s Manoj Pandian, R Gopalkrishnan, Sholavandan MLA K Manickam and former MLAs P Mohan and JCD Prabhakar are the five OPS loyalists who are on the steering committee. The term of the assembly expires in May 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/edappadi-k-palaniswami-is-aiadmk-s-chief-miniter-face-for-2021-elections/story-CRuAHQLdtuIlx8YJtqS5pO.html
08-10-2020||India||Anil Pawar: Three decades of tireless service||‘Tension mat lena Seema… aur bacchon ka dhyan rakhna (Try not to worry, Seema. Take care of the kids)’. That was senior police inspector Anil Pawar’s last text message to his wife. Six days later, he was gone, survived by 43-year-old Seema and their two daughters, Prachi, 25, and Gauri, 23. Anil, 55, had been a policeman for 30 years. He’d been on duty with the traffic control department until June 11, when he first felt the fever and body ache. He tested positive for Covid-19 two days later and was admitted to hospital, but his condition quickly deteriorated. Seema tested positive days later, and was treated at the same facility. “Before that, we talked every day. We spoke on video call, so I would see him,” Seema said. At the hospital, she was in a ward and he was in the Intensive Care Unit. “We were so close. But I could not talk to him or see him.” In his neighbourhood in Mira Road, a fringe suburb of Mumbai, Pawar is remembered as a cheerful man who loved to sing. “He did not get much time to do household chores, because of the job he had. But during the lockdown he did all the shopping,” Seema said. “He wouldn’t let any of us to go out.” In earlier times, if Pawar was home, relaxing and enjoying some time to himself, you knew it from the sound of him humming. “He loved to see new places and cities, so we took a family vacation at least once a year. Last December, we, his friends and their wives all travelled to Rajasthan. We sang old songs together — he loved to do that. Singing meant that he was happy,” Seema said. Anil loved festivals — Ganesh Chaturthi and Diwali were his favourites — but he never got to celebrate them. He was always on duty. Those were often his busiest times. But mornings were family time, and whenever he could, he loved to have dinner with everyone sitting down together. “I was his tea person. He didn’t like his morning tea if I hadn’t made it,” Gauri said. “My father didn’t like meat, but he loved fish. And whenever we went out, he would order the same things — either dal khichdi or Manchow soup.” Prachi is studying medicine in Russia; Gauri aims to take on the uniform. “He always wanted to see me become an officer, in a post higher than his,” Gauri said. “He used to say he wanted to be able to salute me before retirement.” Colleagues remember Anil as “a good officer and a very good human being”. He made a special effort to keep in touch with old friends. “Whenever he went to another city, he would set aside time to catch up with former batchmates,” said senior inspector Baba Salunkhe of the Kurar police station. “And now we have all the photographs he took on those visits, sitting in our WhatsApp group.” Pawar joined the police force in 1990. He is one of 247 police personnel to have died from Covid-19 in Maharashtra. Over 23,500 have tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-pawar-three-decades-of-tireless-service/story-67ApT7NnvfwirVXa0GJazI.html
08-10-2020||India||Dr JN Pande: Pioneer and teacher who inspired all||Dr Jitendra Nath Pande, 78, retired as the head of the department of medicine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi more than a decade ago, but he continued treating at least 50 patients a day in private practice till before his death due to the coronavirus disease, or Covid-19, on May 22.A pulmonary specialist who advised the government on several issues, including the health impact of air pollution, Dr Pande also set up one of the first intensive care units in the country. Known fondly as an encyclopaedia of medicine and a pioneer of critical care in northern India, Pande taught and inspired a generation of doctors and medical professionals at AIIMS.To his students, colleagues and patients, Pande was a great clinician with uncanny diagnostic skills , a great teacher, a stickler for punctuality, an academic, and a doctor who could repair medical equipment on his own. “He was a wizard on computer operations and used to do statistical analysis himself despite there being a team to do it for research work. I remember him spending a whole day reading a manual of bedside cardiac monitors, which was procured for the first time in the department. He used to open the ABG machine (a machine to monitor the levels of various gasses like oxygen and carbon dioxide in a patient) and repair it himself,” said Dr GC Khilnani, chairman of pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine at PSRI hospital. He narrated an incident of a 41-year-old asthma patient Pande was treating at AIIMS, who could not be weaned off a ventilator. “He listened to me on the way and as he reached the patient’s bedside, he just lifter her arm and gave a diagnosis. I was shocked,” said Dr Khilnani. Dr Ashok Kumar, who studied under Dr Pande and currently heads the department of rheumatology at Fortis Vasant Kunj, said, “He was like an encyclopaedia. Sometimes when we asked questions, he could give the exact page number and the table that we should refer to. It was as if he remembered the whole book.” Pande had in-depth knowledge of other specialities as well. “When we used to have the grand rounds – where doctors from all the departments come together to discuss the cases – he was always the one with the maximum number of questions or ideas. And, people would listen to him because he could speak with authority about other specialities as well,” said Dr Anant Mohan, head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS. He worked a senior resident under Dr Pande. His team’s study on ‘Outdoor air pollution and emergency room visits at a hospital in Delhi’ in 1997-98 was referred to by the Supreme Court of India in its judgment banning diesel buses in Delhi in 1998. His research focused on high altitude physiology, lung mechanics in health and disease, exercise physiology, and interstitial lung disease (a group of diseases that affect the interstitium or the network of tissues that supports the air sacs). When patients queued up outside his clinic, he would call them according to their serial number without consideration about whether it was a “VIP patient”. “He would always call in patients on a first come first serve basis. He was a passionate teacher and reached for his morning rounds even before his students,” said Dr Mohan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-jn-pande-pioneer-and-teacher-who-inspired-all/story-3Ao3dQqBPYxaWdzeuns3dO.html
08-10-2020||India||HT Codeathon: Coding Olympiad to help train for a digital future||Hindustan Times is launching India’s biggest coding Olympiad, Hindustan Times Codeathon, on Thursday to offer students a platform to learn coding and boost algorithmic thinking, mathematical and computing skills, and analytical thinking to prepare them for careers of tomorrow in science and technology. HT Codeathon is open for students from grade 6 through grade 9 and offers a curriculum designed to make coding languages such as HTML, CSS & and Python appealing for school students. The top 100 performers will be chosen for the finale in December. “Careers of the future would necessarily involve an interconnected vision towards solving global and national issues, such as healthcare and climate change. An investment in science and technology is an investment in greater equality; scientific knowledge. Science education brings tools and techniques that empower individuals and can help to combat inequalities,” said Dr Archana Sharma, senior scientist at CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research), Geneva, Switzerland, best known for discovering the Higgs Boson or the God Particle in July 2012. .Interest in science must start young. “I strongly feel that more and more children should be trained for the digital age as the future will be driven by machines. AI (artificial intelligence) will lead to a lot of job disruption. Some reports say that 75 million jobs would be wiped out in the future but at the same time, 13.3 million new jobs would be created. That means there will be a lot of disruption in the labour market and therefore our children need to be ready for human-machine collaborations that will become common in the future. If they can learn coding languages, then they can probably get to do the better jobs such as creating new software, new AI agents and programming robots.,” said Professor Mausam, head of the school of artificial intelligence at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi. “It is not just about learning coding or computer science, but there is a need for training students to think critically and independently,” said Professor Soumitra Banerjee, general secretary of Breakthrough Science Society, Kolkata, a not-for-profit organisation that promotes science.Teaching machines human language is an upcoming field of research,experts said. “This is a big area of research called natural language processing and spoken language understanding. Some early successes have happened like Google translations, but there are a lot of mistakes, which tells us it is not ready yet. If children are trained in the language of the machines and the machines learn human languages, it can lay the foundation for an interface in the future,” said Professor Mausam. “With coding skills, students will be able to analyse and creatively solve problems by picking up a suitable programming language, design patterns and empower process of logical expression to implement solutions. Learning these coding basics at the school level will help break down challenging concepts into engaging exercises for young children,” said Anuradha Sharma, principal, Ryan International School, Vasant Kunj, New Delhi. “HT Codeathon is a sure route for our students to learn to code. It is a most important aspect of being digitally fluent. There’s no denying that technology now dominates all aspects of life. Being computer-literate just won’t cut it anymore. And everyone from Bill Gates to Prime Minister Narendra Modi is encouraging young people to give it a go. There is currently a shortage of software developers worldwide so learning to code can be an easy route into an open field of work,” said Nita Arora, principal, Sri Venkateshwar International School, Dwarka, New Delhi. With over 22,000 registrations on the platform, the Codeathon will train participants for a tech-enabled future. All participants will receive mentorship from technical experts, get a certificate and an opportunity to win laptops or smart watches at the event. You can register at www.htcodeathon.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-codeathon-coding-olympiad-to-help-train-for-a-digital-future/story-UwnnjKey2kDPMJq2CmyqHK.html
08-10-2020||India||Three terrorists gunned down in encounter in J-K’s Shopian||Three terrorists were killed in an overnight encounter in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, police officials said on Wednesday. The police, army and CRPF started a joint search and cordon operation in Sugan area of the district on Tuesday evening, officials said. “During the search operation, the terrorists were given the opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter,” a police spokesperson said. He said that the operation was suspended due to darkness and the area was cordoned off. “Terrorists trapped inside made certain attempts to break the cordon and escape,” he said. Early on Wednesday morning, the operation resumed and the three militants were killed. “Their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter,” he said. The terrorists were identified as Sajad Ahmad Malla, affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen and Waseem Ahmad Magray, who was affiliated with Al-Badar outfit. The third militant has been identified as Junaid Rashid Wani. The spokesperson said that the militants were part of groups involved in planning and executing several terror attacks in the area. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the bodies of the terrorists will be sent to Handwara for burial following medico-legal formalities. “The nearest family members of the killed militants shall be allowed to participate in the last rites,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-terrorists-gunned-down-in-encounter/story-MuPAGCJgyLDZQd3ywS28EK.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi starts 20th year as the head of a govt||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his leadership as he started his 20th year as head of government, 13 years as chief minister of Gujarat and six years as Prime Minister of the country. “The Cabinet congratulated the Prime Minister for entering the 20th year as a government head, uninterrupted, and by democratic means. He gave the corruption-free government to the nation, fulfilled long-awaited pending schemes. He made foundational reforms for development,” Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said. BJP, also heaped praises on PM Modi for achieving the feat.Party president J P Nadda on Twitter said, “October 7, 2001, when Modi was sworn in as Gujarat chief minister for the first time, is a “milestone” in India’s political history. Modi has since been notching up bigger victories and his popularity has only gone up.” The party also projected graphic images showing Modi’s record in elected office as compared to legendary figures like Franklin Roosevelt, Margaret Thatcher and Francois Mitterand. “Be it as a chief minister for Gujarat or as the Prime Minister of the world’s largest democracy, Narendra Modi has always been a crusader for people’s welfare,” the party said on social media. Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri also lauded Modi for “20 years in service of humanity & Maa Bharati with dedication, vision & selflessness”.“Heartiest congratulations to PM @narendramodi Ji for becoming the only democratically elected world leader to serve the people continuously for 20 years since 2001,” Puri said. “PM Sri @narendramodi Ji has completed 6941 successful days in total as CM of Gujarat & PM of India. One of the unblemished tenures ever seen. Kept public welfare as a priority and never worried about himself,” its spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-starts-20th-year-as-the-head-of-a-govt/story-a701UuRN79VfkIiix7597J.html
08-10-2020||India||PM Modi to launch Covid-19 awareness campaign today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch an awareness campaign on Thursday to promote Covid-19 apropriate behaviour ahead of the upcoming festival and winter season as well as the opening up of the economy.The Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave nod to the campaign, which will be launched to encourage people’s participation (Jan Andolan) and will be a “low cost high intensity” affair aimed at delivering messages of mask wearing, physical distancing and hand hygiene.“Mask, social distancing and washing hands are the only weapons to remain safe, in the absence of a Covid-19 vaccine,” information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said. To achieve a multiplier effect, the campaign will involve those working in anganwadis, health sector and around 500 influencers from sports, culture and the film industry. Communication touch-points such as markets, railway stations, anganwadi Centres will be utilized for the campaign.“A Covid-19 pledge will be taken by all. A concerted action plan will be implemented by central ministries and state and UT departments,” said an official statement, adding there would be region-specific targeted communication in high case-load districts.The government has prepared slides – with photos of PM Modi -- to be used both physical and online. The tagline of these slides will be “no carelessness until there is a cure” and they will contain messages such as “stay protected from corona”, “wear your mask properly” and “maintain safe distance” with visual representation. Officials said the campaign will be conducted in various languages across the length and breadth of the country. Bodies such as the Confederation of Indian Industry and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry may also be encouraged to participate while Doordarshan has already initiated a Mask Up India campaign, it is learnt.Dissemination throughout the country using all media platforms, banners and posters at public places, involving frontline workers and targeting beneficiaries of government schemes, will be part of the plan, the official statement said. Running mobile vans for awareness generation, audio messages and seeking support of Local Cable Operators for running Covid-19 messages, will be the other dimensions of the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-covid-awareness-campaign/story-she8m3L9YJFpDTf0PQ9VeJ.html
08-10-2020||India||In a first, PM Modi to hand over Aadhaar-like cards for properties mapped by drones||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will, on Sunday, hand over physical copies of property titles of their homes and the surrounding areas they own (as opposed to the cultivated land) to around 132,000 land owners across 763 villages in a significant land ownership reform that could improve the finances of rural property-owners and also end property disputes that have gone on for years, sometimes decades.The title deeds can be leveraged by their holders as financial assets for loans and will also help keep a record of properties in the rural areas; no such records exist currently. The title deeds will be handed over under the “Svamitva” project launched by PM on April 24 and will map all urban or abadi (populated) areas of 6.40 lakh villages by 2024. House owners from 763 villages including 221 from Haryana, two from Karnataka, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, 346 from Uttar Pradesh and 50 from Uttarakhand will receive physical copies of title deeds as well as digital property cards, people familiar with the matter said. The objective of this scheme is to provide an integrated asset verification solution for rural India, they added on condition of anonymity. The land of the residents in rural abadi areas will be demarcated using the latest survey methods using drones and with the help of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, State Revenue Departments and the Survey of India. This will not only enable village household owners to use their homes as a collateral for loans but also cut down on costly rural litigation. Also Read | PM Modi dials Putin, wants to host him as soon as global health crisis wanesThe local representatives of the revenue department and representatives of other allied departments will prepare a record of the ownership of the people in the presence of the inhabitants. Along with this, a detailed arrangement has been set in place for on the spot settlement of disputes, the people explained. ALSO WATCH | Linking your Aadhaar with Pan Card, 8 things you should know Since the very beginning, the villages of India have been the backbone of its economy, because “Malgujari” or land revenue was the main source of the state income, these people said. When the British took over the reins of governance here, they inherited a land record system established over centuries. As their sole objective was to collect as much land revenue from tenants as possible, the British established the Zamindari system in many parts of the country and the so-called ryotwari system in the remaining parts. Even as the ownership of the cultivated land and their measurement maps were prepared , they did not make any effort to measure the populated area of the village; nor did they try to determine the ownership of residents in those populated areas . This was not done as there was no land revenue to be collected from the abadi area . Unfortunately even after independence , no effort was made to either demarcate the abadi land or create ownership rights there.Also Read | Decoding the secret of Modi’s communicationDue to the absence of any kind of ownership records or demarcation of abadi land , whenever any dispute arose regarding possession , drainage, or boundaries, the parties have to go to a civil court for settlement of disputes, a lengthy process that sometimes transcends generations. According to a person well versed in land titling issues who asked not to be named, of the total number of cases pending in the civil courts of our country, at least 40% are related to the disputes concerning the abadi land.The concept of property ownership being a way to access credit and improve the financial position of the poor is well established. It is the central thesis of Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto Polar who argues that providing the poor with access to listless would unlock their economic potential and prevent their assets from being what he terms dead capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hand-over-copies-of-132k-property-titles/story-Agp9BY5eWi97BzlQm2QNIO.html
08-10-2020||India||Can’t occupy indefinitely, says Supreme Court on Shaheen Bagh||The Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday that the right to protest and express dissent against governments is a fundamental right, but not absolute and also that public places cannot be occupied indefinitely to stage protests and demonstrations. The court also slammed the authorities for failing to disperse protesters who occupied a public space in the city for longer than three months.The ruling came in the context of the long-running protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, in south Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh that started on December 15, 2019, and ended on March 23, not because of police action but the lockdown imposed to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The stage and other facilities put in place by the protestors were subsequently dismantled by the police.“We have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely. Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone,” a three-judge bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said.The protest in Shaheen Bagh blocked public way and caused grave inconvenience to commuters and that’s not acceptable,the bench, also comprising justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, held. Such protests should be allowed only in areas specifically designated for the purpose, it said.The ruling came in response to a plea filed by advocate Amit Sahni in February, who wanted the road blockade in the Shaheen Bagh–Kalindi Kunj stretch lifted. The protest in Shaheen Bagh blocked one of the key thoroughfares to Noida. The court was also critical of the authorities for their failure to act against the protesters,saying they should have taken timely action to keep public areas free of encroachments. The administration neither started negotiations with the protesters nor acted against them that warranted the court’s intervention, the bench said. Law and order in Delhi comes under the purview of the Union government, and Delhi Police reports to it.“The courts adjudicate the legality of the actions and are not meant to give a shoulder to the administration to fire their guns from,” it said in the verdict. The apex court also observed that although the creation of an independent India can be traced to the seeds of protest sown during the freedom struggle, the mode and manner of dissent against colonial rule cannot be equated with dissent in a self-ruled democracy.India’s constitutional scheme envisages the right to protest and express dissent, but with certain obligations, the court said.“Article 19, one of the cornerstones of the Constitution of India, confers upon its citizens two treasured rights, i.e., the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) and the right to assemble peacefully without arms under Article 19(1)(b). These rights are subject to reasonable restrictions, which, inter alia, pertain to the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India and public order,” the judgment stated.The CAA, which was passed on December 12, 2019, replaced the Citizenship Act, 1955, to fast-track the grant of Indian citizenship to members of the Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian communities from the Muslim-majority nations of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The exclusion of Muslims triggered widespread protests across the country as did the linking of citizenship with religion.Petitioner Sahni had stated that while people have the right to protest, it was subject to reasonable restrictions and protesters cannot be allowed to occupy public roads indefinitely. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, concurred with the petitioner.“Every right is qualified,” Mehta argued.During the hearing of the case, the court had on February 17 attempted to resolve the issue by sending two lawyers, senior advocate Sanjay Hegde and advocate Sadhana Ramachandran, to mediate with the protesters. The effort did not yield any results.Hegde declined to comment on the matter because the court had appointed him as an interlocutor. “Sadhana [Ramachandran] and I were required to do a job and we did it to the best of our abilities in the given situation,” Hegde added.In its judgment, the Supreme Court made some interesting observations on the nature of the protest itself. The protest had won the limelight because most participants in the sit-in were women.The court, after going through the report submitted by Hegde and Ramachandran, stated that “while the women protesters had sat in protest inside the tent, there was a huge periphery comprising mainly of male protesters, volunteers and bystanders who all seemed to have a stake in the continuance of the blockade of the road.”There was no common leadership helming the protests, the court said. “It appeared that an absence of leadership guiding the protest and the presence of various groups of protesters had resulted in many influencers who were acting possibly at cross-purposes with each other. Thus, the Shaheen Bagh protest perhaps no longer remained the sole and empowering voice of women, who also appeared to no longer have the ability to call off the protest themselves,” the judgment noted.The protestors also did not fully realise the ramifications of the pandemic, but divine intervention finally led to the protestors deserting the site, it added.Welcoming the ruling that the right to protest is a fundamental right, organisers of the sit-in at Shaheen Bagh expressed reservations on the part of the judgment that public spaces cannot be occupied indefinitely. “This is against all oppressed people who try to protest against injustice,” said Abid Sheikh, one of the organisers of the protest.Recently, 82-year-old protester Bilkis — popularly known as dadi (grandmother) of Shaheen Bagh — was included in Time magazine’s list of the 100 most influential people of 2020. Bilkis told HT about the verdict: “We respect the judgment. We will not be protesting now due to the Covid-19 crisis and our first priority is to fight against the pandemic. However, we still want the government to talk to us and repeal CAA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-occupy-indefinitely-says-supreme-court-on-shaheen-bagh/story-IlT5EU5GMn9CujGGX2ZoSL.html
08-10-2020||India||Kerala records highest single-day spike with 10,606 new Covid-19 cases||Kerala’s Covid-19 woes continue unabated as the viral caseload on Wednesday crossed 10,000, the highest since the outbreak began in January. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said 10,606 new cases were reported on Wednesday and asked people to listen to the directives of the health ministry to tide over the crisis. Among those who tested Covid-19 positive is Power Minister M M Mani, the fourth minister to get infected in the state. The pressure on the overworked hospitals is quite visible as most of them are filled to the brim and there is a shortage of beds and ventilators. But the state government put up a brave face saying the state’s mortality rate is the lowest in the country. State health ministry statistics show among 92,161 active cases 610 are in intensive care units and 179 patients are on ventilator support. The surge in Covid-19 cases came as the state conducted the maximum number of tests (73,816) on Wednesday and experts said it will have to hike tests exponentially to contain the spread. They said the state had conducted only 33 lakh tests in six months and more than 60 per cent of them were antigen tests. Latest statistics show the test positivity rate has gone up to14.37 per cent against the national average of 8.4 per cent. The government has recorded 906 fatalities so far but independent doctors who are monitoring the pandemic situation put the toll at 1622. “The situation is really alarming. With high density of population and a large number of elderly population the state is going through a difficult phase. Political leadership will have to accept the fact rather than finding refuge in technicalities,” said Dr S S Lal, a public health expert who earlier served with the World Health Organisation. Many health experts in the state are up in arms saying they were kept away and the government was only heeding the bureaucracy. The CM and the Indian Medical Association had locked horns a couple of days back, with the former criticizing the doctors’ body saying it was propagating half-baked facts. But experts said going by the present surge the state may beat Maharashtra and Karnataka in active cases.“It is time for the state to surge ahead as a single unit foregoing political differences. Personally, I feel local body elections should be postponed. Lives are precious we have to save them. We are making suggestions to improve the system and minimize damage. But the government is taking them personally and singling out those who criticise it,” said Dr Lal. He said the government will have to come out of its Nipah fight record as it was a self-limiting virus but more dangerous than the present virus. “This was expected. We have been warning the government about the need for more tests. It is natural once you increase tests, cases will go up. It is time for the state to re-draw its strategies,” said IMA president Dr Abraham Varghese. However, state health minister KK Shailaja asked people not to panic but take utmost precaution and heed the directives of the government. After the situation deteriorated, the state has strengthened its curbs and asked the police to enforce norms strictly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-10-606-new-covid-19-cases/story-FpKNDoMIqtZW7QmYggopyM.html
08-10-2020||India||Govt wants to shut road for repairs; police resist||Closing the Ashram-Nizamuddin section of the Mathura Road for 10 days is the only way to address the chaos at the intersection with Ring Road, Delhi minister Satyender Jain said on Wednesday during a visit to the area after HT reported how the project to decongest one of the busiest junctions of the national capital has instead turned it into a traffic and pollution hot spot.The government’s view was supported by experts, who said there was no other option, but opposed by Delhi Traffic Police, which is the final authority on road closures, on the grounds that the road in question is one of the city’s principal arteries.Along with officials from the public works department (PWD) and the Delhi Jal Board, Jain on Wednesday reviewed the state of the area where traffic has been slowed to a crawl at all times of the day, the road surface cratered, and the air filled with dust from open construction material and the crumbling tarmac.“Both the functional carriageways on the Bhogal side of the Ashram intersection are in a dilapidated state because there are water pipelines right under them. Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials have said that every time they repair the water pipelines during the night time, it breaks due to the heavy traffic that starts from the morning. The constant digging and repairing have damaged the road,” Jain said.To carry out necessary repairs, the stretch of the road between Ashram and Bhogal will have to be entirely shut, he said. “We will request the traffic police to give permission to the PWD to shut both the carriageways on the Nizamuddin side for 10 days. In 10 days, the water pipelines will be totally replaced and a completely even and paved road will be built. Even the ramp for the proposed underpass will be ready by then. We hope the traffic police cooperate.”Taj Hassan, special commissioner of police (traffic), however, said it will be practically impossible to close both the carriageways for 10 days. “This is a main arterial road. Closing it fully in the day time will cause a lot of public inconvenience. We had permitted them to close the road for night hours, and we stand by that only,” said Hassan, adding that no letter making this request was received till Wednesday evening.According to traffic department estimates, about 20% of the 400,000 vehicles that use the Ashram intersection come from or head towards Bhogal. The stretch is also used by people accessing the Nizamuddin railway station from the southern part of the city. Experts said there is little option but to close the stretch entirely, especially because of the scale of repairs required to address the problems with the water pipelines. They warned that if the road was not shut temporarily, the problem would not be solved.“Water is the biggest enemy of bitumen. The pipelines, in this case, were not at much depth so the top layer of the road will keep breaking if it is not fixed for once and for all,” said Dr S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, CSIR-CRRI.“What is being done right now is merely a stop-gap arrangement. Allowing heavy and light commercial vehicles and buses on the stretch is worsening the situation. The road should be closed and the people should be asked to take Barapullah instead,” he said.Velmurugan added that such problems would not have emerged in the first place had the PWD conducted a feasibility study for traffic management during the construction of the underpass.The underpass cuts beneath Ashram Chowk and will allow traffic on the Mathura Road to proceed freely once built. But for its construction, a 175-m access ramp is being built on either side of the crossing. This portion is roughly 20m wide, which in the Bhogal direction accounts for two-thirds of the existing road width.PWD chief engineer PK Parmar said a 10-day closure will allow the department to finish work on the access ramps and pull back barricades by 1-1.15 metre (about the width of a car). “The intervening night between Tuesday and Wednesday was the first of the three days given to us when the DJB started repairing the pipeline. But, by today afternoon the line broke again and the road was back to square one. Because of such less time given, PWD also cannot do filling and carpeting of the operational carriageways because it takes at least 10 hours for the carpeting to set,” Parmar said.He added that if permission to close the road completely is not given, the situation is likely to remain the same. For now, some of the mitigating measures include the rerouting of Delhi Transport Commission (DTC) buses, which could help reduce surface wear. Jain directed DTC to divert all its buses on the stretch, following which the transporter issued an order. “Bus route number 460 operating between Badarpur Border and Minto Road terminal has been diverted to Lajpat Nagar flyover across Modi Mill flyover to connect to Mathura road. Buses on route number 413, operating between Nizamuddin Railway station and Mehrauli have been diverted from Sunder Nagar where they will have to turn right from Subj Bhurj Circle onto Lodhi road and then taking the Lala Lajpat Rai road…” the order said. The order also covers the privately run buses under the cluster bus service. In all, 10 bus routes use the stretch.A senior official of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which built the underground Ashram Metro station at the same congested area without hampering the traffic much, said the agency always carries out trials before beginning work. “We always get a study done by an expert consultant and plan based on that during the construction phase. We carry out trials and hold public consultation,” the official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-wants-to-shut-road-for-repairs-police-resist/story-Yld6Vyt3n0WYZ7PU1vEsJM.html
08-10-2020||India||Assam cabinet decides to notify Bodo as associate official language of the state||The Assam cabinet on Wednesday decided to notify Bodo as an associate official language of the state. The development comes nine months after signing of the Bodo Peace Accord among the Centre, the Assam government, four Bodo rebel groups and two Bodo organizations, which included declaring Bodo as associate official language as one of the clauses. The state cabinet also decided to set up a Bodo Kachari autonomous welfare council for people belonging to Bodo community residing outside 6th Schedule areas—another clause mentioned in the accord signed in January. “The state cabinet has taken two important decisions. Bodo will be the associate official language for the state of Assam. (Setting up of) Bodo Kachari autonomous welfare council outside the 6th Schedule area for welfare of Bodo community,” senior Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. The Bodo Peace Accord was signed in January by four militant factions of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB), All Bodo Students Union (ABSU) and United Bodo Peoples’ Organisation (UBPO) with the Centre and Assam government. Last month, the Assam government announced setting up a commission to redraw the boundary of Bodoland Territorial Areas District (BTAD), which comprises Baksa, Kokrajhar, Udalguri and Chirang districts-one of the accord’s main clauses. BTAD has since been named Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) as per another clause in the accord Elections to Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC), which was ruled by Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner in the BJP-led ruling coalition in the state, was scheduled in April this year, but the entire BTAD was placed under Governor’s rule the same month as polls couldn’t be held due to the Covid-19 lockdown. On Tuesday, the state government held an all-party meeting to discuss election to BTC where the state health department proposed holding the polls in December in view of the existing Covid-19 scenario.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cabinet-decides-to-notify-bodo-as-associate-official-language-of-the-state/story-JrOXl5Nf54Udxaf36gxqgM.html
08-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt to home deliver ‘Pahadi mutton’, ‘Himalayan fish’ to boost economy of hilly areas||The Uttarakhand government in an initiative to promote meat products of the state’s hilly areas and boost the economy amid the Covid-19 pandemic will now home deliver mutton sourced from the hills or ‘pahadi’ goats and fish from the rivers up in the Himalayas. The initiative named Bakraw for mutton of pahadi goats and Uttarafish for fish from hilly areas was launched by minister of animal husbandry and pisciculture Rekha Arya in Dehradun on Wednesday. The development has come after about a month of Arya announcing the move to introduce Trout fish from Denmark in the waters of hilly areas. Launching the initiative, Arya said the move will be of great help to “increase the income of people involved in pisciculture and goat rearing in the nine hill districts of Uttarakhand”. “So far the people in animal husbandry and pisciculture in the hill districts were not aware of a proper market of the valuation of their produce and the work was not organised. Under these two initiatives, the sector has been organised and they will get to sell their produce at appropriate market price directly to the customers on just a phone call on the lines of pizza home delivery,” the minister said. She informed that under the Bakraw initiative people would be able to savour Himalayan goat meat while under Uttarafish; they can buy the Himalayan Trout fish. The minister said, “Till date Himalayan goat rearing and Trout cultivation was done by the women associated with cooperative societies. They have now formed a cooperative federation that would be supplying both the goat meat and fish under these initiatives. It will help the women by increasing their income.” The minister informed that the initiative has so far been launched only in Dehradun district but would soon be started in other districts like Nainital and US Nagar. “We are likely to be the first Himalayan state in the country to brand our goat meat and fish to sell it. We will soon start supplying it outside the state and even country after proper evaluation,” Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-to-home-deliver-pahadi-mutton-himalayan-fish-to-boost-economy-of-hilly-areas/story-cAT4cbgNp1dtxlM6YOX8BM.html
08-10-2020||India||Amid Covid-19, EC trims star campaigner lists for parties ahead of Bihar polls||The Election Commission has restricted the number of star campaigners that political parties can deploy for the Bihar assembly elections, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The maximum limit on the number of star campaigners for recognised national and state political parties shall be 30 in place of 40 and for unrecognised registered political parties it shall be 15 in place of 20 during the period of pandemic,” the EC said in a statement issued on Wednesday. The Commission justified its decision, saying its team that visited Bihar between September 29 and October 1 was informed about the potential health concerns during the visits of star campaigners, especially as “huge crowds gathered at the landing of helicopters”. “The matter was further deliberated in the Commission today,” the EC said. “After considering all facts and circumstances emerging due to the pandemic and keeping a balance between the requirements of campaign by the political parties, the commission has decided to revise the norms of star campaigners.”Political parties have now been instructed to submit a revised list of star campaigners. The Commission has further said that parties will have to seek permission before their star campaigners are allowed into the state. “Request for permission for the campaigning by star campaigners shall be submitted to the district election authorities at least 48 hours before the start of campaign so that all necessary safety measures are put in place by all concerned stakeholders well in time,” the EC said.The Commission further said that district authorities have completed the identification of locations for the electoral campaign in each constituency. “They are in the process of marking it for public gathering, keeping Covid-19 safety norms in view,” the EC said.The Bihar elections are the first major polls that the EC is undertaking amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The three-phase polls are to be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The results for the 243-member assembly will be declared between November 10 and November 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-ec-trims-star-campaigner-lists-for-parties-ahead-of-bihar-polls/story-vsvC81Px6OadeeQZDx9btO.html
08-10-2020||India||‘Inspect tyres’: Mamata Banerjee amid concerns trucks are Covid carriers||Covid-19 could be spreading via airborne transmission and coming to Bengal through trucks and lorries originating from other states, noted chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday. The chief minister’s apprehension comes a day after the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Covid-19 can spread through airborne transmission. “No matter what others say, Covid-19 is surely spreading through air-borne transmission. We still don’t know till how far the virus is spreading through air. Everyone is giving a different opinion. All we can do is to take precaution till the time a vaccine is developed,” she said at an administrative meeting on Tuesday. The CDC in an updated guidance on Monday had said that Covid-19 can spread through airborne transmission. A month ago, the CDC took down a similar warning. The updated guidance said that the virus can linger in the air for minutes to hours in small droplets and particles, or aerosols, and some people could get infected by exposure to these. The chief minister advised officials of Jhargram district, where the administrative meeting was being held, to check the tyres of some trucks entering the state. Jhargram shares its borders with Jharkhand and Covid-19 numbers have been rising in the district over the past few weeks. “We need to test the tyres of a few trucks which are entering the state through toll plazas. If the virus can be transmitted through clothes and shopping bags, then why not tyres,” Banerjee said. Even though studies have shown that the virus could spread readily in a closed, small setting like public transport, no study has been published yet hinting that the virus could be transmitted through tyres of moving vehicles. “In my locality, six members of one family had tested positive. From them, the disease had spread to 36 others. I had stopped the movement of vehicles on the road where the house was located because as vehicles move from one place to another, they can spread diseases. The tyres of vehicles can carry organisms, which can trigger diseases. Soon after the locality was turned into a containment zone and the movement of vehicles was stopped, the disease stopped spreading. But as soon as the restrictions were withdrawn on September 8, it again started spreading. Two of my office-bearers have tested positive after the restrictions were lifted,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inspect-tyres-mamata-banerjee-amid-concerns-trucks-are-covid-carriers/story-2z8vokCUR2b7bFuJtvkKHJ.html
08-10-2020||India||Third man arrested in Bengal BJP leader’s murder case||The West Bengal Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Wednesday arrested Muhammad Nasir Khan, an alleged criminal, from Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district in connection with the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla at Titagarh in the same district on Sunday night. This is the third arrest since the early hours of Tuesday. It is suspected that Khan knows the motorcycle-borne shooters who opened fire on Shukla in front of several people on a crowded BT Road around 8.27 pm on Sunday. Forensic experts visited the spot on Wednesday afternoon. They collected some soil samples and calculated the possible trajectory paths of the bullets fired. The shooters carried out the entire operation in 78 seconds, CID officers have found from security camera footage. During this short time they fired 18 rounds, of which more than seven hit Shukla in the head and torso. One round did not fire and the ammunition was found near Shukla’s body. “He was fired at even after he had fallen. This indicates that the shooters wanted to ensure his death. They were professionals,” an officer told HT on condition of anonymity. CID teams have conducted raids at several places in South 24 Parganas and Kolkata in search of the shooters and the murder weapons. A team has gone to Jharkhand as well. Shukla, 39, was an outgoing councilor of the Titagarh municipality and also a lawyer at Barrackpore court. Officials involved in the investigation said that Nasir Khan has several criminal cases pending against him. He was involved in running gambling operations and was accused in at least two murder cases in the past. Khan was released on bail from judicial custody a few months ago. It is being probed whether he is an Indian national or an illegal immigrant from Bangladesh who procured documents to prove his citizenship, an officer said on condition of anonymity. The father of Muhammad Khurram, one of the men arrested earlier, was murdered 10 years ago, said BJP leaders and the police. Shukla was one of the accused in the murder case registered in April 2010. The charges against him were later dropped. It is suspected that Khurram tried to take revenge. He was earlier charged for carrying out attacks on Shukla. There have been four attempts on Shukla’s life between 2009 and 2018. Sheikh Gulab, the second man arrested by CID, is suspected to have followed Shukla’s movements and passed on the information to the hitmen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-man-arrested-in-bengal-bjp-leader-s-murder-case/story-hVb04PNIzEAatQBafvyQ7J.html
08-10-2020||India||Delhi riots: Cops blow cover of own secret witnesses||A two-page document listing names and addresses of at least 15 protected witnesses, who have given evidence against those arrested for alleged conspiracy in February’s Delhi riots cases, have inadvertently been included in the police’s charge sheet filed in a city court last month.HT has seen the document but is not revealing the names of the witnesses to protect their identity. The document contains the names and address of protected witness otherwise referred to only by their pseudonyms such as Alpha, Beta, Hector, Delta, Echo, Mike, and others. News of the document was first reported by The Wire on Wednesday. Pramod Kuswah, the special cell’s deputy commissioner of police who prepared and submitted the charge sheet, did not respond to repeated calls and text messages from HT. Kuswah is heading the investigation behind the alleged conspiracy. Delhi Police released a statement on Wednesday evening that a court-related document containing the identities of the witnesses was “inadvertently included” and that they are “taking steps for the security and safety of the witnesses”.Other than in this two-page document, these protected witnesses in the 17,000-page charge sheet have been referred to by their pseudonyms in their statements before police and court. Police have claimed that these protected witnesses were insiders/eyewitnesses who saw some of the accused persons such as Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devanagana Kalita, and former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain mobilising the rioters. The accused have denied any wrongdoing. Police had told the court that there was a threat to the witnesses’ life, hence their identities were protected. Though the charge sheet is not a public statement, its copies are with the lawyers of the arrested persons since September 21. The copies are also with journalists, and the contents were widely circulated on social media. The statements were recorded before different judges between March and August, and are admissible evidence during trial. These witnesses appear to hold the key to the police’s narrative that the riots were planned at anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protest sites. The accused have maintained that there was no conspiracy.Experts say the disclosure of the identities of such protected witnesses would not only harm the outcome of the cases but also pose a threat to their lives. Former top of Uttar Pradesh police, Vikram Singh who was the state’s director general of police between 2007 and 2008, said: “I would not call this inadvertent error. This is the callousness by one of the officers, who was involved in preparing the charge sheet. Too many cooks spoil the broth. When there are too many officers as part of the probe or preparing a document, the weakest one ends up making such a costly mistake. I hope that Delhi Police have taken adequate steps and ensured the protection of those people because they are a part of an important investigation. Their security is police’s responsibility now. If anything untoward happens to them, it will be a blot on Delhi Police.”Singh said the police must quickly find a legal recourse and get the witnesses examined. “God forbid, even if anything happens to them or they turn hostile, police must quickly find a way to ensure that the case is not affected. Police must fix accountability and find the officer who fumbled and made this mistake.”Advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing Gulfisha Khatoon (one of the arrested persons) in the riot cases, said this was a “Himalayan blunder” by the police even as he disapproved the statements made by those protected witnesses. “First, let me say that this is a biased investigation and the witnesses are fake. They have misused the use of protected witnesses, which will not pass muster during trial. The witnesses will be cross-examined during trial. Secondly, it is a lapse on their part to reveal the names of their so called protected witnesses,” he said.Delhi Police in their statement said, “During the course of investigation, it was deemed necessary that the identities of some witnesses should not be disclosed in the public domain. However, a court-related document containing the identities of some of these witnesses has been inadvertently included in the copies of the charge sheet provided to the accused persons as part of compliance of judicial orders. Since the witnesses are court-protected, their identities should not be published. Media is requested to cooperate in this matter. Steps are being taken to ensure the safety and security of these witnesses and to address all concerns in this regard.”At least 53 persons died while 400 others were injured in the 2020 Delhi riots. The clashes started when groups of people -- one supporting the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and another opposing it -- clashed near the Jafrabad metro station on the evening of February 23. It snowballed into large-scale Hindu-Muslims clashes in parts of north east Delhi between February 23 and 27. Delhi police have arrested at least 21 persons for conspiring to orchestrate the riots. The arrested persons include prominent faces of the anti-CAA protests such as former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, student activists Sharjeel Imam, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Safoora Zargar. They have all denied any role in inciting the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-cops-blow-cover-of-own-secret-witnesses/story-iBcz3ZaHHyrElxh2PmfmAJ.html
08-10-2020||India||Restaurants in Delhi may open 24x7 soon||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday issued directions to allow restaurants to operate 24x7 with necessary safety measures in place and to do away with several licence-related restrictions, including those on service in open spaces such as balconies. The move was in keeping with promises that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) made ahead of assembly polls in February this year.Currently, restaurants are allowed to operate from 11am to 11pm in the Capital. Those licensed to serve liquor can operate from 11am to 1am. There are roughly 20,000 registered restaurants in the city, of which nearly 650 are licensed to serve alcoholic beverages.The relaxations initiated by the chief minister include doing away with the health-trade licence, a mandatory requirement for running a restaurant (and one that needs to be renewed periodically), from municipal corporations, and the tourism licence, apart from changes in excise rules to allow restaurants to store liquor anywhere in the premises and review of fire safety norms, especially in old and heritage markets such as Connaught Place and Khan Market, a senior official in the chief minister’s office said.The official said Kejriwal assured the business fraternity that he would soon chair another meeting to discuss the possibility of doing away with a licence that restaurant owners have to avail from the police. The relaxations announced by the CM are covered under departments and agencies that include the municipal corporations, tourism, excise, fire and the police. Some of these could require a separate approval by the agencies concerned — including the police and the lieutenant governor, which report to the Centre. Kejriwal announced the measures after a meeting with a delegation of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), which was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, chief secretary Vijay Dev and commissioners of the three municipal corporations, the official said.“Delhi’s restaurants are the pride of Delhi and provide employment to lakhs of people. I have directed all the respective departments to remove unnecessary hassles in the smooth running of restaurants in Delhi,” said Kejriwal after the meeting, adding that a detailed representation was received from the NRAI to “provide relief and ease regulations and the permit raj” acting as hurdles in the growth of the industry in the Capital.In its manifesto for the 2020 assembly elections, the AAP had promised to do away with “permit raj” in Delhi. During the poll campaign, it mentioned 24x7 markets in Delhi, including both shops and restaurants, in line with a similar decision by the Maharashtra government in January.Also Read | India’s first Covid-19 wave finally recedes“On the request of restaurateurs to allow 24x7 business, it was agreed that the restaurants will be allowed to operate at all hours subject to the condition that they submit an undertaking that they will take care of the health and security of their entire staff. This will help the industry generate more employment in the national capital through higher demand. This will set an example for the Delhi Model of ease of doing business,” the Delhi government said in a press statement.The official in the chief minister’s office said, “The law does not prohibit round-the-clock operation of restaurants. There can be policy decisions that have been followed. That can be one reason why Delhi restaurants could never operate 24x7 despite the matter being on the table for several years now. That is going to change.”Another government official added that the police had opposed the 24x7 policy at several points in the past.“The police were opposed because 24x7 restaurants or bars would mean more patrolling and security during the night. The strength of the force was also not enough, which may be the reason for opposition to the plan. There are 24x7 outlets in five-star hotels in Delhi too. In my opinion, we can have round-the-clock restaurants but the plan needs to be carefully worked out. In a place like CP, which is a popular marketplace, having such restaurants won’t be a problem but what happens if such a place is located in a residential colony. It cannot be a carte blanche,” said former Delhi Police commissioner Neeraj Kumar. In its statement, the Delhi government said, “The CM instructed (on Wednesday) that health-trade licences, which are issued by the municipal corporations to restaurants should be abolished within 10 days.”The official in the CMO said, “The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), a body operating under the Union government, already has a protocol for issuing safety and hygiene licences. So, health-trade licences of the MCDs would lead to duplication. Restaurant associations had requested the CM’s intervention in this regard. There are other fees and charges which restaurants have to pay to MCDs; those can stay. But the health-trade licence can be done away with.”A spokesperson of the south municipal corporation said they will respond after getting an official communication. “We shall examine the matter and respond accordingly. The municipal corporations are legally empowered to grant health-trade licences to eateries and such commercial establishments under sections 417 and 421 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act.”The government statement said: “In addition, a decision was also taken to completely do away with licences from the tourism department to open or run a restaurant. Decisions were also taken in today’s meeting to immediately amend excise rules to permit service in open areas, balconies, verandahs, etc, without any additional fee, …to permit licences for all types of music, including DJs, live music bands, and karaoke, to abolish the requirement of a designated liquor store and to allow the stock to be kept anywhere in the licensed premises.”Excise and tourism departments come under the domain of the Delhi government.A senior government official said since the police come under the domain of the central government, the CM would need further discussions with the stakeholders before taking any calls on licences and permissions issued by the police. “Restaurant owners have urged intervention in this matter. Their argument is that restaurants are a part of the retail sector and no other retail establishment is required to obtain a licence from the police,” the official said.Dinesh Arora, a restaurateur and president of the Delhi restaurants and clubs association, said: “Restaurants are not dealing with anything illegal so why do they need a special licence from the police. It never made any sense. Fire safety, food and hygiene-related licences are still understandable. As far as law and order issues are concerned, people in restaurants can always dial 100 like people in any other place in the city. These licence-related relaxations and the freedom to operate 24x7 are a welcome move.”Former commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the formula is followed in cities that follow the commisionerate system. Before granting the licence, officers check the safety plan, which is important during an emergency, he said. Another important aspect they look at is traffic and the parking management plan. It is important to check if the place could be a source of traffic hazard, Kumar said. “Police are the first responders and it is important that they have a look at the place before issuing the licence to operate,” he said. The government statement said, “On the request of simplifying fire norms for restaurants situated in old and heritage sites such as CP, Khan Market, etc, it was decided that a technical committee would be constituted, which in 10 days will examine ways to enhance fire safety in such locations, without the need to make structural changes to the existing restaurants. Based on the recommendations of the committee, the CM will decide on the application of uniform fire safety norms in Delhi.”Navneet Kalra, owner of restaurants such as Khan Chacha and Townhall in Khan Market, said: “Currently, structural changes are not allowed in heritage buildings. The law should provide room for certain measures which can ensure better compliance to fire safety rules. For instance, in Khan Market there is a proposal for a fire safety corridor. Such structural changes are necessary for ensuring safety. The directions of the chief minister, if implemented in time, can bring big relief to the industry.”Riyaaz Amlani, a restaurateur and member of the National Restaurants Association of India, said: “Restaurants are one of the key sectors for employment generation in the city, with lakhs of people employed in the industry. It is currently one of the most overregulated industries, requiring multiple NOCs and duplication of licences. These measures will provide the necessary boost that the industry needs, unleash employment potential and help the tourism industry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restaurants-in-delhi-may-open-24x7-soon/story-61AtAtQtAcn1yEuNKDyBQJ.html
08-10-2020||India||India’s first Covid-19 wave finally recedes||The first wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) appears to be receding for the first time across the country, with cases seeing a steady drop for three consecutive weeks now. Experts warn that with the festive season coming up, the curve may rise again if people let their guard down during the celebrations. The seven-day average of daily cases in India touched 93,617 on September 16, the highest till date. In the three weeks since, this number (also referred to as the daily case trajectory) has dropped every single day and stands at 74,623 on Wednesday — down around 20% from the peak.This has meant that India’s doubling rate — the number of days it takes for the number of infections to double — has seen a drastic improvement in the past month. On Wednesday, it stood at 60 days, as against 32.6 days on September 7.This drop is also mirrored in the death trajectory. The seven-day average of daily deaths in the country was at its highest on September 15, when it touched 1,169. This number has dropped near consistently since then, and as on Wednesday, it stands at 977 — a drop of 16% from the peak.This is the first time a drop of this magnitude and consistency has been recorded in the Covid-19 case and death trajectories in India. Across the world, there have been fluctuations and waves in the case (and death) trajectories — the US, for instance, is on its third wave currently — but India’s trajectory has been climbing throughout till mid-September.This reversal in trajectory has been led by the some of the states that have so far caused the national spike in cases — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi. Together, these four states have been responsible for 46% of all infections in the country. In Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state responsible for a little under a quarter of all infections in the country, daily cases peaked at 22,149 on September 17, a day after the peak in the national trajectory. The trajectory in Delhi also peaked the same day, although Delhi is the only major region in the country that has seen a distinct second wave of infections. Cases in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, meanwhile, have been dropping since the start of September — their respective peaks were on September 2 and 1 respectively.A handful of states, particularly Kerala and Karnataka, however, appear to be defying the larger trend and cases there remain currently at peak levels and appear to be rising .“Even though cases have started dropping, we are nowhere close to the end of the first wave. We are still reporting close to 75,000 cases a day, which is by no means a small number. However, it is still a significant drop, especially if it is not artificially influenced by a change in testing strategy. But if our testing strategy is the same as it was in August and early September, then this is a very good sign,” said Dr Shahid Jameel, virologist and director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University.The threat of a festive resurgence, however, is very real, as India’s own experience shows. In Kerala, festivities for Onam (celebrated between August 22 and September 2) appear to have caused a spike in cases. While the trajectory in the state was largely in control through much of the pandemic, it has seen a huge spike from the start of September — average daily cases have increased from around 2,000 in the start of September to nearly 8,000 in the last week of the month.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan identified Onam as the key factor that caused the spike in the state. “The highest increase in active cases in the country has been seen in Kerala and the surge is possibly due to the Onam festivities,” he said in Tuesday’s health briefing.Dr VK Paul, member of Niti Aayog, stressed last Tuesday that the coming festive season will be all about masks — “mask wali Chhath, mask wali Eid, mask wala Dussehra aur mask wali Diwali”. Dussehra will be celebrated on October 25, Eid Milad-un-Nabi on October 28-29, while Diwali will be on November 14 and Chhath on November 20.“This is all for our own good; and needs to be promoted big time. Community heads should ensure and appeal that festivals should be celebrated with caution; not in large groups but smaller groups. Large gatherings, especially in marketplaces, could be detrimental, so we have to be careful,” he said, during the government’s weekly Covid-19 media briefing.On Tuesday, the Union health ministry issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) ahead of the festive season to curtail the spread of the infection. These included a cap on the number of people at events and gatherings, staggered timings and restricted entry during fairs, Puja pandals, Ramlila pandals or concerts and plays.“The next few weeks will be extremely crucial because quite a few factors will be at play that can cause a rise in cases. With the festive season here, people need to develop a sense of individual responsibility when they visit temples, pandals or family gatherings. Add to this the fact that in winter people tend to stay indoor with shut windows, creating ideal conditions for viruses to thrive. Wearing masks, observing hand hygiene and social distancing become even more important now, and I hope people don’t forget this,” Dr Jameel said.“During the festive season people will be visiting relatives, and since it will be cold, they may gather indoors with windows shut. All of this ends up creating ideal conditions for the spread of infections. In the festive spirit, people also tend to talk louder or they end up singing — studies have also shown that viral particles tend to travel larger distances in such circumstances. All of this increases the chances of infections rising,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-first-covid-19-wave-finally-recedes/story-clQaMmmD2TiYD3i1CSmw3J.html
08-10-2020||India||PM says welfare of India, impoverished people will always remain a priority||As he entered his 20th year as head of an elected government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said he wants to assure the countrymen once again that the welfare of the nation and the poor is paramount for him. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Modi said he will continue to strive to make himself worthy of people’s blessings and love. “I would like to assure the countrymen once again that the welfare of the nation and the poor is paramount for me and will always be so,” Modi said. “No person can ever claim that he does not have any shortcomings. A long period of holding such responsible positions...being human, even I can make mistakes,” Modi said. He said it is his good fortune that despite all these limitations, people’s love for him is growing. Modi said the way people have showered blessings and love on him from every corner of the country today, the power of his words to thank them is falling short. BJP leaders on Wednesday heaped praise on Modi and his leadership as he entered his 20th year without a break as the head of an elected government, including close to 13 years as chief minister of Gujarat. Modi, who turned 70 last month, started as a volunteer of the RSS and then served in the BJP’s organisation for many years before the party leadership sent him to Gujarat, his home state, as its chief minister in 2001. Since then, he has never tasted electoral defeat and led the BJP to power in the state three straight times before steering the party to its biggest, until then, Lok Sabha poll win in 2014 and then scripting an even bigger win in the 2019 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welfare-of-nation-poor-is-paramount-for-me-and-will-always-be-so-modi/story-AejzBkJBLVcrW46ZIvduMP.html
08-10-2020||India||Orissa high court asks state to open temples in graded manner||The Orissa high court on Wednesday asked the state government to open the temples in a graded manner in accordance with the modalities after assessing the Covid-19 situation.The order of the high court came while disposing of two writ petitions that sought direction to extend financial relief to priests of registered temples for the lockdown period. The petitions were filed by a priest of Dadhibaman Dev temple of Nayagarh district and an organisation of priests of the same district.“Taking a view on the grievances of the petitioners with regard to (providing) financial assistance or ration kits, or in the alternative for the opening of temples, as expeditiously as possible, but not later than eight weeks from the date of copy of this order is produced before the authority,” the HC said.All the temples in Odisha, including Jagannath temple in Puri, are closed since the nationwide lockdown was imposed in March. In the Jagannath temples, more than 450 servitors have tested positive for Covid-19, affecting the temple’s daily activities.The court order came on the day many priests and devotees across the state beat gongs, rang bells and blew conches urging the Odisha government to reopen the temples.The priests of Odisha Mandira Sebayat Sangha began their protest at 9 am for nine minutes demanding that the temples should open soon as their livelihood is at stake.“The livelihoods of temple priests have been hit hard due to closure of temples since March. Most of the priests are going through severe financial constraint. They have no alternative to earn their livelihood. Our families are suffering. We had requested the government but no one addressed our issues. That is why we had to ring bells and blow conches to draw the attention of the government towards our plight,” said a member of OMSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-high-court-asks-state-to-open-temples-in-graded-manner/story-sMp0P6bMLqdSTTs8N61hpN.html
08-10-2020||India||BJP gives 11 seats to VIP in bid to keep JD(U) alliance intact||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has moved to pre-empt cracks from surfacing in its alliance with the Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), ahead of the Bihar elections by allotting 11 seats out of its quota to a smaller ally and issuing a clear directive to the Lok Janshakti Party not to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s images and speeches and central government policies in the poll campaign. Giving up the 11 seats to the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) means the BJP will contest 110 seats in the 243-member Bihar assembly; chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JD (U), which has allotted seven seats out of its 122 to Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustan Awam Morcha (Secular), will be in the fray for 115 seats.The BJP initially wanted to contest the same number of seats as the JD (U) before agreeing to settle for less.According to two BJP functionaries.LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s sharp remarks against the JD(U) and chief minister Nitish Kumar after deciding not to contest the Bihar elections as part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) while simultaneously heaping praise on the Prime Minister was seen as an attempt to create friction between the alliance partners.Subsequent speculation that the LJP’s decision had the tacit approval of the BJP and that the latter wanted to emerge from the elections as the single-largest party in the assembly and lay claim to the CM’s post also upset the JD(U). The LJP’s decision to oppose the JD(U) has raised fears hat it could play spoiler in seats where Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal and the JD(U) were set for a direct contest. “The LJP seems to think it holds the key to the election,” said a BJP functionary who asked not to be named. In the 2005 assembly Bihar assembly elections, the LJP, citing differences with the RJD, fielded candidates against it and not against the Congress. All three parties were allies and part of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA). “The LJP won 29 seats and considered itself as the kingmaker, but the state went for a re-election later in the year and the LJP failed to get as many seats,” the BJP functionary added. On the assumption that the LJP could dent the JD (U)’s vote bank, something that will work in favour of the BJP, a second party functionary said the BJP expects the NDA to win over 200 seats in the elections. “Between Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM and the VIP, which counts the most backward communities as its support base, we do not foresee the LJP damaging the NDA or playing a spoiler. We will honour our pre-poll alliances,” the second functionary said. Analyst Shankar Dutt of Patna University said the LJP’s decision to go it alone, oppose the JD (U) and possibly dent the former’s vote bank may have affected the NDA’s prospects “It is quite possible that the post- poll scenario that will emerge may force a new alliance and also that a lot of pre-poll arrangements may not last,” Dutt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-gives-11-seats-to-vip-in-bid-to-keep-jd-u-alliance-intact/story-M8p8Jdd0MSFmEamUu458gP.html
08-10-2020||India||Victim’s family alleges illegal confinement at Hathras home, approaches HC||The family of the 19-year-old woman who was raped and brutalised in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras last month, causing her death a fortnight later, has filed a petition in the Allahabad high court accusing the district administration of illegally confining them in their house. The petition, filed by National General Secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Valmiki Mahapanchayat Surender Kumar on behalf of the family, has said that the victim’s parents, two brothers and two other relatives have been prevented from meeting or communicating with people freely, thereby violating their Right to freedom of speech and expression. In the petition, the family has alleged that they were detained in their house by the district administration on September 29 and 30, and were not allowed to meet anyone. While later they were allowed to meet a few people, they have not been allowed to move out of their house at free will.The habeas corpus plea has sought the release of the petitioners from illegal confinement. The case is listed on Thursday for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victim-s-family-alleges-illegal-confinement-at-hathras-home-approaches-hc/story-POwgxfoB7JdyYMPABgx2xH.html
08-10-2020||India||Ex-CBI director Ashwani Kumar found dead in Shimla, leaves behind a note: Cops||Former governor and CBI chief Ashwani Kumar was found dead in his Shimla house on Wednesday, Shimla superintendent of police Mohit Chawla said. He was 69. Police suspect death by suicide but have made no formal statement.Himachal Pradesh police chief Sanjay Kundu, who rushed to the spot, said that investigation in the case was on and a team of forensic experts has reached the crime scene and collecting evidences.Police said a note, ostensibly written by Kumar, had been found.Retired police officer AP Singh, who succeeded Kumar at the CBI, described Kumar’s death “absolutely shocking”.“I have worked closely with him as a special director. He was a gentleman. Never lost his temper. I always found him very pleasant, soft spoken; he never ever said a word to anybody in a raised voice,” AP Singh said about his mild-mannered predecessor at the CBI.Kumar, a 1973 batch officer of the Indian Police Service, headed the Central Bureau of Investigation from August 2008 to November 2010.Three years later, the Manmohan Singh government appointed him as Nagaland governor in March 2013, provoking howls of protest from the Bharatiya Janata Party. Kumar was the first CBI chief to be appointed to a gubernatorial office. A few months later, he was also appointed Manipur till December 2013.Ashwani Kumar, however, had to step down from the Nagaland Raj Bhavan weeks after the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in the 2014 general elections and started pushing out governors appointed by the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government. Kumar was one of the first to go.It was during his tenure as the CBI chief that the investigation agency arrested Union home minister Amit Shah in July 2010 in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. Shah was then the BJP general secretary and minister in the Gujarat government led by chief minister Narendra Modi. Veteran Congress leader P Chidambaram was then the Union home minister.The 22 accused who faced trial in this case were acquitted in December 2018. In its verdict, the judge called it a politically-motivated case designed to implicate political leaders such as Shah.Ashwani Kumar had started out as a young IPS officer in Himachal Pradesh where he was, back in 1985, the superintendent of police of Shimla district. It was during this assignment that he was selected in the newly-created Special Protection Group responsible for the security of then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi.He was in the SPG from 1985 to 1990 in various capacities including that of Assistant Director in the Prime Minister’s Office. It was during this tenure that he came in close contact with the Gandhi family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cbi-director-ashwani-kumar-found-dead-in-shimla/story-OH8LpfWwHsTnD4X7ENJPfJ.html
08-10-2020||India||Bengal logs spike in Covid-19 count as people flock to shops ahead of annual festival||With West Bengal entering the Durga Puja-mode and festive-season shopping going on in full swing, the state is witnessing a steady spike in Covid-19 numbers. The positivity rate - the proportion of people testing positive to those tested – has shot up from around 6.6% on September 5 to around 8.3% on October 5 in the state. “Puja shopping has started. People are out on the streets and markets are getting crowded. The members of puja committees are also gathering where pandals are coming up. The positivity rate is increasing because of this. We have to be very cautious and strictly ensure that people wear masks,” said a top official of the state government. The number of new Covid-19 cases reported daily has also witnessed a sharp spike of 73% in Kolkata in the last one month. While the city had registered 428 new cases on August 30, on October 6, the number of new cases reported from Kolkata stood at 742. Daily cases are also rising in the city’s fringes. The district of North 24 Parganas which has the second highest Covid-19 numbers after Kolkata in West Bengal had registered less than 600 cases on August 30. On September 6, it recorded 712 cases. With the festive season beginning from mid-September with Viswakarma Puja and Mahalaya, the Durga Puja, the biggest annual festival of Bengal that continues for over a week, is scheduled for the last week of October. “I request people to wear masks when they are going to markets for puja shopping. Try to wear gloves or at least try to sanitise your hands during shopping. We need to take precautions. Care should also be taken during the puja when pandal-hopping starts. Puja committees should arrange for hand sanitisers,” Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal said while addressing an administrative meeting on Tuesday in West Midnapore district. The state government had earlier issued detailed guidelines to puja organisers and police on how the Durga Puja would be held this year. On Tuesday, the Union home ministry also issued standard operating procedures on how to contain the spread of the viral infection during the festive season. This year more than 37,000 pujas will be organized across the state, including more than 2500 in Kolkata and around 1700 pujas which are organized by women. The list doesn’t include those organized inside housing societies and houses. “There would be no post-immersion carnival and cultural festival during the puja days. A series of dos and don’ts have been prepared on how to the puja would be organised. These have already been distributed among all the puja committees,” said Saswata Basu, general secretary of the Forum for Durgotsab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-logs-spike-in-covid-19-count-as-people-flock-to-shops-ahead-of-annual-festival/story-yqn3UAGvQ6H4Po9t9dNvpO.html
08-10-2020||India||UGC declares 24 universities as fake. Here’s full list||The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Wednesday announced a list of 24 self-styled, unrecognised institutions in the country, terming them as fake with maximum of them operating from Uttar Pradesh followed by Delhi.“Students and public are informed that currently 24 self-styled, unrecognised institutions are functioning in contravention of the UGC Act, which have been declared as fake universities and these are not empowered to confer any degree,” UGC Secretary Rajnish Jain said. While eight of these universities are from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi has seven, and Odisha and West Bengal two each.Here’s full list of fake universities as listed by the UGC:  Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Puducherry and Maharashtra have one fake university each. ALSO WATCH | ‘Delhi government cancels all state university exams due to Covid’: Sisodia||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-declares-24-universities-as-fake-here-s-full-list/story-OJFjvl88YfSZ6mvClQ9TcN.html
08-10-2020||Editorials||Covid-19: The good and bad news||The first wave of Covid-19 has started receding in India over the last three weeks, for the first time since the disease began spreading in the country. As this newspaper reported on Thursday, new infections have dropped 20% from peak levels in the last 21 days while daily deaths are down 16% from peak levels. While other countries have seen fluctuations and waves (the United States, for instance, is on its third wave) India’s trajectory had been climbing consistently. As the first wave starts receding, it offers the both the State and citizens a moment to reflect on the lessons and the current situation. Doctors and scientists are learning more about the disease every passing day — they have a better sense of which treatments work and (just as importantly) which don’t; or when to hospitalise patients and when to isolate them at their homes. India also has the luxury of being able to observe the progression of the disease in countries that are in more advanced stages of the outbreak. The global experience shows that it is almost inevitable that another wave of infections (and subsequently, deaths) will take place. In most countries, the second wave has been stronger than the first, but decidedly less fatal. Experts suspect that India’s second wave may come on the heels of the festive season — Dussehra, Durga Puja, Eid Milad-un-Nabi, Diwali and Chhath will all be celebrated in the next month-and-a-half — and in winter. Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is a child of winter. Like all respiratory ailments, cold climate gives it ideal conditions to thrive. Winter also offers the virus plenty of cover with a spike in several other diseases such as the common cold, influenza and other respiratory infections that can present identical symptoms. All of this sets the stage for a crucial few months ahead. While the virus gets better conditions to spread and thrive, doctors and scientists are now better prepared for the battle ahead. While the government must not let its guard down, citizens will have a critical role in shaping the trajectory of the disease. They will need to display a keen sense of individual responsibility through the festive season — when they visit temples, pandals or when they meet relatives at home. The government’s campaign, launched on Thursday, to encourage citizens to adopt Covid-19-appropriate behaviour is welcome. How citizens behave, how stringently they wear masks, how carefully they remain socially distant may be the difference between life and death in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid-19-the-good-and-bad-news/story-EJXa3YwytnxtPlYfnbdr2L.html
08-10-2020||Editorials||The increasing value of Quad | HT Editorial||The degree of interest in a meeting of foreign ministers is evidence of how important the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) has become as a mode of geopolitical signalling. Its relevance was accentuated by the foreign ministers meeting in person in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, of Indian and Chinese troops facing each other, and of the United States (US) president getting infected by the disease. Critics are not wrong to grumble that the dialogue remains informal; that it fails to produce a joint statement; and that its only tangible accomplishment is its existence. The real measure of the Quad, however, is to look at its trajectory.The original Quad was a disaster-relief exercise. It broke up, came together again, and then struggled to find convergence among its members. The present meeting strengthened four important elements of the Quad’s present stage of evolution. One, all the member-states represent a domestic political consensus on the Quad and its importance in balancing China in the Indo-Pacific. This was not true in the past. Australia, for example, changed its Quad policy when there was a change in government. Two, though most members prefer to not name China, the expanded areas the members have agreed to work together, from the maritime realm to cyberspace, are aimed at countering China’s influence and capabilities. Three, the foreign ministers’ agreeing they would meet at least once a year and upholding the importance of Southeast Asia indicates that both institutionally and in terms of geographic spread, the Quad is set to deepen and widen. And finally, the language of the participants indicates that Quad has already assumed a quasi-formal status.The most important driver of the Quad’s evolution is China. Its military aggression against India and Japan, its attempts to subvert Australian civil society and its embrace of open geopolitical rivalry with the US is the strategic glue of the Quad. The most important determinant of which path is taken is the degree to which the Quad members can disentangle themselves from the economic and technological embrace of China. Which is why discussions on 5G networks, supply chains and rare earths are so important to defining how far the Quad can go on the military and strategic side. The foreign ministers identified what it will take to convert the Quad into a real multilateral body; the question now is how and when all these proposals will become reality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-increasing-value-of-quad-ht-editorial/story-2qCF4qo6Io2675Zm0U5R1M.html
