16-10-2020||News||To battle pollution, involve the private sector | Opinion||The approaching winter marks the annual return of staggeringly high levels of air pollution in north India and intensifies the unending search for a permanent solution to the problem. Nasa satellite images have begun spotting farm fires in Punjab, and growing plumes of smoke over adjoining cities. As the post-Covid-19 economic recovery gathers momentum and sectors such as transport, construction and energy witness a rapid increase in activity, pollution levels in the region are likely to see a significant spike. According to IQAir’s 2019 world air quality report, India is now host to 21 of the 30 most polluted cities of the world.It is, therefore, urgent for the government to devise a robust multi-pronged strategy that can aggressively target emission reduction from key polluting sectors such as agriculture, industry, thermal power plants and transportation, while significantly reducing India’s dependence on fossil fuels. Such a strategy must harness the role of key stakeholders in addressing air pollution. The private sector, through its technical expertise, sector-specific knowledge and ability to design unique, cutting-edge innovations, can devise effective long-term solutions to two of the major challenges government is faced with — lack of technological solutions and large-scale monitoring. One of the key challenges facing the respective state governments across north India is disposing agricultural waste. In 2019, Punjab and Haryana burnt 9Mt and 1.23Mt of 20Mt and 9Mt of crop stubble produced respectively. As per the Delhi government data, this stubble burning accounted for 44% of the city’s air pollution. In the absence of a permanent alternative, stubble-burning will be difficult to contain, adding to the complexity of combating air pollution in the region even further. Businesses can complement the government’s efforts by developing promising market-based solutions to address this crisis. For instance, Mahindra group partnered with Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) in 2018 to convert crop stubble into biofuel which could be used to run generators to light up villages. Scaling up such impact ventures would lead to policy measures assuring farmers minimum support price and long-term buy-back guarantees for crop stubbles. Moreover, by engaging rural communities in the infrastructure value chain such as collection, storage and transportation of crop residue, enterprises will not only generate large-scale employment opportunities, but ensure a “sustainable” revenue model for farmers. Besides the short-term cause, a major issue impacting India’s air quality is its economic dependence on fossil fuels. Despite the government’s ambitious plan to increase renewable energy generation, 72% of India’s electricity is generated from coal, the most polluting fossil fuel. The industry demand for energy — due to growth of coal-consuming industrial sectors like steel and cement — is projected to double by 2030. Private sector innovations such as cleaner gas-based energy solutions can contribute significantly to reduce the industry’s dependence on fossil fuels. Companies such as ExxonMobil have designed energy-efficient industrial lubricants to increase industrial competitiveness, energy efficiency and environmental viability. While improving energy reliability and air quality, private sector can also play a critical role in empowering the government’s Make in India mandate.However, an effective implementation of technology solutions would depend on the monitoring of emission intensity, its source and air quality (AQ) to assess the exact scale of interventions required. With only one monitoring station for every seven million people, India has substantial ground to cover for AQ monitoring. According to a projection by a team of scientists from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, IIT Kanpur, Indian pollution research group UrbanEmissions.info, and Canadian academicians, India will need at least 1,600 more monitoring stations to meet its AQ monitoring requirement. The private sector can help meet this gap by facilitating big data analytics, designing accurate granular models as well as low-cost sensor technologies to measure air quality. The air quality sensor called “Zephyr”, developed by the mobility management company Siemens Mobility and the air quality experts at EarthSense can produce real-time measurements for various pollutants, allowing local authorities to make meaningful and timely interventions based on reliable pollution data and prevailing air quality levels. The private sector can also finance academic partnerships and trans-disciplinary research that will gain deeper scientific understanding of the sources of air pollution, provide a strong foundation for evidence-based action and drive technological breakthroughs for achieving deep cuts in pollution.Finally, as businesses themselves are the largest contributor to the air pollution crisis, they must assume a larger share of responsibility. The private sector must align its own practices and supply chains with the clean air agenda. By setting standards that monitor and regulate pollution at every stage of production, businesses can effectively reduce the environmental footprint of their operations as well as those of their suppliers. Investments made through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) can be effectively utilised to address the interrelated challenges of air pollution and the climate crisis.In India’s battle for clean air, the role of private sector in forging effective and lasting solutions to improve air quality across the country has never been more critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-battle-pollution-involve-the-private-sector-opinion/story-Lwmaqz5s7hwUfJLiK74vvI.html
16-10-2020||News||Understanding the rationale of Delhi’s tree transplantation policy | Analysis||The Delhi government recently announced a new tree transplantation policy, a first-of-its-kind in the country. The announcement of this policy has led to apprehensions among green activists. I can empathise because activism is often black and white, there is no scope of grey. Cutting down old trees is wrong. Period. In an ideal world, this is how it should be. We should not be cutting down old trees anywhere and especially in smog-laden cities such as Delhi. But another truth that we cannot escape is that Delhi is also one of the fastest growing cities in the world. It is a city where people come to fulfil their dreams, to study, to work. Delhi needs more housing, schools, and hospitals. What is required is an inclusive planning process, which is currently missing; and, therefore, what needs questioning is not the transplantation policy but the urban planning process in National Capital Regional (NCR). Unless we make the planning process more holistic, we will be fighting to save a few trees and keep losing the bigger environmental battle. Without going into the details of how the central government is trying to dilute the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process, the current EIA framework has been a sham and highly prone to corruption. The biggest flaw is that the project proponent is responsible for carrying out an EIA. In most cases, they look for “agencies” who can help them “fix” the process and obtain the necessary clearances.We hardly ever see a scientific cost-benefit analysis of any proposed projects, an analysis that considers the various economic, ecological, and social costs of implementing a project. In most cases, the economic advantages are inflated, while ecological costs are not accounted for. Take the recent case of the Char Dham project, which did not consider any of the environmental costs associated with the project, even though it was being implemented in an eco-sensitive zone. The Supreme Court’s recent intervention on the project is clear proof of how the Centre is brazenly ignoring environmental norms. Delhi has many agencies, and hence, a lot of decisions are not under the purview of Delhi government. For example, the upcoming Central Vista Project has been granted clearance by the MOEF. There have been varying reports of how many trees would be felled for this project. Why is there so much secrecy around the project? Don’t we, the citizens of Delhi, have a right to know the details of such a massive project that will forever change access to the public spaces in central Delhi? Whether the project should be approved or not is part of the EIA process. Once a project has been approved, the fate of impacted trees has been sealed. It is now that the transplantation policy kicks in. The transplantation policy clearly states that all possibilities should be explored to avoid the felling of the trees. It also states that transplantation would be done over and above the existing norm of compensatory afforestation. The only difference being mandated by the policy is transplantation instead of felling. While we recognise that transplantation is an emerging science, we hope that a stringent policy which mandates 80% survival would also be a catalyst in development of this expertise in the country.By mandating that at least 80% of the tress be transplanted by a pool of empaneled agency, the policy is actually raising the economic cost of carrying out ecologically ill-conceived projects. This added cost should encourage developers to consider alternatives where minimum trees would be felled. In addition to this, there is provision to involve local community to carry regular social audits of transplanted trees. Let us create platforms where the state, Centre, civil society groups all come together and make Delhi a green and inclusive city, and, at the same time, not miss the wood for the trees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/understanding-the-rationale-of-delhi-s-tree-transplantation-policy/story-XHmgBLfq5MuGsx0HkCuwSM.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Over 500 parents across Maharashtra urge CM Uddhav Thackeray to restart FYJC admissions||More than 500 parents from across Maharashtra have signed an online petition addressed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urging the state education department to restart the admission process to first-year junior college (FYJC) as soon as possible. Nearly three months after the results of Class 10 were declared in the state, the admission to colleges for FYJC students is still not complete. On September 9, in line with the Supreme Court’s interim stay on the Maratha quota in jobs and education, the state education department stayed the admission process for FYJC until further orders. With this, the second merit list for admissions which was scheduled to be out on September 10 was not released. More than a month on, admissions are yet to restart, leaving over 2.42 lakh students in the lurch in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) alone. In the online petition, parents have urged state officials to restart the admission process soon. “SSC exams concluded in March, and it has been nearly seven months now that our children are at home without learning anything. We are worried about their academic future, and hence urge the department to not delay the process any further,” said a parent while replying to the petition. Several agitated parents even said that the education department should scrap the entire year for FYJC students. “What is the point of opening the college when even 30% syllabus cannot be completed in such a short duration now? Why should our children suffer in the whole process?” asked an angry parent on Twitter. An official from the state education department said they are yet to receive instructions from the state government on restarting admission process. “The decision will be taken at a higher level, and we are not sure as to when the process will begin,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-500-parents-across-maharashtra-urge-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-restart-fyjc-admissions/story-GQJCDrRxM1ewlGn9iUbWCN.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||31-50 years more prone to Covid cases as people report back to work, says Thane civic body||With the rise in the number of people reporting back to work since Mission Begin Again in June, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has detected an increase in the number of Covid cases in the age-group of 31 to 50 years. This comprises mostly the working population. As per the data compiled by TMC, this is also the age group with the most number of active cases. The maximum number of those recovered and discharged quickly fall in this age group.The mortality rate on the other hand is still high among the senior citizens due to more comorbidities.Thane city has witnessed more than 42,255 numbers of cases till now. Among these, 21.1 per cent are of 31-40 years of age and 19.1 per cent are in the 41-50 years of age. While those within 51 to 60 years of age and above 60 years are at 17 per cent positivity rate each, close on heels at 16.3 per cent positivity are those among 21 to 30 years of age.Geographically, the positivity rate in areas like Majiwada-Manpada and Naupada Kopri is among the highest. Similarly, most of the active cases are found in Majiwada-Manpada closely followed by Vartak Nagar. These are areas with increased working population under the 31 to 50 years of age bracket.Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer, TMC, said, “Those within 31 to 40 years of age are most mobile. With the unlock in place, most of them also step out for work and come easily in contact with others, increasing their chances of infection. They are also those who step out for essentials, hence the positivity rate among them is higher. Although their infection rate is high, their recovery is also much higher as they respond well to medications and treatment. Their lungs are fit and in a position to recover easily.”TMC informed that 55 per cent mortality rate exists within Thane city among those above 60 years of age. “Senior citizens are prone to infection easily. Hence, they are advised to stay at home and restrict their outdoor activities. Due to comorbidities, their immunity level goes down. As the virus affects the lungs, with age, their lungs are not capable become vulnerable,” said Dr Murudkar.He added that the recovery time among senior citizens is also more compared to youngsters. Dr Santosh Kadam, president, Indian Medical Association, Thane Chapter, said, “Awareness is more among youngsters. They wear masks and sanitise regularly, however for senior citizens this is a huge change in their routine making it difficult for them to wear masks properly and follow regular sanitisation. Hence, they are prone to infection.“Most youngsters, when tested positive, have mild disease and hardly a few have developed the need for hospitalisation. In some cases, those above 50 years have slow recovery depending on the individual’s fitness and immunity level. However, senior citizens have co-morbidities and most need hospitalisation.” The least affected are those below 20 years of age. Hardly, 2 per cent to 4 per cent deaths have taken place in this age group since March. Most patients below 20 years of age who have been positive have recovered well and discharged within TMC.“Children have higher immunity power making them easier to cope with. We have a few cases, mostly those whose entire family have tested positive or those in close proximity to a positive parent. Their strong lungs respond faster and recovery is also easier,” said Murudkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/31-50-years-more-prone-to-covid-cases-as-people-report-back-to-work-says-thane-civic-body/story-G05Pa2FTdVcN6weQoRiIWL.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Recovery rate in Kalyan-Dombivli rises from 85% to 90% in last 2 weeks||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has claimed that the recovery rate in the last two weeks has improved to 90 per cent from the constant 85 per cent for over a month. Although the positivity rate is an average of 17 per cent, only 1.5 lakh of the city’s 18 lakh population has been tested till now.A fluctuation in the daily number of cases has been noticed between 200 and 500 cases since the last month. This is one of the worst affected corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan region after Mumbai.At least 50,948 positive cases have been reported till now in the twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli.Confirming the increase in recovery rate, Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “We are focusing on providing proper treatment and isolation to those infected, only after this are they discharged. On some days, we have discharged more than 400 patients who have been cured completely. This is helping a lot in improving the recovery rate. We are also roping in additional staff and increasing the number of testing gradually, our efforts to set up testing camps in clusters with an increased number of cases seems to help curtail the spread of the virus.”The civic body hopes that the door-to-door survey under the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign will help identify those with symptoms. The KDMC currently has 22 testing centres across the city. On an average, around 2,400 patients get tested daily across the city. The death rate is currently at 1.95 per cent.“The market areas are crowded and people step out at night as well for leisure, some restrictions to such activities need to be made. With so many facilities available, the civic body should also make institutional quarantine compulsory so that patients can be monitored,” said Shyamjit Sarkar, 54, resident of Dombivli.With the help of a strict crackdown, KDMC is trying to create awareness about wearing masks. “Till now, we have fined more than 3,500 people, collected a total of around ₹7 lakh as fine since the rule was implemented,” said a senior official from KDMC. Those found without masks in public places are being fined ₹500 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/recovery-rate-in-kalyan-dombivli-rises-from-85-to-90-in-last-2-weeks/story-KYs4ayK2tvrYzZsHKXqJpJ.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||SSR case media trial: Have NBA to keep eye on electronic media, Centre tells Bombay HC||The Union government through the ministry of information and broadcasting assured the Bombay high court (HC) that there was a mechanism in place in the form of News Broadcasters Association (NBA) which regulates the electronic media. The statement was made in response to the issues raised in various public interest litigations (PILs) filed against the media trial in Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The ministry also submitted that it was in the process of formulating a better mechanism to address the grievances. NBA, on its part, informed the court that it had taken action against many channels and had also banned channels for infringing the programme code. However, when asked if any action was taken against channels for running media trials, NBA replied in the negative. The court has posted further hearing on Monday. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a bunch of PILs filed by various individuals and NGOs including former senior police officials, was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh that various Supreme Court and HC judgements have stressed on the need for self-regulation by the media. Referring to a judgement of the Kerala HC, Singh said the courts have time and again refrained from framing guidelines for restricting the media on the grounds that it was in the domain of the parliament and the state legislature. Singh also referred to other judgements wherein courts have refused to frame guidelines and said that media should act responsibly. Singh further submitted that NBA was founded to act as a self-regulating authority for the electronic media as well as serve as a redressal mechanism for complaints. Singh added that NBA exercised control on members, and if the channels did not heed, the complaint was forwarded to the ministry. In such cases, he said, an inter-ministerial committee took action against channels, including ones that are not members of NBA. In light of these submissions, Singh said there was no need for additional mechanism, and added that in light of the grievances raised in the PILs, it was considering ways to regulate non-members and to bring effective mechanisms against them. When the court questioned whether wither the ministry or NBA had dealt with complaints pertaining to media trials, Singh replied in the negative and said action had been initiated against errant channels pertaining to advertisement or objectionable content. The court then observed that in the current scenario the electronic media, while exercising its right to freedom of speech, was violating the rights of others by tarnishing the image of the subjects. “Legitimate restraint is a must, else there will be absolute mayhem,” observed the bench. The court reiterated that it only wanted to stress on the fact that there was no mechanism to control electronic media like there was for the print media. Singh responded, “We expected media to show restraint, but they did not; so we are taking measures to come up with some mechanism.” While making submissions on behalf of NBA, senior counsel Arvind Datar informed the court that the self-regulating body was taking cognisance of complaints as well as was initiating suo motu action against errant members. He also submitted data showing that the NBA was taking action on 30 instances of member channels infringing programme code every year. After hearing the submissions, the court said that it would hear the channels on Monday and directed them not to repeat arguments and posted hearing for Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ssr-case-media-trial-have-nba-to-keep-eye-on-electronic-media-centre-tells-bombay-hc/story-66Ji1HT42DrOc8oZtshJZJ.html
16-10-2020||City||13-year-old among five Covid fatalities in Ludhiana||Five persons succumbed to Covid-19 in Ludhiana even as 68 others tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Thursday. Among the deceased was a 13-year-old girl of Sandhu Sunder Singh Colony.As per information, the girl was suffering from acute kidney injury and died at Christian Medical College and Hospital of the virus. Apart from that, a 37-year-old woman of Shimlapuri, a 57-year-old woman of Gurpal Nagar, a 60-year-old male from Khanna and a 62-year-old woman of Phallonwal village also lost their battle to the virus.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said a total of 19,552 cases have been reported in the district till date. While the toll currently stands at 817, a total of 19, 484 patients have recovered from the virus. The district’s active cases count is 350.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/13-year-old-among-five-covid-fatalities-in-ludhiana/story-hlLQZrWNqNQMGlagecYLkJ.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Only 2 doctors, 5 staff members for 50-bed Chaya sub-district hospital in Ambernath||As the focus is on improving healthcare services in the state following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, the government-run Chaya sub-district hospital in Ambernath is short-staffed and lacks essential services.The 50-bed hospital has merely two doctors and five staff members. It also does not have an ambulance service. The building housing the hospital is also dilapidated and is in urgent need of repairs.Built in 1962, the sub-district hospital is used by residents of Ambernath and nearby tribal villages of Badlapur, Karjat and Kasara.Hospital sources claim the government has sanctioned seven doctors to the hospital. Of these, five are either sent on deputation to other hospitals or are unwell. “The only two doctors working are Dr Shashikant Dode, medical superintendent of the hospital, and Sachin Deskmukh, medical officer. For the last few years, the hospital has been on ventilator with lack of staff. After continuous follow up with the government, we were assigned staff. However, most of them are again sent on deputation. It is difficult to manage the hospital with such meagre staff,” said a person on the hospital staff requesting anonymity.The hospital has daily footfalls of more than 200 to 300 people visiting the OPD for treatment. Prior to lockdown, at least five to ten deliveries were done.“We have seven nurses in two shifts. Among the seven, two of them are on leave, one is suffering from cancer and the other tested positive for Covid-19. The operation theatre, OPD, casualty, maternity, male and female isolation ward and post-mortem rooms do not have manpower. Moreover, the hospital building is dilapidated, and the authorities have ignored our plea for repairs,” the hospital staff said.The condition of the hospital has also affected the locals who have to run to different hospitals in Thane.Dr Dode refused to speak on the issues and said that he and his team were trying their best to treat every single patient visiting the hospital.Kailash Pawar, deputy director, Thane District Collector Health Department, said, “We have a team of doctors at the hospital who are working properly. Doctors were posted at the hospital, but a few of them are on deputation at Covid centres, which was the priority in the last few months.”Commenting on the condition of the building, Pawar added, “We have sent a proposal to the state government for a new building at the same place. Also, we have asked them to extend the hospital to a 100-bed facility after rebuilding the existing structure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/only-2-doctors-5-staff-members-for-50-bed-chaya-sub-district-hospital-in-ambernath/story-G0zqnnociCBgjbHkSynHgP.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai residential associations come together in fight against pollution from Taloja MIDC||Various residential associations of Kharghar, Kamothe, Kalamboli and Taloja have joined hands to fight the air pollution menace together. The areas have been suffering for years, especially at night, due to pollution from Taloja MIDC, the residents claimed.The agitation was started by various social organisations two years ago. However, since the pollution has not been curbed, the associations decided to fight it out together. The industries in Taloja have led to both air and water pollution over the years, claimed the residents.Leena Garad, president of Kharghar Forum, said. “We intend to bring together the organisations and citizens who have previously worked against pollution in the Kharghar, Kamothe, Kalamboli and Taloja areas. Together, we would set up Anti-Pollution Struggle Committee and build organisational structure for the next movement. In the next meeting, we also intend to make a list of companies that contribute to pollution, if possible, by scientifically studying what exactly causes the pollution,” Garad said.Kasam Mulani, president of Taloja Pachanand Residential Social Organisation, said, “There are 937 industries in Taloja MIDC and the pollution from them is suffocating the residents in the surrounding areas. There have been incidents of fishes in Kasadi River dying because of the chemicals discharged into it. There have also been incidents of cattle dying due to the inhalation of polluted air. We have been writing to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) since 2015, but have not seen any major difference in the situation. The property prices in the area are also going down because of the issue.”However, MPCB has said the smell that has been creating havoc for the residents is not just the industrial effluent or emissions but also that of the raw material.Kishor Kerlikar, MIDC sub-regional officer, said, “We are continuously addressing the complaints and are also visiting the locations to find any kind of illegal dumping or emission. We are also planning to identify four locations in the MIDC area from where continuous monitoring can be done. A few days back, during a midnight visit, we found two production units emitting strong odour as they used state fish as raw materials. The units were told to use de-odourisation system that they did not have, and hence we issued closure direction.”MIDC was established in 1970 and the area developed without any buffer area. Kerlikar added, “Ideally, there should have been a patch of dense trees as a buffer zone before the residential complexes start. This was not made and that is the main problem why residents are facing strong odour from the MIDC area. Of the 937 industries, not all are chemical industries, and 229 of them generate industrial effluents.”Kerlikar added that in a week, MIDC would be finalising four places to install ambient air quality monitoring system to keep a track of pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-residential-associations-come-together-in-fight-against-pollution-from-taloja-midc/story-cH1zuoRX11om3utJWvsngO.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death: NCB arrests peddler in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested one more accused, Jai Madhok, on Thursday night in connection with the drug angle into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede confirmed the arrest and said, “Madhok is a peddler and distributor of cocaine and hashish. His name was mentioned in various statements of drug peddlers recorded in the SSR case. He is directly involved in drug peddling and distribution.” NCB officials said Madhok along with Dharma Productions’ former executive producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad and Ankush Arenja was also involved in distributing drugs. Both Prasad and Arenja were earlier arrested in the SSR case, said NCB officers. Madhok has direct links with a Nigerian national from whom he procured cocaine for himself and to distribute to his friends. “We have been questioning Madhok to find out if his friends are also involved in distributing drugs. NCB is looking for a few of his few friends as well,” said a NCB officer. During interrogation, Madhok also revealed that he was in touch with Sam alias Rahil Vishram who used to supply hashish to him. NCB officers checked Madhok’s financial transactions and found that he had made many transactions for drugs, said an NCB officer. The agency has so far arrested 21 people including actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Samuel Miranda, domestic help Dipesh Sawant, and drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar and others. Chakraborty was granted bail by the Bombay high court on October 7 while her brother is still in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ncb-arrests-peddler-in-drugs-case/story-MlKipjZmAEHjpa8QHo0EsM.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Fewer cases of gastroenteritis and hepatitis in Mumbai due to Covid-19 lockdown||For the first time in seven years, the number of gastroenteritis cases recorded in the city in September is less than 40. Absence of street vendors during the lockdown has resulted in a drastic reduction in reported cases of monsoon ailments associated with the stomach and liver, like gastroenteritis and hepatitis.Every year during the monsoon, hospitals in the city witnessed a spike in the number of patients coming in with stomach flu or gastroenteritis and hepatitis. With roadside food stalls prohibited during the lockdown and fewer Mumbaiites venturing out of their homes for fear of contracting Covid-19, there has been a sharp drop in cases of these ailments. Data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) showed there were only 31 gastroenteritis cases in September, compared to 368 cases in September 2019. Similarly, there were three cases of hepatitis in September, compared to 70 reported in September 2019. Gastroenteritis and hepatitis A or E are caused by contaminated water or food. Symptoms take three to six weeks to show. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital, said, “Every year, during monsoon we get the highest number of patients with gastroenteritis and hepatitis. This year, we had expected fewer patients due to the lockdown. But this year, the flow of patients has gone down by almost 80%. Roadside food stalls are the primary source of infection. Due to the pandemic, those have been closed down, which has helped to control the cases.”Doctors said hepatitis A and E can also spread due to improper hygiene, especially if uncooked food — like fruits and vegetables — are washed with contaminated water. With everyone taking precautions to curb the spread of Covid-19, the risk of contaminated water has also diminished. “Since the pandemic, people have been drinking boiled water and washing their hands regularly. This has helped curb the cases of monsoon related infections,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fewer-cases-of-gastroenteritis-and-hepatitis-in-mumbai-due-to-covid-19-lockdown/story-Hkrb0FhxY23OWYXfnAuHAO.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbra NGO asks Thane civic body not to take action against small-time hawkers, vendors||A Mumbra-based Non-Government Organisation (NGO) has requested the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to not take action against small-time hawkers and vendors in Mumbra, especially the vegetable and fruit sellers.The NGO – Yes We Can – stated most have turned to selling fruits and vegetable after being jobless during the pandemic and taking action against them will impact their families who are struggling for survival.The letter further states the municipal officers from Mumbra and Diva wards are taking harsh action against the hawkers. “With most salaried people losing their jobs, most of them have temporarily started selling vegetables to earn a livelihood for their families. The corporation has not implemented the hawking policy demarcating place for these vendors. Instead, they are destroying their goods during the action,” said Hasan Mulani, a social worker and trustee of Yes We Can.Abdul Kabir, a member of the group, said: “Legal action of fining them is proper instead of taking their belongings and destroying them since they cannot afford to bear the loss of their products.”Ashok Burpulle, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said, “We carry out action against hawkers on a daily basis. If they are standing and blocking the road with stalls, resulting in traffic congestion in the city, action will be taken against them as per the due process of law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbra-ngo-asks-thane-civic-body-not-to-take-action-against-small-time-hawkers-vendors/story-MlKytsFdnw9Ic19Zuzg6ZM.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Action against littering shopkeepers as Thane civic body intensifies cleanliness drive to control pandemic||Over the last fortnight, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has been focusing on a cleanliness drive along with its efforts to control the Covid-19 pandemic. From strict cleaning and maintenance of public places to levying a fine on shopkeepers or establishments if any garbage was found outside their premises, TMC has implemented various ways to ensure that cleanliness was being maintained.“Although the impact of the pandemic is less than before, it is important to focus on the hygiene and cleanliness aspect for a safe environment. With more people stepping out and through the Unlock Mission, we are trying to return to normalcy. It is also essential to take precautions and not allow piles of garbage or debris to be breeding spots for mosquitoes. A strict crackdown against violators for littering will soon be implemented,” said Vipin Sharma, commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation.The commissioner himself surveyed some of these areas like Bara Bungalow Road, Bhimshakti Chowk, Station Road, Kopri Bridge to analyse the cleanliness quotient of these areas.“As per the commissioner’s orders, each ward has been giving importance to cleanliness and maintenance of public places. A protocol to collect garbage and clean public spaces has been prepared and the sanitisation workers and the ward officers work in tandem to implement it. He also visited different wards randomly during the last fortnight to monitor the cleanliness status,” said a TMC officer.“Piled up garbage or debris will not be tolerated in the city. Neither will littering be accepted. It is also the responsibility of every individual to ensure that their premises and the vicinity are clean and maintained. Hence, shopkeepers and establishments will pay a price if any littering or unhygienic situation is observed adjacent to their premises,” added Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/action-against-littering-shopkeepers-as-thane-civic-body-intensifies-cleanliness-drive-to-control-pandemic/story-YlTCqCiVEta6zWudt9lseN.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP fraud: Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrests another former employee of Hansa Research Group||Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Friday arrested Umesh Mishra, 30, a former employee of Hansa Research Group, from Virar area. This is the six arrest made in connection with the investigation into the manipulation of television rating points (TRPs) by three channels.Mishra, an Andheri resident, had left the company two years ago and was hiding in Virar, said crime branch officers. “Though he left the company, he still distributed money to households where barometers were installed for fake TRP. His name came up during the interrogation of Vinay Tripathi, a former employee of Hansa who was arrested from Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh,” said inspector Sachin Vaze, who is conducting an inquiry in the case. Earlier on Friday, four accused — Vishal Bhandari and Bompalli Rao Mistry alias Sanjiv Rao, both arrested on October 6; Shirish Shetty, owner of Fakt Marathi, and Narayan Sharma, owner of Box Cinema, both arrested on October 9 — were produced in the court after their custody ended on Friday. The court sent them to judicial custody for 14 days till October 30. Shetty and Sharma have applied for bail and their hearing will be on October 19, added Vaze. Meanwhile, crime branch recorded the statement of Hari Prasad, national head of Ebixcash. “Ebixcash has given advertisements to Republic TV. So we are questioning advertisers to understand how TRPs are important for them, and on what basis they gave them advertisement,” said Vaze. Robin Raina, CEO of Ebixcash, has also summoned but he did not come as he was under quarantine due to Covid-19. Fakt Marathi’s CFO Sajjan Agarwal was questioned, during which he said advertisements are the only source of income of his channel, added Vaze. “We have summoned a few employees of Hansa Research because they have not submitted the documents which we had asked them to submit. Republic TV’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh has submitted some documents. We will verify those documents with the help of the economic offences wing,” said Vaze. He added, “Executive editors of Republic TV, Niranjan Narayanswamy and Abhishek Kapoor, were questioned. We have asked them to submit the documents which they used to telecast news on October 10 claiming that the documents of Hansa. They have not submitted the document yet.” Several witnesses are coming forward claiming they were asked to watch Republic TV and were given money. “We have recorded statement of some people. Statements of few witnesses were recorded before a magistrate under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code,” said a crime branch officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-fraud-mumbai-police-s-crime-branch-arrests-another-former-employee-of-hansa-research-group/story-IfoEsKYkEeRi4Dl6ehxSQK.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Thane man arrested 20 years after killing friend’s wife for ₹5,000 contract||The Thane Crime Branch Unit 1 has arrested a 46-year-old man who killed his friend’s wife after taking a contract for the killing from his friend. The accused, Shambhu Rawal, was arrested 20 years after the crime was committed. Rawal was absconding since the crime and was arrested from his village in Gujarat.Rawal and his friend Suresh Nhavi, who is dead, had taken a contract from Kundan Rawal to kill his wife Kunda for just ₹5,000. The couple had frequent fights following which Kundan hatched the plan. An officer from unit 1 said, “Accordingly they executed the murder plan on February 18, 2000 by strangulating Kunda in her house in Wagale Estate in Thane. Rawal and Nhavi both fled to their village after committing the crime.”The Wagle Estate police arrested the husband, Kundan for the murder and during interrogation he confessed to the crime and named the two who were absconding since then. The crime branch officials, while working on cases related to wanted criminals, got a tip off about Rawal.The officer added, “We formed a team and sent it to his village in Vijapurmake, Gujrat. Our team laid a trap and arrested him. While interrogating him about his partner Nhavi, we came to know he died of natural causes. We have brought him to Thane and handed him over to Wagle Estate police station. Rawal, who was a friend of Kundan, came to Mumbai in search of job in 2000. After he murdered Kundan’s wife with the ₹5,000 he fled the place, was hiding in different places before settling in his village. We are taking information weather he has done any other crime in the last 20 years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-man-arrested-20-years-after-killing-friend-s-wife-for-5-000-contract/story-IVNP7zU1wHLnWWr1zyarDL.html
16-10-2020||City||Class 9 student, accomplice abduct, rape 17-year-old girl in Ludhiana||A Class-9 student, along with his friend, allegedly abducted a 17-year-old girl and gangraped her for four days before she finally managed to escape.According to the victim, the accused had been blackmailing her for the past three months and had extorted Rs 22,000 from her.The girl, who is a student of Class-11, said the accused lives in her locality and had befriended her some time ago. He had even introduced her to his mother.On August 24, he took her to a restaurant and showed her some morphed images. He told her that he would circulate it on social media in her name if she didn’t pay him money for buying a bike. Following this, the girl said that she was forced to steal some money from home and even sell her mother’s gold earrings to arrange Rs 22,000 to pay him. On October 11, the teen allegedly called her to Samrala Chowk. When she reached there, she saw that the accused had come with his friend. The duo then abducted her and took her to a room and raped her in confinement. She managed to escape and reach home four days later and lodged a police complaint.The boy’s mother has also been booked for helping him in the crime.Assistant sub-inspector Japal Singh, who is investigating the case, said the case has been registered under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366-A (procuration of minor girl), 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. A hunt is on for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/class-9-student-accomplice-abduct-rape-17-year-old-girl-in-ludhiana/story-7K5bYWyWknRoDFgs74r94K.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai’s distance education institute gets UGC nod to conduct admissions for academic year 2020-21||In a relief to students seeking admission to distance learning courses of the University of Mumbai (MU), the University Grants Commission (UGC) has allowed the varsity’s Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) to go ahead with admissions for the academic year 2020-21. The approval from UGC is applicable to 15 distance learning courses offered by IDOL including Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) and Bachelor of Science (BSc), among others. “We will soon begin the admission process,” the university said in a statement released on Friday. Last year, more than 67,000 students were admitted in the July session, while 920 students took admissions in the January session. IDOL had lost its recognition from the UGC – the apex higher education institute – in 2018, as MU did not have an accreditation from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) since 2012. However, last year in August, the UGC granted provisional recognition to IDOL to continue its courses only for academic year 2019-20. The recognition was granted on the condition that the university will complete its application for a NAAC accreditation and subsequently get a NAAC score of 3.6 or above on a scale of 4. While the university had applied for a NAAC accreditation last year and submitted its institutional information for quality assessment, the process was stalled because of the Covid-19 pandemic and ensuing lockdown. Keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in view, the UGC on September 4 issued a gazette notification, making changes in the University Grants Commission (Open and Distance Learning) Regulations, 2017, and University Grants Commission (Online Courses or Programmes) Regulations, 2018. Along the lines with these changes, the UGC decided to grant recognition to IDOL, stated the notice uploaded on its website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-s-distance-education-institute-gets-ugc-nod-to-conduct-admissions-for-academic-year-2020-21/story-GMTucuxBNGh7bJ12r14vzM.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Three attack extern gangster in Ulhasnagar||Three persons allegedly attacked an extern gangster with a knife in Ulhasnagar on Thursday while the latter was shopping. Ulhasnagar police have admitted him to a hospital and are searching for the attacker. The victim, identified as Samadhan Nikam, 45, has several cases of murder and attempt-to-murder registered against him and has been an extern since the last six years. He, however, broke the rule and returned to the city. According to Ulhasnagar police, on Thursday night, Nikam went for shopping in Ulhasnagar market when three accused, identified as Piyush, Rohit and Narayan Gharte, stopped him and started arguing. They then attacked him with a knife and fled the spot. Nikam’s friend immediately admitted him to a hospital.Ulhasnagar police officials said, “We have taken the statement of Nikam’s friend and registered a case against the three accused under IPC 307 and also will take legal action against Nikam for not following externment rules.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-attack-extern-gangster-in-ulhasnagar/story-6uvaARM9MVdkjTldfOpABK.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC Bar body polls: Three in fray for president’s post||Incumbent Dayal Partap Singh Randhawa is among the three lawyers contesting for the post of president of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) polls, slated for November 6. The other two candidates are GBS Dhillon and Puneeta Sethi. Three candidates— Hirdey Pal Singh Rahi, Vikas Malik and Sharmila Sharma— are contesting for the post of vice-president.Chanchal K Singla, Ravinder Kumar Bangar and Aman Rani Sharma are in the fray for the post of honorary secretary and Kanu Sharma and Manjit Kaur are fighting for the post of joint secretary. As of treasurer’s post, Jagjit Singh Chatrath, Parampreet Singh Bajwa and Sahil Gambhir are contesting. The election committee chairman senior advocate KS Sidhu said that Sanjay Bansal has been declared elected in the category of senior executive member and Daljit Kaur in the woman member category. Eight candidates were declared elected for the posts of executive members above 10 years. But the election will be held for seven posts of the executive members below 10 years for which nine are in the fray. The polling and counting will take place on November 6 for the Bar body with nearly 4,000 voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-bar-body-polls-three-in-fray-for-president-s-post/story-w7SJVNWinw0VTKV5DTL8EP.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Terrace gardening keeps Thane residents occupied during Covid-19 pandemic||Ranjan Yadav, 47, a chef by profession, starts his day by visiting the terrace in his society, where more than 200 potted plants are growing.Yadav spends more than an hour to water the plants and checks the yield for the day. His neighbours also join in watering the plants. These include a variety of vegetables and seasonal fruits. The terrace garden started by the residents has been a boon to the residents during the lockdown.The garden is on two buildings – Lily Co-operative Society within Vijay Garden Complex at Kavesar. The society decided to develop a terrace garden in 2017 and the results are showing now.“With everything shut down for six months, this was the best way for us to spend hours, experimenting and learning more about farming and gardening. We made the most of the lockdown and understood about the vegetables that can be grown across seasons and also tried growing fresh herbs and bell peppers, which were a success,” said Yadav.As the yield from the terrace garden is distributed to all society members, it’s helpful for at least one meal in every household during the lockdown.“There are a few of us who take a lot of interest in gardening and farming process. We share the yield with our neighbours as well. This was a collective initiative and we are using only certain parts of the terrace for the same. During the lockdown, we get to consume healthy organic vegetables,” said Thankiah Nadar, 50, another resident.When the society underwent renovation in 2017, they had many paint buckets that were lying unused. They decided to use them as planters in their terrace to set up a garden and cultivate organic fruits and vegetables. The initiative started with 20 paint buckets. It has now crossed 200 pots and is yielding good results.“From fresh herbs to turmeric and tulsi, we have tried growing different plants. There were a few failed attempts that helped us understand better. The terrace has two different spots of natural light, one area that gets the early morning sun rays and the other spot with the evening mild sun rays. We will be planting strawberries for the upcoming season,” said Reny Varghese, 44, another resident and an avid gardener.These vegetables are not sold commercially but distributed among the society members. “There are some vegetables like egg plants and ladies finger that yield year long. Some fruits are seasonal. We are learning all of these through our experiments,’’ added Nadar.“This organic farming is a key element to my profession as a chef, the results of our amateur experiments are amazing, and we even have herbs like fresh basil. This can be easily started in one’s home or society terrace. It is great to keep one occupied. Moreover, we did not have to worry about the difficulty in going to the market to get daily groceries during the lockdown,” added Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/terrace-gardening-keeps-thane-residents-occupied-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-KyJGteQvm0whsqhdEnXGdI.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||NEET results: Four students from Maharashtra make it to top 50||The results for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions to undergraduate medical and dental courses were released by the National Testing Agency (NTA) late on Friday. This year, four students from Maharashtra made it to the top-50 rank. Eighteen-year-old Ashish Zantye from Malwan, Sindhudurg district, with an all-India rank 19 is the state’s topper, after securing 710 marks out of the total score of 720. While he attended his junior college on weekdays, Zantye travelled to Goa during weekends to prepare for his entrance exam with a local coaching institute. “Many students in Malwan prepare for the all-India entrance exams by traveling to Goa over the weekends. My focus was on performing well in the Class 12 boards as well as in NEET. I hope to bag a seat either in AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences), Delhi, or KEM Hospital (King Edward Memorial) in Mumbai for my MBBS degree,” said Zantye, whose mother is a gynaecologist and father a physician. “I’ll either pursue higher education in radiology or in a non-clinical field, including research,” added Zantye. The others three students who made it to the top 50 are Tejomoy Vadiya (43rd rank), Parth Kadam (45th rank) and Abhay Chillarge (46th rank). This year, NTA had received the highest registrations ever, with 15.97 lakh candidates registering for the exam. Of these, 13.66 lakh students appeared for the exam and 7.71 lakh have now qualified for admissions. Like the past few years, Maharashtra accounted for the highest number of registered candidates for the national medical entrance test with 2.27 lakh students registering for the test. Out of the 1.95 lakh students who appeared for the exam this year, only 79,974 qualified for admissions to undergraduate medical and dental seats, which is the lowest among all the states in India. The qualifying criteria for aspirants in the open category stood at 50 percentile this year also. The eligibility for reserved categories including Other Backward Classes (OBC), Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) stands at 40 percentile and above. The cut-offs to qualify for the exam increased marginally from 119 in 2018 to 134 this year. NTA had released the final answer key for the entrance exam in the afternoon but did not accept a single challenge raised by students this year too. “Many students had challenged two questions specifically from the Biology section and had approached the examination authority with proof. The NTA should scrap the process of challenges because students end up wasting Rs1,000 for every question that they challenge, and in the end are left dejected,” said Akruti Patel, parent of one of the medical aspirants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/neet-results-four-students-from-maharashtra-make-it-to-top-50/story-mCsPjsKzsNTVkxwoXlMPbM.html
16-10-2020||City||Auction of Dawood Ibrahim’s 7 properties on November 10||Fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s seven land parcels in his ancestral village in Ratnagiri district in Konkan will be auctioned by the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act (Safema) authorities on November 10. Two flats of Dawood’s aide Iqbal Mirchi will also be auctioned on the same day, Safema officials told HT. Competent authority Harigovind Singh will supervise the auction. Under Safema, the finance ministry had planned to auction all 13 properties of Dawood in the first quarter this year. However, as the Covid pandemic and the lockdown forced them to defer the plan. A Safema officer said all properties can be inspected by prospective bidders on November 2. The application for each property along with the earnest money deposit should reach Safema office before 4pm on November 6. “All three modes of sale – e-auction, public auction and sealed tenders – would be used,” he said. Section 68F of Safema empowers the authority to attach properties of family members and relatives of the fugitive. “As the lockdown has adversely affected people across all sections financially, we are not sure what kind of response we would get,” said another official. In April 2019, Safema officals auctioned a flat admeasuring 600sqft at Gordon Hall Apartments in Nagpada, belonging to Dawood’s sister Haseena Parkar, for ₹1.80 crore. Parker died in 2014 and later her brother Iqbal Kaskar had come to stay there. In 2018, Safema auctioned Dawood’s property, Amina Mansion, on Pakmodia Street. The reserved price of the property was ₹79.43 lakh, and it was won by the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) for ₹3.51 crore. In November 2017, the Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT) had made the highest bid for the three sealed properties of the fugitive don. The Rounaq Afroz restaurant, also known as Delhi Zaika, was sold for ₹4.53 crore. Six flats in Damarwala building were sold for ₹3.53 crore, while Shabnam Guest House fetched a price of ₹3.52 crore. To be auctioned at Mumbake village taluka, Khed Survey number 150 (20 gunthas); reserved price: ₹1.52lakh Survey number 151 (27 gunthas); reserved price: ₹2.05lakh Survey number 152 (29.30 gunthas); reserved price: ₹2.23lakh Survey number 153 (24.90 gunthas); reserved price: ₹1.89lakh Survey number 155 (18 gunthas); reserved price: ₹1.38lakh Survey number 181 (27 gunthas) [Land having two-storey bungalow – house number 178 and 172]; reserved price: ₹5.35lakh Survey number 81 (30 gunthas) [Land and structure for petrol pump and other buildings] at Lote, Khed; reserved price: ₹61.48lakh Two flats, 501/502, in Milton Apartments on Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (West), belonging to Iqbal Mirchi, would also be sold||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/auction-of-dawood-ibrahim-s-7-properties-on-november-10/story-BbwD8MU3v9HMnEhSy31ajJ.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally rises to 1,576,062; death toll is 40,512||Maharashtra on Friday reported 11,447 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 1,576,062. The state also reported 306 fatalities, pushing up the toll to 40,512. Active cases in Maharashtra stood at 189,715. Mumbai, meanwhile, witnessed 1,823 new infections, which took the city’s case tally to 238,544. Thirty seven fatalities took Mumbai’s death toll to 9,638. The city’s has 22,884 active cases as of Friday. Of the 306 fatalities reported across the state on Friday, 111 were from the past 48 hours, 70 from the previous week and 125 from the period before that, according to the state health department data. The state’s case fatality rate (CFR) remained unchanged from Thursday at 2.63%.While Maharashtra has witnessed a steady decline in fresh Covid-19 cases over the past fortnight, the state is also witnessing a gradual slide in fatalities too. A comparison of death figures from the first fortnight of September and the same period in October revealed a 22% drop in fatalities. In the first 15 days of September, the state recorded 5,826 deaths, which dropped to 4,534 in October. State health department officials attributed the declining fatalities to better clinical management, timely referral to hospitals and the state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ programme.“The situation is stabilising in terms of fresh cases. But this curve could reverse in the next three weeks with the festive season coming up. Besides, we have seen decline in deaths too. This is owing to months of effort in standardising treatment protocol, clinical management. With patients referred to hospitals on time, it helps doctors save lives. The ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign, too, has helped in creating awareness, identifying probable cases, which were then timely referred to hospitals,” said a senior health department official.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman of the state technical committee on communicable diseases and former state health commissioner, said, efforts of the past few months are fructifying now, but not to the extent of what was desired. “The trend we are seeing is definitely a positive sign. People are now coming forward to get tested and seek medical intervention. Referrals to hospitals are getting quicker, but the percentage of people dying in the first 48 hours [of admission] is still on the higher side. However, it is coming down,” he said.According to Salunkhe, the change in clinical management protocol, which is developed by the task force, is giving opportunities to physicians to follow a standardised process. “For instance, Remdesivir was given late, but now we have said that it has to be given at the right time – not too early, not too late. Similarly, in case of steroids. Doctors are getting confident about treating more patients. The situation in Pune is also getting better and overall we are seeing a downward trend. However, we want it [CFR] to reduce further, and come under 1%,” he said.The CFR in the state remained at 2.64% for 11 days (between October 3 and October 13), and it has been at 2.63% since October 14. “The reason for CFR remaining constant is that if the denominator [confirmed cases] is getting reduced, naturally the rate will remain higher,” Salunkhe said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra is set to cross eight million Covid-19 tests on Saturday, as the state has so far tested 79,89,693 samples. The state’s overall positivity rate stands at 19.73%. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 75,042 samples. Currently, 2,333,522 people are in home quarantine and 23,409 people are in institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-rises-to-1-576-062-death-toll-is-40-512/story-MxswNE9yJKpe8TGYqVFUMO.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks IIT-B to consider admitting student who did not get selection intimation||The Bombay high court on Friday expressed surprise that an institute like the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B) could make a mistake due to technological lapses and directed it to consider granting admission to a student to a post-graduate diploma course in the Industrial Design Centre at IIT-B for the current academic year. After the court was informed that the institute had failed to inform the student from the reserved category about his selection for admission to the course as the mail sent to him ended up in the spam folder and did not reach him before the close of the admission process, the court held that though the student was at fault by not checking the IIT-B website to ascertain whether he had been shortlisted, the institute had also faulted in not ensuring that the intimation mail had reached him. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the petition filed by 23-year-old Prathmesh Pedamkar, was informed by advocate Ashraf Shaikh that his client had cleared all the admission processes of IIT-B till July 22 and had been awaiting the intimation from the institute with regards to selection. However, as he did not receive any intimation till August 21 he wrote to the institute where he was informed that he had been selected for admission, however as had not responded by the deadline of August 6 another student had been given the seat. Shaikh submitted that on inquiry his client learnt that the institute had sent an intimation mail on August 2 however the same had gone into the spam folder. Shaikh added that 18 other students like his client had not received the mail. Shaikh submitted that as his client had failed to take admission by the stipulated deadline for no fault of his, the institute should be directed to grant him admission. However, the advocate for the institute informed the court that though the intimation mail had not reached 19 students, 14 of them had checked the website and on finding their names on the list had come to the institute and secured their admission. The advocate further added that though there was a lapse on the part of the institute, the student did not exercise due diligence to check the website and hence he could not seek any relief. He further submitted that lectures for the course had started on August 10 and as the student was a reserved category student and the seats were limited to 17 no exception could be made out for him. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that it was surprised that an institute such as IIT-B could have such technological lapses. The court then directed the institute to consider admitting the student to the course this year or next year. However, when the institute refused, the bench asked Shaikh to bring past judgements wherein courts had directed authorities to admit students or hire persons on posts either in the same year or the next year without having to go through the selection process and posted the matter for hearing on Monday, October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-iit-b-to-consider-admitting-student-who-did-not-get-selection-intimation/story-2m2ltuSIRjPKI2zZ1MbPEK.html
16-10-2020||City||Palghar lynching case: Ex-Palghar SP transferred to Maharashtra Police Academy in Nashik||Five months after Gaurav Singh, former superintendent of police (SP), Palghar, was sent on compulsory leave by state home minister Anil Deshmukh following the Palghar lynching case, he has now been posted as a superintendent of the Maharashtra Police Academy, Nashik, by the state home ministry. This was announced in an order dated October 14 by the state home department that included postings of 23 IAS and IPS officers.Singh was asked to proceed on compulsory leave on May 8 after the state crime investigation department (CID) took over the probe from the Kasa police.Two sadhus and their driver were lynched by a huge mob outside Gadhchinchale village, 110 kilometres from Palghar in Maharashtra on April 16. They were attacked on the suspicion of being child-lifters.The Kasa police, under whose jurisdiction the crime had taken place, had come under strong criticism for mishandling of the lynching. Singh had then suspended two officers who were part of the investigation. However, as pressure mounted on the state to take action against the police personnel, Singh was sent on compulsory leave. An online petition was undertaken to get back Singh to Palghar but was replaced by Dattatray Shinde the new SP of Palghar. The state later dismissed the service of the then Kasa police in-charge assistant inspector Anandrao Kale, slapped compulsory retirement on two policemen and 15 constables were penalised for dereliction of duty in the Palghar lynching case.The state government in a reply to the Supreme Court to a petition seeking handing over the case to a central agency, had last Wednesday, mentioned that no dereliction of duty was found from Singh’s side and thus was given a clean chit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-lynching-case-ex-palghar-sp-transferred-to-maharashtra-police-academy-in-nashik/story-wJruXTa1PswYYsAWyO5ePK.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body ward committee elections: BJP leaders cry foul play over Sena candidate’s victory||A heated argument broke out between the leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiv Sena along with that of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials during the ward committee elections after Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Friday announced Sena’s Deepmala Badhe as the elected chairperson for S and T ward covering areas like Mulund, Bhandup, Kanjurmarg and Vikhroli in the eastern suburbs. The ward committee has 20 corporators as members.The BJP alleged that Pednekar wrongly declared one vote of the BJP corporator invalid, allowing Sena candidate to win the elections. Sena had nominated Badhe as their candidate for the chairmanship, while BJP nominated Jagruti Patil as its candidate.Out of the total 20 voters who are corporators, Sena had eight, BJP had 10 and both Congress and NCP had one corporator each. During the election, NCP and Congress both voted for Sena that resulted in Sena’s candidate acquiring 10 votes.However, BJP said their 10 corporators also voted for BJP’s candidate, but their one vote was declared invalid by the mayor.Prakash Gangadhare, BJP corporator from Mulund said, “We will challenge this in the court, considering, technically, both Sena and BJP were to get 10 votes each. Further, after the draw, we were expecting the lottery system of picking up chits to decide the winner, but our one vote was declared invalid.”In a statement issued, BJP said, “Our corporators raised objections and insisted on showing the ballot papers. Despite raising objections, the mayor did not answer them and ran straight home after wrapping up the ballot box. Ballot papers disappeared from the hall.”Pednekar said, “Everyone knew that they have to sign inside the box against a particular candidate. In this case, the signature of one voter had gone outside the box, hence one vote was declared invalid. There is no question of foul play.”Municipal secretary Sangeeta Sharma whose department conducts the elections was not available for comment.However, a BMC official on conditions of anonymity said, “We have counted one vote of BJP corporator Rajani Keni from Mulund as invalid. The reason for this was because her signature went out of the designated box meant for signing against a particular candidate. We have categorically explained that signatures have to be inside the box.”Keni said, “I don’t feel my signature had gone out of the box. They have not communicated us anything on why my vote was declared invalid. If my signature had gone out of the box, they could have shown the ballot paper and announced the same in the house. We will challenge this in court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-ward-committee-elections-bjp-leaders-cry-foul-play-over-sena-candidate-s-victory/story-G2uHZ29uTAzMin8dQwEl3K.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt wants Mumbai local trains opened for women from Saturday; Railways says can’t happen immediately||In a first step to open Mumbai’s local trains for all commuters, the Maharashtra government on Friday asked the Railways to allow women to travel on the suburban network from Saturday, between 11am and 3pm and 7pm till day’s services stop. The Western and Central Railways, which operate the local trains, however, informed the government that allowing women commuters immediately won’t be possible unless an assessment is done. Mumbai’s local trains, used by around 8 million people daily pre-Covid-19, were suspended on March 23 after the state went into a lockdown. Some services, however, resumed on June 15, with the state allowing only essential services workers, differently-abled people and cancer patients to use the trains. The Central Railway currently operates 481 daily services, while the Western Railway runs 700 as against their regular 1,774 and 1,367 services, respectively.Friday’s move by the state is seen as a step towards encouraging private offices to adopt staggered working hours for their staff to avoid crowding in trains. The plan, a government official said, was to allow women during non-peak hours as the peak-hour trains for essential workers are already crowded even with social distancing being followed. In a letter to general managers of Central and Western Railways, Kishorraje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation department of the state, reques-ted allowing all women commuters on local trains during a stipulated time. However, within hours, the lack of coordination between authorities came to the fore, with both zonal railways writing back, expressing their inability to allow women commuters in trains with immediate effect and asking the state to assess the quantum of passengers likely to increase. “You are requested to assess the quantum of passengers likely to increase due to the above stated stream of traffic,” stated the letter from Western Railway. “In this connection, it is suggested that a joint meeting between railway officials and state government be organised to work out modalities. The proposal sent by you has been referred to the Railway Board for approval. Further course of action and date of permission for women passengers to travel will be decided accordingly.”Multiple railway officials, who did not wish to be named, said not knowing the number of passengers that will commute by the local trains after the permission is granted can lead to crowding inside compartments. “Evaluating the increase in number of passengers is important or it could lead to crowding. We have asked the state government to discuss this with us,” said one of the officials.State government officials, on condition of anonymity, said the move was a step towards opening up activities in graded manner. “It is the first step towards unlocking train services for all. We are taking stock of how much crowd can the trains handle keeping in mind social distancing. This is also an attempt to encourage the private sector to go in for staggered work hours. In the next phase, we may allow men to travel at odd hours, to see if it works. Senior citizens and families could be allowed at non-peak hours,” said an official, adding that allowing women to travel before 11am, during peak hours, was not possible.“Trains meant for emergency service workers are already crowded, defeating the whole idea of social distancing amid the pandemic. Railway authorities have reported to us that around 40% commuters travelling in trains meant for essential services are people who are not meant to be there and some of them have fake identity cards and QR codes. Allowing all women commuters during peak hours will lead to more crowding,” the official said. State chief secretary Sanjay Kumar had held a meeting with railway and police officials earlier this week to deliberate upon the stagger work hours plan for public and private sector companies. Although authorities unanimously agreed to the idea, they could not find a way to implement it. “Monitoring and enforcement of the staggered timing could be a big challenge for authorities. During the next rounds of meeting, we will deliberate upon the sectors and areas to focus upon for the implementation of the concept,” said another government official. Meanwhile railway officials said a crucial decision such as allowing all women commuters will not be taken without seeking guidance of the Railway minister Piyush Goyal. Incidentally, Goyal on Friday tweeted that he would be undergoing a medical procedure. “I shall be undergoing a procedure to remove a kidney stone. Will be back soon,” Goyal had tweeted on Friday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-wants-mumbai-local-trains-opened-for-women-from-saturday-railways-says-can-t-happen-immediately/story-OshALmquxqmZv7SNshhYiK.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Monsoon withdrawal for Mumbai, Maharashtra may be delayed by at least one more week: IMD||The southwest monsoon withdrawal from Mumbai and Maharashtra is likely to be delayed by at least another week, declared the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday, terming it “one of the most delayed withdrawals ever” for the city and state. This year’s monsoon season for Mumbai has already stretched to 124 days – from June 14 to October 16 –beyond the normal duration of 120 – from June 11 to October 8.“Weather conditions are becoming favourable for the formation of a low pressure weather system over Bay of Bengal again around October 19. This would lead to the extension of the monsoon withdrawal over Mumbai, Maharashtra and rest of central India by at least another week,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD. “There is no chance of withdrawal at the moment. It will take at least seven more days for withdrawal from Mumbai and another nine days from Maharashtra.” Meanwhile, thundershowers witnessed in the city over the past two days not only delayed monsoon retrieval but also led to much cleaner air. The city witnessed a clear blue sky interspersed with white clouds throughout Friday. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality index (AQI) on Friday was 42 (good) during the day and 46 (good) in the evening. AQI from all 10 locations saw levels either in the ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’ categories. Malad was the only location that recorded a spike in nitrogen dioxide levels, with an AQI of 218 (poor) on Friday. An AQI of 44 (good) has been predicted for Saturday.“Thundershowers have washed away the pollutants from the city’s air and movement of the low pressure system and rain clouds over the Arabian Sea along the Maharashtra coast owing to easterly winds led to the bright blue sky and sunny weather during the day,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.Friday evening, however, saw cloud cover and light isolated rain in some parts of the island city and suburbs. The IMD has removed all rain warnings for the next five days and issued a forecast for light to moderate rain till October 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-withdrawal-for-mumbai-maharashtra-may-be-delayed-by-at-least-one-more-week-imd/story-sJS1TYCqJDtKcRV1ArJ2hP.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Recruitment of drivers in MC: Kher asks Badnore to give chance to Chandigarh youth||City MP Kirron Kher has sought the intervention of UT administrator regarding recruitment of youth as drivers in Chandigarh municipal corporation.In her letter addressed to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, she said that the MC is going to recruit drivers to operate garbage collection vehicles and some 400 drivers are going to be recruited.She has appealed to the administrator that this time city’s unemployed youth residing in villages and urban areas be given a chance.She added that every time there is recruitment most people who get jobs are either from Haryana or Punjab. As a result, the youth of Chandigarh feels that they are getting ‘step-motherly’ treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recruitment-of-drivers-in-mc-kher-asks-badnore-to-give-chance-to-chandigarh-youth/story-SUiLPpxr8e35qcmaAarCeO.html
16-10-2020||Noida||First day, old shows and cold response: Deserted look at Noida cinema halls||Almost all cinema halls and multiplexes in Gautam Budh Nagar, which reopened after over seven months’ lockdown, wore deserted looks on Friday. Among the Hindi movies screened were those that were already released, such as Malang, Tanhaji, Thappad and Shubh Mangal Zyada Saavdhan.But only 50 tickets were sold at all prominent multiplexes in Noida and Greater Noida. English movies like My Spy and 1917 also were sparsely watched with not more than two and 26 seats booked, respectively. Several other movies had no viewers. Earlier, the district administration had given permission to run the movies to seven multiplexes and three cinema halls.Several managers said that while the response was not entirely unexpected, they plan to continue roll movies released before the lockdown till December at least. Shamim Anwar of GIP Mall said that the cinema hall operators don’t have any alternative. “We will have to continue with the old movies till December as the next releases are slated for then. To ensure proper sanitization, we have laid anti-microbial film on all surfaces for the protection of viewers and staff,” he said. Angad Makan of Logix Mall said that due to frequent sanitisation and chessboard seating, the cost of shows has increased for them. “Despite this, we have reduced the price of our tickets. Earlier, we used to screen five shows every day, but now it has been reduced to three shows as the sanitization of entire auditorium and food court areas have been made mandatory. We have also increased the interval time to 30 minutes, to ensure social distancing among the viewers,” he said. Most of the visitors who watched movies in the theatres said that they had come to create a personal record of sorts -- to be among the first patrons after the lockdown. Sanjana Singh, a BA student of Delhi University, came to watch Hrithik Roshan-starrer War in GIP Mall. “I was more interested in feeling the vibe of a cinema hall after seven months. I didn’t have any interest in the movie, but wanted to be the part of the first lot of cinema goers in the post-Covid period,” she said. Deepika Sinha, a medical college student, came to wathc a movie at the Inox multiplex in sector Beta in Greater Noida. “I came to celebrate my friend’s birthday. The mall was the best place for get together and watching movie together in a chessboard sitting arrangement was fun. The auditorium had only five viewers and all of them were us,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/first-day-old-shows-and-cold-response-deserted-look-at-noida-cinema-halls/story-w1nFDcesPABdF5Gb3z8SPM.html
16-10-2020||Noida||Yeida invites proposals for Noida Film City from developers||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) on Friday said it has started the process of inviting proposals from prospective developers who can work on the Film City project, proposed in Sector 21 along the Yamuna Expressway.The process was done upon directions from the Uttar Pradesh government. Earlier, the state government had planned to develop the Film City via UP Film Bandhu, a state agency that handles projects related to films.“However, now the government wants the Yeida to hire a consultant or developer who can prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for this project and help in developing this mega project. Therefore, we have issued a request for proposal so that interested consultants or developers can submit their proposals. Once these are submitted, we will select a consultant,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.State additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal, on October 14, had wrote Singh saying: “Because the Film City project is to be put on fast-track it is requested that to set up the Film City, a consultant or developer should be roped in by the Yamuna authority itself.”The project was announced by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on September 18 this year. Subsequently, the Yeida on September 20 had sent a proposal stating that it has 780 acres earmarked for industrial purposes and 220 acres for commercial usage in Sector 21, which would be suitable to set up a film city. The land is located only six kilometre from the Jewar airport and 12 km from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway.“Once a consultant or developer is roped in, a DPR will be prepared, after which we will take the project to the next stage,” said Singh.The authority has been exploring three models – public-private-partnership, to be developed by the authority, or by a single developer.The authority has discussed these three models to decide the future course of action.“After the preparation of the DPR, the authority will decide the model most suitable to develop the Film City, following directions from the state government,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/yeida-invites-proposals-for-noida-film-city-from-developers/story-YdzIa4tgLiP87Nmsr1w2YI.html
16-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: Kaushambi RWAs move Supreme Court for pollution-free surroundings||Ghaziabad: The Kaushambi apartments’ residents’ welfare association (Karwa) has filed a petition at the Supreme Court with contention to plug different sources of pollution affecting the township. While admitting the plea, the apex court on October 15 directed for issue of notice to respondents which include different Uttar Pradesh agencies and also some departments from Delhi.The township is located next to East Delhi’s Anand Vihar border under the jurisdiction of Ghaziabad district. It has about 22 high-rise societies with an estimated population of 20,000. The office bearers of Karwa said they have filed three petitions with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) since 2015 to make Kaushambi’s surroundings pollution-free.“In these petitions, the tribunal gave various orders from time to time but the agencies have been lax in implementation. This is why we had to move the Supreme Court. Our township is affected by different sources of pollution and we have requested the court to provide remedy,” said VK Mittal, president of Karwa. Ashapushp Vihar Awas Vkas Samiti Ltd, Kaushambi, is a co-petitioner in the case. Mittal added that the initial petition with NGT was filed in September 2015 while the second petition was filed in August 2016 while a contempt application was filed in May 2019. In their petition, Karwa has stated that nearby areas in east Delhi and localities in Ghaziabad including Kaushambi, Vaishali, Indirapuram and Vasundhara, etc are suffering from air, noise and waste pollution due to garbage dumps at Ghazipur and Kaushambi, besides traffic congestion at the Anand Vihar ISBT, a UP Roadways depot in Kaushambi, and drains in Sahibabad, among other sources.They have contended before the apex court to direct agencies to prepare a detailed, workable and effective environmental protection plan to contain pollution in the township and surrounding areas with monitoring mechanisms of the implementation of a plan, and implementation thereof in a period of one year. They have also contended for directions to prohibit diesel buses in the township as well as the use of pressure horns, besides proper parking for buses, autos, etc., and removal of encroachment by street vendors. The list of 15 respondents also includes divisional commissioner (Meerut), the Ghaziabad district magistrate, UP pollution control board, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation, and UP state road transport corporation (UPSRTC), among others. When contacted, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey declined immediate comments on the issue, stating that the matter was sub-judice. MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner and Utsav Sharma, the regional officer of the UPPCB, said that they will respond appropriately before the apex court once the notices are received.The officials of the UPSRTC, however, said that they have banned the use of pressure horns in their buses and if any such horns are used, they are used by private buses.“Out of about 530 buses operating from Ghaziabad, we have about 130 which have been converted to CNG while the rest are in different phases of conversion. However, they are using BS VI standard fuel. We have specially come up with a policy that buses which are more than 10-years-old are either transferred from here or sold in auctions,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC. “We have about 100 contractual buses in Ghaziabad and they have a contract of about 10 years. We have now made it a policy that any buses taken on contract will mandatorily use CNG fuel. So, buses whose contract gets over are required to rejoin the contract only if they come with CNG equipment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-kaushambi-rwas-move-supreme-court-for-pollution-free-surroundings/story-VDr3JxRzkX5Lb7rodCdR2J.html
16-10-2020||Noida||In interim order, high court restrains UP’s compounding scheme||The Allahabad high court has stayed the Uttar Pradesh government’s “self-assessment compounding scheme - 2020”, till further orders. The scheme allowed for the regularisation of certain “illegal” construction on residential and commercial plots against a payment.The court’s interim order dated October 7 has directed state officials to file personal affidavits justifying the scheme. The next hearing is scheduled for October 20. “As substantial damage to the aim and objectives of planned development is likely to occur if the compounding scheme, 2020 is given effect to, therefore, the state government as also all the development authorities within the state of Uttar Pradesh are restrained from compounding any illegal constructions pursuant to the compounding scheme – 2020, notified by the state government on July 15, 2020,” the interim order read. The directions came after petitioner Mohd. Meherban Ansari from Saharanpur contended that a sealing order was passed against his premises and he wished to benefit from the scheme. It is also said that several “impermissible developments (construction)” under the building by-laws have been made compoundable under the scheme. The officials of the Ghaziabad development authority said that they have also received a communication to the effect from the state officials and have stopped taking any further applications under the scheme. “We were expecting about 1500 applications under the scheme and so far, we have received only 250. For now, the directions of the high court will be complied with. The state government will take up the issue before the court during next hearing,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, authority’s chief architect and town planner. Applications under the scheme were invited for a period of six months up to January 21, 2021 and the disposal of applications was to be done till April 21, 2021. At present 10% extra construction of the sanctioned floor area ratio (FAR) is compoundable under normal circumstances for group housing (plots 2000 square metres and above). Now, it has been relaxed and doubled to 20% under the scheme, said officials. Under the new scheme, the plots below 2000 sqm are divided into two categories – plots below 300 sqm and others having 300 sqm or above but less than 2000 sqm. The scheme provided for regularisation of more of front, rear and side setback areas. The officials said that the rates of compounding were also reduced by almost half under the new scheme. The court observed that the authorities are expected to stop illegal construction and not encourage such illegal construction upon payment of hefty amount. “This would clearly discourage the honest citizens who ensure compliance of the laws by obtaining prior permission as per the Act of 1973 (UP Urban Planning & Development Act), in as much as they are subjected to stricter norms provided in the building by-laws, while those who violate the law are allowed to raise much large constructions, which is not even permissible in the building by-laws,” the order, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-interim-order-high-court-restrains-up-s-compounding-scheme/story-BthD2mEedULQrx1awzu6kK.html
16-10-2020||Noida||Air quality improves marginally as wind speed picks up in in Ghaziabad, Noida||Ghaziabad: An improvement in wind speed helped to better the air quality in Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida to “poor” on Friday from “very poor” a day earlier.The air quality index (AQI), as per the central pollution control board, for the day stood at 266, 274 and 247 for Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Noida, respectively. “The AQI levels have come down due to increase in wind speed to about 10kmph as against 6-7kmph during past couple of days. This has led to faster dispersal of pollutants. On the other hand, the wind direction which is presently north-westerly is also likely to change to north-easterly with winds coming in from Uttarakhand and Meerut side from October 17-18,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of Indian Meteorological Department’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi. “This will also reduce the impact of any pollution coming in from Punjab and Haryana with respect to stubble burning which is generally brought by north-westerly winds. Further, there is no indication of any rainfall activity in coming days.” An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.” The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) also said in a forecast on Friday that the marginal improvement in surface wind speed has led to improved ventilation and AQI. “Low surface winds are expected today (October 16) and AQI likely to stay in higher-end poor to the lower end of very poor for tomorrow. Marginal improvement in surface winds is expected by 17th October and poor AQI is forecasted. Air quality is forecasted to further improve to lower end of poor category by 18th October,” its statement read. As per CPCB’s records, all the four monitoring stations in Ghaziabad, one in Greater Noida and all four in Noida stood under ‘poor’ category. One monitoring station of Knowledge Park V in Greater Noida however recorded AQI at 301 under ‘very poor’ category at 4pm as per CPCB records. The officials of the UP-pollution control board (UPPCB) said that they are continuing with regular monitoring as well as enforcement drives in order to check rising pollution levels. “Our drive has been more intensive in areas of Loni which has presence of illegal factories and resulting in high levels of air pollution at local level. On Friday, we demolished 42 such factories at Amit Vihar in Loni which were primarily indulged in using furnace and resulting air pollution,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB. He added that three teams of UPPCB have been formed to keep a tab on running of DG-sets as well as other violations. “The teams are ensuring that operation of DG-sets is restricted as per the directions given by the Environment (Pollution and Control) Authority besides the teams are also ensuring that other violations like burning of garbage, industrial emissions etc are also brought to notice and curbed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-improves-marginally-as-wind-speed-picks-up-in-in-ghaziabad-noida/story-6SrJ3AP9BivfP60ZJ2dsRM.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra environment minister stops wall construction work around scrapped zoo site at Aarey in Mumbai; 20 trees felled say activists||State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray issued a stop-work order on Friday after the commencement of construction work for a wall around the recently scrapped international zoo at Aarey Colony, Goregaon.Around 20 trees were felled during the movement of excavator (JCB) machines at the plot, said activists adding that work for the wall construction around the periphery of the 40.46-hectare plot began on Thursday and by Friday it was stopped after the interventions of the environment minister. “When we reached the spot, we were told that contractors appointed by the state public works department had issued a work order dated March 13, 2020, around the then proposed zoo. However, local residents including Aarey tribals opposed and protested against this work on Thursday and Friday. We were then showed a copy of the work order, flagged the same to the local police and the state environment minister,” said a member of the Aarey Conservation Group who visited the spot on Friday. “In the bargain, however, small to medium 20 trees were lost. Thackeray clarified that no boundary wall construction was needed since the area (328.9ha) was already declared a forest and included the 40.46ha plot. “We have given a stop-work order because the zoo does not exist anymore,” Thackeray said, adding, “This was an old tender order from March this year, which the contractor has apparently been executing without any knowledge of the state’s recent declaration of the area as reserved forest. I have asked for a report on it.”Local residents, however, said they were perturbed by the construction.“There are random incidents of construction and machinery moving within Aarey from time to time or land acquisition for proposed projects even after the state government has established its stand that the area is majorly a forest. Since there are different state department-owned lands, there is confusion on who is carrying out the work but unfortunately, we residents are always at the receiving end,” said a resident of Khambachapada requesting anonymity.A senior PWD official said, “We are yet to receive a written order from the state but the work has been stopped on site.”Environmentalist Zoru Bhathena said, “Though excavator machines were razing the natural surroundings in that area, a prompt response by local residents followed by the environment minister’s immediate action citing that this was an old contract only shows that Aarey is blessed that it has a government that listens and acts immediately on such matters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/environment-minister-stops-work-on-wall-construction-around-scrapped-zoo-project-at-aarey-around-20-trees-felled-say-activists/story-8zvT7wjHjNnYDf5xEUdEJO.html
16-10-2020||Gurugram||Industries having high pollution load submit affidavits to HSPCB||Nearly 80% industries in Gurugram having a high air pollution load have submitted undertakings with the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) on using the approved fuels to run their units.Shakti Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, South Gurugram, also the nodal officer for Grap implementation said, “There are almost 500 industrial units in Gurugram that fall under red and orange categories. Of these, nearly 80% have submitted their undertakings.” On October 15, the HSPCB issued a letter to all units falling within the jurisdiction of HSPCB’s south region, asking them to provide an undertaking.As per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) guidelines, if the pollution index score of an industry that measures the pollution load is above 60 then the unit falls under the red category. In orange category, the pollution index score is between 41 to 50. For the green category it has to be between 21 to 40. In an order letter issued by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) for the implementation Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to prevent air pollution from slipping to very poor to severe category, industries particularly in the red and orange categories were directed to provide an undertaking to the pollution control board on using authorised fuel. Also, they have been asked not to operate without adequate pollution-control measures. According to Singh, at least 30 departments in the district have been asked to designate nodal officers from their respective departments for Grap implementation. On Friday, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) imposed a fine of ₹63,000 for violating Grap norms. Out of this, ₹13,000 has been imposed on burning garbage and ₹50,000 for burning biomass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industries-having-high-pollution-load-submit-affidavits-to-hspcb/story-cJsKYs23cKBnJ15IiojBYM.html
16-10-2020||Gurugram||20 residential societies in Gurugram submit undertakings for exemption from ban on diesel gensets||The Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) on Friday reached out to the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) with the detailed affidavits of at least 20 residential societies that have sought exemption from the ban on diesel gensets.On Thursday, Epca chairman Bhure Lal had directed the state power department to submit a comprehensive affidavit on the power situation of all the residential societies that are still dependent on diesel gensets. Trilok Chand Gupta, additional chief secretary, power , who is also the chairman HVPNL, said, “At least 23 colonisers have sought exemption in Gurugram. Out of these, three are fully dependent upon diesel gensets, while the remaining 20 are partially dependent. On Friday, affidavits given by 20 colonisers have been submitted to the Epca.” “It is likely that these societies in the old and new sectors of Gurugram will get exemption as they have said that due to Covid-19 pandemic, they could not put in place the required electricity infrastructure for regular power connection,” said Gupta.As reported by Hindustan Times on Thursday, this is the fourth consecutive year when Gurugram can get exemption from the purview of the Graded Response Action Plan’s (Grap) clauses pertaining to the use of diesel generators between October 15 to March 15.According to him, the exemption, however, can be for a limited time period as Epca has asked the power department to lay down a strict schedule for these colonies partially or fully dependent on diesel gensets. “If developers fulfil certain criteria for regular connection within a time frame, then power will be supplied to them at the earliest,” said Gupta.According to him, the state is not reeling under power deficit, therefore, new connections can be easily given. “The state at present has surplus power of 4,000 megawatt (MW). Nearly 8,000 MW is being transmitted by the HVPNL,” said Gupta. Vinita Singh, chief engineer, Smart Grid project, who also has the additional charge of chief engineer, Delhi circle, attended the meeting called by the power utility to discuss the situation in the aftermath of the directions issued by Epca, which has put a ban on the use of diesel gensets from October 15. She said that the 20 developers have submitted an undertaking that they will complete the necessary electricity infrastructure within a year. “The developers have given different timelines in which they will submit bank guarantees, manage to get land for power substations, and also set them up. We have adequate power and connections will be given as soon they comply with norms,” said Singh. The undertaking has also been submitted to the state pollution control department, which shall be compiled and submitted to Epca, she said. When asked why the developers were not able to complete the required infrastructure, Singh said that there were issues related to availability of land in the new sectors. “In some cases, four or five developers have to arrange for the land but it is either not available or is too far away, thereby making it unfeasible for Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd (DHBVN) to lay powerlines. The developers have been asked to furnish bank guarantees and find a solution to these problems within a year,” said Singh. DHBVN officials also hinted that corrective action must be taken within a year as otherwise it will be difficult to manage the power situation in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/20-residential-societies-in-gurugram-submit-undertakings-for-exemption-from-ban-on-diesel-gensets/story-mcrK6w3SEPBUNIvOs4LmqM.html
16-10-2020||Gurugram||30,000 rooftop rainwater harvesting systems capable of recharging 1.8 million litres installed||Around 30,000 rooftop rainwater harvesting systems have been installed across the city, which, in their optimum capacity, can help recharge around 1.8 million litres of groundwater. This was revealed during a joint session of the drainage committees of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday.The committees were formed after severe waterlogging was reported in August this year, which flooded seven underpasses, low-lying houses, and most roads across the city.On Friday, a joint meeting of the officials involved in both committees was held and chaired by Jaspreet Kaur, additional commissioner, MCG, at the civic body’s Sector 34 office.At the meeting, retired chief engineer of Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), KK Bhugra, who is chairing the GMDA’s drainage committee, said that the drainage system in Gurugram has been developed by different departments, due to which there is a difference in height. He stressed this needed to be fixed on an immediate basis.Along with this, he said that the departments concerned should start cleaning and repairing the drainage in time so that the work is completed before the next monsoon season. “According to a survey, about 30,000 rooftop rainwater harvesting systems are installed in Gurugram. If they work correctly, we can pour 1.8 million litres of water into the ground. Steps have to be taken for this. If someone is not maintaining or operating them properly, action should be taken against them. The mandate of effective stormwater drainage plan is in the act of GMDA. It should be prepared and published and claims and objections should also be sought from residents on it,” said Bhugra. Bhugda added that there used to be five big dams in Gurugram but today due to urbanisation they are almost defunct. As an alternative, he suggested building small dams. In addition, he also insisted on making recharge valves as far as possible.During the meeting, MCG officials disclosed that they had received 51 complaints and 25 suggestions from residents and RWAs regarding localised drainage issues and added that the important ones should be highlighted in the GMDA’s committee report. Kaur said that the MCG’s executive engineers have already initiated action on the 51 suggestions and added that the two public bodies need to jointly prepare a better drainage plan to help resolve waterlogging issues in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/30-000-rooftop-rainwater-harvesting-systems-capable-of-recharging-1-8-million-litres-installed/story-gP45PDHJdXipSS9t7VmbyL.html
16-10-2020||Bhopal||SIT begins probe in Ujjain illicit hooch tragedy that claimed over 10 lives||A special investigation team (SIT) began its probe on Friday into the illegal hooch tragedy that claimed lives of several labourers in Ujjain, 190 kilometres west of Bhopal this week, the official statement noted.On Friday, Ujjain police claimed that there were twelve deaths caused by suspected consumption of denatured spirit as was confirmed by their post-mortem reports. In the past two days, a total of 14 dead bodies were found and sent for post-mortem examinations. Additional chief secretary, home, Rajesh Rajora who is a member of the special investigation team, said, “There were 12 deaths linked to consumption of denatured spirit.Viscera of the deceased have been sent for a forensic examination. The SIT will look into various aspects related to the tragedy and will see what steps can be taken to stop recurrence of such incidents.” Two of the three main accused - Sikandar and Gabbar - continue to abscond after the FIR was lodged against them on Wednesday. Both worked as sanitation workers with Ujjain municipal corporation on a contractual basis. The duo was sacked from the corporation on Friday. Their accomplice Yunus was arrested from Indore on Thursday. All of the three were booked under National Security Act (NSA), said Ujjain police. Authorities from the excise department suspended two inspectors of the department, Sunita Malviya and Rohit Laharia, on Friday. Earlier, the superintendent of police (SP), Ujjain, had suspended four police personnel, including a police station in-charge and a sub-inspector on Thursday. The special investigation team (SIT) consisting of additional chief secretary, home, Rajesh Rajora, additional director general (ADG) of police SK Jha and deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Sushant Saxena visited several areas of Ujjain, including night shelters and questioned people, a state government’s release stated on Friday evening. Meanwhile, Ujjain police lodged FIRs against 104 people and arrested them on violations of provisions of MP Excise Act in the past two days in a drive launched against illegal sale liquor, an official release issued by Ujjain police stated. The Congress party sharpened its attack on the BJP government in the state for, what the leaders said, mafia operating in the state with impunity in the BJP government’s regime.However, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Friday, “Ujjain tragedy is unfortunate. Those responsible for it will not be spared. The merchant (saudagar) of drugs will not be allowed to stay on soil of Madhya Pradesh. I have issued necessary instructions to the officials to put the guilty behind bars.” State Congress president Kamal Nath said, “The moment BJP government came in Madhya Pradesh, liquor mafia, kidnapping mafia, crime mafia, land mafia, drug mafia and many kinds of mafia are active again in the state whereas the entire state government is busy in election campaigning.” State BJP leader Dr Hitesh Bajpai said, “When the Congress was in power, a minister in Kamal Nath cabinet went on record alleging that the sand mafia was operating with impunity in his area and they had no fear of the government. The track record of the Congress in maintaining law and order situation in known to all.”(With input from Anand Nigam in Ujjain)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/sit-begins-probe-in-ujjain-illicit-hooch-tragedy-that-claimed-over-10-lives/story-Arahov9CH5C0PRcHKaJlGN.html
16-10-2020||Gurugram||Affordable developers inn Gurugram asked to raise demands based on basis of construction||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Friday asked developers of affordable housing projects in Gurugram to demand money from buyers only on the basis of the status of projects. Some of them were also asked to submit construction linked payment plan. The directions were issued during a review meeting of such projects in the city. The city has 80 affordable housing projects in various stages of construction that were launched under the new affordable housing policy. As per the department, at least 20 were delayed and the several others have not met their construction targets despite taking money from the buyers. Now, a number of buyers were complaining, prompting the department to act.The meeting was attended by the representatives of several developers and was chaired by senior town planner Ravi Sihag and district town planner RS Bhath.During the meeting, officials also made it clear that in case work on the projects is not started or expedited and undue money taken from buyers then they would recommend registration of FIR against them. In the meeting, RS Bhath asked developers to increase the number of workers on site and ensure that complaints of buyers for delays are addressed. “The plea that Covid-19 delayed work can’t be admitted forever. The developers will have to take money as per norms and build accordingly,” he said. Officials said those who have taken money for the project and yet have not met their construction targets would be asked to refund.In the matter related to OSB Developers that has two projects in sectors 69 and 109, Sihag directed the developer to submit a construction linked plan and expedite the pace of construction. “The developer should also not raise any demand from the buyers as they have already taken almost half the money of the project, while work on the ground has been minimal. If the pace of work is not increased, then the department will initiate penal action for violating norms,” he said. The representatives of OSB Developers agreed to submit the plan and accelerate pace of construction.A similar direction was given to developers of another project in sector 37 that had similar issues.Officials also directed the developer of Astare Green Court project in sector 90 to ensure that project is completed by December. The developers assured the department that they would accelerate work. Sihag also said that they have asked the developers to submit status report every 15 days so that department can keep track of projects. Around 40,000 buyers in the city have booked apartments in affordable housing projects. Under the affordable housing policy, the developers have to complete the projects within four years of the launch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/affordable-developers-inn-gurugram-asked-to-raise-demands-based-on-basis-of-construction/story-gzgYD6Gk87VKrpF00C1PeK.html
16-10-2020||Gurugram||Heavy police presence, safety measures in place for Navratri Mela in Gurugram||Sheetla Mata Mandir — the oldest and the most famous temple in the city — is all set to host around 0.3-0.4 million devotees for the Navratri Mela, starting Saturday, under extensive safety measures.To tackle the sheer volume of devotees, the temple has installed 58 CCTV cameras to keep constant surveillance, in addition to deploying 250 Gurugram Police officials, 200 temple staff members, and around 50 workers of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) at the site to keep a check on safety measures such as social distancing and the wearing of masks.Deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on Friday also issued a new set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for all temples in the city.The 14 guidelines listed under the district administration’s SOP includes allowing entry of devotees into temples only if they are wearing masks, no distribution of physical offerings or prasad of any kind, entry points to have mandatory hand-sanitising machines and thermal screening provisions, six feet of social distancing, paint markings to ensure distance in queues, separate entry and exit points for visitors and staggered entry among others. “The SOPs have been issued keeping in mind the health and safety of all residents and those deployed at various temple complexes in the city. Officials concerned have been given directions to ensure compliance of listed guidelines,” said Khatri. Yugdutt Sharma, temple officer of Sheetla Mata Mandir, said Covid-19 tests of all those stationed inside the temple have already been carried out as a safety measure, and to ensure strict compliance of safety guidelines, a heavy presence of Gurugram police, temple staff, and MCG officials will be prevalent. “Usually, we have 0.5 TO 0.6 million visitors during the Navratri Mela. This year, due to the Covid-19 outbreak, we are anticipating around 0.3 to 0.4 million visitors. To adhere to safety measures, around 60 home guards of Gurugram Police, 200 police officials including 50 women constables, and around 50 officials of the MCG have been deployed both inside and outside the temple complex. The MCG staff will be responsible for issuing on-the-spot fines for mask violations and sanitising the temple premises while Gurugram Police officials and around 200 of our own staff members will be managing the security and adoption of other safety guidelines,” said Sharma. MCG officials said that along with the health department, all officials and workers deployed at the temple, including the head priest, will be tested thrice for Covid-19 during the eight-day festival, once before the starting of the festival, once at the middle of the festival, and once after it ends on October 25, as a precautionary measure.“We have made schedules for sanitising and disinfecting of all religious places across the city and deputed sanitation workers accordingly. Each religious place will be sanitised at least twice daily, during this festival period. Further, we are coordinating with the health department for carrying out tests for Covid-19,” said a senior MCG official, deployed in its health wing.DK Bhardwaj, DCP (traffic), Gurugram Police, said that adequate deployment has been made at the temple to ensure all safety measures relating to traffic management. “We have, however, not enforced any route blockages or diversions around the roads approaching Sheetla Mata Mandir or any other religious place, at present, as we are anticipating that due to Covid-19 outbreak, the rush would be far lower than usual. Regardless, if the volume of devotees and vehicles on any stretch is high, we have deployed the necessary number of traffic marshals along stretches such as the Sheetla Mata Road to manage the situation. If need arises, we will make a traffic plan and give prior information to residents of any alterations regarding routes,” said Bhardwaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/heavy-police-presence-safety-measures-in-place-for-navratri-mela-in-gurugram/story-GuaHXjvhqlHxTAC7gBn97N.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Covid: Daily RT-PCR tests touch record 15,000-mark, cases above 3,000 in Delhi||The number of RT-PCR tests conducted in a day in Delhi crossed the 15,000 mark for the first time on Friday since the city began testing for the viral Covid-19 that first surfaced in March this year and has since infected 324,459 people. At least 5946 people have succumbed to the virus so far On Friday, at least 15,660 tests using the more accurate molecular RT-PCR method was reported in the daily health bulletin released by the state government. The number of RT-PCR tests have been on the rise for nine days, with the last three days notching record numbers. The number of RT-PCR tests on an average have accounted for 23.6% of the total tests during the last seven days, data shows. This is an increase over the average 19.8% recorded during the week before, and 19.03% in the week before that. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe RT-PCR tests amplify the RNA of the Sars-CoV-2 virus to detect infection. It is very sensitive and less likely to give false negatives as compared to the alternate rapid antigen tests. The rapid antigen tests are cheap, easy to deploy in clinics and dispensaries, and can give the results within 15 minutes. However, the antigen tests are only 50 to 60% sensitive and can throw a lot of false negative results for people, who might actually have the infection. Experts lauded the Delhi government’s efforts to ramp up RT-PCR tests while adding that there was still a lot left to be done. “Any increase in the number of tests, especially RT-PCR tests, is a welcome move. And, the Delhi government is actually doing better than most state governments when it comes to the number of tests. However, there is more that needs to be done. Currently, the government does about 17 tests to get a positive result; on national level this number is anywhere between 11 and 15. In some countries it is as high as 100 to 200 tests for each positive case,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at ICMR. He also added that the government needs to verify a higher proportion of the tests done using RT-PCR. “Currently, a very small percentage of those undergoing rapid antigen tests get a second confirmatory RT PCR tests. This proportion needs to be increased. Anyone who is symptomatic but tests negative should be tested using RT-PCR,” he said. Also Read| India’s Covid-19 fatality rate lowest since March 22, says govt: All you need to knowAlong with the number of tests, the number of cases being reported has also remained high. After a gap of over ten days, Delhi has been recording over 3,000 new cases a day for the last four days as the number of RT-PCR tests is increased by the government. “If more RT-PCR tests are done, you are likely to pick up more cases because the test is more sensitive. This is the reason it is suggested that the less sensitive rapid antigen tests be used in containment zones for screening cases but the RT PCR tests be used everywhere elsewhere,” said Dr Rajinder K Dhamija, professor of medicine and head of department of neurology at Lady Hardinge Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/daily-rt-pcr-tests-touch-record-15-000-mark-infections-above-3-000-in-delhi/story-yMO7RLWsp18wLHcbRIW7oO.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Registration fee waived for electric vehicles||The Delhi government has notified the waiver of registration fee for electric vehicles (EVs), just days after it had done away with road tax for such vehicles. These initiatives are aimed at encouraging more people to switch over to environment friendly EVs under the government’s new EV Policy. The registration fee waiver was notified on Thursday, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said. Sharing a copy of the notification on Twitter, Gahlot said, “Congrats again, Delhi! Next in the list of breakthrough incentives promised by CM Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi government exempts Registration fee on Battery Operated Vehicles. Delhi leads again, the EV way! (sic)” At present, road tax ranges from 4% to 10% of the cost of the vehicle, while registration fee was up to ₹3,000. In addition to these waivers, under the EV Policy, a subsidy of ₹10,000 per kWh (of battery power) is to be given to the first 1,000 electric four-wheelers, with the subsidy capped at ₹1,50,000 per vehicle. A subsidy of ₹5,000 per kWh of battery capacity, with a cap of ₹30,000 per vehicle, is also to be given on the purchase of electric two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws, rickshaws and freight vehicles. To push people to shift to EVs, the policy also has a “scrapping incentive” for those who make the switch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/registration-fee-waived-for-electric-vehicles/story-QFdmo7GLyGkLGR6x2OPjLM.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Sutlej Club polls to be held on October 24||The elections for the executive committee of Sutlej Club, one of the most coveted clubs in the city, is scheduled to be held on October 24. The announcement was made by Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC)-cum-president of the club, Varinder Sharma, through a notice.As per the notice, the elections for the club’s executive committee is held before March 31 every year, but the process got delayed this year amid the pandemic. The nominations can be filed by members on October 19 and 20 (5pm to 8pm) and the scrutiny of papers will be done on October 20. The list of valid nominations will be displayed on October 20 and the nominations can be withdrawn on October 21 (5pm to 9pm). The list of contesting candidates will be published on October 22 and they will be allowed to give a presentation to the members at the club premises on the same day (from 5pm onwards).Polling will be held on October 24 from 9am to 5pm and results will be announced in the evening. DC Sharma has deputed additional deputy commissioner (G) Amarjit Singh Bains as the first returning officer for the elections, while SDM (Khanna) Sundeep Singh is the second returning officer. Additional deputy commissioner (Jagraon) Neeru Katyal has been deputed as election observer. 11 posts to be decidedThe elections will be held for nine posts of the executive committee including vice-president, general secretary, joint secretary, finance secretary, cultural secretary, bar secretary, mess secretary, sports secretary and three executive members (it is mandatory to have one woman executive member).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-s-sutlej-club-polls-to-be-held-on-october-24/story-kZiAHQ6COOfOHCf4dW0XCM.html
16-10-2020||City||BJP tractor rally fallout: Six arrested for blocking highway||A day after 14 persons were booked for blocking the NH 344 also known as Ambala-Roorkee national highway, during BJP’s tractor rally in Ambala’s Naraingarh, the police have arrested six persons who were named in the FIR.The arrested persons were identified as Gurdev, Manjit, Dhanraj Singh, Dapinder, Dharamvir Singh alias Sonu and Prince, police said.Complainant Rishi Pal had told the police that 14 persons including Ambala BKU chief Malkit Singh and 300 others (most of them yet to be identified) had blocked his way to Ambala and threatened to kill him.Station in-charge of Naraingarh police station, Inspector Gurnail Singh said, “The accused were presented before a court on Friday and sent to one-day police remand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-tractor-rally-fallout-six-arrested-for-blocking-highway/story-k3RUjj9fJyO8sAL2l4w95M.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana saw 54% upsurge in cyber crime in 2019, says NCRB report||Cyber crime in Ludhiana increased by 54% last year as compared to 2018, even as the district led in Punjab followed by Sangrur (20) and Mohali (18), finds the latest report by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB).Fraud was the leading crime among these cases, constituting 57% (21) of the total 37 FIRs, which were 13 more than the 24 cases lodged in 2018. The year before that (2017) saw 33 such cases.In 11 cases (30%), the accused tried to sexually exploit women using information technology. These included six cases of cyber stalking or bullying of women or children. There was also one case of publication or transmission of obscene or sexually explicit act in electronic form. Four FIRs were lodged on the complaints of victims of cyber blackmailing or threatening. Besides, there was one case each regarding tampering of computer source documents and computer-related offences.The Ludhiana police have a dedicated cyber crime unit, focused on tracking down miscreants misusing technology to commit crimes.In 2019, a total of 54 people, including five women, were arrested for cyber crimes.The unit in October 2019 had busted a Delhi-based call centre whose four employees were booked for duping people of at least Rs 100 crore by luring them with lucrative insurance policies for over seven years.They are also hot on the trail of fraudsters posing as army men and conning unwary people on the pretext of buying their second-hand goods off of e-commerce websites. The gang has duped at least six city residents of lakhs on the pretext of buying their mobile phone, air-conditioner or motorcycle through online marketplace OLX.Onkar Singh Pahwa, managing director of Avon Cycles, was among the victims of online frauds last year. Pahwa had filed a complaint at the Division Number 6 police station after fraudsters redeemed his mutual funds after opening a proxy bank account in his name.Anoop Gupta, an IT expert and managing director of Cyberframe Infotech Pvt Ltd, said devices, such as mobile phones, computers and laptops, had IMEI numbers, which led police to the people using these gadgets for unscrupulous activities.He said residents needed to be cautious against fake text messages, e-mails and phone calls offering prize money or KYC and bank account verification. These methods were used to trick them into revealing their personal information and then further fraudulently withdraw their money through various tactics, Gupta cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-saw-54-upsurge-in-cyber-crime-in-2019-says-ncrb-report/story-D7f9DKIC1e1TyjcXf9NykM.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh grain market traders call-off strike||Members of the grain market association have called off their strike on Friday. They had observed a strike in protest against the implementation of arbitrary parking tender at the Sector 26 mandi area.President of the grain market association Ram Karan Gupta said, “The strike was called off after the administration assured that the parking tenders will be deferred in the public interest. A committee of 10 members with five representatives each from the grain market and vegetable market was also constituted. The committee will give suggestions to amend parking rates, terms and conditions of the tender.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-grain-market-traders-call-off-strike/story-KQCXbqmbMwfUgpTPze6YbM.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||‘Monsoon withdrawal from Maharashtra likely to be delayed by another week’: IMD||The weather bureau on Friday said southwest monsoon withdrawal from Maharashtra is likely to be delayed by at least another week.Since the monsoon onset was declared on June 14, the season has already spanned 124 days (till October 16) - much beyond the normal duration of the entire season - and 120 days for Mumbai (from June 11 to October 8).This is expected to be one of the most delayed withdrawals for the city and state in history, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. “Weather conditions are becoming favourable for the formation of a low-pressure weather system over the Bay of Bengal again around October 19. This would lead to the extension of the monsoon withdrawal over Mumbai, Maharashtra and rest of central India by at least another week. There is no chance of withdrawal at the moment. It will take at least seven more days for withdrawal from Mumbai and another nine days from Maharashtra,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Also read: ‘Give him water,’ Jawans applaud as terrorist in J&K surrendersMeanwhile, thundershowers witnessed over the past two days have not only delayed monsoon retrieval but led to much cleaner air over the city as compared to moderate air quality levels earlier this week and this month. The city witnessed a clear blue sky interspersed with white clouds through the day.According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the city’s air quality index (AQI) on Friday was 42 (good) during the day that increased to 46 (good) by the evening. The AQI from all 10 locations saw levels either in the ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’ categories. However, Malad was the only location that recorded a spike in nitrogen dioxide levels which was in the poor category (218) on Friday. An AQI of 44 (good) has been predicted for Saturday.“Thundershowers have washed away the pollutants from the city’s air and the movement of the low-pressure system and rain clouds, over the Arabian Sea along the Maharashtra coast due to easterly winds, led to the bright blue sky and sunny weather during the day on Friday,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.Friday evening, however, saw cloud cover and light isolated rain across different parts of the city and suburbs. Traces of rain were recorded in the suburbs and south Mumbai between 8.30 and 5.30 pm. The IMD has removed all rain warnings for the next five days and issued a forecast for light to moderate rain till October 21.The concentration of PM2.5 (breathable particulate matter solid and liquid particles 2.5 microns in size or smaller) was 26 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) on Friday in Mumbai - much below the daily safe standard prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board of 60 μg/m³. PM10 levels (larger coarser particles) was recorded at 46 μg/m³ against the daily safe limit of 100 μg/m³.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/monsoon-withdrawal-from-maharashtra-likely-to-be-delayed-by-another-week-imd/story-62vQWKUmozXwkSPsCGAAbP.html
16-10-2020||City||Govt school teacher held for uploading wrong info on education department portal||Police have arrested a teacher for uploading wrong information on the Management Information System (MIS) portal of the state education department.The accused has been identified as Satish Kumar, a native of Jind. Police in August 2019 had registered a case under Sections 176, 177, 420 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at Raipur Rani police station on the complaint of the principal of Government Senior Secondary School.In the complaint, Kumar was accused of submitting wrong information about his family members on the MIS portal. The portal is an initiative to build a comprehensive and integrated system for school and to ensure ready availability of authentic data related to schools. The teacher was placed under suspension when the complaint was filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/govt-school-teacher-held-for-uploading-wrong-info-on-education-department-portal/story-IRxGpJ4zRlymqRQz0smK9J.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana bizman ends life: CA, 2 others booked for abetment to suicide||Three men were booked for abetment to suicide after a 72-year-old businessman was found hanging at his house in Rajguru Nagar on October 9.A case has been registered against Pankaj Pediwal, the deceased’s chartered accountant-cum-landlord, his accomplice, Surjit Singh, and another unidentified man. The man’s daughter, who is settled in the USA, reached Ludhiana on Thursday, following which her statement was recorded.She stated in her complaint that her father owned a pesticide business which he operated from a rented building on Lodhi Club Road. She added that Pankaj Pediwal, the owner of the building, who is also a chartered accountant, made her father sack his CA and had taken control of the business documents.She alleged that the accused had started siphoning money from the company’s account in the name of ghost employees and forced her father to sell his house and land and grabbed the property documents from him. Assistant sub-inspector Sulakhan Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the man was living alone here, so the police had to wait for his daughter to get to Ludhiana from USA to record her statement.A hunt is on for the accused’s arrest, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-bizman-ends-life-ca-2-others-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide/story-ua6R3XFYJkzQUtCpvnw8VP.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU releases SOPs for research scholars attending labs||Panjab University (PU) on Friday released standard operating procedures (SOPs) for research scholars attending the labs on varsity.Only registered PhD students from science discipline those who have completed three years and having experimental/lab work will be allowed. Research scholars from humanities who are towards completion of their PhD thesis be allowed with the consent of the supervisor in writing, the varsity said.Research scholars will have to provide undertaking or consent of self and parents that they have no objection to attend and work in the research labs under the prevailing conditions of Covid-19. As per the advisory, scholars have been asked to minimize the time in the lab and do data entry, analysis, and other dry tasks at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-releases-sops-for-research-scholars-attending-labs/story-0lGHY329pyVOWhBvEl4R9O.html
16-10-2020||Election:||‘Self-defeating strategy’: Protest mounts over Congress’ selection of candidates in Bihar||Anger and frustration over the choice of seats and award of tickets by the Congress have spilt over in Bihar ahead of the assembly elections. Many senior leaders have questioned the process of seat negotiation with the allies and selection of candidates, alleging that the party was on a self-defeating course by encouraging nepotism and relying on interpersonal relationship among other factors to decide candidates.“The party had the chance to ride high on the anti-incumbency wave and restore its traditional support base among upper castes, minorities and the scheduled castes, but favourable outcome appears to be a distant dream particularly in the current scenario,” said a senior Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) leader.Soon after the Congress announced the candidates for second and the third phase of polling, due on November 3 and 7, former BPCC chief Chandan Bagchi said that the party’s strategy appeared to be self-defeating. “The selection of candidates for the rest two phases was worse than the first. Leaders have been allotted constituencies where they are not familiar with. None of the senior leaders of the state was consulted regarding the selection of candidates,” said Bagchi.Also read: ‘I’m Modi’s Hanuman, will tear open my chest and show if needed’ - Chirag PaswanTo buttress Bagchi’s contention, another BPCC leader said that the party had erred in surrendering sitting and potentially winnable seats to allies. “Seats like Bachhwara, Manjhi, Govindpur, Bhore, among others, which elected Congress leaders in the last elections, have been handed over to the Left parties and the RJD. Additionally, the Congress drew blank in districts like Bhojpur and Jehanabad despite the availability of strong candidates and winning potential,” said the leader, requesting anonymity.Selection of candidates has compounded the problem for party workers. Leaders like Pravin Kushwaha, Gunjan Patel (state youth Congress president), Sanjeev Kumar, Nagendra Paswan Vikal, et al, have been named as candidates for the constituencies where they hardly worked for election purposes. Kushwaha has been allotted Patna City instead of Sultanganj, Patel has been accommodated at Nalanda against his demand for Digha (Patna), Sanjeev is contesting from Vaishali against his crave for Paroo (in Muzaffarpur) and Vikal is contesting from Rosera (Samastipur) even as he worked hard in Patna.Another former BPCC chief Anil Kumar Sharma also expressed his reservation over the selection process saying that the central election committee of the AICC would have done better in selecting candidates had the proposers, the AICC in-charge and the screening committee members applied wisdom, proper understanding of social equations and political situation of respective constituencies.“The party had not confronted such a situation when the selection of almost all candidates is under a cloud for some reason or the other,” said another senior party leader Kishore Kumar Jha. “Candidates with criminal antecedents and turncoats have been preferred over committed workers owing to weak leadership in the state and inefficiency of the AICC team. Nepotism and interpersonal relationship built on extraneous considerations ruled the roost in selection of candidates,” said Jha, questioning the rationale behind fielding Luv Sinha, son of Shatrughan Sinha; Subhashini Raj (daughter of Sharad Yadav) and Mithilesh Chaudhary (brother-in-law of Kirti Azad), among others.Also read: Prithvi-2 missile, capable of carrying nukes, blasts off from Odisha in user trialMeanwhile, a section of party leaders staged vociferous protests against the party’s decision to field Luv Sinha and Pravin Kushwaha from Bankipur and Patna city constituencies and torched their effigies on the day they filed their nomination papers.Earlier on Thursday, the Congress and the RJD held a joint meeting to release the list of candidates for the second and the final rounds of the elections. The RJD had declared the list of 102 candidates and the Congress announced 49 candidates against the seats they were allotted under the Grand Alliance.The RJD had announced nominees for 42 constituencies out of 144 seats it is contesting. The Congress had declared 21 nominees out of 70 seats it is contesting for the first phase of polling on 71 seats out of the total 243. As part of GA or the Mahagathbandhan, the Left parties are contesting 29 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/self-defeating-strategy-protest-mounts-over-congress-selection-of-candidates-in-bihar-polls/story-QTg4sqXqXFUNcLShXfwqpJ.html
16-10-2020||City||Ludhiana woman dupes two on pretext of providing government job||The police on Friday booked a woman impersonating as a college professor for duping two Dugri residents of Rs 3.41 lakh on the pretext of securing government jobs for their daughters.The accused has been identified as Shweta Sehgal of Noorwala road. According to the police, the woman is already facing trial in similar cases of fraud.Complainant Kulwant Singh of Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar of Dugri. Kulwant stated that the accused, who had claimed to be a professor at Government College for Women, Bharat Nagar Chowk, assured him of securing a clerical job for his daughter and demanded Rs 80,000 for the same. The accused also duped Kulwant’s relative Satnam Singh, who also wanted to of Rs 2.61 lakh on the same pretext.Kulwant added that the accused even took their daughters to Chandigarh on the pretext of an interview but returned after roaming here and there. When they demanded their money back, the accused issued two cheques to them which were dishonoured by the bank. They then lodged a complaint with the police on March 16.ASI Manjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case had been registered against the woman under Section 420(cheating) of the IPC. The woman had earlier duped an astrologer, a hosiery unit owner, and 10 others of around Rs 30 lakh cash on pretext of securing government jobs for their family members.The ASI added that a hunt was on to arrest the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-dupes-two-on-pretext-of-providing-government-job/story-EhMFk7rguq2RXpBF3AEqMN.html
16-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC to commence night sweeping in main markets||Aiming to improve its ranking in Swachh Survekshan -2021, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to commence night sweeping in the main markets of the city. A meeting regarding the same was conducted by joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh and councillor Mamta Ashu, along with MC officials, at the Zone D office on Friday.The authorities are mulling to initiate the drive in 17 markets of the city falling under Zone D. It will commence in five markets including, Kitchlu Nagar, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Jawahar Nagar market, market near DMCH, and Sarabha Nagar Block-1 market, on a trial basis from Sunday.Councillor Mamta Ashu said that the night sweeping is expected to yield positive results and, that residents and shopkeepers should also extend their support to the MC for keeping the city clean. SHOPKEEPERS, VENDORS TO BE PENALISED FOR LITTERINGThe MC had initiated night sweeping in the city last year as well, but the drive did not yield positive results due to a lack of coordination between the civic body and shopkeepers. The corporation used to clean the market at night while the shopkeepers used to dump waste on roads again in the morning. The drive was also conducted in Ghumar Mandi in February this year but was put to a halt due to the pandemic. Councillor Ashu said that the MC officials have been told to issue hefty challans to those shopkeepers who do not cooperate. Further, the shopkeepers and vendors should be directed to keep dustbins in their shops or near their vends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-to-commence-night-sweeping-in-main-markets/story-k9ibDpibj43tQzaVOU8pVM.html
16-10-2020||City||Farm laws:Anurag Thakur accuses Congress of misguiding, instigating farmers||Minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur, while addressing a virtual press conference held at BJP district headquarters near the clock tower on Friday, accused the Congress party of ‘misguiding’ the farmers over the new farm laws just to ‘woo them’ before 2022 state legislative elections. Thakur challenged chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to an open debate on which party had worked for the betterment of farmers. However, the minister evaded questions related to why no union minister attended the meeting with farmer organisations held on October 14 in New Delhi and why the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had quit the NDA over the laws if they are not anti-farmer, as alleged by the farmer associations. Taking a dig at former president of Indian National Congress Rahul Gandhi, Thakur said that he was doing politics by sitting in tractors in Punjab but was not present in the Lok Sabha when the bills were presented.He stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi led Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) government was working to double the income of the farmers by allowing them to sell their crops to anyone outside the mandis, but Congress wants to restrict them to mandis only for its benefit. Thakur said that Bharatiya Janata Party had renamed the ministry of agriculture to ministry for agriculture and farmers’ welfare and the budget had been increased from Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 1.34 lakh crore. This shows the concern of the Modi government towards the farming sector, he added.Further, the minister said that the farmers were being instigated by the Congress in the state and clarified that the land of farmers would not be grabbed by the corporate houses and the minimum support price (MSP) for the crops wouldn’t be done away with. When questioned about farmers’ concern about no mention of MSP in the laws, Thakur replied that it was an administrative process and would not be abolished. The minister said that the number of crops purchased by the central agencies and thminimum support price had increased in the past and different schemes had been initiated by the Bharatiya Janata Party including, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, for the benefit of the farmers. He stated that around Rs 95,000 crores was allocated for farmers during the pandemic by the BJP government. CHUGH SLAMS BITTUMeanwhile, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh slammed member of parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu for allegedly disturbing the peace of the state. Chugh said that Bittu had lost his grandfather former chief minister Beant Singh due to terrorism in the state therefore, he should know better than to disturb the peace of the state again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-laws-anurag-thakur-accuses-congress-of-misguiding-instigating-farmers/story-OYVvJJsxQeaWcORtkHg5fM.html
16-10-2020||City||Major LeT hideout busted in south Kashmir’s Awantipora, arms seized||Security forces on Friday busted a major hideout of militants and recovered arms and ammunition in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.A police spokesperson said they received information about the presence of terrorists of proscribed outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in the nursery area of Kawani village in Awantipora, near the banks of Jhelum.The Awantipora police with 55 RR and 185 BN CRPF launched a search operation early on Friday morning and during the search, a large underground LeT hideout was busted and destroyed,” the spokesperson said.The hideout consisted of two underground rooms and a toilet.The forces also recovered a cache of explosive material and ammunition including a pistol, a pistol magazine, three grenades and 2,091 AK-47 ammunition rounds.“The hideout was completely destroyed,” the official said.A case under relevant sections of the law stands registered at Awantipora police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/major-let-hideout-busted-in-south-kashmir-s-awantipora-arms-seized/story-kPhajAg8Yd1QqLXDzDTYFP.html
16-10-2020||City||Virus claims 8 more lives in J&K, 697 test positive||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded eight deaths and 697 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union territory to 86,754.Of the eight fatalities, five were in Jammu and three in Kashmir division as the death toll reached 1,366, officials said. They said 385 people tested positive in Kashmir and 312 in Jammu.The active cases in J&K dropped to 8,909 after 838 more patients were cured — 457 in Kashmir and 381 in Jammu. The overall recoveries have reached 76,479, accounting for a recovery rate of 88.1%, the highest so far.For the past 25 days, the recovery rate has continuously improved. So far in October, 19,555 patients have been cured as against 11,684 fresh infections. This month, a decrease in the average number of daily cases was also witnessed.The total number of tests conducted in the UT so far has crossed 19.52 lakh.Of the total deaths so far, 916 were in Kashmir and 450 in Jammu.August had recorded 326 deaths, while 478 fatalities were witnessed in September while in October so far over 180 persons have lost their lives due to Covid.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 121, followed by 44 in Poonch. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 155 more people tested positive, followed by Anantnag at 45.Srinagar tops the case tally with 17,401 cases and 328 deaths followed by Jammu district with 15,871 cases and 236 deaths.Till date, 6.23 lakh people have been enlisted for observation — 24,165 in home quarantine, 8,909 in isolation, and 50,768 under home surveillance. Besides these, 5.38 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/virus-claims-8-more-lives-in-j-k-697-test-positive/story-ov40GGLzP4C4QSslAXs5cM.html
16-10-2020||City||Exiled govt welcomes Robert A Destro as US special envoy for Tibetan Issues||The Tibetan government-in-exile has welcomed the appointment of Robert A Destro as the sixth United States special coordinator for Tibetan issues.Destro is the current assistant secretary of US State Department’s Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.In a letter to the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, Tibetan speaker Pema Jungney wrote, “We are extremely honoured to learn that your administration has appointed Robert A Destro as the new special coordinator for Tibet’s issues, the post which has been vacant since 2017.”“On behalf of the 16th Parliament-in-Exile and the Tibetans in Tibet and around the world, I would like to thank you, the people, and especially the United States government from the depth of our hearts for extending staunch support towards our struggle and cause,” he wroteThe leader further wrote that since the illegal invasion of Tibet by the People’s Republic of China, Tibetan culture, language, and history are under utmost threat from the massive destruction, oppression, and brutal regime of Communist China.“Therefore, we need support from the global nations for the continuity of Tibetan movement which stands for just and truth,” he wrote.This step will also help, Jugney wrote, promote the policies that protect the distinct identity of Tibet and safeguard human rights situation within the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/exiled-govt-welcomes-robert-a-destro-as-us-special-envoy-for-tibetan-issues/story-BV5FSyxKTYLxx8VzuzxqkM.html
16-10-2020||City||Heavy social media use causing sleep disorders among college students in HP: Study||College students in Himachal are getting sleep disorders due to excessive social media use, a study has suggested.On average, college-going students in the hill state spend around four hours on apps like WhatsApp, Facebook, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram, reveals the study ‘Social media and youth mental health: Social connectedness and empathy’.Over 1,400 college students from across the state participated in the survey. They were from various disciplines including science, arts, commerce, computer science, informant technology, engineering and management. More than 59% of the participants were males and 41% females.“Heavy social media use affects the sleep of one in every three students as they stay awake during the night,” said Dr Dhyan Singh, assistant professor of journalism and mass communication at Government College, Dharamshala.The study was conducted using an online Likert scale survey to know about students’ social media use and its impact, he said.Singh said a majority of the participants agreed that social media use has affected their life depressingly. “About 32% of students admitted that it was the main reason for their sleep disorders,” the professor said adding that one-third of students also agree of spending little time with family as they remain busy on social networking sites.More than 27% of participants admitted that have become addicted to social media sites.But most concerning is the fact that 10% of them feel depressed and about 2.5% say that they get suicidal thoughts.Being on social media sites for a long time also takes a toll emotionally, said Singh.“A quarter of the participants said that it triggers negative thinking and they start comparing their lives with others and sometimes it hurts their self-esteem,” Singh added.Apart from this, Singh said, a considerable number of participants said that they were experiencing body dysmorphic disorders. Other 9% admitted that heavy use of social media has altered their eating habits, the professor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-social-media-use-causing-sleep-disorders-among-college-students-in-hp-study/story-shSrhwuAdsnQ18TXylm2tK.html
16-10-2020||City||Himachal agri varsity re-opens admission window till October 26||Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University (HPAU) has re-opened admissions to various courses for the ensuing academic sessions besides announcing the entrance test dates.HPAU vice-chancellor HK Chaudhary said that October 26 is the last date for receipt of online and offline application forms for all degree programmes for all categories.For applicants from the tribal areas, last date for receipt of offline applications for merit-based admissions is November 2, he said.The candidates who have already applied to the programmes of the university for the academic year 2020-21 need not apply again.Chaudhary said the admission process was re-opened due to prolonged lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.The vice-chancellor said he had been receiving requests through emails, phones and several parents also met him in person informing that many students could not apply earlier due to internet connectivity problems in the rural areas.“This is a golden opportunity for all those who could not apply to the various academic programmes of the university due to one reason or the other,” he said.Entrance exam dates announced The V-C also announced the entrance test schedule for various courses. He said the screening exam for BSc veterinary science and animal husbandry and BSc agriculture (Honours) will be held on November 8. All the exams will be held from 10am to 1pm.The entrance exam for MSc agriculture and master of veterinary science is slated for November 11. Chaudhary said the exam will be held with all the precautionary measures to curb the virus spread.10% reservation for EWS candidates As the state government has approved HPAU’s proposal to increase the total number of seats in various academic programmes by 10%, the same will be reserved over and above specifically for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) candidates without disturbing the present intake capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-agri-varsity-re-opens-admission-window-till-october-26/story-QRptWJ6P0JKMFABBDISqqJ.html
16-10-2020||City||Four killed, six injured in three road accidents in Himachal||Four persons, including two tourists, have been killed in three separate road accidents in Himachal Pradesh, officials said on Friday.In the first case, two tourists were killed while two others sustained injuries as their car swerved off Dhundhi bridge near Atal Tunnel in Kullu on Thursday night. The deceased have been identified as Mohit Singh (27) and Amit Singh Chauhan (28), while Ajit Rawat (20) and Nikhil Yadav (22) were the ones injured. They are all residents of Rajasthan. Police said after rescuing the injured persons, they were rushed to the community health centre in Manali where they are undergoing treatment.In another accident on Thursday night, scooter-borne Kushal Kumar (32) of Kullu’s Tharas village was hit by an overspeeding taxi which was being driven on the wrong side. After the collision, the taxi driver rushed Kushal to Regional Hospital, Kullu, where he was declared brought dead. A postmortem of the deceased was conducted on Friday and his body has been handed over to his relatives. Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh said the investigation is on.In the third case, one person was killed while four sustained injuries in a road accident at Chaupal in Shimla district.The deceased has been identified as Mohan Singh (42) of Chopal’s Chaukia village, while those who were injured are Jitender Singh (18), son of the deceased, Akshay Chandel (20), Susheel Negi (35) and Bharat Bhushan (26), all residents of Chopal.The accident took place on Friday around 2am near Riyuni village, four kilometres away from Chopal when they were on their way to Chopal from Shimla and the driver lost control of the vehicle, killing Mohan on the spot.The police were informed by passersby, following which the body was recovered and the injured rescued. Jitender, Akshay and Susheel have been referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla, where they are undergoing treatment while Bharat has been sent home after treatment of minor injuries.Shimla SP Mohit Chawla said police are conducting an investigation in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-killed-six-injured-in-three-road-accidents-in-himachal/story-iK5PzU8YybYD0byKeAiLVN.html
16-10-2020||City||Himachal logs 219 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 219 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 18,522.Besides this, the death toll mounted to 257 with two more patients succumbing to the contagion. Of the new cases, 43 were reported in Mandi, 42 in Shimla, 26 in Kullu, 24 each in Kinnaur and Bilaspur, 18 in Kangra, 14 in Hamirpur, 9 in Sirmaur, 8 in Hamirpur, 7 in Solan and one in Lahaul-Spiti. One fatality each was reported in Hamirpur and Kangra. There are 2,642 active cases in the state whereas 15,589 patients have recovered. The state also clocked 219 recoveries today. Solan remains the worst-hit district with 3,405 cases. It is followed by Kangra with 2,739 cases. Mandi has 2,281 infections, Sirmaur has 2,077, Shimla 1,887, Una 1,448, Bilaspur 1,101, Hamirpur 1,073, Chamba 1,021, Kullu 984, Lahaul-Spiti 270 and Kinnaur 236.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-219-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/story-cjbPywiPIHlGeabMpGsdqI.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Floods kill 47 in Maharashtra, destroy lakhs of crops||Heavy rains and floods have claimed at least 47 lives in Maharashtra’s Pune, Aurangabad and Konkan divisions in the last three days while crops on lakhs of hectares were damaged extensively, officials said on Friday.Twenty-eight persons have died in rain-related incidents in western Maharashtra which comes under Pune division, sixteen in central Maharashtra’s Aurangabad division and three in coastal Konkan, they said.Over 2,300 houses were damaged in heavy rains and floods in Western Maharashtra where more than 21,000 people were moved to safer places, as per the Pune Divisional Commissioner’s office.“14 people died in Solapur, 9 in Sangli, 4 in Pune and 1 in Satara,” said an official. Crops such as sugarcane, soybean, vegetables, rice, pomegranate and cotton, spread over 57,000 hectares in Pune, Solapur, Satara and Sangli districts, have suffered damage.513 livestock perished in the region. 2,319 houses were damaged in the four districts. 21,292 people from 6,061 households in Solapur (17,000), Sangli (1,079), Pune (3,000) and Satara (213) districts were shifted to safer places.The death toll was 16 in Aurangabad division and three in Konkan division.“Thirteen tehsils in Aurangabad division had heavy rainfall, that is, more than 65 mm in 24 hours, which caused flooding and damaged houses as well as crops over 4,99,648 hectares,” an official said.Soybean, bajara, maize, cotton, lentils, banana, sunflower andudid (black gram) crops among others were damaged in Aurangabad region, he said.Crops over 1,36,176 hectares were damaged in Osmanabad district and 1,10,685 hectares in Nanded district between October 12 and 15, the official said.In Konkan division, 326 houses were damaged in Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts while five cattle died. Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts have reported one death each in rain-related incidents. The tehsils of Vaibhavwadi in Sindhudurg and Karjat, Khalapur, Murud, Pen and Alibaug in Raigad received more than 100 mm of rainfall in last couple of days, the official said.Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said farmers, mostly in Pune division, have suffered huge crop damage and he would “ask the Union government to provide some compensation to farmers who have lost their livelihood”.Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar reviewed the flood situation in western Maharashtra and asked the administration to prepare ‘panchnama’ (inspection report) of damaged crops, houses and other properties immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/floods-kill-47-in-maharashtra-destroys-lakhs-of-crops/story-L00epBceaDOzei6oTE6uCN.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai power outage due to cascade tripping of MSETCL lines, sub-stations: Tata Power||Tata Power on Friday said the power failure in Mumbai earlier this week was due to cascade tripping at sub-stations and transmission lines of MSETCL.The company also said the MSTECL transmission system failure led to cascading impact on all the downstream suppliers of electricity including Tata Power and BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport). “The power failure was attributed to cascade tripping at sub-stations and transmission lines of MSETCL, the state-run transmission company, leading to grid failure at Mumbai that resulted in power outages on Monday morning, October 12th 2020,” a Tata Power statement said. It said a central team comprising officials from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) is investigating the power breakdown in the city. Tata Power is supporting the central team by providing information and data related to the chain of events which transpired on the day of the outage, it added.On Monday, Tata Power had said as per its preliminary assessment of the situation, many parts of Mumbai experienced an unforeseen electricity failure in the morning due to tripping of MSETCL’s 400 KV transmission system at Kalwa, which supplies power to Mumbai and adjoining areas.“There are four incoming Ckt (circuit) /lines to MSTECL Kalwa receiving stations for further transmission of power to Mumbai. Out of these four lines, MSETCL’s 400kV Pune-Kalwa line was under forced shutdown since October 10,” it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-power-outage-due-to-cascade-tripping-of-msetcl-lines-sub-stations-tata-power/story-QXq4iXBdoRqJ7OC085BV1L.html
16-10-2020||Kolkata||BJP organises ‘hulla bol’ march in Bengal seeking CBI probe into Manish Shukla murder case||The BJP on Friday organised a march from Titagarh to Barrackpore in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district demanding that the probe into the killing of saffron party leader Manish Shukla be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Shukla, a close aide of Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh, was shot dead in Titagarh on October 4. The state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is probing the case. The participants of the Singh-led ‘hulla bol’ march went through the arterial Barrackpore Trunk Road in the evening.Singh claimed a free and fair probe into Shukla’s killing will not be possible by an investigating agency of the West Bengal Police since the allegations are against the ruling TMC and said only a central agency can bring the “real culprits” to book.Sabyasachi Dutta, a BJP leader from Bidhannagar area, was among those who participated in the ‘hulla bol’ march.BJP members raised slogans against the ruling TMC government in the state and in support of CBI probe into the killing.The Trinamool Congress had on October 13 organised a peace march in Titagarh, which was led by state cabinet minister Firhad Hakim and Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-organises-hulla-bol-march-in-bengal-seeking-cbi-probe-into-manish-shukla-murder-case/story-UBYhWAaO4ZxOZu4eHnQfWI.html
16-10-2020||Election:||‘I’m Modi’s Hanuman, will tear open my chest and show if needed’: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Friday showered praises on the prime minister and said that he does not need to use PM Modi’s photos for his party’s campaign in the upcoming Assembly elections in Bihar as ‘his prime minister resides in his heart’.“I don’t need to use PM Modi’s photos for campaigning. He lives in my heart, I am his Hanuman. If needed, I’ll tear open my chest and show it,” said LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who walked out of NDA alliance after attacking Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.The remarks by Chirag were in response to BJP leader Sushil Modi, who has accused LJP of using PM Modi’s pictures for campaign, signalling widening rift with its former NDA ally in the state as the political battle heats up. Sushil Modi had said that his party may knock on the Election Commission’s doors to prevent any other party except NDA coalition members from using PM Modi’s photograph in their campaign posters for the upcoming polls. Also read | Bihar Polls 2020:Every vote for JD(U) candidate will force children to migrate from Bihar, says Chirag PaswanChirag also underlined that his party LJP will not contest any BJP candidate in the polls and he will make a BJP leader Bihar’s next CM. “My relationship with PM Modi would not be affected by any statements of BJP leaders. Even if they include my criticism in PM Modi’s speeches in the upcoming rallies in the state then also I will not mind that. But I reaffirm that on November 10, I will make a BJP leader as the Chief Minister of Bihar and LJP would be part of the government. I will never put candidates against any BJP candidate in the assembly elections,” Paswan told news agency ANI. “I have full faith on the Prime Minister and I have confidence that after November 10, BJP and LJP will form a government together in Bihar,” he added.The 37-year-old leader and son of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan has constantly targeted Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) ahead of the polls.In his previous attack, Chirag had said that Nitish Kumar needs to put photos of the Prime Minister. “Our thinking aligns with that of the Prime Minister. We share a relationship of heart,” Paswan said during video conferencing with LJP candidates for Bihar polls.LJP, which has opted out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar, has decided to put up candidates on seats contested by JD(U).Also read: How will the LJP factor play out in the Bihar Assembly Election 2020?Bihar Assembly polls would be held in three phases - October 28, November 3 and November 7, and vote counting will be on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/i-m-modi-s-hanuman-will-tear-open-my-chest-and-show-if-needed-chirag-paswan/story-S86ryThHcysnj8CdajxxYL.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Women allowed to travel in Mumbai local trains from tomorrow||The Maharashtra government on Friday allowed women to travel in local trains starting tomorrow from 11am to 3 pm and 7pm to end of the services.An order issued by the Secretary of Disaster Management, Relief and Rehabilitation department stated that the Railways has also been requested to increase the services and no QR code will be required for women to travel.“We are processing it for getting approval of competent authority,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.“It’s requested that local trains services be made available to all women from 11 am to 3 pm and again from 7 pm till the end of local services for the day, from 17th Oct, in Mumbai & Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR),” Secretary, Disaster Mgmt, Relief and Rehabilitation, Maharashtra said. It's requested that local trains services be made available to all women from 11 am to 3 pm and again from 7 pm till the end of local services for the day, from 17th Oct, in Mumbai & Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR): Secretary, Disaster Mgmt, Relief & Rehabilitation, Maharashtra pic.twitter.com/szESCj6a2NTrains in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have been allowed so far only for workforce from essential/emergency sectors, differently able people and cancer patients.Mumbai’s suburban train services were shut down on March 23 as part of the nationwide lockdown. The partial resumption of services was announced on June 15, but only those deemed to be essential service providers were allowed to board these trains after being allotted a special pass.From October 19, Mumbai Metro rail will also resume operations in a graded manner under the new reopening guideline issued by the state government. The new guidelines also state that 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff can be called to schools at a time for online teaching and tele-counselling students. Business-to-business exhibitions as well as local weekly bazaars, including that of animals, have also be allowed to reopen outside containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/women-allowed-to-travel-in-mumbai-local-trains-from-tomorrow/story-wVpyBJTvwwDGOuXJw9kd8K.html
16-10-2020||Bhopal||Photos of Deepika, Dia Mirza figure on MGNREGA job cards in Madhya Pradesh, inquiry ordered||Pictures of Bollywood actors Deepika Padukone and Dia Mirza have been found in use on scores of job cards of MGNREGA workers in Madhya Pradesh’s Khargone district, 328 kilometres south of Bhopal. Government authorities ordered a probe after the matter came to light this week. Photographs of the two female actors appear on at least a dozen job cards related to village Piparkheda Naka under Ziranya tehsil of the district. The village is situated about 70 kilometres away from Khargone district headquarters. Interestingly, many of the cards have names of male beneficiaries.The names and addresses of the beneficiaries are real on about a dozen of job cards but the photographs are of the two actors instead of the actual beneficiaries. RTI activist Sandeep Madahar, who revealed the issue, said it is not a clerical or a technical error but a well-planned scam to siphon off lakhs of public money. Also read: PM Modi to address 12 rallies in Bihar, Nitish Kumar to join himDemanding a high-level inquiry to check the authenticity of the job cards from the district, Madahar said, “I was looking into the list of beneficiaries on the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) website when I spotted the celebrities’ photographs. On scrutiny, I could see the design behind the scam.”“When a MGNREGA card is renewed every five years, the serial number remains the same. However, when I visited the village, I found that the people were hardly aware of renewal of their cards and that the serial numbers on the new cards didn’t match with that of their old cards. None of them had even applied for the renewal. Many of them have good landholding,” he stated.Madahar added, “What is surprising is that in many cases, the job cards are kept by the village sarpanch, secretary and gram rozgar sahayak. Even the transactions with banks or kiosks situated in rural areas for making payment to beneficiaries are done by them only on behalf of the beneficiaries. Both the practices are in violations of the rules and many beneficiaries are hardly aware of what is going on behind their back.”Also read: Delhi next on NCB radar to launch Mumbai-style crackdown on drugsTwenty-two-year old Monu Shivshankar said, “I didn’t go for any work under MGNREGA. I am surprised to see Deepika Padukone’s photo on my job card. I don’t even have this job card with me.”A tribal villager Padam Rupsingh, whose job card bears the photo of actor Dia Mirza, spoke in similar vein. He said he was not provided any job by the village sarpanch or others. Chief executive officer (CEO), zila panchayat, Khargone Gaurav Benal, said, “I have received complaints regarding the use of Bollywood actors’ photos on job cards. I have instituted an inquiry to see if these cards are real and in what circumstances the photographs were used on the cards. Action will be taken against the guilty if the inquiry committee reports irregularities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/photos-of-deepika-dia-mirza-figure-on-mgnrega-job-cards-in-madhya-pradesh-inquiry-ordered/story-GO2rkanypQQLU1SC5oHXdN.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Class 11 admissions at Chandigarh’s govt schools: 2,310 apply in third round of counselling||As many as 2,310 students applied for admission in the third round of counselling for Class 11 admissions at Chandigarh’s government schools.The third round was organised from October 14 to 16 for students who hadn’t been allotted a seat in the previous two rounds. As per officials, while 1,900 students applied online, another 410 sent their applications through mail. They said as the total number of seats available hadn’t been calculated yet, they will try to accommodate as many students as they can, while giving preference to government-school passouts.The third round of counselling was held for a total of 17 government schools, which are offering seats in humanities stream, while some schools have seats vacant in skill courses, such as textile design, electronics and electrical technology, and fashion studies, among others.Change of school or stream will not be available during the session. Students caught furnishing false claims will have their admission cancelled, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/class-11-admissions-at-chandigarh-s-govt-schools-2-310-apply-in-third-round-of-counselling/story-QbkiHMQ5dRbdP9MhBgvntI.html
16-10-2020||Lucknow||In one week, 13 horrific incidents of crime against women occurred in UP: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday attacked the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh over the state of women safety, and alleged that 13 horrific incidents of crimes against women have taken place in the last week.She highlighted a chart of various incidents of crimes against women in Uttar Pradesh from October 9 to 15 and alleged that the BJP is giving protection to the criminals and this has made women unsafe in the state.“In the last one week, 13 horrific incidents of crime against women have occurred in UP. As per reports, victims have been killed or the victims committed suicide in four such incidents,” she said in a tweet in Hindi. “This poor condition of women safety is disturbing. The chief minister has no time to convene a ‘special session’ but his photo session is on,” she also said while taking a swipe at the chief minister. यूपी में पिछले एक हफ्ते में महिलाओं के खिलाफ अपराध की 13 भयावह घटनाएं घटी। खबरों के अनुसार 4 घटनाओं में पीड़िता की हत्या कर दी गई या पीड़िताओं ने आत्महत्या कर ली।महिला सुरक्षा की ये दुर्गति विचलित करती है। सीएम साहब को इसपर ‘स्पेशल सेशन’ करने का समय नहीं, हाँ फोटोसेशन चालू है। pic.twitter.com/FDW9NppDmIShe has earlier attacked the government on the law and order situation. The Congress general secretary, who is in-charge for Uttar Pradesh affairs of the party, has launched a major offensive on the government ever since the Hathras rape and murder case has taken place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/in-last-week-13-horrific-incidents-of-crime-against-women-occurred-in-uttar-pradesh-priyanka-gandhi/story-1dWEsS0yvQPNnTUs5wSvnO.html
16-10-2020||City||Robbery bid foiled at Muthoot Finance branch in Ludhiana, three accused held||In a dramatic turn of events, six armed men tried to rob a Muthoot Finance company branch on Dugri Road in Ludhiana on Friday but fled empty-handed after opening fire, injuring three employees who resisted their bid and an onlooker. Police said the incident occurred at 9.30am when the accused held staff and customers captive and asked for money and gold jewellery that is mortgaged by people for loan. The robbers filled the cash and gold worth Rs 15 crore in bags but before they could escape, the employees tried to overpower them. The robbers opened fire and injured three employees but they did not give up. The accused panicked and fled the spot, leaving the cash and gold jewellery behind. Three robbers escaped on motorcycles after opening fire. The bullets hit a car and an onlooker, Deepak Kumar, was injured in the leg. Another passer-by, suspecting something amiss, hit the three robbers on a motorcycle with his SUV, leading them to lose balance and fall on the road. The police arrested the three robbers and recovered weapons from them. Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that the Muthoot Finance headquarters has access to closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the Dugri Road office. After they noticed the robbery, they alerted the Ludhiana police, who rushed to the spot and managed to catch three of the accused with the help of locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robbery-bid-foiled-at-muthoot-finance-branch-in-ludhiana-three-accused-held/story-DcMDVY91us0HboZtfXFRFJ.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||North Delhi civic body to be fined Rs 1 crore for no action against garbage burning: Gopal Rai||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday issued directions for imposition of Rs 1 crore fine on North Delhi Municipal Corporation for not taking action against garbage burning in Kirari village in northwest Delhi.   He said regular incidents of large-scale garbage burning had been brought to his notice.  “Delhi’s air quality has been worsening gradually, but the agencies are still not taking it seriously. Environmental norms are being flouted brazenly here. Garbage burning is rampant,” Rai told reporters.“Directions have been issued to impose a fine of Rs 1 crore on North Delhi civic body for not controlling garbage burning in the area,” he said.Pollution levels reduced slightly in the national capital on Friday with favourable wind speed helping in dispersion of pollutants, according to India Meteorological Department officials.The city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 251 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 315 on Thursday, the worst since February 12 (AQI 320).An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-delhi-civic-body-to-be-fined-rs-1-crore-for-no-action-against-garbage-burning-gopal-rai/story-sBwca5Pe87QzDEqXML1RVL.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Shaurya Chakra awardee and Left leader Balwinder Singh shot dead in Punjab’s Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran Two motorcycle-borne men shot dead Left leader Balwinder Singh, 55, at Bhikhiwind, 25km from Tarn Taran, on Friday morning. Balwinder Singh was a Shaurya Chakra awardee for fighting against terrorism in Punjab in the ’90s. Balwinder, a Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) district committee member who was on the hit list of terrorist outfits, was at home when the two men fired six bullets at him around 7am and fled, police said. Balwinder’s family runs Evergreen Senior Secondary School in Bhikhiwind, once a terror hot-spot, and his residence is on its premises. “As per routine, my husband got down from the first floor to open the outer gate. We realised that there had been firing only after 5-7 minutes and found him in a pool of blood in the office situated near the gate,” said Jagdish Kaur, his wife. The assailants knocked on the door first. On opening it, one of the assailants fired indiscriminately at Balwinder, said Dhruman H Nimbale, Tarn Taran SSP, who rushed to the crime scene. Balwinder’s wife, Jagdish, is also a district committee member of the RMPI that Mangat Ram Pasla leads SECURITY WITHDRAWN DESPITE APPEALS RMPI leader Chaman Lal Darajke said Balwinder’s security was taken back last month. He said they had requested senior police officials to restore security, but to no avail. “He was against the terrorism and had been attacked 44 times,” Darajke said. As per his wife, who stood by him to fight against terrorism, over 40 FIRs have been registered in attacks on their family. The previous one was in December 2018 when unknown persons fired at their house.Sources said a gunman had been deployed for the security of the family, but he was not with Balwinder at the time of attack. Kaur also blamed the police, claiming, “The police withdrew security even as we were on the hit-list of terrorists.”FOUR SHAURYA CHAKRAS AWARDED TO FAMILY Tarn Taran was among the worst-hit districts during militancy. Balwinder and his family members—wife, older brother Ranjit Singh and brother’s wife Balraj Kaur were awarded for their bravery by the President in 1993. “His is the only family in the country that has been awarded four Shaurya Chakras for showing unique courage and valour when his wife and he were activists of the Communist Party of India. Documentaries have also been made on his family,” said Drajke. Balwinder is survived by wife, two sons, Gagandeep Singh and Arshdeep Singh, and a daughter. They have expressed suspicion that Balwinder’s killing is a terror attack. “We don’t have any kind of personal enmity. This is a clear-cut attack by terrorists. I have fought against terrorism. Now, when he has been martyred, I will give a tougher fight to get the justice,” said Kaur.Asked on the terror attack angle, the SSP said, “We are investigating the matter and cannot say anything about it.” The RMPI’s state leadership has condemned the murder of the party leader and sought justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shaurya-chakra-awardee-and-left-leader-balwinder-singh-shot-dead-in-punjab-s-tarn-taran/story-nOAPiYHqpWhyqQEbGTZ3wI.html
16-10-2020||Pune||Punekars blame civic body for flash floods 2.0||Wednesday night was a grim reminder of the nightmare which the Sabale family, residing at Satara road, faced during the September 2019 flash floods. A year ago, Kaushik Sabale and his family saw their homes destroyed after heavy rains in the city caused flash floods. On Wednesday, due to continuous heavy rains, several parts of the Pune city were affected by waterlogging as canals overflowed and water entered into houses and shops. Citizens have alleged that the same situation arises after every bout of heavy rainfall due to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)‘s mismanagement. “At around 9pm, water level started rising in the nearby nullah and having learnt our lessons from last year’s tragedy, we immediately shifted elderly people and children to the first floor in the house. Then, the water flow was so strong that it broke our house wall and water entered into our house. It brought all the garbage and mud inside and also damaged our vehicles. Two months ago, PMC officials along with the commissioner had come here to survey our area. At that time they assured us that they will build a retaining wall near the nullah, but it nothing happened on ground. Yesterday’s damage is only because of the mismanagement of the PMC officials,” said Kaushik Sabale, a resident of Arnyeshwar area on Satara Road. Most of the lanes in Sahakarnagar and Satara road area, which are near the nullah, were affected by the flash floods. However, as citizens were alert, most of them immediately shifted their family members, parked their vehicles at safer places and tried to control the damage. Treasure Park society was one of the most affected housing societies during last year’s flash floods. Hundreds of two-wheelers and cars were damaged as water entered into the housing society’s parking lot. However, this year residents of this society shifted their vehicles soon after heavy rains started on Wednesday night. Rohidas Kewale, a shop owner in Sahakarnagar, who started his business last week, said, “I had started my business last week and had spent around Rs 25,000 to buy small furniture and goods for the shop. Now everything inside the shop has been damaged. We want compensation from the PMC for our losses as this flood has happened due to their mismanagement as they failed to build the retaining wall to contain the overflowing nullah.” A similar situation was witnessed at Sinhgad road which faced massive waterlogging on Wednesday night. The water level had risen above the road median and at one spot near Santosh Hall chowk, the road median was broken by the people. Water entered into several shops located on Sinhgad road and some of the prominent hospitals like Madhukar Hospital and Patil Hospital. Prashant Sheth, owner of Siddhi Medical at the Patil hospital, said, “After 10pm, water started rising above the footpath level and suddenly in minutes it rose higher. We didn’t get enough time to move our goods inside the shop, 30 per cent of medicine goods has been damaged and we had to throw it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/punekars-blame-civic-body-for-flash-floods-2-0/story-I9TctCJJMdTpjpJ5x0AZ6M.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chitkara University holds webinar on investor awareness, financial education||Hoping to groom financially savvy professionals and help them explore job opportunities in the financial sector, Chitkara University recently organised a national webinar on ‘Investor awareness and financial education’. The varsity co-hosted the webinar with Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Association of Mutual Funds of India (AMFI), and National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL), apex Indian financial regulators and institutions. Around 1,000 people across the country attended the webinar.The webinar focused on ‘personal finance,’ including instruments such as mutual funds during and post the pandemic. Resource persons include SEBI assistant general manager Laxmi Rampurawala, AFMI senior consultant and keynote speaker Surya Kant Sharma, and Nitin Joshi, Amit Mishra, and Yogesh Tiwari from NSDL.Rampurawala advised investors to only deal with SEBI-recognized entities while Sharma highlighted the need for self-regulated and systematic saving habits to secure one’s financial future. Joshi, Mishra, and Tiwari spoke on the use of technology in safeguarding investor interests and avoiding fraud.Chitkara University pro chancellor Dr Madhu Chitkara said, “Chitkara University has always worked in conjunction with apex institutions to bring updated and industry knowledge to the world. Whether it is courses that the the university runs in collaboration with industry leaders such as Fortis Healthcare, Parexel, ARAI, or Virtusa, the university has always worked with the industry to create future-ready professionals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chitkara-university-holds-webinar-on-investor-awareness-financial-education/story-fwh2SGmj1YbyGAR4Mnz7bL.html
16-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: SIT arrests three for abetting minor’s suicide in Jodhpur||A special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the death of a 16-year-old girl in Jodhpur has arrested three people for allegedly abetting her suicide, officials said on Friday. On September 21, the girl’s body was found on a railway track. A note recovered from the spot revealed the girl’s identity. Government railway police superintendent Mamta Rahul, who is heading the SIT, said the accused were identified on the basis of intelligence gathered and the note. Rahul said their probe has revealed that two of the three accused were sexually harassing her. She added the third accused had been stalking her. “The accused were harassing the minor which drove her to suicide.”The arrested accused have been identified as Mahipal Vishnoi , 24, Prem Vishnoi, 22, and Bajrang Vishnoi, 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-sit-arrests-three-for-abetting-minor-s-suicide-in-jodhpur/story-eolxZNRFdGYGQmZaznzHAL.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood drugs case: Sandip Ssingh accuses Congress leader Sachin Sawant of levelling false charges||Filmmaker Sandip Ssingh on Friday accused Congress leader Sachin Sawant of making baseless and false charges against him after the latter questioned the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) ongoing probe into the Bollywood drugs case and reiterated a demand for an investigation into the former’s alleged links with the drug racket. Sawant’s comments came a day after the Bengaluru police searched actor Vivek Oberoi’s house in Mumbai in a drug case. In a series of tweets on Friday, Sawant suggested the central investigating agencies were deliberately shielding Oberoi and Ssingh, who have produced a biopic on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Also Read: Congress claims Vivek Oberoi-Sandip Ssingh angle to drugs case, demands NCB probeIn a statement issued on behalf of Ssingh, his PR manager, Deepak Sahu, said if Sawant is looking for “more publicity by making allegations without any proof, he will have to pay for it”. Sahu added Ssingh is compelling legal action against Sawant. The statement said the Central Bureau of Investigation summoned Ssingh and his statement has been recorded. It added Ssingh is even ready for an NCB inquiry. Sawant said he had asked NCB to investigate “the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] Drug connection” in Bollywood. “In my questions to NCB I had specifically mentioned the name of Aditya Alva found in Sandalwood drug racket who is brother in law of Vivek Oberoi who is partner of Sandeep Ssingh. But NCB didn’t pay heed,” he tweeted. He alleged Gujarat BJP’s government may have favoured the two. “But now Bengaluru police hv raided house of Vivek Oberoi who is not only co-producer of Narendra Modi Biopic but also played role of Modi ji. Several Qns still unanswered as to why only this company was chosen for signing an MOU by Guj govt.” Sawant questioned why complaints against Ssingh were being overlooked. “Not only us, BJP leader Subramaniam Swamy had tweeted demanding Ssingh’s probe and why he frequently visits Dubai. NCB has been summoning Bollywood actors, but the demand for the probe of Ssingh is overlooked,” Sawant said. But now Bengaluru police hv raided house of Vivek Oberoi who is not only co-producer of Narendra Modi Biopic but also played role of Modi ji. Several Qns still unanswered as to why only this company was chosen for signing an MOU by Guj govthttps://t.co/uVqV2J8gkoBJP rubbished Sawant’s claims and dared him to produce evidence. “He is free to produce the evidence, if any, to the investigating agency or to the courts. BJP never shields any wrongdoer and the search at Oberoi’s house is an example of the same. PM Narendra Modi’s integrity or sincerity cannot be contested. The allegations by Congress leaders are malicious and born out of frustrations,” said BJP spokesperson Madhu Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-drugs-case-sandip-ssingh-accuses-congress-leader-sachin-sawant-of-levelling-false-charges/story-W4rL3RzHhXyO0J86ru1U2N.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Delhi advocate arrested for abusive tweets against Maharashtra CM, Aaditya||Mumbai police has arrested a Delhi-based advocate for allegedly posting abusive tweets against Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray. Vibhor Anand’s arrest followed Shiv Sena legal cell head Dharmendra Mishra’s written complaint to the Mumbai police’s cyber unit. The 31-year-old was brought to Mumbai on Thursday. Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Akbar Pathan said, “We have arrested the accused from Delhi and produced him before a metropolitan magistrate court (on Friday). The court has remanded him to police custody till October 19. We will investigate the case thoroughly.” Dharmendra Mishra said, “In August, I came across 15 Twitter handles, including that of Anand, that were constantly abusing the CM and the Cabinet minister. The accused kept making false allegations by posting offensive and abusive comments on social media. The allegations made by them are that the chief minister and Cabinet minister were involved in actor Sushant Singh Rajput and Disha Salian’s death.” Also read: Delhi next on NCB radar to launch Mumbai-style crackdown on drugs“The accused have been creating the story for the purpose of bringing public disorder and disturbance of law, and to promote the feeling of enmity and hatred against the current government. They even used abusive words against Mumbai police,” added Mishra. According to Mishra, the accused also alleged that Disha was gang-raped before being killed. “He was also holding Aaditya Thackeray, (actor) Sooraj Pancholi, (Rhea Chakraborty’s brother) Showik Chakraborty and (actor) Arbaaz Khan responsible for Disha Salian’s death,” said Mishra. On Mishra’s complaint, police registered a case against 15 people under section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 505 (2) (statements conducing to public mischief) 500 (punishment for defamation) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of Indian Penal Code and section 67 (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of Information Technology Act. Vibhor Anand’s father, advocate V K Anand said, “He have been falsely implicated. There is no legal evidence against my son. This case is politically motivated and a planted case filed by the complainant.” “My son is physically challenged with 50% disabilities. On Thursday police, contacted him that they wanted to serve him a notice. He asked them to go to his office where they arrested him,” said Anand. “Whatever content he has posted on his Twitter handle is widely available on social media sites. He hasn’t created any content on his own. However, his three Twitter handles were suspended,” added Anand||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-advocate-arrested-for-abusive-tweets-against-maharashtra-cm-aaditya/story-w1RefwpsQoope6ZZejrXoM.html
16-10-2020||Pune||Opposition opposes relocation of Naidu Hospital||Opposition parties in the city have raised questions over shifting of the Naidu Hospital which is currently located behind Pune railway station and erecting a new building here for the proposed medical college.Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “The Covid-19 cases are still rising in the city and the Central team has warned of a possible second wave, it is wrong to shift the existing Naidu hospital. Our priority should be to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients.”It is not yet decided to which place the hospital will be shifted, but patients will be moved to another hospital, say, officials.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “It is a long-pending demand for a civic body-run medical college. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has acquired all necessary permissions for the same. I held a meeting with the trust members along with other office bearers, including all party leaders on the issue.”PMC had handed over the civic body owned Kamla Nehru Hospital for the medical college and land of the Naidu Hospital for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/opposition-opposes-relocation-of-naidu-hospital/story-4pBGDORMneXHgeV7una07O.html
16-10-2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills 11-year old girl in Uttarakhand, 6th child killed in last 1 month||An 11-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Uttarakhand’s Jaspur area in US Nagar district, said forest officials. The incident has created panic and resentment among villagers who accused the forest department of inaction despite having received complaints against the leopard.“A leopard attacked a girl on Thursday evening in Jaspur area but the body of the girl was recovered from a field on Friday morning,” said Anand Singh Rawat, range officer of Patrampur range in Jaspur. The victim, 11-year-old Rahat, was daughter of Farookh, a labourer from Pilibhit area of Uttar Pradesh, who works in a kiln at Dharampur-Baheri village, about 10km from Jaspur, near the UP border. He lives with his family there. Rahat was attacked and dragged by the animal while she was playing with her siblings, said Rawat. After the incident, the Kiln owner informed the police as well as forest officials, who failed to find Rahat despite searching the area after the attack. Her body was finally recovered on Friday morning, added Rawat. Also Read: Non-bailable warrant against Uttarakhand cabinet minister and 3 MLAs for ‘blocking road’ Panicked residents alleged that the leopard had been roaming in the area for a month and the forest officials had failed to take any action to get rid of the big cat despite their repeated complaints. Kumaon has witnessed a surge in leopard attacks, especially on children. On October 12, a 7-year-old girl died in a leopard attack in Tehri Garhwal district. On October 7, another 7-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack outside her house in Berinag division of Pithoragarh district. On October 1, a 14-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack in Pauri Garhwal district when he took his cattle for grazing in the forest area. On September 24, an 11-year-old girl was killed in a leopard attack in Pithoragarh district when she was collecting fodder. On September 19, a 7-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard when she was playing near her house in Almora district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/leopard-kills-11-year-old-girl-in-uttarakhand-6th-child-killed-in-last-1-month/story-Oc3brw6r32TemNT6PtGvYL.html
16-10-2020||Pune||Rain hits state’s Covid-19 campaign||Due to heavy rains in the city from past few days Punekers who are already fighting the Covid-19 pandemic are facing a double whammy.The Pune civic administration, meanwhile, has temporarily suspended the “My family, my responsibility” campaign in flood-affected areas. The campaign is a part of the government’s statewide outreach programme to check the health status of families in Pune to contain the spread of Covid-19 disease.“We have temporarily suspended the campaign ‘My family, my responsibility’ in the affected areas,” said PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar.“As we were alert the damage was less. When the water started rising in the Katraj lake we moved our household assets to a safer place,” said Dnyaneshwar Shinde, a resident of Katraj Navin Vasahat, Vishwakarmanagar area.“Due to heavy rains yesterday (on Wednesday) some electronic goods were damaged and dirt was collected inside the house as water seeped in. Some two-wheeler were also washed in the rainwater ” he said.Dhananjay Bharige owner of a dairy who had 40 cows and buffaloes in the shed in the same area said, “We were fully prepared to release our animals as the water level was rising, but fortunately it didn’t go high and we did not release the animals. But there was heavy damage to our goods like animal food and other things worth around Rs 80,000.”The water flow was so intense that the road under the bridge near the Katraj lake got cracks and there was a big trench on the side of the road.A JCB machine was called by the civic body to clear the garbage and mud on the road, during the process one of the water pipelines burst causing more inconvenience to residents in the area.Supriya Sule, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member of Parliament, visited the affected areas on Thursday afternoon. She spoke to the residents, took a review of the situation and instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials to provide all necessary help to the residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-civic-admin-suspends-my-family-my-responsibility-campaign-in-rain-affected-areas/story-8RG1I98MtEiHX2zH14Z3PL.html
16-10-2020||Pune||Four house break-ins in Kondhwa Khurd area in Pune||Four houses in a locality of Kondhwa Khurd were broken into by thieves on Tuesday morning.Two of the four houses are located in Halima Apartment building in Kondhwa Khurd area while one each among the two others is located in Primary Society and Disha Residency. Three of the four houses are on the first floor while one is on the second floor, said police.The houses were locked between 9:30 am and 6:30 pm when the theft was committed, according to the police.Gold and silver belongings collectively worth Rs 2,38,00 were stolen from the four houses after each of their main doors locks were broken with brute force, according to the complaint.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Zakaria Shaikh (38), a resident of one of the four houses.A case under Sections 454, 457, and 380 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station. Police sub-inspector Chaitrali Gapat of Kondhwa police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-house-break-ins-in-kondhwa-khurd-area-in-pune/story-ghrQ2AA0ufA6VJJ0WnGxpJ.html
16-10-2020||Pune||Two arrested by Pune police for attempt to murder businessman||Two people were arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday night, in a case of attempted murder of a sand supplier in Hadapsar on Monday.The accused arrested have been identified as Rajesh Bhiku Padwal (25), a resident of Gore Budrukh in Haveli and Balasaheb Anant Jadhav (52), a resident of Jadhavnagar in Handewadi gaon in Uruli Devachi. Padwal was arrested by Wanowrie police station officials, while Jadhav was arrested by crime branch officials.“The one arrested by the police station officials is the shooter while the other is the conspirator. It was a joint effort by the crime branch and the police station officials,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone-5, Pune.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Mayur Vijay Hande (29) a resident of Handewadi and a supplier of sand for construction work.A bullet had grazed his face as the masked shooter had fired at him once before fleeing, said police.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code, Section 3(25) of Arms Act, and Section 37(1)(3)with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act is registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-arrested-by-pune-police-for-attempt-to-murder-businessman/story-SA8pBjDpUsmjr6DfRLizbK.html
16-10-2020||Pune||Pune man gets 12 years’ rigorous imprisonment for sexual assault of 3-year-old||A local court in Pune, on Wednesday, convicted a 46-year-old man in a case registered against him for unnatural intercourse and sexual assault of a three-year-old child in 2015. He is sentenced to 12 years in rigorous imprisonment.The judgement was passed by additional sessions judge RV Adone. Advocate Leena Pathak was the public prosecutor in the case and took it to conviction.The convicted man was arrested in 2015 after the child’s mother lodged a police complaint.“The trial started in 2017 and around March, our case was almost over, but due to the lockdown the court was closed. In the past few weeks, the court took the effort to hear the cross-examination punch from Pimpri court and we heard it from Shivajinagar court through video conferencing. The case then finally concluded,” said advocate Leena Pathak .“In addition to that (fine), the District Legal Service Authority may decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded to the victim, under the Victim Compensation Scheme,” read a part of the judgement.A case is registered at Pimpri police station against the man under Section 376(2)(i) of Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO).On June 3, 2015, the man had forced the infant girl to his house while she was playing at 5 pm. While her father was at work, her 23-year-old mother was cooking. The girl came to her mother while crying and fell asleep immediately, according to her mother’s complaint. It was later in the night when she woke up and narrated the incident to her mother. The man was arrested on June 4 and remanded to police custody followed by judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-man-gets-12-years-rigorous-imprisonment-for-sexual-assault-of-3-year-old/story-CetKMSg92GD5BVkWLkz92M.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Meteorological conditions in Delhi extremely unfavourable for pollutant dispersion since this September: CPCB||The Central Pollution Control Board Meteorological (CPCB) on Friday said conditions in Delhi have been extremely unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants since this September as compared to last year.CPCB member secretary Prashant Gargava said the PM10 concentration between September 1 and October 14 this year has been more as compared to the corresponding period last year.“An analysis showed there were seven rainy days with cumulative rainfall of 121 mm, between September 1 and October 14 in 2019. This year, there have been only three rainy days with 21 mm rainfall during the same period. Meteorological conditions have been extremely unfavourable in September and October this year as compared to the corresponding period last year,” Gargava said.The average ventilation index has been 1,334 metre square per second in September and October this year as compared to 1,850 metre square per second during the corresponding period last year, he said.He added that in winters, the ventilation index, a combination of horizontal wind dispersion and heat dissipation of pollutants, is very less in landlocked areas like Delhi, which leads to a higher rate of pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/meteorological-conditions-in-delhi-extremely-unfavourable-for-pollutant-dispersion-since-this-september-cpcb/story-UPZisiMK90vWcULUjOSrPJ.html
16-10-2020||Pune||Rise in crime cases needs strict monitoring: Pune rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh||Abhinav Deshmukh, a 2009-batch IPS (Indian Police Service) officer was the superintendent of police, Kolhapur before taking over as SP Pune rural in September this year and has served in Satara and Gadchiroli in the past.The policemen are at the forefront of the fight against Covi-19. He speaks to HT about the various challenges in Pune rural area amid the Covid-19 pandemic.There is a severe shortage of staff in the Pune rural police department. What is the current strength?There are only 2,900 positions; actual working strength is 2,600 as there are 300 vacancies. We have additional strength including home guards; around 790 at present. We have a severe shortage of manpower, that’s true. Many proposals have been sent to the government in this regard. One district sub-head quarter will be created in Baramati. A strength of 300 will be added there. There are new police stations that have been proposed. Overall, 600 new posts will be created. New post creation had stopped due to the current Covid-19 pandemic. We are hopeful that shortly we will get the manpower.What is the situation of Covid-19 infection and fatality among Pune rural police?We have 250 patients now and as many as 230 have covered from the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection and 18 are active cases. We also lost six of our policemen who were infected with the virus. In the past few days, the new cases are quite a few - hardly one or two. In the way of post-Covid19 care, those who have recovered, people who are overweight, cholesterol problem are following routines that include meditation, yoga and physiotherapy. There is a tendency of cardiac arrest due to an increasing tendency of embolism. We are consulting with cardiologists also. Our men are provided with like ecosprin, Vitamin C and zinc tablets and other safety gears.There are various stretches of highways in the Pune rural police jurisdiction. Any long-term efforts to reduce fatalities?There is a state-wide policy issue. The Supreme Court is monitoring fatalities in road accidents. Now a target has been set that every state and district has to reduce the mortality by ten per cent. Last year we achieved the target but we should be more focused on reducing mortality than accidents. As the number of vehicles is increasing, there will definitely be more accidents. But the mortality in these accidents is what we should be working to reduce. Four basic methods are subscribed for this: engineering, enforcement, education, and awareness. Based on Kerala’s Jan Maitri programme adopted by the central government and deployed in Maharashtra, five schools are identified where school-level education regarding traffic-rules and awareness is provided.There are several tourist spots in the jurisdiction, but the mask violation numbers are low in these areas.Basically, most of the tourist spots are closed. Most of the approach roads to scenic spots were also closed. The tourists are not coming now. Only local people or those having second homes are coming to places like Lonvala. Last week an order was issued by the tourism department that some of the tourist activities have to be restarted. Because of the order, we are also planning to change our strategy, especially in these parts. We do not want to harass tourists as local traders depend on them. We have to maintain a balance. We have held meetings with hotel owners and restaurant owners as the hotels have opened up. We thought it is better to campaign and create awareness. We have the power to fine.There was a proposal for use of 50% fine for police welfare. What are your observations?It is just a proposal and not finalised yet. Any fine collected goes into to certain heads of government where they need to be deposited. Police fine goes directly to the government exchequer. Government has to issue an order. It is a policy decision and modalities have to be finalised.What are your observations in the first 20 days since you took over?It is a huge district. It has a lot of problems due to industrialisation and urbanisation. Due to fast-growing urbanisation in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, there is a rise in crime cases especially in outskirts of metropolis area. Our crime pattern is mainly Loni Kalbhor, Lonikand, Haveli and MIDC. We have to focus on narcotics and firearms. Especially in areas bordering Ahmednagar, major crime is related to sand mafia; Daund, Indapur, and Bhigwan. There is a definite increase in the trend of body offences post-lockdown. The magnitude of the crime is very high. There are a lot of problems related to urbanisation but the infrastructure is that of a rural district. It is like policing in an urban area but with rural infrastructure. Some of our load went to Pimpri-Chinchwad but there is a major manpower crunch. There is also an increase in cyber-crime cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rise-in-crime-cases-needs-strict-monitoring-pune-rural-sp-abhinav-deshmukh/story-wltwlW5zDSYLEOLDZaGGLP.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 recovery rate in Thane district nears 90 per cent||The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra’s Thane district is nearing 90 per cent, while the death rate stands at 2.53 per cent.The district currently has 14,810 active cases, an official said on Friday.Of the 1,97,000 cases of Covid-19 reported in the district so far, 1,77,206 patients have recovered from the infection and 4,983 have died of it. As many as 1,288 tested positive for the infection, while 36 succumbed to it on Thursday the official added.The recovery rate in the civic limits of Kalyan, Navi Mumbai, Ulhasnagar, Amberanth, and Badlapur has crossed 90 per cent each, he said. With 47,148 cases, Kalyan has recorded the maximum number of infections, followed by Thane city with 42,626, Navi Mumbai with 41,383. Meanwhile, neighbouring Palghar district has reported 38,641 cases and 801 deaths so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-thane-district-nears-90-per-cent/story-3CAc6gwdYqotGvFdy576XO.html
16-10-2020||Dehradun||Non-bailable warrant against Uttarakhand cabinet minister and 3 MLAs for ‘blocking road’||A local court in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district has issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against 16 people, including state cabinet minister Arvind Pandey and three lawmakers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The district and sessions court in Rudrapur issued the NBW against the 16 people on Thursday while hearing a case in which they are accused of blocking a highway during an agitation at Jaspur in 2012.The court also ordered the district police authorities to form a special team to arrest the accused and produce them before it on October 23. Also read: Uttarakhand BJP councillor shot dead in front of his house in KumaonRajesh Bhatt, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Kashipur, said, “We have received a copy of the order issued by the court. We will follow the order and form a special team to arrest the accused and produce them before the court within the stipulated time.” The case in which the court issued the order pertains to June 2012, when the police had booked 24 people for blocking the highway. The accused included the then Gadarpur member of the Uttarakhand legislative assembly (MLA) and the current sitting Cabinet minister Arvind Pandey, Kashipur MLA Harbhajan Singh Cheema, Rudrapur MLA Rajkumar Thukral, the sitting Jaspur MLA Aadesh Chauhan, ex-Member of Parliament (MP) Balraj Pasi. Kashipur MLA Cheema said, “We didn’t block the road in 2012, but a group was staging a dharna demanding the arrest of an accused, who had eloped with a girl belonging to another religion.” “We had gone there only to support the agitators and returned after a short while. I don’t know why the police booked us in this case,” he said. However, Rudrapur MLA Thukral said that he would follow the court’s order. “Though the state government had withdrawn the case, the court did not relent. This led to the issuance of the NBW. I respect the court’s order.” Minister Pandey was not available for his comment.Pandey and the three MLAs were accused of blocking the road in the agitation to pressure the police to arrest the man, who had allegedly eloped with a woman belonging to another religion. The agitation had allegedly led to a law and order problem. Initially, seven of the accused were arrested, but later were released on bail. The 17 others, including the minister and three MLAs, were never arrested. However, one of the accused had died a few months ago.Earlier, the court had issued an NBW in September 2019 as well. The district police authorities had put up notices regarding the attachment of properties of the accused, including minister Pandey and the three legislators. The lawmakers had moved the court in Rudrapur against the order and also filed a review petition. However, the court dismissed the petition and issued a fresh NBW against the 16 accused on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/non-bailable-warrant-against-uttarakhand-cabinet-minister-and-3-mlas-for-blocking-road/story-y2xI2paaTND0Qg3E24DJEK.html
16-10-2020||Dehradun||With new religious tourism circuits planned, Uttarakhand seeks Centre’s help||With tourism picking up in Uttarakhand post additional relaxations in restrictions on interstate movement, granted under Unlock 5.0 guidelines, the state government has now sought help from the Center to improve connectivity and communication infrastructure in the state to further boost tourism. Satpal Maharaj, the state tourism minister has urged the Central government to publicise tourist attractions in Uttarakhand and for help to improve connectivity, telecommunication and internet services in remote areas. He also announced the state’s plan to introduce more religious tourism circuits.Maharaj made the request to Prahlad Patel, the Union minister for tourism and culture, during a virtual meeting on Thursday. “If communication infrastructure is improved then people from rural areas can avail the government schemes online,” said the minister. He sought help from the Centre in promoting the tourism circuits being developed in the state, like the Navagraha circuit, which he claimed had “a huge potential for eco-tourism.” Also Read: Uttarakhand HC directs state govt to file compliance report on Covid-19 panel suggestions He said the tourism department is going to build ‘Shakti’ and ‘Vaishno’ circuits after having started Tribal Tourism in the state with the development of iconic temples and tourist places in tribal belts. Satpal Maharaj also said that the state government has prepared a menu for Himalayan immunity-boosting food, to be served in all categories of hotels run by the state. Also Read: Asan Conservation Reserve becomes Uttarakhand’s first Ramsar siteMaharaj added that the development of Mahabharata and Ramayana circuits and the revival of Sita mata temple in the state was going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/with-new-religious-tourism-circuits-planned-uttarakhand-seeks-centre-s-help/story-mWWvV3DCYOEmMVr9QDzj7H.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Indu Raj Narwal of Congress, Joginder Singh Malik of INLD take on BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt in Haryana’s Baroda byelection||The Congress on Friday fielded former Sonepat zila parishad member Indu Raj Narwal for the November 3 Baroda assembly bylection, while the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) announced the candidature of Joginder Singh Malik. They are pitted against the BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt, the Olympian wrestler. Friday is the last day for filing nominations for the Baroda assembly seat that had fallen vacant in April following the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda. Though Congress legislature party leader and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda was pushing for the ticket for Kapoor Singh Narwal, a turncoat who till recently was in the BJP, state unit chief Kumari Selja is learnt to have opposed the nomination of an outsider. Indu Raj Narwal is also seen as a Hooda loyalist. BJP, INLD BET ON OLD HORSES The BJP fielded Olympian grappler Yogeshwar Dutt late on Thursday. The wrestler-turned-politician, who hails from Bhainswal Kalan in Sonepat district, had joined the BJP in 2019 ahead of the state assembly elections. He had lost the October 2019 assembly election to Sri Krishan Hooda by about 4,800 votes. Dutt, who won the bronze medal in the 2012 Olympic Games and gold medal in the 2014 Commonwealth Games, was awarded the Padma Shri in 2013. The BJP, which is contesting the bypoll with the backing of its ally Jannayak Janta Party, has exuded confidence that it will wrest the seat from the Congress. The INLD candidate, Joginder Singh Malik, had also contested the 2019 assembly elections from Baroda on the party ticket but had got just 3,145 votes. TURNCOAT TURNS INDEPENDENT CANDIDATE Kapoor Narwal, who was seeking the Congress ticket, announced he would join the fray as an Independent. He will file his nomination papers in the presence of Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu. “The people of Baroda will elect their MLA, not the parties. I’m contesting to highlight their plight, particularly that of farmers, labourers, and women,” he said at a meeting at his native village of Kathura. Narwal had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 and 2009 assembly elections on the INLD ticket and lost to Congress’s Sri Krishan Hooda. (With inputs from HTC, Rohtak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/indu-raj-narwal-of-congress-joginder-singh-malik-of-inld-take-on-bjp-s-yogeshwar-dutt-in-haryana-s-baroda-byelection/story-Zlnfm73DRvkx17GZL0aflK.html
16-10-2020||Lucknow||Barabanki Dalit girl was raped before murder, reveals post-mortem||A 17-year-old Dalit girl, whose body was found from a paddy field in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki district on Wednesday night, was raped before her murder, a police officer said on Friday.Police initially lodged a First Information Report (FIR) under the Indian Penal Code (IPC)’s Section 302 (murder) in the case. Circle officer Ram Surat Sonker said IPC Section 376 (rape) was added to the FIR on the basis of the girl’s post-mortem report. He added two suspects from the girl’s locality have been taken into custody for questioning.Also read: CBI team questions kin of 4 accused in Hathras gang-rape caseAnother investigator, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the post-mortem report showed multiple injuries on the girl’s private parts that suggested the girl was sexually assaulted before she was murdered. “The post-mortem report findings also revealed that she was smothered.”The girl’s body was found hours after she went missing on Wednesday morning.The investigator said a team led by an additional police superintendent rank officer has been formed to investigate the case.Earlier, inspector general of police (Ayodhya range) Sanjeev Gupta said the girl’s post-mortem report indicated sexual assault but it was not conclusive. He added further examination was being conducted to ascertain whether she was raped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/barabanki-dalit-girl-was-raped-before-murder-reveals-post-mortem/story-pZRnbQ4Uk89B7tF6NTEVUM.html
16-10-2020||Lucknow||UP’s Mission Shakti will run from Navratri to Navratri, highlight women role models||The UP government headed by Yogi Adityanath has accorded top priority to six-month long women empowerment programme ‘Mission Shakti’, to be launched with the beginning of Navratri festival across the state on October 17. Governor Anandiben Patel will launch the campaign in Lucknow while chief minister Yogi Adityanath will kick-start the campaign in Balrampur on Shardiya Navratri, October 17.Ministers and other people’s representatives will launch the six-month-long campaign, ending with Basantik Navratri in April next year, in other districts. Along with organising special events highlighting the need for security, dignity and empowerment of women, officers should launch a weeklong special campaign every month during the campaign to create awareness among masses and sensitise people on the subject, said UP CM. Yogi said various programmes should be organised to train women to become self-reliant and to sensitise people to respect them. These programmes should be organised in all the 521 blocks, 59,000 gram panchayats, 630 urban local bodies and 1,535 police stations in the 75 districts of the state, he added. He instructed for the inclusion of social organisations and women’s groups in the campaign and for selecting women and girls, who have played a significant role in society, as role models. He added that the state government had appointed women nodal officers in all the districts for the execution and monitoring of the campaign. Also Read: ‘We want to be safe’: Hathras rape victim’s family wants to be shifted to DelhiYogi directed officers to create awareness about the help lines - 1090, 181, 1076, 108 and 102. He also asked them to integrate police helpline 181 with UP112. He also directed officers to be alert in view of festivals and take action against anti-social elements and corrupt government employees. He reminded the officials of the state government’s zero-tolerance policy towards crime and corruption.Also Read: Supreme Court constitutes one-member committee to monitor farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh“Drive against gangsters should be launched in all the districts,” said the CM. Yogi also directed officers to strictly implement Covid-19 containment guidelines and launch cleanliness drives during the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-mission-shakti-will-run-from-navratri-to-navratri-highlight-women-role-models/story-uMfxuP2ohWHj7BXzOSLRIJ.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC restrains builder from further construction at illegal industrial estate near Bhiwandi||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday restrained developer, M/s. Bhoomi World, who is accused of constructing an industrial estate on public property at Pimplas village near Bhiwandi without obtaining necessary permissions, from carrying out any further construction work at the site.A two-member HC bench, comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni, was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) jointly filed by two local residents -- Sudhakar Chaudhari and Satish Mene -- seeking demolition of the industrial estate developed by Bhoomi World over about 80 acres of public land, without any permission from the competent authority.Also Read: Supreme Court dismisses plea seeking imposition of President’s rule in MaharashtraIn the PIL filed through advocate Amit Gharte, the petitioners have alleged that most of these land belong to the Maharashtra government and other public bodies such as the local village panchayat, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)The petitioners alleged that the developer had brazenly carried out the construction work measuring 17.26 lakh square (sq) metres (m).Advocate Gharte pointed out on Thursday that the construction was liable to be demolished, as it was carried out without requisite permissions and necessary approvals.Senior advocate Prasad Dhakephalkar, who represented the developer, responded to the PIL and said they have deposited an amount of over Rs 1.5 crore with the office of the district collector for getting the land use converted into non-agriculture purposes.He stated that the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) had, in principle, agreed to the construction work because about 1,000 industrial units, occupying area of about 300 sq m each, are operating out of the premises and about 35,000 workers are employed in these units.Dhakephalkar answered in the negative about a specific query from the court, as to whether the construction was done in accordance with a sanctioned building plan and whether an occupation certificate was issued by the competent authority for carrying out the construction work.The senior advocate said the lapse had occurred during the transitory stage because there was no MMRDA office at Thane, although a special planning authority for the area was appointed at a later date.However, the judges were annoyed with the excuse. “This has become a routine now,” said the bench. “Builders indulge in illegal construction work, take all steps to prolong the due process of law and eventually seek regularisation. We cannot allow this to go on,” it added.The bench said it had a limited question before it: whether the construction was made in accordance with the law. “We will have to follow the order of the Supreme Court (SC), as it had laid down in MIND Builders case regarding illegal construction,” the judges said.The bench has directed the MMRDA to file an affidavit within two weeks and posted the PIL for further hearing following its submission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-restrains-builder-from-further-construction-at-illegal-industrial-estate-near-bhiwandi/story-ykkeI0yb0pVPRtuMUMtnpM.html
16-10-2020||Pune||Pune’s famous Dagadusheth Ganesh temple too waterlogged on Wednesday||On Wednesday, when Pune received the highest rainfall for the month of October in a decade, the city’s famous Dagadusheth Ganpati temple too witnessed water logging since the entire Shivaji road, where the temple is located, was submerged while rains wreaked havoc all day long.However, despite the heavy rain, there were no casualties reported from the city. At the temple, staff ensured that water receded immediately.According to Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, there were 40 distress calls made to the department, mostly relating to water entering into housing societies. At Chandan nagar, water entered into the police station, submerging documents, files and furniture.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city’s Shivajinagar weather station received 112.1 mm rain within 24 hours starting 8:30 am, Wednesday morning while Pashan recorded 120.2 mm rain and Lohegaon received 125.7mm rainfall. Previously on October 5, 2010, Shivajinagar had received 181.1 mm within 24 hours, which was even higher than the numbers recorded this Wednesday. Also Read: Met department predicts intense cyclones, colder winter this yearSeveral residents were affected by the heavy showers as water entered into their homes causing damage to property. Due to heavy rains during three hours between 8:30 pm and 11:30 pm on Wednesday, there were multiple incidents of wall collapse and falling of trees, according to the fire brigade department. The three hours recorded 76 mm rainfall, leading to water logging in most low-lying areas of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-s-famous-dagadusheth-ganesh-temple-too-waterlogged-on-wednesday/story-sr7pjltVv9XM1UCTGx8iDP.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra health officials apprehensive about surge in cases after Navratri||Maharashtra government officials have expressed concerns over the likely surge in Covid-19 cases during the Navratri festival that is scheduled to start on Saturday.“As the state has started unlocking [easing of restrictions imposed to check the pandemic], we are seeing an increase in the cases. The Navratri festival will only aggravate matters as we fear that people in their festive mood will become casual and the end result will be an increase in cases. Dussehra will see more people coming out,” said a health department official on condition of anonymity. “Since hotels and restaurants have opened, this gives people more opportunity to socialise.”Ameet Mandot, a doctor, said the Navratri festival will result in more intermingling and increased social interactions which are undesirable in the current circumstances. “The problem is some do not wear masks and even if they do, they remove them at regular intervals. There is a big section of people who do not know how to wear a mask and are casual about the whole thing.”Navratri is one of the major festivals celebrated in Mumbai. Pandals are set up and Garba dances are also organised. The festivities have been curtailed due to the pandemic even as people are expected to make purchases during this festival as usual and visit their relatives and friends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-health-officials-apprehensive-about-surge-in-cases-after-navratri/story-GgTNm48PFbmo7DRiDBNNqI.html
16-10-2020||Education||Kejriwal writes to Centre seeking amendment in DU Act; says ready to start new colleges||Delhi has asked the Centre to do away with certain provisions in the Delhi University Act as they act as a hindrance in starting new colleges in the Capital, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday.He said he has written to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal in this regard, adding that his government is ready to start new colleges and universities if the legal provisions are eased.In its 2019 Lok Sabha election campaign, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had promised that it would start new colleges and universities in the Capital and offer reservation to students who are Delhi residents. “Students are facing a tough time getting enrolled in colleges because of high cut-off marks. With cut-offs touching 100%, what will happen to students who secure 70%, 80%, 85%, 90%? The problem is that the number of seats in colleges and universities in Delhi has failed to keep pace with the increase in the number of applicants,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing on Friday.He added, “Every year, Delhi has around 250,000 students graduating school, but around 125,000 of them manage to get admission in Delhi-based colleges. What will happen to the remaining 125,000? Currently, Delhi University has 91 affiliated colleges, Indraprastha University has 127, there are nine universities under the state government and then there is Jawaharlal Nehru University. We need to start more colleges and universities in Delhi. The Delhi government is ready. But there is a legal issue we confronted.”“There is the Delhi University Act which was enacted by the British. The Section 5(2) of the Act says that any new college in Delhi has to be affiliated to the Delhi University. In Delhi University, no new college was affiliated in the last 30 years. In 1998, an amendment was introduced in the Act and IP University was accommodated for professional courses. But that has reached a saturation point too,” said Kejriwal.“It is important to change the law. Today, I have written to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, urging him to remove Section 5(ii) of the Delhi University Act so that new colleges can be started in Delhi. It will benefit students. Students are immensely stressed because of the high cut-off that has reached 100%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/kejriwal-writes-to-hrd-minister-seeking-amendment-in-du-act-says-ready-to-start-new-colleges/story-ySdrWcUwpj6778fQZ0FkyH.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Residue to riches: Stubble no trouble for Punjab’s change agents||Every year, environmentally-sound disposal of paddy residue turns into a point of discord. As the issues boils over, there are always people who offer workable, green solutions. HT brings you some of these change-agents, who have built-up profitable businesses, where everybody saw trouble. Green concern at heart of big planA visit to Amloh, an industrial town in Fatehgarh Sahib, will showcase a simple, unique solution. Industrialist Han Raj Garg, 38, an MBA, thought of using paddy straw as fuel in his factory in 2014, and the idea has clicked. Farmers earned more (some even earned in lakhs by making bales of straw for Garg) and Amloh has the lowest number of farm fire incidents in Punjab today. “My concern for environment and farmers led me to monetise straw,” said Garg, whose units manufacture edible oils under the name, Shree Ganesh Edibles Pvt Limited. Garg added there was no-cost effective in-situ (without transport) stubble management formula as yet. Farmers will shun the illegal practice of burning, if they get money for handling straw. “In 2014, I started with 25,000-tonne of paddy straw. For the past three years, I am purchasing 72,000 tonne of stubble and paid Rs 11 crore to farmers.” “In 2019, the Supreme Court ordered Rs 100 per quintal as compensation for farmers for handling straw. I have been doing it since 2014,” he says, adding that nearly 1,000 farmers directly or indirectly (mostly marginal) collect straw from other farmers’ fields. “I know a farmer who collected paddy straw from 3,000 acre in 2019 and made a profit of Rs 30 lakh,” Garg added. “For six years, I am not selling straw from my own fields, but collecting from neighouring fields. Who will burn paddy straw when you will Rs 100 per quintal for it?,” said Harinder Singh, a farmer. Garg added that the major issue in using paddy straw as fuel was its silica content, which led to a snag in industrial boilers. “With research, plus experience, we have been running our factory on rice straw for seven years. For the past two years, we have been supplying 0.5 MW power to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited,” he said. “Our process is environment-friendly in two ways. We don’t use fossil fuels in factory and are also resolving the unregulated burning of agricultural waste, that causes air pollution,” he said. “If the government supports me, I can invest more and will purchase stubble from the 1.08 lakh acre under paddy in Fatehgarh Sahib district. Government officials, however, are not receptive and not allowing me to run a 15MW co-gen plant for factory on rice straw, even as a proposal has been submitted,” he says. —VISHAL RAMBANI  Progressive farmer Sukbir Singh Dhaliwal, 46, is scripting a success story with his venture that converts crop waste into products that can be used as fuel in industries. Dhaliwal and some of his friends began the start-up, Farm2Energy, in 2016 to convert paddy stubble into bio-coal. Bio-coal is a carbon-neutral fuel that can replace ordinary coal in industrial processes. Last year, he and fellow entrepreneurs Kamaljeet Singh, Sandeep Singh Shergill and Preet Singh Chandoke lifted stubble residue from 20,000 acre. Over the past four years, they have also set up a pellet-making factory in Khanna. “Not only paddy residue, our unit processes paddy straw, corn stover, sugarcane trash and wheat straw and supplies it to biofuel, bio-power and bio-based industries. We also help farmers in managing biomass,” said Dhaliwal. “The industry has huge potential, as the world is progressing towards cleaner energy solutions,” he claimed. “The automobile industry is concentrating on Compressed Natural Gas (CNG), and stubble can be used to make it. Due to the lack of any government initiative, such ventures are not coming up. We are sitting on a gold-mine of opportunities. We are burning it away and polluting the environment. Farmers cannot be blamed as they have limited resources,” added Dhaliwal. This year, the chances of him getting the raw material are bleak. Many farmers who had converted to crop residue management have yet again cleared their fields by burning. The majority of the farmers are either protesting on railway tracks or selling the crop in mandis, triggering labour shortage. “We are facing problems in collecting residue as farmers are angry,” added Dhaliwal. —MOHIT KHANNA ‘Lucrative, eco-friendly way to earn money’ When Hardeep Singh, 48, a farmer of Sathiala village in Baba Bakala subdivision, decided to sell his stubble to a sugar mill as opposed to setting it alight, little did he know that it would soon become a lucrative business opportunity, harvesting a handsome dividend of ₹5 lakh per season. The entrepreneur, who owns 10 acre of agricultural land, says, “In 2016, I used a baler machine to manage my stubble for the first time and sold the residue to a sugar mill. Before that I used to burn crop residue, the same as other farmers. The mill paid me a decent sum and I saw a business opportunity. I started managing stubble for other farmers in my village and selling it to cardboard-making firms and sugar mills in the state.” Hardeep says, “Private firms pay us ₹130 per quintal of stubble and we are able to extract around 24 quintal from one acre. We manage the stubble in the form of squares, weighing 20kg a piece.” “Earlier, I had one baler machine attached to a single tractor, now I have two. With two balers and four tractors, I have been managing stubble over 1,000 acre,” Hardeep says. A baler is used to compress stubble into compact bales that are easy to handle, transport and store. Hardeep charges ₹1,000 per acre from the farmers for management and transportation of crop residue. He employs 45 labourers for management and transportation of stubble and has six tractor-trailers for transportation. “Sometimes, we help poor farmers free of charge,” says Hardeep, adding that the business is both lucrative and environment-friendly. Daljit Singh, a farmer of Gurdaspur district, says farmers spend around ₹2,500 per acre on stubble Hardeep has applied for subsidy for purchasing more balers, but he has, so far, not been granted the same by the agriculture department. – ANIL SHARMA ‘Business expansion can curb stubble burning’  For farmer Gurshiwender Singh, 38, management of paddy waste turned out to be a golden opportunity for enhancing his income. Last year, he earned ₹31 lakh in around 50 days by selling stubble to a biomass generation plant. Gurshiwender, of Mehma Sawai village, around 35km from district headquarters, says he sells organic waste to a private biomass generation plant at Sedha Singh Wala village and made a profit of ₹7 lakh in 2019. “After Sukhbir Agro Energy Limited set up a biomass energy generation plant in Bathinda in 2017, I invested in one baler, which cost ₹15 lakh and availed a 40% subsidy. Now, I have two bailers and six tractors and collect paddy straw from Mehma Sawai and three other adjoining villages. The biomass plant management pays ₹130 per quintal. Last year, I had supplied 24,000 quintal of dried crop waste,” says Gurshiwender. He supervises stubble management over 8 acre. “The technology is inexpensive and farmers have to pay a nominal price for safe disposal of crop residue. The government should promote multiple biomass plants in each district to eradicate stubble burning,” he says. Gurshiwender’s family owns six acre and he cultivates rice over another 10 acre of leased land, employing 100 people. He adds, “Unfortunately, a section of paddy growers continue to burn stubble. I charge ₹500 per acre, the same amount that a farmer pays to a straw-reaper operator and for setting crop residue on fire. The agrarian community is aware that burning stubble damages the microorganisms present in the upper layers of the soil.”  —Vishal Joshi Farmer-turned-entrepreneur for five years For Nakodar farmer, Kewal Singh, the leap from a farmer to an entrepreneur was driven by a concern for environment and to do something for the worsening pollution. Kewal set up a 6MW capacity bio-mass-based power plant Green Planet Energy Pvt Ltd production unit at Bir village in 2015. The model was simple, he purchased stubble from fellow farmers, used it to generate electricity and sell it to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). He soon got 15 baler machines that visit farmers’ fields to get the straw in order. “All my machines have been at work for 24 hours of day for the past month. The plant has the capacity of 75,000 tonne of paddy straw,” said Kewal, adding he earns handsome profit each season. “On an average, a machine generates 3 tonne paddy straw and I pay Rs 1,350 per tonne to a farmer,” Kewal added. Joga Singh from Tut Kalan village in Jalandhar said he had been selling 4-5 tonne of paddy straw to the electricity generation plant and getting Rs 135 per quintal for straw bales. Another farmer, Sukhdev Singh from Talhan village, said he along with five other farmers, purchased baler machines last year after the state government provided them subsidy. “We have been selling the stubble to the unit and earning enough profit, while this process has also led to increased fertility in the soil,” said Sukhdev. District agriculture officer Naresh Gulati said a machine with a baler lines up the scattered straw/stubble for bales to be easily made. — JATINDER MAHAL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residue-to-riches-stubble-no-trouble-for-punjab-s-change-agents/story-0R8zK3P9DkUiVAgw3s4m0I.html
16-10-2020||City||Missing SSB jawan traced to Jammu’s Rajouri||A Seema Suraksha Bal (SSB) constable, who had gone missing from Kashmir’s Budgam on October 14, was traced to Jammu region’s Rajouri on Thursday, a police officer said.“He has so far not divulged the reasons for deserting his unit. It has to be probed by the officers concerned in Budgam,” the officer added. The constable, Altaf Hussain, went missing with his service INSAS rifle and 20 rounds of ammunition on Tuesday evening. Hussain is from Rajouri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-ssb-jawan-traced-to-jammu-s-rajouri/story-4xHThHJTSIayI1mOeBlgbL.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||AgustaWestland case: Delhi HC directs authorities to return passport of Rajiv Saxena||The Delhi High Court has directed the concerned authorities to return the passport of Rajiv Saxena, whose passport was impounded in view of the seriousness of the charges and the likelihood of him fleeing from the process of the court and to a third country. Saxena is an accused turned approver in the AgustaWestland case.Justice Navin Chawla clarified that any observation made in this order shall also not prejudice the respondents from proceeding further with the proceedings under Section 10 of the Section 10A of The Passports Act, 1967, in accordance with the law, as the same are not the subject matter of the present petition.Saxena had challenged the order dated 25.01.2019 issued by the respondent authority, suspending his passport. He had also challenged the order dated 01.05.2019 extending the period of suspension of his passport till the proceedings relating to variation, impounding or revocation of the passport under Section 10 A of the Act is concluded. As a consequent relief, the petitioner prayed for the return of his passport.Saxena’s counsels’, advocates RK Handoo and Rajat Machanda, submitted that the impugned orders are liable to be set aside as they do not give any reason for the exercise of powers under Section 10A of the act nor follow the procedure of granting a hearing to the petitioner. Counsels further submitted that the order of suspension of the petitioner’s passport cannot be indefinite as has been sought to be done in the present case.Whereas counsels for Central government and Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) advocates Ajay Digpaul and DP Singh asserted that the action to suspend the passport of the petitioner was taken, keeping in view the urgent need for the deportation of the petitioner from the UAE with whom India has an extradition agreement and as it was apprehended that the petitioner may flee to a country from where it would have been difficult for him to be extradited ultimately hampering the investigations. The period of suspension of the passport was extended by the order dated 01.05.2019 due to continuing investigations and the need for the petitioner to be present for interrogation.The CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED) are investigating the Agusta Westland case. Dubai-based businessman Rajiv Saxena was extradited to India on January 31 last year in connection with the Rs 3,600-crore alleged scam relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/agustawestland-case-delhi-hc-directs-authorities-to-return-passport-of-rajiv-saxena/story-qwmHWYKJkFzFNJDAENPY6H.html
16-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC directs state govt to file compliance report on Covid-19 panel suggestions||The Uttarakhand high court on Thursday directed the state government to file a compliance report by October 21 regarding suggestions made by Covid-19 monitoring committees of the state’s four worst-hit districts by the pandemic. The four districts--Dehradun (15,494), Haridwar (10,380), US Nagar (9,095) and Nainital (6,576)--have reported a bulk of 56,000 Covid-19 cases in the state.The court gave the directions in response to a bunch of petitions over the fight against the pandemic.Shiv Bhatt, the lawyer of one of the petitioners, Sachdanand Dabral, said the court gave these directions after he told it that the state government was not implementing the suggestions. The court has appointed the committees.Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally rises to 7.37 million with 63,371 new cases; recoveries at 6.4 million“I apprised the court that the suggestions like starting mobile Covid-19 units had not been started in the hilly districts. People in many areas were not following Covid-19 norms and so on. After hearing the matter, the court directed the state government that by the next hearing [in the matter on] October 21, it should file compliance report regarding implementation of the suggestions made by the monitoring committees and in case it is unable to implement the same, it should cite reasons for the same,” said Bhatt.The court on September 23 directed the state government to appoint monitoring committees for all 13 districts to check the condition of facilities for Covid-19 patients in hospitals, quarantine centres and care centres. It directed that these committees will apprise it about the situation in the state every week and regular hearings on Covid-19 situation will be held every Wednesday.The committees have suggested restrictions on political gatherings, rallies, strict monitoring of containment zones, awareness programmes with the help of media, pamphlets, posters, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-directs-state-govt-to-file-compliance-report-on-covid-19-panel-suggestions/story-EZ6WeJwPmmHVBEBiG4V3XO.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra environment group member moves SC, says 656 forest officers assaulted over 10 years||Citing an alarming increase in the frequency and ferocity of assaults on forest officers particularly in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan, a Maharashtra-based environment group has moved the Supreme Court for solutions.Kishor Rithe has filed an interim application through his NGO Nature Conservation Society, Amravati, against the Centre, chief secretaries of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, district collectors of areas, where the assaults have been reported, and the directors-general of police of the three states. It requests the court to direct the Centre to ensure the protection of officers and staff of the forest departments, provide social security, ex-gratia payments, and medical treatment costs of the injured personnel. The application has also sought speedy investigations into the attacks.The court has admitted the application.According to data collected from territorial forest areas (11 circles), wildlife sanctuaries, national parks, and tiger reserves in Maharashtra (except Dhule and Kolhapur), 656 forest officers have been injured in assaults between 2010 and 2020. As many as 47.5% of the assaults were reported between 2017 and 2020. Twenty-four forest officers have been killed in Maharashtra over 10 years. Rithe is collecting similar data for Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.“The involvement of a large number of people, mostly encroachers and those belonging to timber mafia armed with deadly weapons, has led to serious injuries to the forest personnel on duty, many of whom have been hospitalised and are in critical condition,” the application said. It added these attacks have had a chilling impact and made it increasingly difficult to protect forests.Rithe said a majority of the attacks on the forest department officials are mainly carried out while removing encroachments. “So, saving forest lands has been most difficult in India,” he said. “The problem is widespread in other states also with a more serious situation in MP [Madhya Pradesh].”Nitin Kakodkar, Maharashtra’s principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said the assaults have been reported for a long time now but there has been a surge in the recent months. “It definitely needs some redressal. Let us see what the SC [Supreme Court] has to say about this.”On September 2, the Indian Forest Services Officers Association made a representation to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar seeking better protection and social security for over 50,000 personnel working in remote areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-wildlife-board-member-moves-sc-says-656-forest-officers-assaulted-over-10-years/story-iK9VX6K8CsCQfSAavSWc8M.html
16-10-2020||Lucknow||GSDP’s declining growth may challenge goal of making Uttar Pradesh a trillion-dollar economy||Uttar Pradesh (UP) government’s revised estimates of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) growth rate have reinforced a slowdown in the state’s economy in the last financial year (2019-20).The data poses a serious challenge for the state government in its bid to boost the state’s GSDP in the next five years, as it aims to reach a trillion dollar mark. No estimates have been released for the first quarter of the current financial year (2020-21) to date, which would have helped ascertain the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the state’s economy. The declining growth rate does not augur well for UP’s economy.The Yogi Adityanath-led government has received eight bids for appointment of a consultant to chalk out a roadmap to boost the GSDP. Also Read: How the Covid-19 pandemic has hit GDP growthIt has invited technical bids for presentation. A call on this matter is likely to be taken in the next few weeks. As per the revised GSDP estimates for 2019-20 released on September 29, UP’s growth rate has come down from 6.6% in 2018-19 to 4.4% (on constant prices) in the last financial year. On current prices, the decline is from 12.1% to 8.8%. Advanced GSDP estimates for 2019-20 released in February had also indicated a decline in growth from 5.4% to 4.4%. In absolute terms, the state’s GSDP has gone up from Rs 16.09 lakh crore in 2018-19 to Rs 17.51 lakh crore in 2019-20 (on current prices). However, advance estimates had pegged the size of GSDP at Rs 17.94 lakh crore in 2019-20, which showed a decline in actual terms. “The data showed that 2019-20 was not a good year for the state’s economic growth. This slowdown in the state’s economy has serious implications. First, the goal to boost UP’s GSDP to a trillion dollar economy appears more distant than ever before. The bid to double farmers’ income by 2022 will be tough to achieve following a low growth of 3.2% in agriculture and allied sectors. The manufacturing sector has also registered a decline of 3.5%. The slowdown has been compounded by an adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. This poses serious challenges to the state government in its bid to revive the economy and boost growth,” said Yashvir Tyagi, a former professor of economics, Lucknow University (LU). The GSDP estimates for 2020-21 will be keenly watched in the coming weeks because of the impact of Covid-19 on the state’s economy.“The state government should have declared the data for the first quarter by now,” Tyagi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/gsdp-s-declining-growth-may-challenge-goal-of-making-uttar-pradesh-a-trillion-dollar-economy/story-30Fe6bfuFHecEnbNU8ts5K.html
16-10-2020||Lucknow||UP Congress leader jailed for ‘provoking’ woman to set herself ablaze, she is dead||Uttar Pradesh Congress leader Alok Prasad, son of former Rajasthan governor Sukhdev Prasad, was sent to judicial custody for allegedly hatching a criminal conspiracy and instigating a 35-year-old woman to attempt self-immolation near Vidhan Bhavan in Lucknow on Tuesday morning, senior police officials said.The woman from Maharajganj district of Uttar Pradesh suffered nearly 90% burn injuries in the attempt and was admitted to Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee hospital where she succumbed to her injuries late on Wednesday night.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Central, Somen Barma said the former governor’s son was arrested from his Gomti Nagar residence on Wednesday night and sent to judicial custody after being produced before a court on Thursday afternoon.Alok Prasad is the chairperson of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe cell of the UP Congress and is the second Congressman to be booked for similar incidents in the past three months.The DCP said the initial FIR against Alok Prasad was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 306/511 for provoking the woman who was trying to commit self-immolation; this was later altered to Section 306 for abetment to suicide, as well as Section 120-B for criminal conspiracy.A senior police official privy to the investigation said Alok Prasad was in touch with the woman for the past few days and had provoked the woman to commit self-immolation to draw the state government’s attention to her case. He added that even Prasad’s call records proved that he was in touch with the woman.Also Read: UP Dalit teen’s body found with limbs tied, kin allege rape The official said that the woman has been protesting against one Asif Raza claiming he had abandoned her after marriage and left for Dubai.They said she was first married to one Akhilesh Kumar and got into a relationship with Asif after separation from her husband a few years ago. She is believed to have lived with Asif for a few months and even changed her name. Asif’s family, however, did not approve of their relationship, he said.The officer added that the police were still verifying whether the woman had married Asif or not before he left for Saudi Arabia for a job a few months ago.Also Read: BJP leader allegedly shoots man dead in presence of officials, Adityanath suspends SDM, copThe official alleged that Alok Prasad had also organised a protest outside the residence of the woman’s partner and the Maharajganj police had a video footage of the incident, where he was accused of instigating the woman to set herself ablaze.Earlier, on July 17, a 50-year-old woman and her 28-year-old daughter, both residents of Amethi district, had set themselves ablaze in front of gate number 3 of Vidhan Bhavan, alleging police excesses. While the 50-year-old woman had succumbed to her injuries at the civil hospital five days after the incident, her daughter had survived.Congress leader Anup Patel and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) politician Qadeer Khan, as well as two relatives of the woman, were then booked under IPC Sections 306 for abetment to suicide and 120-B for criminal conspiracy on July 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-congress-leader-jailed-for-provoking-woman-to-set-herself-ablaze-she-is-dead/story-6sKa16RsZc9NZvhPTyJbHM.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s IGI airport recovers 48% of domestic flight operations||Since flight operations resumed in the country on May 25, after two months of complete lockdown, the Delhi airport has recovered 48% of its domestic flight operations during the pre-Covid times. The airport has recovered operations on 83% of the total domestic routes it operates flights to, said Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), that runs the airport.After the two-month ban on flight operations was lifted, domestic flights were allowed on all sectors while international flights are operating only to select destinations within the air bubble arrangement under Vande Bharat Mission.The airport operator said that until last month, the airport had commenced operations on 83.33% of its domestic routes. “Till February, IGIA operated flights to 71 domestic sectors across country. As on September 23, flights to 60 of these routes have already been commenced,” it said.Also read: Aviation sector experts peg hopes on festive seasonThe airport operator said that 11 routes that are yet to resume flights are Agra, Shimla, Jodhpur, Shirdi, Bhatinda, Gwalior, Khajuraho, Nanded, Durgapur, Adampur and Dimapur.An official from the Delhi Air Traffic Control, who wished not to be named, said on an average, Delhi airport operated a total of 1,350 flights a day before the lockdown. Out of these, approximately 900 were domestic flights, the officer said.“At present, because international flights are yet to resume in a full-fledged manner, the total air traffic movement is of 700 on an average, per day. Out of these, approximately 450 -500 are domestic flights,” the officer said. The total air traffic movement also includes chartered flights, Air Force flight operations, air ambulances and cargo flights.An official from an airline, who requested anonymity, said the air traffic is low because people are still restricting their travel to only emergency situations. “These 11 sectors do not witness heavy air connectivity even during the normal times and hence, mostly because passenger demand is low on these sectors, there has been no flight,” the official said.The traffic is, however, expected to grow in the coming days. Since the lockdown was lifted, only Terminal 3 was made operational as the number of flights was low. October 1 onwards, DIAL also made Terminal 2 operational, shifting all operations of GoAir and some of IndiGo there, from T3. Terminal 1, that is undergoing expansion, however, will continue to remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-recovers-48-of-domestic-flight-operations/story-Y7mucecyYQkn2jSIjy6AzO.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Non-Covid ICUs at 75% occupancy, Covid-19 ICUs at 53%||Over 75% of intensive care unit (ICU) beds for non-Covid-19 patients in Delhi beds are occupied. There are 1,522 ICU beds—with and without ventilators—for the treatment of patients with illnesses other than Covid-19, shows the government’s ‘Delhi Corona’ app, much lesser than the ones earmarked for the disease. There are 3,171 ICU beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi currently. With the city recording fewer cases over the last two weeks in the city, the occupancy of the Covid-19 ICU beds has reduced to just over 50%. Currently, there are over 15,800 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, and over 10,700 of them are vacant. The number of Covid-19 hospitalisations has reduced to just over 5,000 as compared to over 7,000 at its peak during the September surge. Also Read: Remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine did not cut hospital stay or mortality in Covid-19 patients: WHOThe government has provided data on non-Covid-19 ICU beds in the app after the high court had asked it about the availability of ICU beds for non Covid-19 patients while listening to a petition on the reservation of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients at 33 big hospitals in the city. In September, when the number of cases started going up, the ICUs of many of the big private hospitals like Max, Apollo, Fortis, and Gangaram started filling up. The Delhi government then ordered 33 of the big hospitals to reserve 80% of their total ICU beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. This was challenged in the high court as this would have prevented the hospitals from carrying out other surgeries. The order was stayed by the court stating that it was “arbitrary”, “unreasonable”, and in violation of the fundamental rights of an individual. An expert committee has now suggested that Delhi will see a massive surge in cases in the winter months with 15,000 cases every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-non-covid-icus-at-75-occupancy-covid-19-icus-at-53/story-4nEQdMoGL5YJHb7p8z5cJK.html
16-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Students in Sanskrit schools to get free meal, other facilities: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed officials to improve facilities in Sanskrit schools. He said students in Sanskrit schools should be provided with free meals and other facilities.Launching the website of Madhyamik Sanskrit Shiksha Parishad, the chief minister said this council came into being because of his government’s effort, which led to the timely conduct of the examination and declaration of results. He said to promote Sanskrit, it is pertinent to link the subject with modern relevance. He said, “Alongside the traditional way of teaching the subject, students should be taught about Mathematics, sciences and computers.”He said if need be, the cooperation of NGOs will be sought. To rejuvenate Sanskrit schools, resources can by raised through corporate social responsibility. He said his government is determined to promote Sanskrit language in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-students-in-sanskrit-schools-to-get-free-meal-other-facilities-yogi-adityanath/story-kBa4IK5MdyePemjOQQ1tyN.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Unwilling to appear before Delhi assembly panel: Facebook to top court||Facebook India told the Supreme Court on Thursday that it is unwilling to participate in the proceedings before the Delhi legislative assembly’s peace and harmony committee, which is probing the Delhi riots of February 2020 and the role of the social media giant in failing to curb hate speech in connection with the riots. Senior counsel Harish Salve, representing Facebook, told a bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul that the proceedings before the Committee are outside the scope of jurisdiction of the Delhi assembly and that Facebook is regulated by central law — the Information Technology Act (IT Act).“I am not willing to go before them. Allegations are being made that Facebook has created disharmony in Delhi. Facebook does not write anything. It provides a platform. We are regulated by a central law – the IT Act,” Salve said.The central government also threw its weight behind Facebook stating that Delhi assembly’s action in holding such an inquiry is without jurisdiction.“Public order and police are not under Delhi assembly and their action is without jurisdiction,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was representing the central government, submitted.The court was hearing a plea by Facebook India and its vice-president and managing director, Ajit Mohan challenging the September 10 and September 18 notices issued by the Committee that sought Mohan’s presence before the panel as part of its inquiry into the Delhi riots.The Delhi government has maintained that Mohan was summoned as a witness to ascertain the social media platform’s views on the question of whether it had contributed in any way to the building up of a situation in Delhi that ended in communal riots in February 2020.The Committee wanted to elicit suggestions on how social media platforms could be used to strengthen the unity among the citizens of Delhi in the future and Mohan and others were summoned in this regard as witnesses and not as accused and no coercive action was intended against them, an affidavit filed before the top court by the Delhi Legislative Assembly on October 6 said.“It is the inherent right of the Legislature to examine matters of public importance and for that purpose to require the presence of persons who are performing a duty of public importance or who has expertise in the matter, before the Committee,” the affidavit stated.Consequently, Mohan cannot claim right to remain silent or to be let alone in response to the summons to depose before a lawful Committee of an empowered legislature, and the right to remain silent is not a fundamental right except when the person is an accused under Article 20 of the Constitution, it added.The bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul on Thursday adjourned the matter for December 2 so as to enable parties to file necessary pleadings before the court. The interim protection granted by the apex court to Facebook officials on September 23 from appearing before the Committee will continue till the next date of hearing, the court said.The bench which also comprised justice Dinesh Maheshwari remarked that the issue to be considered is whether the Delhi legislative assembly has the power to deal with the subject matter in question.The Committee is investigating Facebook’s alleged complicity in the Delhi riots after it received several complaints from the public pursuant to an article was published in the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) on August 14.The WSJ report titled ‘Facebook hate speech rules collide with Indian politics’ had alluded to the role allegedly played by top Facebook officials, particularly its public policy head Ankhi Das, by citing business imperatives to refrain from applying hate-speech rules to at least 4 individuals and groups linked to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), though such groups and individuals had been internally flagged for promoting or participating in violence.Mohan was first summoned by the Committee for its meeting of September 15 in connection with the complaints alleging deliberate omissions and inaction by the social media company in removing hateful content and posts. The Committee had earlier said that in its meeting of August 31, it had prima facie found Facebook India was allegedly complicit in aggravating the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February that left at least 53 people dead and over 400 injured.Facebook officials had failed to appear for the September 15 meeting after which a second notice was issued on September 18 asking Mohan to appear before it on September 23. Facebook India and Mohan approached the top court on September 22 challenging the notices.It was contended that the summons violates the right of the petitioner to remain silent and right to privacy which are fundamental rights under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. “By targeting Facebook – a platform that allows users to express themselves – the summons create a chilling effect on the free speech rights of users of the Facebook service,” the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unwilling-to-appear-before-delhi-assembly-panel-facebook-to-top-court/story-SmxiJmhley7iiSnI8MXimN.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI improves marginally; slips back into ‘poor’ category||The national capital’s air quality index (AQI) showed some improvement on Friday morning after recording a spate of very poor air quality days earlier this week. AQI between 301 and 400 is considered to be very poor. Delhi’s AQI was 265 at 7 am on Friday, which fell in the poor category.AQI between 201 and 300 are considered to be poor. On Thursday, Delhi’s AQI rose to 312, which belonged to the very poor category, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. Also read: Blame game erupts in Delhi as bad air worsensForecasts suggested that there would be no significant respite in pollution levels in the coming three to four days. However, a change in the wind direction could bring down the AQI to poor from the very poor category. “The conditions are likely to be similar in the coming three to four days. However, the wind direction is likely to change from north-westerly to south-easterly and easterly from Friday. This may reduce pollution, which is being caused due to stubble burning in neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab and also parts of western Uttar Pradesh (UP),” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-aqi-improves-marginally-slips-back-into-poor-category/story-R3WJE8Daaqq6hRwHLfN7XI.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Olympic medallist Yogeshwar Dutt named as BJP’s pick for Baroda bypolls in Haryana||The ruling BJP on Thursday named party leader and Olympic medallist Yogeshwar Dutt as its nominee for the bypoll to the Baroda assembly constituency. According to a party statement, the wrestler-turned-politician will contest the November 3 bypoll from Baroda seat in Sonipat. The last date to file nomination for the bypoll is Friday.  The bye-election was necessitated due to the demise of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda in April. In the 2019 assembly polls, Dutt had lost to Hooda from the seat. Till about midnight, the Congress was yet to announce its candidate for the seat. Earlier in the morning, some sports personalities including BJP leader Babita Phogat, Sakshi Malik, Geeta Phogat and Dutt had met Chief Minister M L Khattar in Delhi.Dutt who was among three sportspersons to have been fielded by the BJP for the 2019 assembly elections had polled 30.73% votes in his debut loss. Woman grappler, Babita Phogat and drag flicker, Sandeep Singh were the other two sportspersons fielded by the BJP for the assembly polls with only Singh winning the election.  The sportspersons batted for Dutt’s candidature for the Baroda seat, which the saffron party has never won. Khattar earlier said that the party’s state unit had discussed 25 names, but shortlisted four and sent it to the party high command. The party on Thursday evening announced Dutt’s name for the seat. The wrestler-turned-politician, who hails from Bhainswal Kalan village in Sonipat district, had joined the BJP in 2019 ahead of the state assembly polls. Dutt, who won the bronze medal in the 2012 Olympic Games, also won a gold medal in the 2014 Commonwealth Games and was awarded the Padma Shri in 2013. Ahead of the next month’s bypolls, Dutt has been actively campaigning in the constituency. The leaders of the BJP, which is contesting the bypoll with the backing of its ally Jannayak Janta Party, have exuded confidence that they will wrest the seat from the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/olympic-medallist-yogeshwar-dutt-named-as-bjp-s-pick-for-baroda-bypolls-in-haryana/story-sDXDuY4fWjdC9bDz0rGzyH.html
16-10-2020||Lucknow||Chinmayanand case: Police file perjury charges against woman||The law student who accused former union minister Chinmayanand of sexual harassment will face perjury charges, officials said on Thursday. Appearing before a special MP-MLA court on Tuesday, the woman had denied that she had levelled any allegations against Chinmayanand, prompting the police to move the court to try the woman on charges of perjury under section 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.The law student is already facing a State vs Chinmayanand case. Special judge Pawan Kumar Rai fixed November 11 for hearing in the case pertaining to perjury. “A case has been filed against the law student under Section 340 of the CrPC for lying in court. This is a miscellaneous case in addition to the ongoing State Vs Chinmayanand case,” said advocate Abhay Tripathi, representing the state government. “The law student will have to appear before the court on November 11 while Swami Chinmayanand will have to appear in court on November 19,” said Tripathi. “In all her FIRs, even the one lodged in New Delhi, the law student had levelled allegations of sexual harassment against the former minister. Now, she has disowned these allegations. This is a clear case of perjury,” he said. The sexual harassment case came to light in August last year when the woman went missing from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Later, she released videos alleging rape and sexual harassment by the former union minister. The former minister is the president of the managing committee of Swami Shukdevanand post-graduate college, Shahjahanpur, where the woman studied law. The state government formed a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the matter. The SIT had lodged an FIR against the former minister under Section 376-C of the IPC. It also implicated the law student for extortion.Chinmayanand and the law student were arrested and sent to jail in September last year.In February this year, the Allahabad high court granted bail to Chinmayanand. The woman also secured bail and is currently out of jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/chinmayanand-case-police-file-perjury-charges-against-woman/story-TW7kGrFJB3KZRfCQN0YRDP.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC refuses to bar ‘Gunjan Saxena’, says art shouldn’t be viewed as bias||The Delhi High Court on Thursday refused to pass any interim order to restrain the release of the movie “Gunjan Saxena—The Kargil Girl” in cinema halls and asked the Central government, which had contended in its plea that the film shows the Indian Air Force (IAF) in poor light, to sort out issues related to the film’s content with its producer and director.The court observed that when any art is shown, it is portrayed in a certain manner and whatever the IAF may have felt bad about, is not bias from the makers of the movie.The movie, produced by Karan Johar’s Dharma Productions, was first released on Netflix on August 12, and was likely to hit theatres that have opened from Thursday after being shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic for over six months.The court asked additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, who represented the Centre, to sit with counsel for other parties including senior advocate Harish Salve for Dharma Productions, senior advocate Rajiv Nayar for director Karan Johar, and senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul for Netflix to try and sort out the content-related issues with the film.Justice Rajiv Shakdher also agreed to watch the movie after Kishen Kaul told the court that it should watch the content and judge for itself. Refusing to restrain the release of the movie at this stage, the court said, “Who will go and watch a movie in the theatre during the pandemic. Those who wanted to see the movie have already watched it on the OTT platform.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-refuses-to-bar-gunjan-saxena-says-art-shouldn-t-be-viewed-as-bias/story-FHLE7A0RUlM4KI7FeUeD1L.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Portrait of a single parent||It was not easy to live alone, so Samina got back with her former partner, a fellow beggar and a one-time guest house cleaner. He was also the father of her child, Sufiyan. But as she was preparing to give birth to their second baby, they separated again.That was shortly before the coronavirus-triggered lockdown and Samina, 21, was then living on a pavement in central Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti. Fortunately, she had the foresight to save ₹4,000 for her pregnancy-related emergency. “I had given ₹551 to a dai (traditional birth attendant) two months in advance and she helped me with the delivery, along with my neighbours on the patri (pavement).”Ikram was born three months ago, she says. By then Samina was back from a school in Sarai Kale Khan neighbourhood “where we patri wale were put during the lockdown.” Samina talks of the meals that she and everyone there would be served daily, twice.These days, Samina has taken full responsibilities of a single parent. In the evening she is often seen sitting on the pavement across the street from Zuberi Hotel, in the basti. While baby Ikram remains perched on her lap, little Sufiyan sits cross-legged on the ground beside her, nibbling into a jalebi or a samosa a passerby hands over to them. Sometimes both kids are asleep, their faces sheltered under the mother’s dupatta. The basti lanes are no longer as crowded as in the BC (before corona) era, when hundreds of pilgrims would daily walk up to the famous Sufi shrine that gives its name to the historic village. Even so, Samina manages to earn enough to afford the monthly rent of ₹3,000 for a room she has taken up in the area. “In the day I always sit on the patri on Lodhi Road side... this way we manage to get food that people distribute to beggars.”Samina admits she is able to take care of only the most urgent daily needs of her sons. “I will have to raise them all by myself,” she answers matter-of-factly to a query. She says that her father passed away a long time ago and she isn’t in touch with her mother, who lives in Bihar. Unlike most other beggars in the basti, Samina doesn’t call out to passersby. She accepts whatever money or food any of them gives her. “God gives us life and it has to be lived,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-portrait-of-a-single-parent/story-LUQ07qmpoLsz0EgND2WzEI.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Data on Delhi-NCR pollution vindicates Punjab govt’s stance: Amarinder||Welcoming the latest data on the link between Delhi’s pollution and stubble burning as vindication of his government’s stand on the issue, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday asked Arvind Kejriwal to stop lying in order to divert attention from his own failure to protect the national capital’s environment. Hours after Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said that stubble burning contributes to only 4% of PM 2.5 pollution in NCR, with the rest caused by local factors, he slammed his Delhi counterpart for refusing to accept the results of comprehensive studies on the issue. “In fact, it is Kejriwal who is in denial,” Amarinder said, reacting to the Delhi CM’s remark about “being in denial not helping”. He said if Kejriwal was serious about addressing Delhi’s crisis, he should stop being in denial immediately and get down to the task of finding solutions in right earnest. The CM said Kejriwal had been spreading misinformation on the issue with the sole agenda of keeping Delhiites in the dark about the actual situation. He said the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), in a research paper, has found that Delhi’s pollution is localised and not attributable to the farm fires in Punjab or the NCR. The Punjab CM said it was obvious that Kejriwal, who had been blaming Punjab’s farm fires for the poor AQI levels in Delhi for the past several years, was taking refuge in brazen falsehoods to divert public attention from the AAP government’s total failure in controlling the environmental situation in Delhi. Amarinder said while his government was doing its best to reduce stubble burning problem, the farmers unfortunately were facing a massive problem in managing paddy straw in the absence of fiscal aid for the purpose. He reiterated his demand for ₹100 per quintal as financial support from the Centre to eliminate the stubble burning problem in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/data-on-delhi-ncr-pollution-vindicates-punjab-govt-s-stance-amarinder/story-KIWj3CBATqgS06kJ5JHRSJ.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Captain blames Centre for Punjab’s power crisis||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday blamed the Centre for failing to resolve the power crisis resulting from farmers’ agitation due to the ‘arrogant and callous’ attitude towards the farm leaders at the Delhi meeting, while urging the farmers to ease their ‘rail roko’ agitation to allow the transportation of critical essentials. He said while three of his cabinet colleagues were in discussion with the farmer unions to persuade them to lift the rail blockade, which had led to serious coal shortage in the state, it was the duty of the Union government to engage with them. Pointing out that two power units at Lehra Mohabat and a unit of GVK in Tarn Taran had already shut down, Amarinder, while responding to a question from a Bathinda resident during his Facebook Live session, said the state was staring at a massive power shortage. He said Punjab was also facing critical shortage of urea and needed to urgently move foodgrain from godowns as well. “There is a suggestion that the state should purchase power from the central grid, but where is the money?” he said. The CM said his government will do everything to save the farmers and their future. The government is consulting topmost lawyers to find a way to fight the black farm laws, he said, while refusing to comment on the contours of the Bill proposed to be presented in the special assembly session as the process of consultation was still on. He also termed the Centre’s withdrawal from the SC Post-Matric Scholarship scheme as a “retrograde step”. In response to a question from a Batala resident, who said he wanted to visit Kartarpur, Amarinder said they had already written to the Centre that Punjab had no objections. Now, the decision rests with the Centre, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/captain-blames-centre-for-punjab-s-power-crisis/story-uOwnDxuUz28OaJjuyy3pFL.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Attack on Punjab BJP chief’s car: Akali Dal warns DGP of gherao if fake cases registered against farmers||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday warned Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta of ‘gherao’ if a false case is registered against any farmer in connection with the attack on BJP state president Ashwani Sharma. Addressing a press conference here, SAD leaders Bikram Singh Majithia and Daljit Singh Cheema said the party would stand with farmers who were holding a peaceful agitation against the farm laws. The two leaders said it was shocking that both chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Gupta had come out with identical statements, stating that 25 farmer organisations were linked with the attack on Sharma two days after a case was registered against unidentified persons in the matter. “This is nothing more than a nefarious attempt to derail the farmer agitation, which we will not allow in any circumstance,” they said. “Even the Congress MP from Ludhiana, Ravneet Singh Bittu, has confessed that Congressmen were behind the attack. Why isn’t the state government taking any action against Bittu instead of targeting innocent farmers?” they asked. The SAD also condemned the Congress government for ‘rubbing salt into the wounds of Dalit students’ by announcing a budgetary provision of ₹600 crore for the SC scholarship scheme for 2021-22 after not releasing ₹2,440 crore pending for the last three years. Terming it an insult of the community, former chief parliamentary secretary Pawan Kumar Tinu challenged the CM to tell if his government had released a single rupee from the allocation of ₹2,440 crore. He said the SAD would launch a ‘morcha’ to demand justice for the SC community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/attack-on-punjab-bjp-chief-s-car-akali-dal-warns-dgp-of-gherao-if-fake-cases-registered-against-farmers/story-i42UOTrJsBUveqXN17UfuN.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||OPD, schools in Punjab to open from Monday||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered resumption of normal OPD services and elective surgeries, with extensive precautions in place, but warned against any complacency given the projections of a possible second wave of Covid-19.The chief minister (CM) also allowed reopening of government schools from Monday after due sanitisation and disinfection procedures, and with clear SOPs mandating parents’ consent as well as ceiling on the number of students and hours of operation. He conveyed these decisions during a virtual meeting to review the Covid situation.However, the state government has decided not to open multiplexes, cinema halls and entertainment parks in the state. “@capt_amarinder led Punjab government decides not to open Multiplexes, Cinema Halls and Entertainment Parks in the state yet. However, Ramlilas to be allowed with strict Covid protocols,” CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted.The state authorities had earlier permitted cinema halls and multiplexes to reopen from Thursday. Expressing concern over the warnings by health and medical experts of the grave possibility of a second wave hitting the state during the winter months, Amarinder directed his officers to take all steps to ensure that things remain under control during the festive times ahead. The CM also asked the departments to ensure that the medical staff is kept motivated and all vacancies are filled up immediately.DGP Dinkar Gupta said in the meeting that Punjab Police were gearing up to manage the festival season and all efforts would be made to ensure strict adherence to Covid norms at places such as markets and ramlilas. He said the police were also currently focused on handling the increasing number of farmer protests, as well as picketing by the BJP and the RSS.Warning of 2nd wave during festival seasonDr KK Talwar, head of Punjab government’s expert advisory committee on health, termed the decline in positivity rate to 2.60 a good sign, but warned of a second wave hitting the state during the festival season. “With just about 500-odd cases daily at present, the projections for the next few days are positive. However, the spate of upcoming festivals and the fatigue in the health system could see the next wave hitting soon,” he added.Dr Rajesh Kumar, a member of the Covid expert group, said even if the situation remained under control throughout November, the onset of the winter season could trigger a spurt in infections.Dr Talwar said teams of experts were being formed to conduct a mortality audit of every hospital to identify gaps, since the fatality rate in the state continued to be high (at 3.1%). This is despite the fact that the recovery rate has gone up from 82% on October 1 to 90.3% as of October 13.Oxygen generation plants to come up at 13 hospitalsHealth secretary Hussan Lal said to ensure adequate availability of oxygen supply in the coming weeks and months, tendering for 1st phase for augmenting the supply was in process. The Government of India had fixed the rates of medical oxygen, including that of transportation of cylinders, though liquid oxygen transportation rates were yet to be fixed, he added.In the first phase, oxygen generation plants will be set up at district hospitals in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and at medical colleges at Patiala, Amritsar, and Faridkot, which will be followed by district hospitals in Mansa, Sangrur, Bathinda and MKH, Patiala in the second phase and district hospitals of Rupnagar, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Amritsar in the third phase. Aggressively counter false Covid propaganda: CM to sarpanchesChief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has written to all sarpanches in the state, urging them to aggressively counter the false propaganda being spread about Covid by certain malicious people.Amarinder, in his communication, has asked the sarpanches to work among the people to ensure that they are not misled by the misinformation and blatant lies, and strengthen the government’s hands in fighting the pandemic, especially in the upcoming festival season.He said though various measures taken by his government had led to improvement in the Covid situation, the state could not afford to be complacent. “We cannot afford to let our guard down, especially considering the fact that the paddy harvesting is on, and also the government procurement,” he said.Reminding the sarpanches of their moral duty, the CM asked them to maintain strict vigil on the health situation and encourage anyone showing Covid symptoms to undergo testing.He further asked them to ensure that the patients infected with Covid, as well as their contacts, are identified and kept in isolation, for which elaborate arrangements should be made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/opd-schools-in-punjab-to-open-from-monday/story-zyH9d9HXYbfBCrrQWSchjL.html
16-10-2020||City||Congress creating false narrative about farm laws: Smriti Irani||Textiles minister Smriti Irani on Thursday justified the absence of any Union minister at the meeting called by the agriculture department with farmer union leaders in Delhi on October 14 by saying that the invitation had specifically mentioned that a team led by agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal will hold discussions with the farm leaders. “It is wrong to conclude that elected representatives stayed away from Wednesday meeting as the deliberation was held as per the programme,” she said during a virtual interaction with journalists. Irani, who was addressing the videoconference from Delhi, avoided answering if the Centre would agree to the demand of a minister’s presence for a dialogue with protesting farmer unions. “New farm rules were tabled in the Parliament and duly passed by both Houses. Nonetheless, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and defence minister Rajnath Singh were constantly in touch with officials and experts in the agriculture department during yesterday’s meeting,” she said.The minister said the delegation had submitted a charter of demands to the Union government, but some of these points were not related to agriculture reforms or new laws.“One of the key points was a demand to release certain activists from jails,” she added.Irani said the Punjab government was supporting anti-social elements engaged in holding protests outside BJP leaders’ houses and attacking them. She neither commented on the Shiromani Akali Dal’s claim that the new rules were against farmers’ interests nor made any observation on the unions who have blocked railway route in Punjab.“Akalis may have their own internal political issues, but the Centre on various occasions had clearly talked about farm reforms for the benefit of the farming community. Modi government is committed to enhancing farmers’ income. The Congress is creating a false narrative that the new farm bills are anti-farmers,” she said.Arhtiyas concerned over loss of work In another session with the Union minister, arhtiyas expressed their fear of being left out of the foodgrain procurement business. Delegates said there were about 27,000 commission agents in Punjab, who have a team of accountants and other workers associated with them in mandi business and new rules may upset their work.Dhiraj Kumar, an office-bearer of the Punjab Arhtiyas Association, asked her to restart the purchase of cotton by the Cotton Corporation of India through them. The corporation comes under the ministry of textiles.Irani said the Centre was sensitive to various stakeholders of the farm sector and there were no plans to dilute Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) or minimum support price (MSP).Meanwhile, a group of at least 15 AAP activists held a protest outside the venue of the videoconference and raised slogans against the BJP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/congress-creating-false-narrative-about-farm-laws-smriti-irani/story-78wa46G9PPgxQV7npzHIbO.html
16-10-2020||City||PRTC approaches state government for ₹90 crore bailout package amid mounting losses||Struggling to get back on the track, the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) has sought ₹90 crore bailout package from the Punjab government to compensate for the losses it incurred during and after the coronavirus-induced lockdown period. The corporation had incurred losses to the tune of₹51 crore in the first 60 days of the complete lockdown, with daily loss pegged at₹85 lakh. But even after resuming its operations after relaxations in restrictions on May 18, the PRTC is finding it hard to meet its committed expenditure due to low occupancy. Presently, the corporation is running 55% of its fleet of 1,125 buses and it recently resumed its inter-state bus services. PRTC managing director Jaskiran Singh said, “We have written to the state government to provide financial aid on monthly basis till December to cope up with the pandemic losses. The daily income at present is₹70 lakh against₹1.40 crore before the lockdown in March,” he said. Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, the convener of the PRTC trade unions, said since the losses are increasing with every passing month, the government must step in. “Besides expenditure on running buses, the PRTC needs at least₹19 crore a month to pay salaries and pensions to its employees. But with present income, the corporation is struggling to meet its committed expenditure,” he said. PRTC chairman KK Sharma said they are hopeful of increasing daily revenue with the start of inter-state bus service. “We are trying to convey to people that they can board our buses without any fear of contracting infections as they are being sanitised on daily basis,” Sharma said. Govt already owes corporation₹200 crore The state government already owes the PRTC more than₹200 crore against the free and concessional facilities the corporation is providing, mainly to police personnel and students. Nirmal Dhaliwal said the government has stalled the claims related to free and departmental concessional travelling for three years. “Also,₹2 crore are due against the ‘Mukh Mantri Tirath Darshan Yatra’ scheme. Moreover, the corporation has not been compensated for bringing back Punjab residents from Hazur Sahib, students from Rajasthan and ferrying migrant labourers to railway stations and elsewhere,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/prtc-approaches-state-government-for-90-crore-bailout-package-amid-mounting-losses/story-uSwyTJV72zSGZn6V6eL3aN.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal launches ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign to discourage idling at traffic signals||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Thursday launched a new anti-pollution campaign under which motorists will be encouraged to switch off vehicles while waiting for the lights to turn green at traffic signals.“It has been seen that we often do not switch off our vehicle engines while waiting at traffic signals. That is called idling. The ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign will aim to bring a behavioural change in that regard. It will help reduce air pollution,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing.He added, “Around 10 million vehicles are registered in Delhi. Even if one million of them actively follow the campaign, experts suggest that it can reduce PM10 emissions by 1.5 tonnes a year and PM2.5 emissions by 0.4 tonnes a year.”“Idling (waiting at a traffic signal with engine on) consumes more fuel than a normal drive. On average, a car is left idling for around 15 to 20 minutes a day, and that ends up exhausting at least 200ml of fuel. Experts have suggested that one can save ₹7,000 a year by avoiding idling,” the chief minister said.Also Read: AQI reaches ‘very poor’ on the first day of Grap winter plan in DelhiWhile appealing to all motorists to join the drive, Kejriwal said, “Covid-19 has led to distress among people, let’s ensure that pollution doesn’t make things worse for us.”“Crop stubble burning in neighbouring states leads to pollution in Delhi. That has been the case for years now. We cannot do much about other states, but we are taking all possible measures to control local sources of pollution by implementing an anti-dust strategy, a tree transplantation policy, an electric vehicle policy and decomposing crop stubble using new technology. This campaign will be another step towards reducing pollution,” he said.How the campaign will be implemented is being chalked out, environment minister Gopal Rai said later in the day. “This campaign has the potential to bring down vehicular pollution by 15-20%. We will start working on the road map of the campaign from Friday, after a meeting with all senior officials,” he said. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director at the Centre for Science and Environment, said, “For this campaign to work in terms of behavioural change, it is very important to make sure traffic signals have timers and that the timers are functional. Several survey estimates have shown that reduced idling can lead to energy saving and less toxic exposure to particulate matters, hydrocarbons, and nitrogen oxide.”Mukti Advani, principal scientist at the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said, “Switching off engines will reduce fuel consumption as the wait at any traffic signal may go beyond 20 seconds. In 2018, the CRRI had conducted an awareness campaign on idling along with Petroleum Conservation and Research Association and surveyed 100 intersections in the city for a period of six months.”“It is recommended that such awareness campaigns be conducted on a regular basis. An adequate number of countdown timers should be positioned correctly for better results,” said Advani, citing the survey findings. “However, Delhi needs to find alternative ways to decongest its roads; primarily, by reducing the number of private vehicles and by providing better public transport. Road capacity has to be improved by removing encroachments such as parked vehicles, and vehicles that break down on the road, etc,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-launches-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-to-discourage-idling-at-traffic-signals/story-ctaOZKTFaxc8kkIv26eV6L.html
16-10-2020||City||80-year-old woman run over by MSRTC bus in Thane, suffers leg injury||An 80-year-old woman suffered a major leg injury after a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus rammed into her at Khopat bus depot in Thane on Thursday afternoon. The woman was immediately taken to Kalwa hospital. Rabodi police are investigating the accident and have arrested the bus driver.The woman, Parvati Kharat of Vartak Nagar in Thane (W) lives alone and works as a rag picker. According to Rabodi police, Kharat was crossing the road on Thursday near Khopat bus depot. She was reaching the bus depot when an MSRTC bus returning from Shahapur was entering the depot, allegedly at high speed and ran over her.Passer-by Satish More, who witnessed the incident, said, “The woman was dragged for some distance. The skin on her legs completely tore apart and legs were looking broken from her knees.”Senior police inspector R Shirtode said, “The woman fell and came under the right side front tyre of the bus and injured her legs. Commuters who gathered to help the woman informed us, after which our team took her to the Kalwa hospital. The bus driver, Dilip Bhamre, 30, a resident of Nashik was arrested under IPC Sections 279 and 338.”Investigation officer Yogesh Ghongde said, “The doctors told us that there was need for a surgery on her legs as they were seriously injured. Her skin has detached from the bones. That will take another surgery. They might shift her to Mumbai hospital if needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/80-year-old-woman-run-over-by-msrtc-bus-in-thane-suffers-leg-injury/story-gn6YXqJTmEFBmN9VN5DN9O.html
16-10-2020||City||Unlock 5.0: Govt schools in Ludhiana remain closed amid confusion||Amid conflicting messages from the state government and Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla, government schools in the district refrained from resuming classes on Thursday.The minister had stated in a video that schools will reopen only after the situation has been thoroughly reviewed but the state government had already directed schools to start classes partially from October 15. Principals of several government schools stated that they had made all preparations, such as sanitising the premises and taking parents’ consent, but decided against reopening the school after the minister released the video. Sanjeev Thapar, principal, Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, said, “We made all necessary arrangements to welcome the students today but after the minister’s video, we decided to wait for the orders from the state education department. We also informed the students not to report to school today. We will inform them of the reopening date as soon as the education department conveys it to us.”Government Senior Secondary School, Ayali Khurd, principal Kanwaljot Kaur, said, “We have sanitised the school and were fully prepared to reopen the school today. To plan the time table and seating plan, I have already conducted a meeting with the teachers and have received written consent from few parents who are willing to send their children to school. Once we receive the orders from the state education department, we will the students on when to come.”Later in the evening around 4pm, school education secretary Krishan Kumar issued a letter and directed government schools to reopen from October 19 for Classes 9 to 12.In the letter, the school education department has also issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to ensure safety of the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unlock-5-0-govt-schools-in-ludhiana-remain-closed-amid-confusion/story-47ANbLHBkMAk0bv3ySsskI.html
16-10-2020||City||Low-key Durga Puja celebrations this year; sale of idols dips in Thane||Pandal hopping, community lunches and glitzy cultural soiree will be missing this Durga Puja festival as it will be a low-key affair on the backdrop of this year’s pandemic. Idol makers who visit the city from Kolkata every year claim that this time the sale of idols is 40 per cent less while the demand is more for small idols.Durga Puja is a huge affair in Thane with most Bengali communities setting up huge pandals across the city. Idol makers, folk artistes and priests come down from Kolkata every year during the season to provide the feel of Durga Puja celebrations akin to West Bengal.Idol maker Shubhojit Das has been coming from Kolkata every year since the last 14 years to make idols for Durga Puja. “Every year, we arrive four months in advance with our skilled workers. This year, I came with fewer workers a month ago. There are many pandals who are not celebrating this year. We have only received 60 per cent orders for idols. These are for smaller ones at 4 ft or less.”Some of the Durga Puja pandals have used their funds for Covid relief activities and cancelled celebrations this year. Navodaya Sangh near Kashinath Ghanekar is one such pandal.“We used funds in many ways, from providing financial support to social organisations that provide Covid relief activities to helping those within our vicinity in need of any assistance during the lockdown. Moreover, we will be making payment as we do every year to our priest and folk artistes who arrive from Kolkata to perform the rituals,” said Shushobhan Chowdhary, President, Navodaya Sangh. Meanwhile, some other pandals will have minimal celebrations, “It will be a low-key affair. Instead of a pandal, it will be in a hall with restricted entry of devotees, as per government rules. We have decided to go online completely – from printing online invitation cards to telecasting the puja and all other rituals for the four days. This year, our theme will be ‘Salute to Covid Warriors. On all the four days, we shall host in-house cultural programmes online,” said Abhijit Chatterjee, member, New Bengal Club, which has been celebrating at Manpada, near Neelkanth Woods, for the last 19 years.Similarly, Bangiya Parishad, opposite Highland Gardens in Dhokali, have kept a very low budget. B Majumdar of the organising committee, said, “We have not made any huge plans and would only conduct it in a small hall with basic provisions. It will be for the sake of it as we wish to continue with the ritual this year as well. We will follow all social distancing rules and ensure fewer people are present. We will have limited prasad for 10 to 15 devotees who will be attending the puja. These will be small packets, thus following the no contact policy.”This year, members of these pandals are themselves making all the arrangements for decorations and rituals. A minimum of 10 people from the organising committee will be present including the priest within the pandals. No outsiders or devotees will be allowed and there will not be any stalls or exhibitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/low-key-durga-puja-celebrations-this-year-sale-of-idols-dips-in-thane/story-e8XNF2iMsGPGiTm277wKEL.html
16-10-2020||City||Covid-19 drive: Navi Mumbai exceeds target to survey families; tops state chart||The civic body, NMMC, has surveyed more than 3.35 lakh families in Navi Mumbai under the `My Family My Responsibility’ drive of the state government. It has surpassed the target specified by the state government and claims to have performed the best in the state among all civic bodies with respect to target and population ratio.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) deployed 670 squads, each with 2-3 persons, for the survey.Abhijit Bangar, municipal commissioner, said, “The state government had given NMMC a target of 3,16,449 families to be surveyed. We have surpassed that target by surveying 3,35,469 families till date. The targeted population figure was 14,24,020, of which 10,53,896 residents have been covered through door-to-door campaign. As per the data on the government dashboard, we are leading in achieving maximum target in MMR region and also in state.”The survey staff went door to door and checked the body temperature and oxygen level of the residents and collated their health information related to fever, cough, cold, blood pressure, diabetes, heart ailments and other co-morbidities. These were recorded in an App of the government.Bangar said: “A massive awareness campaign has also been undertaken. All the family members are being made aware of the precautions they need to take against Covid including wearing of masks, washing hands regularly, using sanitizer, not hiding any disease, going to fever clinics to get tested, taking medicines regularly for co-morbidities and also encouraging those who have recovered from Covid to donate plasma to help others.”The civic body will start the second phase on Thursday by revisiting all the households and again testing their body temperature and oxygen saturation level and getting details of their health.Stated Bangar, “The three-point programme of our Mission Break The Chain – Trace, Test and Treat – is facilitated through the survey. It is helping us identify and register persons with co-morbidities and also Covid symptoms. This helps in immediate treatment. It also helps us in contact tracing and treatment that will help reduce fatalities.”Subhamoy Ghosh, 45, secretary of Prajapati Park Housing Society in Koparkhairane, said, “It was great to see the staff taking all requisite precautions with one of them in PPE kit to test the residents of our society. They went to every flat and collected the details and were very courteous as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-drive-navi-mumbai-exceeds-target-to-survey-families-tops-state-chart/story-26K80VYnT9iXGTazJEF72H.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s heritage ‘committee table’ auctioned for ₹71.57L in London||A Chandigarh heritage item was sold for ₹71.57 lakh at Bonhams, an auction house in London. The ‘Le Corbusier and Pierre Jeanneret Committee table’ that was designed for the Assembly in 1963-1964, had a reserve price of ₹34.44 lakh but was auctioned of for double the amount. Heritage furniture from the city was cumulatively sold for ₹2.11 crore during the event. Ten heritage items from the UT were sold despite the Indian embassy raising the issue with the MET Police, Scotland and Bonhams auctioneer, among others.As per a list compiled by the Chandigarh Heritage Inventory Committee in 2012, there are 12,793 heritage items, of which a considerable chunk is in the possession of the Government Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10, besides a huge stock of chairs and tables at the Punjab and Haryana civil secretariat and Vidhan Sabha, and the high court. The physical verification of these items is yet to be completed.Some of the heritage items found their way to the international market and have been auctioned for high prices to bidders across the world. The UT administration has been struggling to stop auction of these items and those stolen from different departments and institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-heritage-committee-table-auctioned-for-71-57l-in-london/story-t9YoCia53bkapXbnsEA3jI.html
16-10-2020||City||Residents of Vashi demand a new burial ground in Navi Mumbai||With the Kopri burial ground in Sector 26, Vashi reaching its maximum capacity, the demand for a new burial ground in Navi Mumbai for the Muslim community has intensified.With space available for just one more body to be buried, the Kopri burial ground will soon bear a board which saying it has exhausted its capacity. The trust that manages the ground has informed the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) that no more burial will be possible, especially those of Covid patients at this ground and demanded an alternate ground.The Kopri burial ground is divided into two parts – a 1,000 sq m land that is kept only for non-Covid deaths and the 500 sq m land for Covid deaths.Aniqullah Khan, trustee of Noorul Islam Trust that manages the burial ground, said, “After the first week of October, there was no space left for burials on the land meant for Covid burials. The 500 sqm land that has been kept exclusively for the burial of Covid patients, has buried 46 bodies.”On an average, the burial ground in Kopri used to receive around seven bodies monthly before the pandemic. Since the pandemic struck, Covid bodies alone have been 46 from April.“The other part of the burial ground that is for non-Covid patients is also filling up and we are afraid we will have to shut that too. We have been demanding a new patch of land from NMMC. Where would we ask the people to go?” Khan said.Kopri burial ground is home for the deceased from Turbhe, Vashi and some parts of Sanpada as well.Navi Mumbai has five burial grounds – in Airoli, Koparkhairane, Kopri, Nerul and Belapur – all nearing capacity.“At the beginning of the pandemic, we had demanded a new space for Muslim community to bury Covid patients alone. Since it has not been granted, each burial ground made provisions to dedicate a small patch from the existing ones to bury the Covid patients,” Saleem Shaikh, Chairman of Muslim Ekta Foundation said.NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “We have written to MIDC to provide us any land in their area that could be used as a burial ground. We are awaiting a response from them.”Koparkhairane, which has around 2,600 sqm burial ground of which 500 sqm is dedicated for Covid deaths, has buried 12 Covid dead bodies, said Abbas Mullah from Anjuman Khairul Islam trust of Navi Mumbai. The 2,000 sqm Airoli burial ground has received 10 Covid bodies.“We receive bodies from Rabale, Rabale MIDC and Ghansoli areas,” Kaleem Khan, a member of Airoli Masjeed-e-Aqsa Trust, said. Hidayat ul Islam trust of Nerul managing Nerul graveyard is also afraid of nearing a closure soon.“Around 40 Covid death cases have come here. The non-Covid deaths have also increased. Around 25 of them arrive every month. We can have more 20 Covid death cases after which we are afraid we too might have to close the Covid burial. For the non-Covid deaths, we have to dig only around 4 ft deep pit but for Covid deaths, the pit has to be around 10 ft deep and eight ft wide. Moreover, we still have no clarity on when can the land with Covid patients buried be dug again. Normally, we dig the land again after two-and-a-half years. But in Covid death, some say it’s done after five years, some others say it’s after 10. We do not have any official communication,” Quresh Ahmed, president of the Nerul trust said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-of-vashi-demand-a-new-burial-ground-in-navi-mumbai/story-EL9PyDfYTV6ZIgbKvHXHcM.html
16-10-2020||City||Activist writes to Bhiwandi Nizampur civic body, wants action against officials for building collapses||Following the recent building collapse in Bhiwandi, Thane resident Rahul Jogdand has drafted a letter to the civic commissioner of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) demanding action against civic officials responsible for the mushrooming of illegal constructions.Jogdand, 46, who had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) against illegal buildings in Bhiwandi in 2013, claimed that had the corporation taken action on the High Court order, lives of 38 people would have been saved.On September 21, a part of ground-plus-three floored Jilani building in Bhiwandi collapsed, killing 38 and injuring 25. Jogdand drafted the letter to the civic commissioner last week. Jogdand said, “More than 80 per cent of the buildings in Bhiwandi are illegal. The officials and the developers are together in this, leading to the mushrooming of illegal construction in Bhiwandi. I have demanded that the High Court order to take action against these buildings be strictly followed instead of merely setting up a committee to pin responsibility for the collapse.”Jogdand, in 2013, drafted a PIL in the high court following which the court had given orders to take action against the illegal buildings.Rais Shaikh, Member of Legislative Assembly, Samajwadi Party from Bhiwandi who has been continuously following up with the CM and state minister, said, “There is no proper structural audit of the buildings in the city. Almost 80 per cent of the buildings are illegal. How many will the corporation take action against? I have requested the CM and cabinet ministers to implement cluster development in Bhiwandi like in Thane.”Pankaj Ashiya, municipal commissioner of BNCMC, said they have found two officers and the owner of the building guilty for the collapse. Ashiya said, “We will take action against them. One is the town planning department and other is assistant municipal commissioner of BNCMC posted during the time.” Bhiwandi has 25 buildings in C1 category, which is extremely dangerous category. Of these, eight have been demolished. There are 82 structures in the C2 category (dangerous buildings), of which 77 has been vacated while 222 structures come under C2B and C3 categories, which mean they can be repaired while residents occupy the structures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/activist-writes-to-bhiwandi-nizampur-civic-body-wants-action-against-officials-for-building-collapses/story-rmJkdQHweptGNZzQp7pKtK.html
16-10-2020||City||457 structures in Navi Mumbai identified as dangerous to live in||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has sought structural audit reports of more than 30-year-old buildings in the city by December 31. The civic body has conducted a survey and declared 457 structures as dangerous.NMMC has conducted the survey for 2020-21 to identify dangerous buildings in the city. Following the survey, all the 457 buildings have been issued notices to vacate.Abhijit Bangar, NMMC chief, said, “We have informed the residents that it is mandatory to conduct a structural audit of buildings more than 30 years old by civil or structural engineers registered with NMMC.The structural audit report submitted to NMMC should have details of repairs carried out in the building based on the recommendation of the appointed structural auditor and a certification that the building in question is safe for use.”Bangar added that failure to submit the report by the society or owners will result in a fine of ₹25,000 or the annual property tax amount, whichever is higher.NMMC has listed the details of its registered structural engineers on its website www.nmmc.gov.in The structural audit report is to be submitted by December 31 to the assistant municipal commissioner of the respective wards, ward officers and assistant director (town planning). Bangar said, “Residing in dilapidated and dangerous buildings or houses can cost lives and also lead to financial losses. We appeal to the residents to immediately vacate such structures. Any loss of life or property under such circumstances will be the sole responsibility of the concerned persons.”Responding to the civic order, Ganesh Salvi, 56, a resident of the dilapidated JN type building in Vashi, said, “It is easy for the civic body to declare the buildings dangerous and ask us to vacate them. Where do we go? The government cannot shed responsibility by simply issuing a warning on the state of the buildings. It should make alternate arrangements as most of us cannot afford a new house.”Inbraj Pandian, 45, a social worker, said, “There is no transit camp facility in the city despite demands for several years. It is wrong for the administration to ask people to vacate their houses under such circumstances.”An NMMC official, on condition of anonymity, added, “Efforts have long been on to have transit camp facility in the city but has been stuck due to lack of land availability. We are trying to get land from CIDCO for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/457-structures-in-navi-mumbai-identified-as-dangerous-to-live-in/story-5BVRVLfCe5on8GdnWzRTEJ.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Covid toll crosses 200 mark; 169 new cases in tricity||The city’s Covid-19 toll crossed the 200 mark on Thursday as two more residents succumbed to the virus. Besides, the number of infections reached 13,477 with 82 people testing positive.As many as 39 deaths have been reported in October so far, taking the death tally to 201. The two male deceased, aged 43 and 66, were residents of Khuda Alisher and Sector 47, respectively. Thursday also saw 113 people being discharged. The number of recoveries and active cases now stand at 12,232 and 1,044, respectively.Mohali’s death toll reached 211 with two more casualties. Also, 59 fresh cases were reported on Thursday, taking the case count to 11,152. The deceased were both males, aged 61 and 59. Meanwhile, 66 people recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 868. As many as 10,547 patients have recovered so far. Panchkula registered one death and 28 new infections. A 59-year-old woman from Sector 15 became the district’s 105th Covid-19 fatality.Of the total 6,712 cases in the district so far, 6,286 patients have been discharged and 321 are still infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-covid-toll-crosses-200-mark-169-new-cases-in-tricity/story-sRO5rARsUr84HXcj8tLzSM.html
16-10-2020||City||67% women in Thane slum use public toilets: Survey||More than 67 per cent women surveyed in Thane slums do not have access to toilets inside their houses. This was discovered during a year-long survey conducted by a Thane based organisation, MUSE, to understand the menstrual hygiene practices of women in marginalised communities of Thane. The organisation has prepared a few recommendations that will be submitted to the Thane Municipal Corporation.Nishant Bangera, founder, Muse Foundation, said, “We surveyed women in Thane slums through the year 2019 to study the menstrual hygiene practices followed by the adolescent girls, young and middle-aged women.Around 1,004 women were surveyed from across 15 slum colonies including Azad Nagar, Banjara Basti, Manorama Nagar, Rambaug (Upvan), Shastri Nagar, Shanti Nagar and Nagsen Nagar in Thane. We had 35 volunteers going door to door conducting interviews,” Bangera said.According to the survey, around 12 per cent of the women did not have access to sufficient water. The community toilets were found to be unclean and inadequate to address menstrual needs of the womenfolk. Not changing the menstrual hygiene product for more than 12 hours could cause rashes, infections and, in the worst case scenario, even toxic shock syndrome.“There were 67 per cent of women who accessed these community toilets, making them prone to unsanitary conditions. Similarly, around 56 per cent of the students who went to school had to come back home to change their menstrual hygiene products as they had unclean toilets. Around 18 per cent women who work did not have any provision to change their hygiene products at their workplace. Keeping all of these in mind, we have prepared a list of recommendations that will help provide a hygienic environment to women in Thane city,” said Nehali Jain, project lead, MUSE.Lalitha T, a member of MUSE, said, “It is recommended that public toilets are set up as per national standards and maintained with the help of security personnel. They should also have provision for menstrual hygiene products and basic facilities like water and trash bins. Moreover, this waste must be disposed of using biomedical waste norms; the civic body should conduct health camps and provide affordable medical assistance. Promotion of sustainable menstrual hygiene products like cloth pads, menstrual cups should be done at the local levels.“Moreover, awareness to educate the community about menstrual health and normalise periods is a must. Community members need to be encouraged to accept grievances from the locals and convey to the administration.” MUSE has set up a meeting with TMMC and shall present these recommendations to the local administration at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/67-women-in-thane-slum-use-public-toilets-survey/story-7GDTdQavdnkq0DI3fiRTZL.html
16-10-2020||City||Fire breaks out at a plywood factory in Khanna, no casualty||Fire broke out at a plywood factory, ‘Vidhata Industries Private Limited’, near Bija village in Khanna on Thursday morning. No casualty was reported from the spot but the factory owner said that goods and machinery worth crores have been destroyed. A short circuit is said to be the reason behind the fire. Factory owner Amit Juneja, who is also the chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Ludhiana unit, said, the fire started around 5am. A labourer who had gone to switch on the boiler had discovered it and raised the alarm following which everyone rushed outside to safety. Though the actual loss is yet to be ascertained, Juneja said he is expecting it run into crores. Fire station officer Yashpal Rai Gomi said, “We received the alert around 6am from the police department and rushed the fire tenders to the spot. As it was a major fire incident, we summoned a fire tender from Samrala as well. No casualty was reported from the spot and the fire fighting operations lasted for around three hours. The fire erupted again in the evening around 4pm but it was doused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-a-plywood-factory-in-khanna-no-casualty/story-cVkZrsqyiBjdzm4EzruH6L.html
16-10-2020||City||Vashi police arrest five, book three minors for stealing bikes in Navi Mumbai||Vashi police have arrested a group of five men and booked three minors for allegedly stealing bikes from Navi Mumbai. The men were arrested after the police scanned CCTV footages at more than 100 locations to zero in on the suspects.According to the police, the men in the 21-26 years of age group worked with three minors aged 16 and 17. The men mainly targeted bikes and scooters that were parked in Vashi areas. They specifically chose vehicles they could steal by breaking the handles to unlock them, police said.“The men stole bikes in a group of three to four persons at a time. We studied CCTV footages of 100 locations and also based on the informant network, traced the accused to Govandi and Shivaji Nagar slums,” said Sachin Dhage, assistant inspector at Vashi police station.After breaking the handle of the bike, they went away with the two-wheelers. The men planned to sell the vehicles but were arrested before they could sell, officials said.With their arrest, police managed to solve seven cases of thefts. Police recovered five bikes from their possession. Police also recovered cash ₹16,166 that they had stolen in burglary and theft cases.Officials said only one of the accused – Shyam Bansode, 21, – had a previous criminal record. The accused are unemployed and have been stealing to meet their needs, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vashi-police-arrest-five-book-3-minors-for-stealing-bikes-in-navi-mumbai/story-PAnP0urZtRsvG77sZccy0M.html
16-10-2020||City||Man who posed as gas service agent arrested for robbery in Navi Mumbai||The Khandeshwar police have arrested a 47-year-old man who robbed from residential apartments while posing as a gas service agent. The police had been on the hunt for the accused since January after he was caught in a CCTV footage.Pramod Mayekar is unemployed and has been staying in a slum in Wadala. In January, Mayekar went to an apartment in Khanda Colony posing as an employee of a popular gas agency.“Once at home, the accused asked for their documents and when the women of the house went to fetch the gas card, the accused stole whatever he could lay his hands on,” said Vaibhavkumar Ronge, sub-inspector of Khandeshwar police station.In the incident of January, Mayekar stole a 15-gram gold mangalsutra from a house and fled. While a case was registered against an unknown person, the police eventually traced him in Mumbai and arrested him two weeks ago.While in custody, Mayekar allegedly confessed to committing similar offences in Bhoiwada in Mumbai. Police also recovered 33 grams of gold and two phones he stole from Shivaji Park in Dadar and solved two cases with his arrest.Mayekar has at least five cases of theft and three cases of cheating against him, most of them registered in Mumbai. Mayekar was also arrested previously in Mira-Bhayander and Navi Mumbai in the past in theft cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-who-posed-as-gas-service-agent-arrested-for-robbery-in-navi-mumbai/story-lXFjAYvLNcrK6Dqp2QJCvI.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools may reopen for Classes 9-12 students from November 2||After UT administrator and Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore decided to not reopen schools as per the Unlock 5.0 order issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA), the UT education department has issued fresh guidelines. Students of Classes 9-12 may be asked to attend school from November 2.The district education officer (DEO) on Thursday wrote to all government and private schools saying the institutions may reopen from November 2 onwards in a graded manner. He said further instructions will be issued later. Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We have prepared a proposal and sent it to the authorities concerned. A final call will be taken before November 2.”Officials said students will need parents’ consent to attend school, and attendance will not be compulsory. With only a few students in schools, social distancing measures will be enforced. Online classes will continue and remain the preferred mode of teaching. However, government schools will continue to call Class 9 to 12 students for academic consultation till October 31.Private schools unwilling to openPrivate schools principals say they are unwilling to reopen just yet. Independent School Association president HS Mamik said, “We haven’t been asked about reopening schools from November 2, but schools will have to listen to the parents. Until over 50% of the parents are unwilling send their wards to school, the schools should not open.”He added that the combined pressure of teaching classes in school and also taking online classes will be too much for the teachers and the department must pick either online studies or classrooms for the arrangement to work.Parents, too, are also not in favour of reopening schools so soon. Chandigarh Parent Association president Nitin Goyal said, “Just 10 days ago parents had voted against sending their children to school. Why is the department so insistent on reopening the schools after that?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-may-reopen-for-classes-9-12-students-form-november-2/story-59zPcReHEA89aYD0N6RH5H.html
16-10-2020||City||Ludhiana Central Jail employee caught trying to sneak in contraband, phone||A nexus between inmates and employees of the Ludhiana Central Jail was unearthed after a lab technician was caught while trying to sneak in banned substances and a mobile phone into the premises. The accused identified as Ranjit Singh of Ayali Kalan, who works in the jail hospital was caught with 1,750 intoxicant pills and a phone by CRPF officials during frisking. He was immediately arrested and handed over to the Division Number 7 police. A case under Sections 22, 29, 61, 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and Section 52 A (1) and 54 of the Prisons Act has been registered on the complaint of assistant jail superintendent Jagraj Singh.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said cops are questioning the accused to know where he had procured the contraband from and to whom he was going to supply it.Earlier on September 27, another employee of the jail was arrested with three packets of tobacco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-central-jail-employee-caught-trying-to-sneak-in-contraband-phone/story-aEUhJwbIimFRZYWDugcgLN.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Arrears mount to ₹56 crore, CHB to start issuing notices||With outstanding dues of those allotted commercial properties aggregating to a whopping ₹56.42 crore, the Chandigarh Housing Board has released a list of defaulters in a bid to recover the sum.Officials say many allottees have not been depositing ground rent, instalments and interest for several years. CHB chief executive officer Yashpal Garg said, “Ground rent and instalments are not being deposited regularly and arrears have been accumulating over the last few years. Now, we have stepped up efforts to recover the money.”“We are in the process of issuing notices to defaulters. If they fail to deposit their dues within the stipulated time, it may lead to cancellation of allotment and finally resumption of properties,” he said.Most defaulters have been alloted CHB properties in rehri markets and motor markets in different sectors, and the grain market, Sector 26 (see box). The highest amount due from a single allottee is ₹1.3 crore.While the CHB will issue notices to all defaulters, allottees can also check the amount they owe on the housing board’s website. The outstanding dues for properties allotted under the Chandigarh Small Flat Scheme had mounted to ₹30 crore over the years. However, the CHB recently recovered ₹18 crore of the total outstanding rent from rehabilitation colonies located in Dhanas, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran, Sector 38, Sector 49 and Sector 56. In June, the CHB had imposed a 12% penalty on allottees who failed to deposit monthly rent under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/arrears-mount-to-56cr-chb-to-start-issuing-notices/story-DqZK3YPHnrFk4Pel7UdgbP.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali gets the green light for staging Ramlilas||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan permitted the staging of Ramlilas, a dramatic re-enactment of the Hindu epic Ramayana that traditionally takes place during the Navratri festival, in the district here on Thursday. In statement, Dayalan observed that the government had already permitted social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions and other congregations outside containment zones with a ceiling of 100 people.“In closed spaces, 50% of the hall capacity is allowed with a ceiling of 200 people. In open spaces, gatherings can be held according to the size of the ground after taking prior permission of the subdivisional magistrate (SDM) of the division concerned,” he said, adding that adhering to safety protocols, using thermal scanning, and hand wash or sanitiser was mandatory.In Mohali, Ramlila is staged at eight places - two in Phase 2,and one each in Phases 4, 5, 11, Sector 68, Mataur and Sohana. The main Dussehra function will be held in Phase 8. Educational institutes may open, theatres to wait  He said schools, coaching institutions and certain higher educational institutions could reopen after duly observing safety protocols. Dayalan advised all academic institutions in the district that intend to reopen in a graded manner to get their teaching and non-teaching staff tested for Covid. He clarified that as per government guidelines, online or distance learning may continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and should be encouraged. He said the district administration will extend support and arrange special testing camps for the staff of educational institutions.“However, cinema halls, theatres, and multiplexes are not to be reopened till further directions,” said the deputy commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-gets-the-green-light-for-staging-ramlilas/story-dbzss1zIjH8FX5T5ar6j0O.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||NCB seizes 33 kg drugs from Mumbai and other cities||In the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) crackdown on drug traffickers in Mumbai as well as in cases connected to other states, it seized one kilogram Cocaine, two kg PCP (phencyclidine), 29.3 kg MDA and 70 gram mephedrone in a number of raids. In a separate operation, NCB’s Jammu unit seized 56 kg hashish wherein the main receiver was arrested from south Mumbai. NCB on Thursday said that the recent seizures have revealed that Mumbai is a major destination city in the whole drugs supply chain. “NCB is conducting massive operations against drug traffickers. In the pursuit of operations against drug trafficking, NCB has been conducting regular raids on possible hideouts of drug traffickers after identifying their modus operandi and whereabouts,” said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of NCB.“Metro cities of India serve as the prime destinations of various contrabands. The arrests and seizures are affecting the narcotics supply chain,” he added.Based on specific information, an NCB team laid a trap in Vasai on October 12 and seized one kilogram of cocaine and 2 kilogram PCP from M Ahmed. During interrogation, Ahmed revealed that the contrabands were provided by SK Saurabh to further selling, said Wankhede. NCB then apprehended Saurabh on October 13 from Vasai and recovered 29.3 kilogram MDA from his shop. Saurabh confessed that the drugs belonged to two brothers identified as A Khanivadekar and R Khanivadekar, said an NCB official.Following this, NCB officials nabbed A Khanivadekar and found that his brother R Khanivadekar was arrested by the Directorate Revenue of Intelligence (DRI) in a case wherein 483 kilogram Ephedrine was recovered from him. R Khanivadekar is currently out on bail. A Khanivadekar further revealed that before the DRI raid, they had shifted some contraband to Saurabh’s shop which NCB had already seized. In the second operation, NCB laid a trap in Andheri and apprehended Pradeep Rajaram Sahni with 70 gram mephedrone. Sahni, during questioning, disclosed that he used to supply mephedrone to several people in Andheri and Juhu Area. He claimed he worked as a peon for a film production company. Further inquiry is going on in the case.In the third operation about the drug distribution network, NCB arrested a Nigerian national identified as Uka Emeka alias Godwin and recovered 4 gram cocaine. Emeka is suspected to be delivering the contraband in Bandra, Khar, Juhu and Andheri, added Wankhede.The fourth operation was carried out by the Jammu unit of NCB on Thursday wherein M Gupta, A Gambir and Sonia, all residents of Delhi, were arrested. NCB seized around 56.4 kilogram hashish concealed in 55 packets at a Toll Plaza in Nagrota, Jammu. NCB also recovered ₹191,000 in cash and a vehicle which was used to traffic the contraband. The hashish was being transported to Mumbai. After questioning the accused, the NCB team alerted its Mumbai unit. Following this, the Mumbai unit nabbed Faruk Chandbadhsah Shaikh, 40, and his associate Kurban Ali on Mumbai-Pune highway. Shaikh, a resident of Byculla, confessed that they were also involved in one case of Mumbai, in which 6 kilogram hashish was seized from their other associates, added an NCB official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-seizes-33-kg-drugs-from-mumbai-and-other-cities/story-ldIRrkEoYypY2kKHrkVGrO.html
16-10-2020||City||Three more succumb to virus in Ludhiana, 81 test positive||Three more persons have succumbed to Covid-19 while 81 others have tested positive, health department officials revealed on Thursday. With this, the cumulative count of cases has gone up to 19,484 while the toll has reached 812. As many as 18,279 patients have recovered from the disease while 390 cases are still active.The deceased include a 68-year-old male from Sham Nagar, an 80-year-old woman from Arjan Nagar and a 29-year-old woman from Basant Nagar.As many as 1, 745 persons are under home quarantine, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma informed. He appealed to residents to follow all directions of the Punjab government to break the chain of infection spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-succumb-to-virus-in-ludhiana-81-test-positive/story-Wc32stIvYTwD7Oah13kxMK.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, track garbage trucks in Chandigarh through mobile app||In six months time, city residents will be able to monitor the movement of door-to-door garbage collection trucks and receive an estimated time of arrival (ETA) through a mobile application. Residents will also be able to register their complaints and grievances through the application.On Thursday, Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) board of directors agreed to allocate work for the setting up a Solid Waste Management Vehicle Tracking and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) facility, which will come up in the municipal corporation (MC) building. CSCL chief general manager NP Sharma said, “The tender for setting up SCADA has been allotted to Arya Infotech . They bid ₹5.87 crore against a tender of ₹8.04 crore.”Once SCADA becomes operational, MC officials will be able to track the movement and activity of garbage collection trucks.“There will be a ‘performance indicator’ installed on every vehicle, which will be linked to SCADA. It will indicate the time taken by the trucks to collect garbage from each house, whether it was within the specified time period and reasons for delay, if any,” said Sharma.The system will let the officials know when the trucks are stationary, for how long and for what reasons. In case households are responsible for the delay, the system will allow collectors to report the matter to authorities. They will also be able to complain against households who do not segregate waste. The mileage of the trucks will be also be monitored.“Part of the project involves setting up a control room in the MC. The city will be divided into 10 zones for monitoring purposes,” said Sharma.MC to get 200 trucks by month-endWith directors approving the allotment of tender for the purchase of 390 door-to-door garbage collection vehicles on Thursday, th CSCL expects the MC to get 200 vehicles by the month-end, said Sharma.“The Board has alloted the tender to Continental Engines for ₹29 crore. All these vehicles will be fitted with GPS systems. We expect the delivery of all the 390 trucks by mid-November,” Sharma said.At present, the MC has 100 garbage collection vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/soon-track-garbage-trucks-in-chandigarh-through-mobile-app/story-f4zf3cKM391qBGebJ2wFML.html
16-10-2020||City||Ludhiana’s inter-state bus service resumes from||In a relief to inter-state travellers in the city, Punjab roadways and PEPSU Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) have resumed bus services to the neighbouring states. This comes after a nod from the state government, as part of the fifth phase of the unlocking process that kicked in today.On Thursday, over a dozen buses departed the city for Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and other states. However, bus services to Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi have not yet been started due to restrictions in these states. Punjab roadways general manager Inderjit Singh Chawla said, “Delhi and J&K have not yet opened the borders for buses and we hope that those routes would also be opened in the coming days.” However, PRTC bus operators, on the condition of anonymity, said that they have started picking and dropping passengers from the outskirts of Delhi. Gaganjit Singh, a passenger bound for Delhi, said, “I deal in automobile accessories and have to visit Delhi frequently. The government should have allowed inter-state buses to ply a little early but this is still a relief for us. Though it’s risky to travel in buses, it costs more to travel in private vehicles and taxi.” Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Inter State Bus Terminal supervisor Kuljit Singh said the footfall has increased but it is not as much as what was witnessed in the pre-lockdown period. “Around 250 buses run from this bus stand on a daily basis and passengers are urged to follow all guidelines issued by the government.” Social distancing goes for a tossMeanwhile, with an increase in the footfall, social distancing norms went for a toss at the bus stand on Thursday. Not just passengers, even bus conductors were seen violating all precautionary norms such as wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-inter-state-bus-service-resumes-from/story-EJGsmHZokC4jUjpAp6oYfO.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Second round of sero survey in Haryana on October 19, 20||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the second round of serological survey to determine the extent of spread of coronavirus in the state will be conducted on October 19 and 20. The results of the survey are likely to be made public by October end, officials said. The health minister said 720 blood samples from each of the 22 districts will be collected from both rural and urban pockets. During the first round of serological survey in August, about 8% of the population was found infected with the virus. Vij said the serological survey is an antibody test and will help identify the penetration of coronavirus at the community-level and monitor its transmission trends. The minister, who also launched the ‘Covid-19 Sero Survey’ mobile application, said it will be user friendly and help in online data entry, geo-tagging, offline data entry, and self-generated SMS. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said stratified multistage random sampling will be done during the survey. The sample size of 720 will be divided into rural and urban strata. A total of 36 samples from each rural cluster and 72 samples from each urban cluster will be taken, the ACS said. 9 deaths, 1,199 fresh infectionsHaryana on Thursday recorded nine deaths and 1,199 coronavirus infections, as per the medical bulletin. The death toll has mounted to 1,623 and the total number of positive cases have reached 1,46,706. Among the fatalities, two each were from Faridabad and Yamunanagar and one each from Ambala, Karnal, Hisar, Panchkula and Bhiwani. Three districts—Gurugram (255), Faridabad (194) and Hisar (141)—collectively contributed more than 49% of the new cases. Substantial numbers were also reported from Rewari (71), Sonepat (64) and Fatehabad (63). The bulletin said 1,013 more patients have been cured, taking overall recoveries to 1,34,719. The active cases stand at 10,364. The recovery rate was 91.83 % and the case fatality rate was 1.11%. The bulletin said there were 210 critically ill patients including 35 on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/second-round-of-sero-survey-in-haryana-on-october-19-20/story-drpB5eGdTrARFMSOTarsRJ.html
16-10-2020||City||With smaller budgets, fewer staff, takeaway joints mushroom across Mumbai||The Covid-19 lockdown has given a boost to the parcel system, giving rise to several small takeaway food joints across the city. These joints need significantly lesser capital, fewer staff as well as smaller spaces compared to establishing regular hotels. In addition to it, apart from their own delivery executives, these small takeaway joints are also registered with online food-ordering apps such as Zomato and Swiggy, paving way to their growth. “Despite the fact that hotels have been reopened, citizens are reluctant to visit them owing to the fear of the Covid-19 pandemic and hence these small joints are a big draw. Such joints will survive even after the pandemic is over as people today find it convenient to order food,” said Anuj Kejriwal, managing director and chief executive officer (CEO), Anarock Retail, a consultancy firm. Spread on a 100-square-feet outlet, Chai Nashta is an example of the thriving takeaway joints across the city. Located at Pydhonie, Chai Nashta was opened by 17-year old college student Ayyub Sayed. “My father lost his job during the pandemic and we are facing hard times. We had a small area available and it’s my passion to prepare various food items. So I decided to start this new venture. We have no hotels in the vicinity and hence I am trying my luck,” said Sayed, adding that he is supplying foods such as pizzas, samosas, French fries, nachos, burgers as well as different types of teas. At Powai, Raghav Pai, who always harboured plans to start his food venture, got a chance to establish it when the city was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, which resulted in the closing down of many establishments. He started Saffron Kitchen at a 400-square-feet area. “As the rents had reduced, we grabbed the opportunity and rented the place. We also got utensils and other items at cheaper rates, as traders wanted to dispose of their items,” said Pai, adding that his entire business was set up on a capital of Rs8 lakh – a sum that is impossible to start a hotel or a restaurant, as they are very costly propositions. When the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed, hoteliers were allowed to operate on the condition that they would only undertake take-away parcels. Many hoteliers could not sustain their businesses as they were paying high rents for the hotel premises and employed large number of staffers. According to the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), small outlets are cost-effective and can be set up in one-fifth of the budget of setting up a hotel. “Any decent restaurant needs an area of around 1,000-square-feet and hence needs an investment of over Rs1 crore but a small take-away joint needs hardly a 200-square-feet area and one can set it up within Rs20 lakh,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, former president, HRAWI. Celebrity chef Sandip Patil, who works in famous Marathi serial Aga Bai Sasubai, is starting his venture Chef’s Kitchen on a 240-square-feet at Lalbaug. “We will be having 240 items on our menu and it can easily be managed in this small place by smart planning,” said Patil, adding that the cuisine would vary from Indian, Continental and Punjabi at his outlet. According to Patil, one of the advantages of running small outlets is that they hardly need seven employees as compared to hotels where at least 15 are needed. Hotel and restaurant consultant Savio D’sa says while the take-away joints are part of innovation, he said those who run such joints must be cautious. “Just jumping in the bandwagon without any planning makes no business sense. They should ensure quality, offer various options as well as give timely deliveries,” said D’sa, adding, “It would be interesting to see how this food business evolves when people start frequenting the hotels in the post Covid-19 scenario.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-smaller-budgets-fewer-staff-takeaway-joints-mushroom-across-mumbai/story-Gy6u7G63cgw5VsD4zwpXgP.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Plea challenging Class 8 board exams: HC seeks response from Haryana govt by Dec 14||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from the Haryana government on the plea of private schools alleging introduction of board examination for Class 8 students in violation of Right to Education Act, 2009. The plea was filed by Kulbhushan Sharma, president of NISA EDUCATIO (National Independent Schools’ Alliance), a pan India society of private schools registered in Delhi with 286 members in Haryana alone. The court was told that on June 25, director elementary education, Haryana, passed an order regarding the board examination to be conducted for the students of Class 8 for only those who are studying in schools affiliated with the Haryana Board of School Education. In September, the board demanded continuation and affiliation fee of ₹8,000 and ₹ 2,000 from the member schools recognised upto Class 8. The court was told that the move is against the Right to Education Act, 2009 and rules framed by the state under the law that states no board examination upto Class 8 can be taken and classification of the students could not be done. The response has been sought by December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/plea-challenging-class-8-board-exams-hc-seeks-response-from-haryana-govt-by-dec-14/story-FjjTIwoAeoNnRpyr2bjPHN.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ambience mall case: CBI submits status report before HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday submitted a sealed cover status report before the Punjab and Haryana high court related to the probe in the alleged illegal conversion of residential land to raise the Ambience Mall in Gurugram. The agency had registered an FIR in August on orders of the high court.The bench of justice Rajan Gupta and justice Karamjit Singh did not make any observation on probe and recorded that the status report has been submitted in a sealed cover. “It has been opened, perused and resealed. It has been stated in the report that the investigation is being carried out in right earnest and another status report will be submitted before the court in January, 2021,” the order reads. The next hearing will now take place on January 18. The petition in the high court had alleged that 18.98 acres of land on Delhi-Jaipur national highway in Gurugram earmarked for Ambience Lagoon Island Residential Complex was reduced to just 7.9 acres and a commercial complex was built on the remaining land. Such violation of the builder-buyer agreement and provisions of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975 was not possible without the collusion of officials and builders, it alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambience-mall-case-cbi-submits-status-report-before-hc/story-pDCFnG2gSfl1Au9szJeUnO.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||7 months after services resume, 310 passengers travel on Mumbai’s AC locals||Seven months after they ceased operations owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown, the air-conditioned local trains resumed services on Thursday. Ten AC train services operated on Thursday between Churchgate and Virar railway stations, on which 310 passengers travelled. Of these, 300 were season ticket pass holders, while the remaining 10 had journey tickets. The railway authorities, along with the railway protection force (RPF) and government railway police (GRP) personnel conducted thermal screenings of passengers outside the stations. “AC local train services have resumed and all the passengers travelling are being screened. We will further evaluate the number of passengers and later introduce more services.” said a senior Western Railway official.Also Read: Dabbawalas, consulates staff allowed to travel in local trainsThere has been no change in the temperature setting inside the AC locals and it has been maintained at 24 degrees. Passenger associations’ have raised concerns with the resumption of AC trains, citing the increased risk in the spread of Covid-19 owing to the lack of proper ventilation. “The decision to resume AC trains is concerning, as there is no social distancing inside compartments. The train does not have adequate ventilation facilities and if any asymptomatic person travels on one compartment, it could pose a risk of the virus spreading to other passengers onboard, too,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. Also Read| Mumbai power outage: Western, Central Railway resume servicesDespite repeated attempts, Western Railway officials had not responded to HT’s queries over the issue of ventilation on AC locals till the time of going to press.The Western Railway had suspended AC local trains on March 20, while local train services were suspended in the city on March 23, to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Western Railway started 700 daily train services, while Central Railway is operating 481 locals in the city for employees working in the essential services sector, the differently-abled passengers and cancer patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/7-months-after-services-resume-310-passengers-travel-on-mumbai-s-ac-locals/story-2KspoA2VDqY2Aev0nsfBaM.html
16-10-2020||City||Heavy rain causes flooding in parts of Maharashtra; crops suffer immense damage||Heavy rainfall across various parts of Maharashtra since Wednesday night led to flooding and large-scale damage to crops in in several parts of Maharashtra. The state government has requested the Centre for financial aid, as farmers have faced heavy losses in due to incessant rainfall. Crops have suffered immense damages in Baramati, Pune, Solapur and Satara regions of western Maharashtra, Latur and Osmanabad regions of Marathwada region and Konkan’s Sindhudurg region. “The central government should send a team to access the damage and join hands with the state government in providing aid to the farmers who have been battered by the rain,” said Vijay Wadettiwar, state’s relief and rehabilitation minister. “We were happy with the crops but an overnight rain caused a disaster,” said Kakasaheb Mane, a farmer from at Solapur. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti has warned of agitation if farmers are not provided relief immediately. “We will be forced to come on streets if we don’t get immediate relief,” he said. Pune city also witnessed flooding after the downpour. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Supriya Sule blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Pune Municipal Corporation for the state of affairs. “There is no planning by the BJP-led administration at all,” said Sule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heavy-rain-causes-flooding-in-parts-of-maharashtra-crops-suffer-immense-damage/story-OWSgoJO8YskXExVsWbiVTO.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai man booked for raping 24-year-old stage dancer on promise of marriage||Oshiwara police have registered a first information report (FIR) against a man for allegedly raping a 24-year-old stage dancer. The case was registered on Wednesday after police received a written application from the survivor stating that the suspect had been sexually assaulting her since a year, with fake promises of marriage.According to police, in November 2019, the complainant met the accused at the Andheri venue at which she performs. He then contacted her on social media and the two became friends. Within a few days of meeting each other, he promised to marry her. The woman claimed in her statement that, since then, the accused had sexually assaulted her on multiple occasions and recently refused to marry her. Dayanand Bangar, senior inspector, Oshiwara police station, said, “We have registered the offence and are investigating the case.” The accused has been booked under sections 376 (2)(n) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman), and 417 (punishment for cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-booked-for-raping-24-year-old-stage-dancer-on-promise-of-marriage/story-o7UJZVrTHVIDfrT4kNizvI.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records decade’s highest 24-hour October rain||After intense overnight thunderstorms with gusty winds and continuous rain on Wednesday and Thursday, Mumbai recorded the highest 24-hour October rainfall in 10 years. Due to intermittent spells of heavy rain, the city also received its second-highest monthly rainfall (165.7 mm) in a decade. The highest was in 2012 when 197.7mm of rainfall was recorded in October.Mumbai also surpassed its average October rainfall (89.3 mm) due to overnight showers.The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded 86.5 mm rain between 8.30 am Wednesday and 8.30 am Thursday with the majority of the rainfall recorded overnight (8.30 pm and 8.30 am). Prior to this, the decade’s highest one day October rain was recorded in 2011 (October 13) at 71 mm. The all-time 24 hour record was October 4, 1988 at 140.8 mm. Between 8.30 am Wednesday and 8.30 am Thursday, the Colaba weather station representative of south Mumbai recorded 115.8 mm. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) did not have past rain data for Colaba for October but said this was one of the highest 24 hour rain ever recorded during the month. “The city and suburbs both witnessed intense thunderstorm activity through the night with dense cloud cover over Mumbai located 10 km from the ground leading to widespread rain activity. Early morning commuters face severe difficulties due to waterlogging in low lying areas,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general western region IMD. Location wise rainfall showed maximum showers was recorded at Worli 110.8 mm followed by 101 mm in Navi Mumbai, and 97.2mm in Mazagaon. Rest of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region recorded rain varying between 50mm and 85mm over the past 24 hours.On Thursday between 8.30am and 8.30pm, south Mumbai recorded 34.8mm rain while 20.9mm was recorded in the suburbs. Thundershowers were recorded from afternoon onwards. Hosalikar added that intense cloud cover was observed off the coast of Mumbai since Thursday morning. “The well marked low pressure area is now located over Konkan. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and emerge into the Arabian Sea off the Maharashtra coast, and intensify into a depression over Arabian Sea over the next 24 hours,” said Hosalikar. Meanwhile, the weather bureau downgraded the red alert issued for Friday to a yellow alert on Thursday afternoon. The alert said the entire Konkan coast, including Mumbai, was expected to receive heavy rain across isolated areas during the latter half of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-decade-s-highest-24-hour-october-rain/story-0r3i4lTH8ITuzlbDlweNsK.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education board extends deadline to apply for eligibility certificates to December 15||After results of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary Education (HSC) exams were declared late this year in July, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has now extended the deadline to apply for the eligibility certificate.According to a recent circular issued by the board, students have till December 15 to apply for their eligibility certificates. The earlier deadline to do so was October 15.“With the Covid-19 crisis and the resultant lockdown, students are likely to have difficulties in procuring the certificates from their previous academic institutes. In light of this, an extension will be given for applications. Similarly, educational institutes have been asked to ensure that all such students get their certificates in time,” stated the circular.Students who switch education boards after Class 10 or Class 12 have to get an eligibility certificate from their institute (school or college). Similarly, students who enrol in colleges outside of the state and the country have to seek eligibility certificates from the board to be able to join the new institute.The board has digitised the application process for eligibility certificates. “This year, since results came in late, students had very little time to procure their eligibility certificates. We ensured that all such requests were processed from our end early. The board has handled hundreds of such queries over the last few days,” said an official from the Mumbai divisional board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-board-extends-deadline-to-apply-for-eligibility-certificates-to-december-15/story-SQW6bClxO8F6Vl4MDz0o2J.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||2 fake social media accounts of I-T joint commissioner used to con her friends out of money; Mumbai Police issue warning to internet users||Gamdevi police have registered a first information report based on the complaint of a joint commissioner of the income tax (I-T) department, after an unknown person created two fake social media accounts in her name to con her friends into sending money. The accused allegedly told people on the complainant’s friends list to help with medical expenses of an acquaintance.Targetting Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers and other senior government officials is a new modus operandi that cyber fraudsters have adopted to cheat people, said state cyber police.The complainant, Smita Verma, is a resident of Income Tax Colony, Peddar Road. In her police complaint she stated that on October 12, she received a call from her friend Shailendra Pandey informing her that he received a message on a social media website from an account featuring her name and photo.“Pandey told the complainant that he also received a photo of a physically-ill woman. The message stated that the daughter of one of Verma’s friend has met an accident and urgently needed ₹15,000 for her treatment and requested Pandey to deposit the same to a UPI (Unified Payments Interface) ID,” said an officer from Gamdevi police station.The complainant told Pandey that she had not sent any such message.After Pandey sent her screenshots of the fake accounts, Verma approached the police and lodged a complaint (of which HT has a copy).Gamdevi police registered a case against an unidentified person under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 511 (attempting to commit offences) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 66C (identity theft) and 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the Information Technology Act. Investigators will soon be writing to the service provider, seeking the IP address details from which the fake profiles were created, said another police officer.When contacted, Verma declined to comment on the matter.Such cases have been on the rise in the past few weeks, with IPS, IAS, IRS officers from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar and Kerala being the main targets. “We have been receiving similar complaints, including two from senior IPS officers. Fraudsters target them as they are respectable figures in society and victims would believe any ‘story’ linked to their names,” said Balsingh Rajput, superintendent of state cyber police.“In such cases, people should first contact the person from whose account he/she received a message requesting financial help, and confirm if the message is genuine. Internet users should never send money to anyone based on interactions on social media without making a preliminary enquiry. If they identify it as a fraud, they should post a public message on their social media account alerting their friends and relatives about the same,” Rajput said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-fake-social-media-accounts-of-i-t-joint-commissioner-used-to-con-her-friends-out-of-money-mumbai-police-issue-warning-to-internet-users/story-wBbqew3ZfCHGsuruif2bxL.html
16-10-2020||Bangalore||45-year-old bar owner shot dead in Bengaluru||A 45-year-old bar owner was shot dead by motorcycle-borne men here on Thursday, police said.Manish Shetty, a native of Koppa town in Chikkamagaluru district, had just come out of the bar near Brigade Road when he was shot at by the assailants who then sped away, the police said.Manish was rushed to a private hospital but succumbed to injuries, they said.Police suspect that a double-barrel gun was used in the incident.A case of murder has been registered, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/45-year-old-bar-owner-shot-dead-in-bengaluru/story-dJQLqVrA7YM8bLudYlvp3K.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||TB patients begin slow return to Mumbai hospital||Footfall of patients at the city’s civic-run Sewri Tuberculosis (TB) Hospital, the country’s largest such facility, is slowly returning to pre-Covid levels, thanks to the easing of curbs imposed since March. In Mumbai, till Wednesday, 18 of the 135 active TB patients co-infected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, have died. Every year, around 45,000 people are diagnosed with TB in Mumbai. Due to the restrictions imposed during the national lockdown and fear of getting exposed to the novel coronavirus, TB patients couldn’t visit the hospital for diagnosis. As per data provided by the hospital, before Covid-19, the hospital used to receive more than 1,400 patients in their OPD every month. Since April, however, there was a drastic decline in the number of patients. In February, 1,405 patients visited the hospital’s OPD for consultation. The following month, when the first Covid-19 case was reported in Mumbai, the number dropped to 1,235. In April, it further dipped to 996. With the gradual spread of the virus, the numbers dived to 749, 708, 879 and 688 in May, June, July and August. Last month, with the relaxation in lockdown, the number of patients’ visits rose to 979 for the first time since May. Doctors have cautioned that the next few months will be crucial to gauge the adverse effect of delay in diagnosis and treatment of suspected TB patients owing to the lockdown. “We have started getting more patients with the opening up of public transport. Also, as Covid-19 cases have come under control in the city, the fear of transmission has decreased,” said Dr Lalit Anande, medical superintendent of the hospital. “However, we are yet to start getting patients from far-off areas.” For instance, a 39-year-old Borivli resident was diagnosed with multiple-drug resistant TB in November 2019. She also lost her job due to her illness, following which she sought treatment at Sewri TB Hospital. “Soon, the lockdown was declared and I had to stop going to the hospital as I couldn’t afford to travel in rented vehicles. My relatives pooled in money to help with my follow-ups at a private clinic. Last week, for the first time since April, I visited the hospital in a public bus, as I was feeling breathless,” she said. Admissions at the hospital have also increased by 51% –196 patients in April, which rose to 296 in September. Along with public hospitals, private hospitals have also started to witness a spike in the number of TB patients. “During the initial month of the pandemic, we received less than 2,000 cases. But last month, we recorded 2,785 patients. From July onwards, the number has started to rise,” said Dr Pranita Tipre, deputy health officer, TB, BMC. At Sewri hospital Since the outbreak of Covid-19, 128 TB patients co-infected with the coronavirus have undergone treatment at the hospital. Of these, half were recovered or latent (when the bacteria remain dormant in the body) TB patients. At the hospital, 14 patients have succumbed to the infection. This takes the mortality rate at the hospital to 11%, which is much higher than the city’s death rate (2.2%). According to officials at the hospital, most deaths were a result of delayed diagnosis and treatment. As both Covid-19 and TB affect the lungs, it often leads to misdiagnosis. “Of the 14 deaths, eight were reported during the initial days of the pandemic. All patients who died were either brought or transferred to the hospital when they were extremely critical. This week, one co-infected patient died due to acute pneumonia. He was also referred from a private hospital,” said Dr Anande. Next few months crucial Due to their compromised lung condition, TB patients are most vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. When the outbreak was reported in the city’s slums, health experts feared the spread among TB patients. Seven months on, even though Sars-CoV-2 has infected less than 1% TB patients in Mumbai, doctors said there are chances that TB cases might spike due to irregularities in the treatment of TB patients. “Globally, Covid-19 has had an enormous impact on the number of people seeking and receiving healthcare for TB. India is now dealing with a large-scale syndemic (cluster of epidemics) of TB and Covid-19. Both respiratory infections need attention. Delayed TB diagnosis and treatment might substantially increase TB mortality in the future,” said Madhukar Pai, director, McGill International TB Centre, Canada, in an email interview to HT. When TB patients don’t take their medicines regularly, they can develop multiple-drug resistant TB, where the chances of mortality are higher. Also, if a person gets delayed in diagnosis, it cannot only lead to his death, but also infect others. “We don’t know to what extent the pandemic has delayed the treatment of patients. It will take at least five-seven months for the symptoms of drug resistance to show. Also, we have to check if family members of delayed patients also contract the infection,” said Dr Yasin Dholakia, secretary, Maharashtra State Anti-Tuberculosis Association. In September, the National TB Elimination Programme announced a Rapid Response Plan to mitigate the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on TB epidemic. “In the immediate term, I hope the Indian government will fully fund and rapidly implement this rapid response plan,” said Pai. TB co-infected patients cured with vitamin and antioxidants At a time, when doctors across the city are treating Covid-19 patients with promising drugs, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, the Sewri TB Hospital cured 104 patients with vitamins and antioxidants. “For years, we have been dealing with TB, which is also an air-borne infection. So, we know the technique of how to treat a patient with lung infections. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have been treating patients with vitamin C dosage. Later, we added antioxidants, an effective therapeutic solution for treatment of hyper inflammation that occurs due to Sars-CoV-2 virus,” said Dr Anande. “It also protects patients from cytokine storms (when the body’s immune system attacks its own cells),” he said. Centre directs RT-PCR test on newly diagnosed TB patients In September, the Union health ministry ordered state governments to mandatorily test all newly diagnosed TB patients for Covid-19 with reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Health activists said the state is yet to implement the directive. In Maharashtra, almost 20,000 new patients get diagnosed with TB every month. “This (test) would have been able to identify active and latent TB patients who are more susceptible to Covid-19 infection. But even after a month, it is still on paper,” said Dr Abhijit More, a health activist. “Field workers are not even aware of the new rule.” As per the new rule, all suspected Covid-19 patients with symptoms have to undergo chest X-ray. RS Adhikari, acting joint director (TB) in the state, said, “We will be holding meetings with the district TB officers about the circular and take a call on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/tb-patients-begin-slow-return-to-city-hospital/story-6aFIFC1i1YvILoWdhNJUxI.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Blacklist firm for subcontracting 100% work for Mumbai Sewage Disposal Project-II: Yashwant Jadhav to BMC chief||While pointing out major irregularities in subcontracting of civic works in the city, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav has demanded blacklisting of a civic contractor for subcontracting the work.Jadhav has written to the municipal commissioner, redirecting his attention to violations in subcontracting and demanded stricter vigilance in all tender processes. “As per BMC’s norms, contractors can only subcontract 25% of the total work awarded. However, it has been brought to my notice that this particular contractor has subcontracted 100% of the work. My demand is not only to blacklist such contractors but to also penalise them with a heavy fine,” the Shiv Sena leader told HT.The contractor in question was hired by BMC for a ₹234-crore civic contract, which is a part of its ambitious Mumbai Sewage Disposal Project-II (MSDP). While municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal was unavailable for comment despite multiple attempts, P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (MSDP), said, “I have not seen the complaint. We will look into it.”Subcontracting usually leads to compromises in quality of civic works, say some elected representatives. Samajwadi Party (SP) member of legislative Assembly (MLA) Rais Shaikh said, “Big contractors use their qualifications to get expensive civic projects, and then subcontract the work to others. This system of subcontracting is rampant in BMC. Majority of the road repair works are subcontracted, where the original contractor takes some percentage of the total payment and gets the work done by multiple subcontractors. A stricter on-site vigil is the solution to stop this system.”Under MSDP II, the civic body has planned seven water treatment plants at Malad, Worli, Dharavi, Versova, Ghatkopar, Bandra and Bhandup, with a capacity of generating 1,700 million litres per day (MLD) of tertiary water, which will add 50% extra water supply to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/blacklist-firm-for-subcontracting-100-work-for-mumbai-sewage-disposal-project-ii-yashwant-jadhav-to-bmc-chief/story-K4CvQcKZsqRid5OTIF7YsM.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||SIT to probe irregularities in Maharashtra’s Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan scheme: State home minister Anil Deshmukh||A day after the state cabinet announced plans to conduct a probe into alleged irregularities regarding water conservation scheme Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan (JSA), state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said that the probe will be carried out by a special investigation team (SIT). He said that appropriate action will be taken against the guilty after the report.The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday decided to probe the former Devendra Fadnavis government’s flagship project on which ₹9,634 crore was spent in the past five years. “#CAG report has raised many questions on the quality, cost & results of the Jalyukt Shivar scheme launched by Ex-CM @Dev_Fadnavis Ji. Hence we have decided to hand it over to #SIT for the investigation of irregularities in this scheme & then take further actions accordingly,” Deshmukh tweeted.The home minister said that besides strictures by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), there were complaints of largescale corruption in the scheme.According to Mantralaya officials, the SIT will comprise officials from the water resources, water conservation and police departments. “A committee of senior officials from these departments will have to probe technical flaws, variation in the tendering process and criminal offences related to corruption. First information reports (FIR) have been registered in a few districts against the irregularities in the works allotted at the local level. Police officers will look into the criminal aspect of the irregularities,” said an official from the water resources department.Deshmukh told his cabinet colleagues on Wednesday that the home department will depute the finest officers to conduct the probe. The JSA project involved deepening and widening of streams, construction of cement and earthen stop dams, work on nullahs and digging of farm ponds.Girish Mahajan, former water resources minister, said that the scheme was implemented transparently. “More than 6 lakh works were undertaken under JSA and the powers to allot these contracts were given at the district council and district collectorate level. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has been citing the CAG report while alleging corruption in the scheme, but the report has not mentioned any corruption,” he said.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashish Shelar said that JSA was not a scheme but a public movement. “Conducting a probe into it is like investigating farmers, workers and common people directly involved in it. We are not against the probe, but it should not be politically motivated. The MVA government will fall flat on its face after the probe report,” he said.The CAG report tabled in the state legislature on September 8 slammed the Fadnavis government for its failure to implement JSA envisaged to make villages in Maharashtra drought-free. Besides the deficiencies in planning and lack of provision of adequate funds for maintenance of works, JSA failed to achieve water neutrality in drought-prone villages and increase the ground-water level as intended, the report stated. IT added that even after spending ₹9,634 crore, the Abhiyan had little impact in drought-prone districts, which ended up deploying more tankers than in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sit-to-probe-irregularities-in-maharashtra-s-jalyukt-shivar-abhiyan-scheme-state-home-minister-anil-deshmukh/story-AZ3AQIDMGjXEAMZf1ZZg2N.html
16-10-2020||City||At 2,448, Borivli has most number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai||While the city’s active Covid-19 cases have come down in the last one month, the western suburb of Borivli has stayed on top of the list of active cases since September 13, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. Borivli, which has 2,448 active cases, is followed by Malad, Kandivli and Andheri. Civic officials said active cases are higher in high-rises or non-slum areas. “At least 80% of the cases are coming from high-rises. In slums, it seems, residents may have developed antibodies due to which we are not witnessing cases anymore.” The BMC’s sero-surveillance conducted in two phases had revealed that the ratio of antibodies in those residing in slums has increased significantly, whereas the ratio of antibodies has increased marginally in non-slum areas. Bhagyashree Kapse, assistant municipal commissioner of R-Central ward, which covers Borivli, said, “We have over 15,000 cases in Borivli and more than 13,000 cases are from non-slums. The reason for high cases is that many citizens who opt for home isolation do not isolate themselves properly in their houses and end up mingling with other members from their house.” Kapse said, “Another reason is unlocking. Of the total cases, more than 80% cases have been reported post unlock. This is because Borivli has a high number of business class population that has now started going out.”Ten administrative wards in the city covering Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Andheri, Mulund, Ghatkopar, Chowpatty, Ghatkopar and Malabar Hill have more than 10,000 cases. Wards covering areas of Dharavi, Dadar, Mahim, Vikhroli, Ghatkopar, Kurla, Malad, Andheri and Borivli have more than 400 deaths. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said the situation in the city has improved in the last one month despite a daily case load of 2,000 to 2,500 cases. Chahal on Monday said, “Exactly a month ago on September 11, BMC had 26,632 active cases, whereas on October 11, the number of active cases was 22,369. The average death rate over one month is 2.1%, resulting in decrease in overall death rate from 4.9% (as of September 11) to 4.14% (as of October 11).” Chahal added, “The number of vacant Covid beds which was 4,165 on September 11 (including 85 ICU beds) has increased to 4,922 on October 11 (including 257 ICU beds).” On Thursday, the city reported 2,119 cases taking the tally to 236,721; 46 deaths took the toll to 9,601 Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based private health consultant, said, “There are chances that in the coming days too we will see more cases from non-slum areas owing to the antibodies, as seen in the sero survey.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-2-448-borivli-has-most-number-of-active-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai/story-8vL4wtFSmgAy5npVHcGNkL.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||47-year-old held with heroin worth ₹2.40 crore in Mumbai||The anti-narcotics cell (ANC) arrested a 47-year-old drug supplier from Dharavi on Wednesday and seized heroin worth ₹2.40 crore from him. The accused, Manzar Din Mohammad Shaikh, was previously arrested in 2018 with 90 gram heroin, and he became more active and started supplying contraband to peddlers across Mumbai after he was released on bail, said ANC officers. “Shaikh was in direct touch with a drug distributor in Rajasthan. A police team soon will visit to arrest him [the distributor],” said an ANC officer.Based on a tip-off, ANC officers laid a trap near Kunchi-Korve Nagar in Dharavi on Wednesday evening and apprehended Shaikh. During search, police found 1.2 kilogram heroin from his possession. Following the seizure, a case was registered against Shaikh under sections of the Narcotic Drugs Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. “Shaikh is a resident of Indira Nagar in Dharavi and was previously arrested by ANC for a similar offence. But as the quantity was less, he got bail within three months and started supplying drugs again,” said police inspector Shashank Shelke of Ghatkopar ANC unit. In a crackdown on drugs peddlers and suppliers since the last couple of days, the city police and crime branch have arrested around two dozens of drug peddlers from the city, said deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade, who holds the charge of ANC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/47-year-old-held-with-heroin-worth-2-40-crore-in-mumbai/story-1bXbvcRwBafYGIQaj38IzI.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai college charging illegal fees, allege students||Management studies students of NL Dalmia Institute of management Studies and Research in Mira Road have approached the state Fee Regulatory Authority (FRA) alleging that the college was charging fees over and above the fee approved by the regulatory body. Based on the complaint received from students, FRA, which regulates the fees for all professional courses offered by colleges in Maharashtra, has sought a response from the college. In a meeting held on Tuesday, FRA granted the institute time till Friday to respond, according to the minutes of the meeting recorded on the official website of FRA. Seema Saini, chief executive officer and administrative head of NL Dalmia Institute of Management Studies and Research, said no official communication had been received from FRA. “I have received a telephone call from FRA wherein I informed FRA that we will need time to respond. However, we will wait for official word from FRA before commenting,” Saini said. In their complaint, several first- and second-year students pursuing Masters in Management Studies have alleged that the college was asking students to pay around ₹2.3 lakh over and above the approved fees under the guise of ‘other charges’. FRA had approved an annual fee of ₹1.87 lakh for the academic year 2019-20 and for the academic year 2020-21, the fee is ₹1.9 lakh. Students alleged that the institute, which has around 121 students in each batch, has been charging ₹4.15 lakh as fees. “While the approved fee is collected as ‘tuition fee’, the rest is collected as ‘other charges’. This is illegal,” said a student on the condition of anonymity.Students, especially those from economically weaker sections, said they were having trouble availing study loans. “We are getting loan only on the tuition amount. Effectively, we end up getting very little relief as we have to pay the rest on our own,” said another student.Another student said the college was targeting students who questioned the additional fees. “We have been told indirectly that they will be causing problems in our placements,” said the student. On October 7, FRA had informed colleges that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, it planned to withdraw the 10% hike in tuition fees granted to them every year. However, on Wednesday FRA clarified that this is an appeal to colleges. “This (proposal to withdraw the hike) should be treated as an appeal rather than an order to come forward to mitigate sufferings of stakeholders,” said FRA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-college-charging-illegal-fees-allege-students/story-xVHqeOJTB0Celqd0yxV4xO.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Duo rapes minor near Mumbai||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gang raped by two men in Vasai since December 2019. The incident came to light after the survivor was found to be five months’ pregnant. The accused have been identified as her relative Deepak Shaikh, 21, and his accomplice who is yet to be identified. Shaikh has been arrested while the other accused is absconding. The minor lives with her grandparents and Shaikh in Vasai. Waliv police said that the minor narrated the ordeal to another cousin, who lives in Goregaon, following which they approached the police. “We booked the duo under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. We arrested Shaikh and produced him before the Vasai court. He has been remanded in police custody,” an officer said, adding that the police are searching for the other accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/duo-rapes-minor-near-mumbai/story-Lw8Tx1sLyayM5BZ6FJNMDN.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||27-year-old kills friend over money in Thane||A 27-year-old man allegedly murdered his friend over money issues near Kasarvadavali in Thane (West) on Thursday. The duo, both housekeeping staff, had a fight over sharing money for lunch and dinner, during which the accused allegedly assaulted the victim and fled. The victim, Raju Patel, 26, worked in Sai Nath Society near Haware City on Ghodbunder Road along with the accused Ashu Burman and another friend Prem Waghmare, 26. According to police, Patel and Burman had an altercation as Patel did not return the money he had borrowed from the accused. Patel allegedly also refused to share lunch money. During the fight, Burman picked up a rod and started assaulting Patel. Waghmare intervened and stopped Burman, however, Patel was already unconscious. Burman then fled from the spot and Waghmare took Patel to a hospital. Kasarvadavali police officers said, “All three of them live on the streets. Patel has fought with the accused several times over money. We have registered a case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code against Burman and are searching for him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/27-year-old-kills-friend-over-money-in-thane/story-VxKtgOgQZCaawJ6w2i3GAI.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Blackbuck skin, horns worth ₹3 lakh seized in Mumbai, 1 arrested||Unit 7 of Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested a 36-year-old man on Wednesday for illegally selling the skin of a blackbuck worth ₹3 lakh.The arrest was made near Ghatkopar bus depot after the crime branch received information on the accused carrying the skin and intending to sell it, said a police officer part of the team that nab the accused.“On verifying the information received, our team of officers along with forest officials went to the bus depot and found the accused John Sundarrao Yesamala, a Sewri resident, carrying a black bag with the blackbuck skin and horns estimated to be worth ₹3 lakh,” the officer said. Yesamala allegedly bought the skin from Kalyan and was trying to sell it for ₹10 lakh. He added, “Since the accused did not have license to sell the skin, a case was filed under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 at Pantnagar police station.”Predominantly herbivorous animals, the Indian Blackbuck (Antilope cervicapra) can be identified by black and white fur and is listed as an endangered animal by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) owing to poaching and habitat destruction. The animal is protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.The financial capital recorded the highest number of offences under the Environment Protection Act, 1986 in 2019 among 19 major Indian cities for the second consecutive year, according to the National Crime Records Bureau. Four cases under the WPA were recorded in 2019.Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime) said, “We are vigilant about any crime related to wildlife and environment. Any kind of poaching, trophy hunting or skin sale of animals is being taken with utmost seriousness and such offences will not be tolerated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/blackbuck-skin-horns-worth-3-lakh-seized-in-mumbai-1-arrested/story-59jDqpkWGJrXk66xqJao8L.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress holds virtual rally to oppose new farm laws||As part of its ongoing protest against the recently-passed farm laws, Maharashtra Congress organised virtual ‘Save the Farmers Rally’ on Thursday evening. The party said around 50 lakh farmers participated in the rally from 10,000 villages in more than 25 districts where the arrangement of virtual platforms has been made. Calling the new laws ‘anti-farmer’, the Congress has been demanding that they be scrapped.The virtual rally saw eminent party leaders addressing six divisional areas using a virtual platform. Congress’s Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil, state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, public works department minister and former chief minister (CM) Ashok Chavan, MP Rajiv Satav participated from Sangamner in Ahmednagar, while former CM Prithviraj Chavan addressed the rally from Kolhapur. Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh participated from Aurangabad, women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur from Amravati and energy minister Nitin Raut, dairy development minister Sunil Kedar participated from Nagpur.Patil said the Congress would compel the Narendra Modi government to withdraw the farm laws which, he claimed, would uproot the agriculture sector — the backbone of economy. He alleged that the laws were enacted to benefit a handful of industrialists who helped the Modi government in ‘dealing’ to win over MPs from opposition parties. “Modi has been against the interest of the farmers since he was the chief minister of Gujarat. The farm laws are being implemented despite the fact that they failed in Bihar after their enactment in 2006. It is an attempt of the Modi government to sell the agriculture sector like state-owned entities were sold to the industrialists,” he said.Thorat appealed to the farmers to join hands to oppose the laws and warned them of long-lasting effects if the laws are implemented. He also announced that the protest would continue till the laws were scrapped. Ashok Chavan said, “Our government will not implement the laws which are aimed to benefit a handful of industrialists. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to bring the landlord system back in the country through these laws.”Maharashtra Congress has been protesting against the laws since the past three weeks after they were passed in both the houses of parliament. After an online drive #SpeakUpForFarmers across various social media platforms on September 26, congress leaders met Maharashtra Govenor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on September 28 and demanded that the laws be scrapped. Then, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on October 2, the party held protest rallies in almost all the districts in the state. It has also began a signature campaign aimed at collecting 1 crore signatures from farmers within October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-holds-virtual-rally-to-oppose-new-farm-laws/story-T2pxtd81RpS8S8Q8yX3l6I.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Jet Airways case: Mumbai sessions court rejects ED’s plea for intervention||A sessions court on Thursday rejected the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) application to intervene in the case of cheating and criminal breach of trust registered against Jet Airways. This is the second time the agency’s plea to intervene has been rejected by the courts. On September 19, the magistrate court had denied ED the permission to intervene after the agency opposed a report filed by Mata Ramabai Ambedkar (MRA) Marg police to close the case of cheating against Jet Airways, its promoters Naresh and Anita Goyal. ED approached the sessions court on October 8, challenging the order on the grounds that the agency is probing money laundering allegations against the airlines and Goyals based on the case filed by MRA Marg police. On Thursday, the sessions court upheld the observation that ED had no locus to intervene in the case and only a complainant can intervene. After rejection of the plea, ED sought a stay on the order in order to approach the high court. The court also refused to grant a stay.MRA Marg police was probing a complaint filed by Rajendran Neruparambil, chief financial officer (CFO) of Akbar Travels of India Pvt Ltd (ATIPL), against Jet Airways and the Goyals. Neruparambil had alleged that during 2018-19, Jet Airways owed ATIPL payment of ₹46.05 crore. He further alleged Goyals had engaged ATIPL in business despite being aware of the financial crisis faced by Jet Airways, which shut down operations in April 2019 and has an accumulated debt of nearly ₹8,500 crore. After conducting a probe, MRA Marg police filed a closure report in March, having found no evidence of the complainant being cheated; and sought closure on the ground that this was a civil case. ATIPL has filed a petition against the closure. ED also filed petitions against the closure report, saying the police had left out crucial facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jet-airways-case-mumbai-sessions-court-rejects-ed-s-plea-for-intervention/story-prQYCa8o1rfQyCmvi6KpZN.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Reopening movie theatres in Maharashtra: CM Uddhav Thackeray says release of SOP soon||The state government will soon decide on opening cinema halls after finalising the standard operating procedure (SOP) for them, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray told single-screen theatre and multiplex owners in a meeting on Thursday, even as officials seemed wary of a surge in Covid-19 cases owing to the upcoming festive season and relaxation of curbs.Maharashtra on Thursday reported 10,226 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,564,615, and 337 deaths, pushing the toll to 41,196.According to the draft SOP prepared by the cultural department, multiplexes can be started with 50% occupancy, occupying alternate seats, and with other Covid-19 precautions. The CM acknowledged that the entertainment industry will help move the wheels of the state economy faster and added that the government does not get any joy by keep theatres shut. Meanwhile, Mumbai’s restaurants, bars, eateries and food courts can now remain open till 11.30pm and other business establishments can stay open till 9.30pm, according to an order that was issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) late on Thursday. Also, restaurants, bars, malls, food courts and businesses will be allowed to open at 7am, instead of 9.30am. Nitin Datar, president, Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India, who was present in the meeting held via video-conferencing, told HT the exhibition sector will see huge losses if theatres are not opened during the festival season.“Since all other businesses including malls and Metros, etc, are now opened, we asked the CM to allow theatres also to start with all necessary precautions. He was very concerned about the safety and health of the people, and rightly so. He gave examples that wherever cinemas were reopened in western countries, there was again a lockdown… We explained that Navratri, Dussehra, Diwali and later Christmas are a big season for the exhibition sector. If cinemas do not open, then there will be a huge loss,” Datar said.Thackeray in the meeting pointed out that people sitting in an air-conditioned cinema hall for over two hours can be susceptible to the virus. A statement from CMO said, “There is a study that Covid-19 transmission can increase during winter, so we have to go cautiously. We are gradually opening up various things in Maharashtra and our target is that there should not be a need to reimpose lockdown. It is important to take precautions so that people sitting in a cinema hall for two hours in a closed air-conditioned room do not catch the infection.”Maharashtra’s Thursday caseload of 10,226 Covid-19 cases is line with its average of 12,011 daily cases in the past 15 days,. New infections included 2,119 cases from Mumbai, pushing the city’s case tally to 236,721.The state’s 337 new fatalities reported on Thursday, 153 were from last two days, 46 from last week and remaining 138 from the period before it, according to the state health department. State’s case fatality rate is 3.63%.Though the state has maintained the average of daily infections at 12,011 in last 15 days, the state authorities expect a spike in next couple of weeks in the wake of unlocking measures coinciding with the festivals.“Our caseload as well as positivity rate is decreasing despite the drop in the number of daily tests. The decline in the cases has been witnessed across the state. This means Maharashtra has reached a plateau and the downward trend of cases may begin soon. But, at the same time, there is apprehension of a possible spike in cases in next few weeks. We have opened up more activities, including restaurants, bars, and are operating more trains. Navratri is beginning from Saturday, which could see more number of people coming out of their houses. As a result of this, cases may go up by end of the month,” the officer said.Dr Shashank Joshi, one of the members of the state-appointed task force for the clinical management of Covid-19 patients, said that there could be a spike in next couple of weeks. “Across India and in Maharashtra there is clear-cut decline in cases. But the unlocking coinciding with winter setting in, the unseasonal climatic changes, rise in pollution, could result in spike in cases. The Covid-appropriate behaviour of citizens and not letting down the guard will help us in maintaining the downward trend. Next six weeks are very crucial,” he said.Dr Joshi said that late reporting to the health centres by symptomatic people is leading to high CFR. Meanwhile, Thackeray, during his meeting with theatre owners, also said that attempts to malign and finish off the Hindi film industry in Mumbai or to shift it from the state capital will not be tolerated. Thackeray’s statement on film industry came in the backdrop of the probe into the Sushant Singh Rajput’s case and media coverage that was seen as a deliberate attempt to target Bollywood. Thackeray said that Mumbai was not only the country’s financial capital, but also its cultural capital. “Bollywood enjoys a following across the globe. The film industry generates huge employment, while actors get popular because of the movies. However, in the past few days, attempts have been made to malign the image of the film industry by certain quarters, which is painful. Moves to finish off Bollywood or shift it elsewhere will never be tolerated,” a statement from the CMO quoted Thackeray as saying at a meeting with multiplex and theatre owners.(with inputs from Eeshanpriya MS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/reopening-movie-theatres-in-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-says-release-of-sop-soon/story-5HQXaHNzEGaUh65t6Wl9gJ.html
16-10-2020||City||8 more farmers fined for stubble burning in Mohali||The district administration has challaned eight more farmers and imposed a fine to the tune of Rs 20,000 for burning crop residue.Officials of the district administration and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Thursday caught the farmers red-handed while burning stubble in Banur, Bakarpur village in Kharar, Manauli Surat, Sonauli and Khaspur in Dera Bassi, Sohara and Patran in Kharar, Khaspur in Banur. Stubble burning is completely banned in the state. This year, 10 cases of stubble burning have been reported in the district.A senior official of the district administration said that eight farmers were found burning stubble despite the ban and all owned less than two acres of land. “We have issued a challan of Rs 2,500 each. Directions have been issued to the revenue department to make red entries in the land records of six offenders and an FIR has been registered against one farmer under Section 39 of the Air Act, 1981. Under this act, if charges are proved, they can be jailed for six months and fined up to Rs 10,000 or both,” he said.Red entry means the farmer will not be eligible for any government facility or loan from any bank or institution. If stubble is burned on less than 2 acres, a challan of Rs 2,500 will be issued, a challan of Rs 5,000 will be issued for 2 to 5 acres and for above 5 acres, a challan of Rs 15,000 will be issued.The official said that Punjab Remote Sensing Centre’s data showed 45 sites of stubble burning in the district. “But we spotted farm fires at only eight sites,” he added.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We have formed Rapid Response Teams and appointed village-level nodal officers who would monitor the area under their jurisdiction and report stubble burning if any.” He said that they have been trained to use the ATR mobile app through which they will share on-the-spot action taken. Response time is fixed and it is mandatory for every officer to update action taken in the stipulated period.The area under paddy cultivation in the district is around 25,800 hectares which is expected to result in 1.29 lakh quintals of crop residue. Last year, Mohali was third in the state among the districts which recorded the least stubble burning incidents. In 2019, 82 people were penalised to the tune of Rs 2.55 lakh and seven FIRs were registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-more-farmers-fined-for-stubble-burning-in-mohali/story-fSqk3Eav7DczAqv9nid1DO.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra governor showed how someone in his post shouldn’t behave: Saamana||Saamana, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece, on Thursday launched an attack on Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over his letter to the state chief minister and party chief Uddhav Thackeray and alleged that it was an example of how a person occupying the gubernatorial post should not behave.The editorial pointed out that the CM responded to the letter in his signature “Thackeray style”.“Bhagat Singh Koshyari has shown how a person occupying the post of a Governor should not behave. Koshyari may have been a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) pracharak or a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)leader, but now he is the governor of a progressive state such as Maharashtra. He seems to have forgotten the post he occupies for his convenience. The BJP leaders of Maharashtra indulge in a slander campaign against the state government every morning. It is understandable. But why is the governor a part of the campaign?” the editorial alleged.There has been a bitter exchange of letters between Koshyari and Thackeray. The governor had demanded that places of worship be reopened, despite the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, and also asked Thackeray if he had suddenly “turned secular”.In a strong rebuttal, the CM questioned the governor whether he did not believe in secularism, a key tenet of the Constitution. Thackeray also slammed Koshyari for his statement that his brand of Hindutva did not need any certificate from the latter.“The Governor’s letter to the CM reeks of foolishness. The CM has hit out against it only once and that was enough... This resonance of the tolling bells (referring to BJP’ Ghantanaad agitation to reopen the places of worship) must have reached Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Minister of Home Affairs Amit Shah’s ears. They must recall the governor to save the prestige of the Raj Bhavan,” it said.The party mouthpiece lauded the CM’s response to the Governor’s letter.“The CM caught the loincloth (dhoti) of the Governor and shook the Raj Bhavan. Using this language will be unconstitutional. But it is true that the CM responded in his signature Thackeray style,” it added.The editorial slammed Koshyari, who is also holding the additional charge of Goa , and asked why he had not written a letter to Goa CM Pramod Sawant demanding reopening of places of worship.It alleged that famous temples in Goa such as Mangeshi, Mahalaxmi, Mahalsa are still shut. “Why has governor Koshyari not asked Goa CM Sawant to reopen the places of worship? Such questions are only asked in Maharashtra because the state doesn’t have a BJP CM,” the editorial further alleged.Meanwhile, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that Koshyari merely forwarded representations that he got from various quarters on reopening places of worship. He said, “We have seen what Sena’s new ally Congress had done in the past when their governors used to dismiss governments without any considerations. We have seen Romesh Bhandari and Buta Singh dismissed government in Delhi and Bihar. Here the governor has merely written a letter and so much politics is being played over it.”Upadhye also defended the Governor’s “secular” remark and said, “The term secularism was not there since the beginning, it was added to the constitution much later. Besides that, the governor asked a question what people have in mind whether they (Sena) has abandoned Hindutva.” He added that Hindutva is not a religion but a way of life, according to the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-governor-showed-how-someone-in-his-post-shouldn-t-behave-saamana/story-hjQ9cAB2IE4ZfdTzbX42gI.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC dismisses plea for CBI probe in alleged false drug case||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the plea for Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) investigations in an alleged false drug case instituted by the Chandigarh Police against a witness in a graft case involving suspended station house officer Jaswinder Kaur and other police personnel. The FIR was registered by the Sector-39 police against Samdarsh Kumar alias Joseph who works for Prem Singh Bisht, a property dealer and complainant in a CBI case alleging corruption in Chandigarh police in 2017. Bisht and Joseph had approached the court seeking that the probe be transferred to the CBI. The FIR was registered under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act against Kumar at the Sector 39 police station on June 19.Joseph and Bisht in their petition before the high court had alleged that some Chandigarh police officials had pressurised them to withdraw an application before a trial court seeking summoning of Jaswinder Kaur, who had been nabbed by the CBI in another graft case this year. The duo had alleged that Chandigarh police had implicated Joseph to force him to withdraw Kaur’s summoning application in a 2017 bribery case.The court observed that from the reports of the director general of police it was clear that the matter had been probed after taking into consideration and examination of the material submitted by the duo but the probe panel had found the allegations ‘unfounded’. The highest ranking official of the Chandigarh police had sworn on oath that there was no conspiracy and that the examination of the material relied upon by the petitioners and additional material collected showed that the accused had been lawfully accused of being in possession of narcotic substances, the court observed dismissing the plea. However, the court also directed the police to preserve the enquiry report material based on which the police officials named by Bisht and Kumar had been given a clean chit by the top brass of the police. Joseph’s bail plea was also dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-dismisses-plea-for-cbi-probe-in-alleged-false-drug-case/story-jK1wjX11iM6RHkUTtE0E3N.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||AQI reaches ‘very poor’ on the first day of Grap winter plan in Delhi||Delhi’s air plunged into the ‘very poor’ zone for the first time this year since February on Thursday, the day when the winter segment of the Supreme Court-approved Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) — a set of anti-pollution restrictions that include pre-emptive measures to stop the air quality from deteriorating to emergency levels — kicked in.The capital’s air quality index was recorded at 312. The last time the air was this bad was between February 10-12, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) AQI bulletin. Air is categorised as very poor when the ambient PM2.5 or PM10 concentration value is between 121-250µg/m3 or 351-430 µg/m3 respectively. According to the CPCB, prolonged exposure to very poor air may cause respiratory illnesses. To be sure, the safe limits of PM10 and PM2.5 is 100µg/m3 and 60µg/m3 respectively. Also Read| Delhi pollution: What AAP government has done so far in 2020At 7am, the hourly average AQI of the city was recorded 308. As the day progressed, the levels increased and touched 320 at 11am. After noon, the air quality started showing marginal improvement, before it settled at 312 in the 4pm bulletin of the CPCB. Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) recordings also show that while the levels of PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers) and PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometers) was high till noon at most monitoring stations, it saw a drastic drop towards afternoon. At Vivek Vihar, one of the pollution hot spots, the PM10 levels on Thursday peaked at 497 at 10pm after remaining above 400 since 7am. However, it tanked to 201 at 2pm. At Okhla Phase 2, also a hot spot, PM10 levels peaked at 481 at 8am and remained above 400 till 11am. These levels dropped suddenly at 12 noon from 427 to 283 and then further to 152 at 1pm.  However, the PM levels started rising again post sundown. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that from Wednesday night to early Thursday morning, the winds over Delhi were calm, but it picked up around 9am. The impact of this improvement in wind speed was seen on the air quality by noon. “While Delhi received wind speed ranging from 6-8kmph through most of the day, this wind was northwesterly, coming from the states of Punjab and Haryana. This means that the impact of stubble burning activities here was more on Thursday. This caused the air quality to slip into the very poor zone,” Srivastava said.Wind speed picked up again in the evening, bringing down the AQI to 297 at 8pm, according to the data posed on CPCB’s Sameer app. The enforcement agencies in Delhi said on the first day of the implementation of the winter segment of Grap started with patrolling teams monitoring all kinds of polluting activities. Officials said that the focus of Wednesday’s inspection was to control open burning of garbage and other waste and the implementation of the ban on diesel generator sets. Also Read: ‘Partial’ Centre acting as ‘mouthpiece’ for polluting states, says Delhi minister Gopal RaiThe Delhi Pollution Control Commitee (DPCC) has asked all agencies to submit fortnightly action taken reports. Data from System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the air quality monitoring centre of Union ministry of earth sciences, also showed that the major reason behind Delhi’s foul air on Thursday was crop residue burning in Punjab and Haryana. Data showed that on Wednesday, 740 such fire counts were recorded from the neighbouring states. As per the Safar forecast, there will be no significant respite in the pollution levels in the coming days. “The conditions are likely to be similar in the coming three to four days. The only breather is that the wind direction is expected to change from north-westerly to south-easterly and easterly from tomorrow (Friday), which will somewhat reduce the pollutant load because of stubble burning,” Srivastava said. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said stubble is causing huge pollution across north India. “Let’s accept that stubble burning causes huge pollution every year in north India during this time. And let’s all get together to find a solution sincerely. Blame game and politics hasn’t helped anyone. People are suffering. I’m extremely worried that pollution will play havoc coupled with Covid-19.”Environment experts said the only solution to controlling pollution in Delhi which spikes to hazardous levels every winter in the national capital is a “coordinated” effort. “Winter action plan is an emergency plan, this is basically a result of all the work that is done to control pollution levels throughout the year. The way forward to control the pollution levels in Delhi has to be with all the agencies coming together with a common purpose. This winter, the biggest challenge that Delhi is likely to face is to control waste dumping and burning and vehicular pollution. Considering the limitations of public transport modes under the Covid-19 scenario, the government needs to find ways to control private trips,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aqi-reaches-very-poor-on-the-first-day-of-grap-winter-plan-in-delhi/story-aSb32ggEHAFnJusleVtuFK.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||I-T dept raids Chandigarh lawyer who allegedly took ₹217 crore from client||The Income Tax (I-T) Department has raided a “leading” Chandigarh-based advocate for allegedly evading tax and receiving Rs 217 crore “in cash”, tax officials said on Thursday. Cash amounting to Rs 5.5 crore was seized during searches. The department raided 38 premises linked to the lawyer in Haryana, Delhi and the national capital region on Wednesday, I-T officials said.In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxation (CBDT) said cash amounting to Rs 5.5 crore was seized during searches carried out against the advocate practising in the field of commercial arbitration and alternate dispute resolution.The Board did not identify the advocate.Ten bank lockers have been put under restraint, it said.“He was suspected to be receiving substantial amounts in cash from his clients to settle their disputes. Incriminating documents of unaccounted cash transactions and investments made by the assessee over several years have been found,” the department said. The CBDT that frames policy for the tax department, alleged that the lawyer in one case “had received Rs 117 crore from a client in cash, whereas he had shown only Rs 21 crore in his records, which was received through cheque”.In another case, he received more than Rs 100 crore in cash from an infrastructure and engineering company for its arbitration proceedings with a public sector company, the CBDT claimed.“The unaccounted cash received has been invested by the assessee in purchase of residential and commercial properties and in taking over of trusts engaged in running of schools. Evidences recovered indicate investment of more than Rs 100 crore in cash in several properties in posh areas in the last two years,” it said.The assessee and his associates have also purchased several schools and properties, for which more than Rs 100 crore was “paid in cash”, it said.He has also taken accommodation entries (hawala funds) worth several crores, it said.The Board said the search teams have also recovered “substantial digital data reflecting unaccounted transactions of the assessee and his associates who are financiers and builders”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/i-t-dept-raids-chandigarh-lawyer-who-allegedly-took-rs-217-cr-cash-from-client/story-ZhV55I1va7FNCmmnJLAjRM.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Senior Delhi cop to help foreign attendees of Tablighi event return home||Foreign nationals belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat facing criminal trials across India will be allowed to make representations to a senior Delhi Police official for facilitating their return to their home countries.On learning about 44 foreigners still in India, eight of whom were completely discharged while the trial remained pending against 34 others, the three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar asked the Centre on what could be done to facilitate their return home.Senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, who appeared for the foreign nationals, said, “None of the eight foreigners have been able to leave for their home countries due to the lack of availability of requisite documentation for departure, such as withdrawal of lookout circular, etc., issued by Government of India.”Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj, who appeared for the Centre, informed the Court that the prosecution had approached the trial court for a revision of its discharge order. He stated that an undertaking can be filed before the said court, which will be free to impose conditions on the persons who wish to return.He informed the court that deputy commissioner Joy Tirkey of Delhi Police’s crime branch will be the nodal officer for the remaining petitioners, who can file representations before him to obtain documents for their return travel.The bench, also comprising Justices BR Gavai and Krishna Murari, said, “The eight named persons are free to make a formal application before the Revisional Court and give an appropriate undertaking to that Court, including for their return and to remain present in Court, if and when necessary.”The bench asked the remaining foreign nationals to approach the nodal officer, who will decide on their representation within a week. This will be subject to fulfilment of necessary formalities and conditions as imposed by the court concerned, the bench said.The eight nationals belong to Thailand, Indonesia, Jordan, Kyrgyztan, Kazakhstan and Niger. These eight individuals were discharged in a criminal case lodged at Crime Branch police station in South East Delhi district. On August 6, the apex court had directed that all trials against these foreign nationals in the Capital be consolidated at the Saket district courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/senior-delhi-cop-to-help-foreign-attendees-of-tablighi-event-return-home/story-0lIQyD8oBL0c3egZefvJDP.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Miscreants set 5 vehicles ablaze in different parts of Chandigarh||Five vehicles were set on fire by unidentified miscreants in different parts of the city in the wee hours of Thursday.The police received information at around 4 am that a motorcycle and an Activa parked near a school in Sector 56, had caught fire. In his complaint, Ashwani Kumar, a resident of Sector 56 said that on Thursday morning, on hearing noises he stepped out of his house and found that his motorcycle that was parked nearby caught fire and suffered damage. The fire had also damaged an Activa that was parked next to the bike. He said that his neighbours Amit and Arun are behind the incident. A fire tender was called but by the time they could reach, the motorcycle was completely burnt. A similar incident was reported at about 4.20 am from Indira Colony in Manimajra where three vehicles were set on fire by miscreants. Mohd Kasif in his complaint to the police alleged that three persons set three vehicles— Tata Nano, Tata Ace and Tata Safari on fire. Two fire tenders rushed to the spot to douse the fire. While one vehicle was completely burnt, two were partially damaged. The police have started investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/miscreants-set-5-vehicles-ablaze-in-different-parts-of-chandigarh/story-NtUWobPd8mjpxSOQaNOuvO.html
16-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram may escape Epca’s diesel generator ban yet again||In an indication that Haryana’s NCR districts may be exempted from the ban on diesel generator sets, the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (Epca) on Thursday sought a “detailed and comprehensive affidavit” from the state government on power supply to societies still reliant on diesel gensets.While the ban has not been rescinded, Epca chairman, Bhure Lal, wrote to the Trilok Gupta, additional chief secretary (power), seeking a detailed road map to resolve the situation.If granted, this would be the fourth consecutive year that Gurugram, Faridabad and other NCR districts have been exempted from the purview of the Graded Response Action Plan’s (Grap) clause against the use of diesel generator (DG) sets throughout winter, from October 15 to March 15. In the letter, a copy of which is with HT, Lal said, “Last year an affidavit was given... confirming that all colonies will be connected to power grids before the onset of winter 2020... it was not done. In this circumstance it will be very difficult for EPCA to grant further extension.” Epca has, however, asked Haryana to submit a comprehensive plan for resolution of the situation, which would “lay down strict schedules for the colonies which are partially or fully dependent on DG.” Epca further stated that the schedules for these colonies must be staggered to ensure compliance of the action plan, during critical winter months. “The affidavits must be signed by the government, representatives of the colonies and builders. Only then will EPCA be in a position to consider any relaxation,” Lal’s letter states.A spokesperson for Epca clarified that the ongoing ban on diesel generators has in no way been lifted or relaxed yet. “Until the state government has submitted its affidavit, the ban must be enforced as ordered,” the official said. Trilok Gupta, additional chief secretary (power), could not be contacted despite multiple attempts on Thursday. Earlier this week, the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) had submitted a status report to the Epca, stating that around 26 projects in Gurugram, which either don’t have regular connections or had a lesser-than-required load, would be majorly affected by the genset ban. Officials said that there are around 60 more projects that would be partially impacted by the ban as they depend on standby power from generators, but the impact would be minimal.KC Agarwal, chief engineer, DHBVN, Gurugram, said that power availability is adequate and field teams have been deployed to correct faults. “We are working to ensure uninterrupted power supply to all licensed colonies. However, in many instances, we are unable to provide permanent connections because the required infrastructure has bot been installed by private developers,” he said. A superintending engineer with the DHBVN in Gururgam, requesting anonymity, explained, “The problem is not with availability, but with infrastructure. If you see the condition of sub-stations and power lines, even in developed colonies, they are not adequate to handle the required load, which is why power outages keep happening.” Niranjan Raje, a Gurugram resident and former member of the Epca, said that a blanket ban on diesel gensets is unfeasible without a major overhaul of the city’s power infrastructure. “While some progress has been made through the Smart Grid scheme, several colonies still don’t have a choice but to use DG sets. Even so, while the power department does the needful, pollution control devices to reduce emissions from DG sets can be used by operators. Or, DG sets in colonies where there is no power supply can also be switched to natural gas instead of diesel. There are options if authorities want to consider them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-may-be-exempt-from-diesel-genset-ban/story-sHH0r2TX5PcK7HTzThcVLK.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Gopal Rai asks CPCB, Epca to shut down 11 thermal power plants around Delhi||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said he has written to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) to shut down 11 polluting coal-fired thermal power plants operating within 300 kilometres of Delhi within a week -- a day after power minister Satyendar Jain wrote to the Union power minister over the same issue. Addressing a press conference, Rai said the Delhi government has been making all efforts to improve air quality but pollution coming from neighbouring states into Delhi is beyond its control. “Within a radius of 300 metres, on all four sides of Delhi, there are 11 thermal power plants, which are still functioning, and the Central government plans to give them an extension. Out of the 12, only one power plant is technologically equipped to lower pollution levels. The other 11 continue to release harmful gases,” Rai said. Also Read| Delhi Pollution: Gensets banned, Grap rules kick inAccording to Rai, on May 8, CPCB had said that after submitting Rs 18 lakh per month as fine, the states can continue operating the thermal power plants. “But we ask, how can these power plants be allowed to function after surpassing the deadline for two months?” In his letter to CPCB chairperson Shiv Das Meena, Rai wrote, “These (thermal power plants) are acknowledged to be major contributors of PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometers), PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers), sulphur dioxides, and nitrogen oxides in various studies, including the IIT Kanpur’s report.” He added, “This failure to install pollution control measures in compliance with the deadlines are evident from the directions issued by the CPCB u/s 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986 to certain power plants in the neighbouring states on May 8, demanding an environmental compensation of R18 lakh per month.”  Rai said the option of allowing these thermal units to continue polluting activities after paying a fine does not address the actual issue of pollution from the plants. The environment minister also reached out to the Supreme Court-appointed Epca, urging the body to issue directions under section 5 of Environment (Protection) Act to halt operations in these power plants. “The citizens of Delhi cannot continue to be penalised for the inaction of various agencies,” his letter read. Satyendar Jain had also written to Union power minister RK Singh over the same 11 thermal power plants on Wednesday, saying these units were one of the biggest contributors to Delhi’s pollution . He said despite orders from the Supreme Court, these stations have not been shut yet.Also Read: AQI reaches ‘very poor’ on the first day of Grap winter plan in DelhiListing out the work done by the Delhi government to control pollution in the city, Rai said, “Delhi is the only state where petrol diesel and kerosene-run generators have been ordered to shut down. All hot spots have been ordered to have 24X7 patrolling.”Rai also accused the central government of meting out “partial” treatment towards Delhi. He said the BJP was acting as a “mouthpiece” for other states where polluting activities such as stubble burning were ongoing, and diesel generator sets and polluting thermal power plants were continuing to operate without any checks. During an inspection of construction sites earlier in the day, the minister directed the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to impose a fine of Rs 20 lakh on the public works department (PWD) for non-compliance of guidelines during the construction site of a drain along the main road in Burari.Rai said while the government was working to keep a check on sources such as construction sites and waste burning, vehicular pollution can be controlled by a mass movement, where every citizen of Delhi can contribute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rai-asks-cpcb-epca-to-shut-down-11-thermal-power-plants-around-delhi/story-uAH0eSjJEJb5jCPZHZ53gP.html
16-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt aims to get 1 million construction workers registered under welfare board||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, chairing his first meeting of the labour department after taking charge of the portfolio, on Thursday said the state government would aim to get one million construction workers in the city registered and verified under the welfare board.“Every single construction worker in Delhi will be registered in the welfare board, and the government will work towards serving the city-builders of Delhi. The minister has exhorted the officials to remove unnecessary bottlenecks for registration and verification of construction workers,” read a press statement issued by Sisodia’s office.Sisodia took over the portfolio from Gopal Rai on Wednesday.Sisodia said, “We aim to get one million construction workers registered and verified in the coming months.”Government records said that currently 55,000 workers are registered under the state-run welfare board, and 66,000 applicants are pending verification. In August, Rai had launched a month-long drive to push enrolment of construction workers in the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.Construction workers — including plumbers and electricians employed in the construction sector, painters, those specialising in laying tiles, security guards at sites and those working on drainage systems, among others — aged between 18 and 60 years are eligible for registration under the scheme. To avail the programme, they need an official photo identity card, a bank account number, residential proof in Delhi and proof that they have worked in the construction sector for at least 90 days over the 12 months prior to registration, said an official in charge of the registration process.On May 21, the Delhi high court had directed the Board, which comes under the Delhi government’s labour department, to take steps to renew the membership of all workers, so that the associated benefits help them cushion the loss of earnings during the lockdown. The court had observed that over 500,000 construction workers in Delhi, who fell off the safety net under the watch of the city’s welfare board, cannot be deprived of benefits just because they were unable to renew their annual registration formality.Every state has one such welfare board which runs an array of welfare schemes for them, funded by the cess collected from projects under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1996. In Delhi, the board started disbursing ₹5,000 per month during the lockdown — imposed to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease and led to mass job loss in the sector — to the accounts of enrolled workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-aims-to-get-1-million-construction-workers-registered-under-welfare-board/story-QhjyKJ6lMoAGmPd1yYma1O.html
16-10-2020||City||700,000 seized liquor bottles, 29,000 kg drugs lying at Delhi police stations||A recent stocktaking operation by Delhi Police of confiscated items lying at locker rooms of police stations across the Capital showed up a staggering consignment of liquor bottles and drugs they had seized in different cases over a period of time. According to a document seen by HT, there are at least 700,000 liquor bottles and around 29,000 kilograms of different varieties of drugs at the lockers of around 168 police stations. The market value of the drugs, going by their selling price in the international markets, could be well over thousands of crores. The drive to take stock of the items was undertaken last month after all police stations were told to return eligible case properties lying for years to its rightful owners after permission from the courts. All case properties -- it could be a crime weapon; an item reported stolen but retrieved by police, or seized stuff such as liquor and drugs -- are kept in the locker rooms (called the malkhana) of police stations. The record of each item -- be a pouch of marijuana or a small bottle of liquor -- is maintained and monitored by security guards round-the-clock. According to a mid-level Delhi police officer, during the exercise, police noticed that every station had a large seizure of alcohol bottles and drugs. “The total number of bottles was counted at 734,887. There were exactly 29068.16 kilogrammes of drugs. From expensive Indian Manufactured Foreign Liquor to local stuff, the liquor bottles were of different types,” the officer said, adding they will check the status of the cases and destroy the bottles in accordance with the law. Police stations under the southwest police district, spreading from Vasant Vihar in the south to Kapashera in the west, had the largest number of bottles at 110,067. The New Delhi police district, which includes high-security areas such as Chanakyapuri, Connaught Place, Tughlaq Road and Mandir Marg, had the least at 6,135. Police are allowed to destroy evidence only after the court’s permission. Liquor bottles have to destroyed in the presence of state excise officials. “Everything is documented. We are accountable for even a small bottle until it is destroyed,” the officer said. The reason for such a large collection of liquor bottles, police said, is because of their focus on curbing alcohol smuggling and preventing drinking in public. Drinking in a public space (barring bars or those with a liquor licence) is an offence. This year, police registered 3,800 cases under the Excise Act and arrested around 9,400 persons. DRUGS The bulk of the drugs were smuggled from abroad and were caught by different units and police stations. According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, one kilo of heroin is worth around Rs40 lakh at the point of sale (where the contraband in raw form is produced and processed). The consignment passes through six or seven channels to reach India. Dealers bear 30%-40% illicit value addition over the actual rate at each channel. So, when the contraband reaches India, it costs between Rs2 and Rs3 crore per kilo, depending on its quality, according to a senior crime branch officer, who did not wish to be named. The records show the police stations have over 29,000 kgs of drugs, of which the most common is marijuana and heroin. There are around 15,086 kgs of marijuana and 2,042 kgs of heroin. A bulk of these two items are stored at the special cell police station. Other drugs are cocaine (around 4 kg), hashish (around 1,000 kg). There are also packets of ephedrine, methaqualone and opium among others. “We have informed the courts about the cases in which the drugs could be disposed of. According to the law, it has to be done in coordination with the Narcotics Control Bureau, whose officers are present when the drugs are burnt in the open. The whole operation is recorded and kept as a record,” said a second police officer. CASE PROPERTY RETURNED While the liquor and drugs are destroyed, many case properties were returned to complainants as part of a drive launched two months ago. A report prepared by the crime branch shows that in the last two months, police returned 472 cell phones, 4356 vehicles, 148 autorickshaws and around 5kgs of gold. These items belonged to 6,478 complainants whose cases were solved. LN Rao, who retired as a deputy commissioner of Delhi Police in 2015 said,” It is good the senior officers are taking stock of items in the malkhana and clearing them. Many a time, they remain for decades. The malkhanas are full of such items. Drugs and liquor bottles are common.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/700-000-seized-liquor-bottles-29-000-kg-drugs-lying-at-delhi-police-stations/story-cL90nuxxYYdBNCr4EJTrfP.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Caretaker ties up senior citizen in Chandigarh, flees with cash, mobile phones||A 74-year-old retired professor was robbed of Rs 15,000 in cash and two mobile phones by a caretaker at his Sector 35 residence.In his police complaint, Shivshankar Pathak, said Jagsir Singh, who took care of his ailing brother Om Prakash Pathak, 78, stole cash and the mobile phones after tying him up with turban cloth.Shivshankar said he had gone to Singh’s room and asked to check his belongings as he (Singh) had told the family that he will vacate the room on October 14.Singh objected to the request and as the two argued, he tied up Shivshankar with his turban cloth and took out Rs 15,000 from his purse before going to Shivshankar’s room and fleeing with his mobile phones.A case under Sections 342 and 382 of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged at the Sector 36 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/caretaker-ties-up-senior-citizen-in-sec-35-flees-with-cash-mobile-phones/story-tpo3N1fgjnbPUzFvwq23dL.html
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||E-tickets for Navratri pooja at Mansa Devi, prasad home delivered||With nine days of prayers and fasting or Navratri beginning for Hindus on Saturday, the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board has introduced e-darshan and preferential darshan to maintain social distancing due to Covid-19 while prasad will be delivered across India by post, MS Yadav, CEO of the board, has said. During this period devotees will get e-tickets for temple visits from the board’s website www.mansadevi.org.in. Around 11,000 e-tickets will be on offer and free Covid testing will be done at the entrance, Yadav said on Thursday.‘Preferential darshan’ has also been introduced this time on a trial basis with a Rs 50 token issued to each devotee for special entry from gate number 2. Nearly 100 devotees will be allowed in an hour and 1,600 in a day.As part of another scheme, prasad of dry fruits in 100 gram and 200 gram packets will be distributed through post for Rs 101 and Rs 151, respectively, throughout India. Devotees can also get prasad at the temple for Rs 50 and Rs 100 even as the desi ghee halwa prasad will be distributed free of cost. Those wishing to stay at the temple can book a room at the dharamshala (guest house) online on furnishing a Covid test report.Bhandara (meal distribution) has also been allowed so devotees can carry packed food on their way back home.Scenes from the temple will also be broadcast online through Mansa Devi’s Facebook and Youtube channelsChandigarh temples gear up for festivities Meanwhile, Chandigarh temples are also being readied for the festive season. BP Arora, president of the Sector 40 temple and chief of the Hindu Parv Mahasabha, said temples had in the past few months had seen low footfall. “We are expecting crowds only during Ashtami. Otherwise things will be manageable,” he said.The Sector 30 Maa Kali Temple, one of the biggest shrines dedicated to the goddess, will be holding a special pooja with around a 100 women singing bhajans till the afternoon. “After that we will pack a bhandara for the devotees to take home,” said Rakesh Pal Modgil, temple president.People will have to use hand sanitisers before entering the temple, but Modgil said that since alcohol was inflammable he had asked the priests who light incense sticks to use soap instead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/e-tickets-for-navratra-pooja-at-mansa-devi-prasad-home-delivered/story-ZpfQlvKiIEYQZuhm1UcIKP.html
16-10-2020||City||Dhakoli man kills 43-year-old wife in fit of rage, dumps body in toilet||A 46-year-old aluminium door contractor is on the run after allegedly murdering his wife with a sharp-edged weapon during a heated argument at their Dhakoli house in Zirakpur on Wednesday night.The accused, Ashok Saini, fled after moving his wife’s lifeless body to a toilet of their house in Vasant Vihar, Phase 2, Dhakoli.It was the couple’s elder son, Rubal, 22, who informed the police about the murder of his mother, Sudesh Saini, 43, a homemaker, after discovering the body on Thursday afternoon.Rubal, who is pursuing graduation from a Chandigarh college, told the police that his parents, him and his younger brother, aged 10 and a student of Class 5, lived with their paternal grandfather.On Wednesday, his parents visited the market to shop for his mother’s Karva Chauth adornments and had a noisy altercation on returning home.When he couldn’t find his mother on Thursday morning, he asked his father, who claimed that Sudesh was away to meet her sister-in-law and left the house.After she did not return, Rubal called Ashok over the phone in the afternoon, when the latter confessed to murdering his wife and dumping her body in the toilet following a fight the previous night.Aghast to find his mother lying dead in a pool of blood, Rubal informed the police, following which a team led by DSP Gurbakshish Singh, along with forensic experts, reached the spot for investigation.Police said one of the victim’s thumbs was severed and the neck bore multiple stab injuries.“The accused works as a contractor for fitting aluminium doors. He has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code on the statement of his elder son. Multiple teams have been despatched to arrest him,” said Narpinder Singh, station house officer, Dhakoli.The family originally hailed from Barara in Haryana and had shifted to Dhakoli 10 years back, he added.“We have lost everything. I don’t know where to go and what to do,” said Chudiya Ram, 81, the accused’s father.The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Dera Bassi civil hospital where an autopsy will be conducted on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dhakoli-man-kills-43-year-old-wife-in-fit-of-rage-dumps-body-in-toilet/story-APAhLjv43pNJn4UkFSUE7O.html
16-10-2020||City||Mobile service disruption, power outage affect WFH residents in Pune||Pune: Heavy rains disrupted power supply and breakdown of mobile networks in most parts of city on Wednesday, causing major inconvenience to residents especially those working from home due to the Covid pandemic. The 96 mm rainfall on Wednesday led to disruption in mobile phone network of certain operators, including Vodafone Idea Limited, affecting operations across the city. According to a Vodafone Idea Limited spokesperson, flooding in some parts of city after heavy rains affected some of the company’s sites. However, many residents complained that Vodafone Idea network was not restored even till Thursday night.By 9 pm, Vodafone Idea released a statement claiming services have been restored“Heavy rain in Pune resulted in flooding of some areas including one of our key sites in the city. This caused partial disruption in services for some customers, earlier today. Our technical team has worked non-stop, deployed interim solutions and restored Voice & Data services. We sincerely regret the inconvenience caused to our customers,” said Vodafone Idea Limited spokesperson.While power supply was restored in some parts of the city by Thursday morning, those living in areas like Kothrud and NIBM road had to wait till afternoon. Many residents of Kothrud and Karvenagar road areas said that they could not operate their laptops and computers in the absence of battery backup because of power outage. The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) public relation officer office has appealed to citizens to stay alert in the wake of heavy downpour and urged them to take care of their electronic equipment.According to the power utility, 350 electricity supply feeders were disrupted due to rains and 95% have been repaired and electricity supply restored in various areas. “I could not login in the morning as there was no power since last night. The battery of my laptop and mobile phone also conked off, affecting my work. Hence, I was left with no option, but to take a day off,’ said Abhay Salunkhe, a resident of Kothrud. Another resident of Kothrud and IT professional Tejas Warudkar said, “The power supply was intermittent till morning. Poor mobile network and disrupted Wi-Fi adversely affected my work.” Sahakarnagar resident Sarika Joshi said that she chose to go to office as there was no power supply at her home and mobile network was down. “I had to go to office for the first time in seven months after lockdown was imposed because of this situation,” said Joshi. Tree felling incidents were reported from Baner, Pashan, Aundh and other parts of the city, causing power outage. The worst affected were Sahakarnagar, Katraj, Dhankavdi and Maharashinagar. In Maharshinagar, water entered the slums in Gultekdi, Dias Plot, Khilare plot, Ambedkarnagar and Indiranagar tenements. Some of the two-wheelers were washed away in waters, eyewitnesses said. Rainwater filled the basement parking areas of Treasure Park Society and Lake Town societies in Sahakarnagar, the localities that were affected by heavy rains last year also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/power-outage-mobile-service-disruption-affect-wfh-residents/story-Rx9KCIpebJdd07lMzCFn9J.html
16-10-2020||City||Rains damage kharif crop, throw life out of gear in west Maha||PUNE: The rainfall in parts of Pune district and western Maharashtra damaged kharif crops on large scale. Farmers banking on better crop after bountiful rainfall till August suffered major setback as heavy rains since Tuesday damaged ready to cut crops. According to agriculture department, kharif crop on 50 lakh hectares across state suffered damage. “We have asked for panchanama of damaged farms. Once the details are gathered, our ministry will put up a proposal in the cabinet for financial help,” said Maharashtra agriculture minister Dada Bhuse. As water gushed into farms, farmers complained that they will not be able to recover even the sowing expenses. “Already affected by the pandemic, I was hoping that my tomato crop will fetch me good money. But the rain has damaged everything,” said Amit Dasave, a farmer from Sangli. In Songaon area of Baramati, 29 people were stuck on the roof of a building as water has blocked all entry and exit points in the building. Since last night, over 60 people have been rescued from parts of Indapur and Baramati by the local authorities. Baramati recorded 128.75mm rainfall, Indapur 150.13mm, Daund 101.50mm and Pune city 104.55mm rainfall within 24 hours between Wednesday and Thursday early morning, according to the Pune district rainfall report issued by the collector’s office. “Rescue operations are going on in Songaon, Nimgaon Ketki, Nimbodi, Pavnewadi and Nira Wagaj and we are still collecting information from various other places and number of people stranded. In Sonankai vasti of Songaon, we are in the process of rescuing 29 people stuck at the roof of a building. We have called for boats from Indapur for it,” said Gauri Shelke, talathi looking after the rescue operation in Baramati, Indapur and neighbouring areas. Twelve state highways and 59 district roads were affected in Sangli due to waterlogging and rainfall until Thursday morning. The state highway passing through Kolhapur was diverted on an alternative route on Thursday morning. In Kolhapur, seven barrages, including Rajaram, Surve, Rui, Ichalkaranji, Terwad and Shirol of Panchaganga river and Khadak Koge barrage of Bhogawati river are underwater, according to district officials. “The rains have created flood situation near Kara river in Baramati. Citizens should avoid bridges and roads for flood tourism, selfies and photos. If anyone is found, action will be taken against them,” said Narayan Shirgaonkar, DySP, Baramati division.According to the weather forecast of India Meteorological Department’s regional office in Mumbai, thunderstorm accompanied with lightening is very likely to occur in isolated places of Pune, Ahmednagar, Nashik, and Satara on Friday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rains-damage-kharif-crop-throws-life-out-of-gear-in-west-maha/story-ZP4rTSrU5mpED32fl0BrkO.html
16-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Paediatricians’ group release guidelines on school reopening and remote learning||The Indian Academy of Paediatrics has listed out measures that need to be adopted by schools, governments and parents to ensure learning during and after Covid-19 pandemic.The suggestions that are part of the 25-page guidelines on school reopening, remote learning and curriculum in and after Covid-19 pandemic include revisiting of the syllabus from the previous academic year, training youth from local communities to become facilitators and creating self-learning modules. The association plans to distribute and disseminate the guidelines nationwide to all stakeholders. The task force assigned with this job plans to review these guidelines after a period of six months. One of the key suggestions made in the document is to leave the decision of reopening schools with local administration. “Looking at the diverse socio-cultural conditions and varying Covid-19 epidemiology across India, decisions about the opening of schools should be taken by the local authorities at the district level and not at the national or state level,” states the guidelines. Similarly, the association has recommended the minimum criteria for the reopening of schools. “Case positivity rate should be less than five (that is, less than 5% of the total Covid-19 tests performed in the district per day turn out to be positive) for the preceding two weeks. The number of new cases in the district per lakh population per day should be less than 20 in the past two weeks.” The association has also listed out the measures to be taken now, to ensure that online learning becomes an effective mode of learning for all students. Trimming the syllabus by 50%, revising concepts that have been taught already and encouraging activity-based participatory learning are some of the suggestions made in the guidelines. The Maharashtra government recently announced that schools in the state will physically reopen only post-Diwali break in November. Rajesh Pandya from the Teachers’ Democratic Forum said, “Teachers and students are both exhausted with online learning over the last few months. We hope that the government understands this and works out a plan to reduce the additional stress on students and teachers. Replicating the same academic calendar as it is in physical schools is not the way out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-paediatricians-group-release-guidelines-on-school-reopening-and-remote-learning/story-LrFBtS3GADRLyFfhBi7rJP.html
16-10-2020||World||More Afghan troop cuts in early 2021, says Prez Trump’s aide||President Donald Trump’s national security advisor Robert O’Brien said Friday that US troops in Afghanistan will be cut to around 2,500 in the first two months of 2021.Clarifying the Trump administration’s stance after conflicting accounts from the president himself, his advisors and the Pentagon, O’Brien said US troops would be at around 4,500 in the coming weeks, and further reductions would continue after that.“In the early part of next year we’re going to be down to 2,500 troops,” O’Brien told an online conference of the Aspen Security Forum.He was speaking after Trump said on October 7 he wanted all US troops home from Afghanistan, where they have been fighting for 19 years, “by Christmas” or December 25.That statement could impact the peace negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban insurgents, amid their original understanding that Washington would not fully withdraw until there was a solid deal between the two sides.Days after Trump’s remarks the Defense Department’s top general, Joint Chiefs Chair Mark Milley, appeared to contradict him.Milley said any drawdown past 4,500 was “conditions-based” and depends on progress in peace talks.He said the Taliban needed to honor its pledge to reduce the level of violence, where there had been little change in recent months. On Thursday US envoy Zalmay Khalilzad said the insurgents had agreed to reduce attacks and casualties.Asked about Milley’s comments, O’Brien said that as Trump’s top advisor, he represents the president’s view.“When I’m speaking, I’m speaking for the president,” he said.He said Trump’s call for troops to be home by Christmas was more sentimental, that all presidents have called for the same thing in past wars.“All presidents .... want the troops home by Christmas,” he said.“We’re on a path right now that looks like about 4,500 this fall and a smaller number in January-February. But if the conditions permitted, we’d love to get people out earlier,” he said.“And I think that’s the desire the president was expressing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-afghan-troop-cuts-in-early-2021-says-prez-trump-s-aide/story-gFNgo7Wn8t28zxSi684eJJ.html
16-10-2020||World||Trump, Biden spar on televised town hall events, from afar||US President Donald Trump defended his handling of Covid-19, while his Democratic challenger Joe Biden accused him of panicking, in a split-screen showdown at duelling town hall events that were telecast live simultaneously from two cities.President Trump was in Miami, Florida for his event on Thursday night with NBC News and Biden was in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for the interaction hosted by ABC News.Trump challenged the moderator Savannah Guthrie, questioning her motivation in several testy exchanges. His campaign slammed her later as a surrogate for Biden. Biden was his usual self — soft-spoken and respectful of the moderator, George Stephanopoulos, and the audience.Trump trails Biden by 8.9 percentage points in the RealClearPolitics average of national polls and by 10.5 points in the FiveThirtyEight average of polls. With polling set to close — nearly 18 million Americans have already voted — on November 3, the president faces an uphill task.“We have done an amazing job, and it’s rounding the corner,” Trump said, repeating the rosy picture on the pandemic that has killed more than 217,000 Americans and infected nearly 8 million.Asked about his own Covid-19 bout, Trump sounded evasive. “I probably did,” he said when asked if he had tested on the day of his first, in-person, debate with Biden. “Possibly I did, possibly I didn’t.” He and the first lady had tested positive the day after the September 29 debate.At an election rally earlier in the day, Trump lashed out at Dr Anthony Fauci, the country’s top epidemiologist, who has publicly disagreed with the president many times, calling him a Democrat.An exchange on QAnon, a far right conspiracy theory that the president was battling a global cabal of pedophiles, turned testy during the townhall. “I know nothing about QAnon,” he said at first. When the moderator said she just had told him about it, he shot back, “You told me, but that doesn’t necessarily make it fact.” He went on to say they were against pedophilia.“He said he didn’t tell anybody because he was afraid Americans would panic,” Biden said referring to an interview Trump gave to Bob Woodward for the book Rage in which he said he knew early on about the severity of the illness but had kept it from Americans as he did not want them to panic.“Americans don’t panic,” said Biden, “He panicked.”The former vice-president was evasive himself, however, on the question of expanding the Supreme Court bench — called court-packing — that has been suggested by some Democrats to offset its overwhelming 6-3 conservative tilt when Amy Coney Barrett, Trump’s nominee, joins it after confirmation.“No matter what answer I gave you, if I say it, that’s the headline,” the former vice-president said. Biden and his running mate, Kamala Harris have dodged a straight answer to the question before, using the same line of reasoning, that they do not want to distract attention from Republicans ramming Barrett’s nomination in the final weeks of the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-biden-spar-on-televised-tv-town-hall-events-from-afar/story-qgex11ECf9B3S0O4zqiThL.html
16-10-2020||World||Coronavirus at ‘turning point’ in Europe, hitting at-risk groups||Doctors are warning that Europe is at a turning point as the coronavirus surges back across the continent, including among vulnerable people, and governments try to impose restrictions without locking whole economies down.With newly confirmed cases reaching records, the Czech Republic has shut schools and is building a field hospital, Poland has limited restaurant hours and closed gyms and schools, and France is planning a 9 p.m. curfew in Paris and other big cities. In Britain, authorities are closing pubs and bars in areas in the country’s north, while putting limits on socializing in London and other parts of the country.“This is a serious situation that should not be underestimated. It is serious on a European level,’’ Italy’s health minister, Roberto Speranza, said Friday.Europe is not alone in seeing a resurgence. In the United States, new cases per day are on the rise in 44 states, and deaths per day are climbing in 30.“If we don’t get a handle on this, we run the risk of getting into a situation that’s harder to control,” Bertrand Levrat, the head of Switzerland’s biggest hospital complex, told The Associated Press. “We are really at a turning point — things can go both ways.”But while officials are sounding the alarm on rising cases, they are also wary of imposing the stricter nationwide lockdowns that devastated their economies this spring. Instead, they are trying more targeted restrictions.France is deploying 12,000 extra police to enforce its new curfew; Saturday night will be the first time establishments will be forced to close at 9 p.m. Restaurants, cinemas and theaters are trying to figure out how can survive the forced early closures.Culture Minister Roselyne Bachelot told Le Parisien newspaper she is negotiating for exceptions to a monthlong curfew across the Paris region and eight other metropolitan areas.One movie theater chain will start opening at 8 a.m. in hopes of making up evening losses. Since Paris restaurants generally open at 7 or 7:30 p.m. for dinner, some might close altogether because it no longer makes financial sense to stay open for such a short shift.“The French culture world isn’t invincible, it needs help,” author and filmmaker Yoann Sfar, who has a new movie coming out, said Friday on RTL radio.Italy, the first country outside of Asia to detect local transmission of the virus, has banned pickup sports and public gatherings after health officials said the resurgence had reached ‘’an acute phase’’ following a period of relative grace after its particularly strict lockdown.Speranza, the health minister, told reporters that any new measures in Italy, including a curfew, need to be “well-considered.” But the governor of Campania, which was mostly spared in the spring but is seeing infections skyrocket, urged quick action, saying the area around Naples is the most densely populated in the country and therefore especially vulnerable.“Half measures are not worth anything anymore,’‘ Vincenzo de Luca said in a Facebook video. He already announced the closure of schools for the rest of the month, against the wishes of Rome and the protests of parents.Massimo Galli, the director of infectious diseases at Milan’s Luigi Sacco hospital, said Italy’s surge — which hit pandemic highs of new daily infections this week — is not the result of record testing, as policy makers have suggested, but a sign of a real return among the population most at risk of developing serious illness if infected.That is a worrying trend since a tide of serious cases has the potential to swamp hospitals, and it’s one that can be seen in other countries on the continent as many see even higher numbers than Italy.France, Spain and Britain recorded more than 300 infections per 100,000 residents over the past two weeks, compared to Italy’s quickening but relatively low 106.The Czech Republic reported over 700 people infected per 100,000, and the country’s military will start to build a field hospital at Prague’s exhibition center this weekend — a reminder of the dark days of spring when many countries put up makeshift facilities to ease pressure on overwhelmed medical centers. The government is also negotiating with neighboring Germany and some other countries for Czechs to be treated abroad if the health system can’t handle them.In Italy, Milan is the epicenter of the resurgence, and it, too, is seeing its hospitals strained. Sacco’s COVID-19 ward was the first in the city to begin filling up.“We have a situation that reminds one quite distressingly of the one that we already have experienced,’’ Galli told The Associated Press, referring to the peak in March and April when Italy hit its record of 969 deaths in one day. The country recorded 83 deaths on Thursday — twice previous days, but far off earlier levels.Already in Milan, Galli said that the number of elderly patients or those with other risk factors is growing, indicating the virus has moved beyond its initial late September’s expansion, when most of the cases were mild or asymptomatic caught by screening and contact tracing.Since then, mixing among families, within companies, and among students outside of school has fueled the spread to more vulnerable people, he said, renewing pressure on Milan’s hospitals.“The trend is already there, and it is frankly alarming,’’ he said, though he noted that not all of Italy was yet experiencing a surge.But that, he said, might only be a matter of time. Galli said Italy ’’will follow in the footsteps″ of its European neighbors unless the transmission chain is blocked in the next two weeks.Galli fears that new nationwide restrictions adopted over the past two weeks — including mandatory masks outdoors, a ban on pickup sports games among friends and restaurant closures at midnight — are not enough. He urged more restrictions be imposed on public transport and leisure activities if authorities want to avoid another lockdown — bad both for the economy and the social fabric.While Italy’s lockdown in the spring bought it more time, Galli said the current resurgence shows “how quickly there is a risk of wasting the results of even a very decisive and very important intervention.’’___Charlton reported from Paris.___Follow AP’s pandemic coverage at http://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-at-turning-point-in-europe-hitting-at-risk-groups/story-0zVDu9e0UGy9j8D2monwHK.html
16-10-2020||World||Indian-origin men, women face higher death risk from Covid-19 in England: Report||Men and women belonging Indian ethnicity communities in England an d Wales are roughly 50-75% more likely to die of Covid-19 than white men and women, according to a latest statistical analysis released in London on Friday. The Office for National Statistics (ONS), which concluded a similar ethnic variation in relation to the impact of coronavirus earlier this year, updated its figures this week and also found that the factors behind the disparity were more linked to living arrangements and the nature of jobs rather than pre-existing health conditions.“Considering deaths up to 28 July 2020, males and females of Black and South Asian ethnic background were shown to have increased risks of death involving the coronavirus (Covid-19) compared with those of white ethnic background; this is similar to our previous findings for deaths up to 15 May 2020,” the ONS report said.“These findings show that ethnic differences in mortality involving Covid-19 are most strongly associated with demographic and socio-economic factors, such as place of residence and occupational exposures, and cannot be explained by pre-existing health conditions using hospital data or self-reported health status,” it adds.The results also reveal that for all ethnicities, males have a higher rate of death from the virus than females, and white people have a lower risk of death than all other ethnic groups apart from Chinese. In its previous analysis, ONS had taken Bangladeshi and Pakistani ethnic groups as combined and after separating the two ethnicities, it found that males of Bangladeshi ethnic background have a higher risk of death from Covid-19 than those of Pakistani background.“Today’s report confirms that when adjusting for age, rates of death involving Covid-19 remain greater for most ethnic minority groups, and most notably so for people of Black African, Black Caribbean, Bangladeshi and Pakistani ethnic background,” said Ben Humberstone, Deputy Director of ONS Health and Life Events Division.The report used hospital data, together with self-reported health or disability, to explore whether differences in mortality rate between people of different ethnicities could be down to differences in the prevalence of pre-existing conditions, such as diabetes, respiratory failure and heart failure.“Our statistical modelling shows that a large proportion of the difference in the risk of Covid-19 mortality between ethnic groups can be explained by demographic, geographical and socioeconomic factors, such as where you live or the occupation you’re in,” Humberstone said.‘It also found that although specific pre-existing conditions place people at greater risk of COVID-19 mortality generally, it does not explain the remaining ethnic background differences in mortality,” said Humberstone.The updated ONS findings reiterate other reports, including by the government-backed Public Health England (PHE), which found similar ethnic disparities in the impact of the deadly virus.“This is yet more evidence of the devastating and disproportionate impact that Covid-19 has on Black African, Black Caribbean and South Asian people in particular,” said Marsha de Cordova, Opposition Labour Party’s Shadow Secretary of State for Women and Equalities.“The government promised action but, over four months since Public Health England (PHE) set out seven clear recommendations on what needs to happen, we still don’t know what has actually been done. The government must act urgently as infections continue to rise rapidly,” she said.A further government-initiated review into the factors behind the ethnic variations in the impact of Covid-19 unearthed by the PHE report back in June remains ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-origin-men-women-face-higher-death-risk-from-covid-19-in-england-report/story-SoEpkX9lTAdjn9qZdxYGWP.html
16-10-2020||World||Donald Trump predicts a red wave for him in US elections||US President Donald Trump has predicted a massive Republican sweep in the November 3 elections, even as multiple polls have shown him trailing Democratic rival Joe Biden nationally and in many swing states. “Polls numbers are looking very strong. Big crowds, great enthusiasm. Massive RED WAVE coming!!!” said the president in a tweet after four days of his re-election campaign this week, when he resumed his campaign rallies that were paused after he tested positive with Covid-19 on October 1.The rallies are drawing a significantly large crowd despite the social distancing measures in place in the country due to Covid-19.“We are going to have a red wave,” Trump told his supporters in the Greenville city of North Carolina, a battleground states where some 10,000 people came to listen to him on a weekday afternoon. “This is a hell of a crowd for 1:30 in the afternoon,” Trump said. “Our people want to go, they want to vote. It’s going to be a big, beautiful, red wave,” he said later in his speech.However, the mainstream media in its polls are predicting a nearly double-digit lead for former vice president Biden. Till a week ago, according to Real Clear Politics, which keeps track of all major national polls, Biden’s national lead was around 11 percentage points, with some of the polls giving the Democratic challenger a lead of more than 15 per cent.Real Clear Politics tracker on Friday said that Biden’s national average lead was 8.9 percentage points against Trump. In the battleground states, Biden is leading by 4.5 percentage points, which is considered to be a significant one ahead of the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-predicts-a-red-wave-for-him-in-us-elections/story-APQrOopYleWlw38NdSnfrO.html
16-10-2020||World||Global economic pain from coronavirus is far from over: IMF||The guardians of the global economy this week confronted a sobering view of the pandemic’s long-term impact six months after it shut down much of the world, though with some reason to be more upbeat.“The story is less dire than we thought three months ago, but dire nonetheless,” International Monetary Fund Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said during annual meetings with the World Bank that were held virtually. She and her colleagues warned that policy makers must not prematurely end support in order to avoid setbacks.Unprecedented central bank action and $12 trillion of fiscal support helped stave off a deeper collapse, leaving the global economy poised to rebound to pre-pandemic output next year on strong growth forecast for China.Here are some of key takeaways from the proceedings:Economic Pain and ProgressThe IMF forecast a 4.4% global contraction for this year, the deepest since the Great Depression but less than its prior estimate of 5.2% in June. Policy responses around the world have propelled debt to record levels that most governments haven’t yet begun to fully confront.In the US and other advanced economies, that means a couple years of acute pain even with fiscal stimulus and monetary policy easing the blow. Suffering may last longer in Latin America, where the fund sees average per capita income remaining below 2015 levels through 2025.Fiscal and monetary steps have helped cushion the world from an even uglier outcome, but the endgame can’t come until there’s a medical fix.“Until we have a durable exit from the health crisis, we will be faced with difficulties, uncertainty, and uneven recovery,” Georgieva said Wednesday after a meeting with Group of 20 finance ministers and central bankers.China Leads the WayChina’s taming the virus has safeguarded its economy and made the nation just about the only bright spot.Overall, the fund sees global output by the end of 2021 being 0.6% higher than at the end of 2019, before the pandemic, but that’s driven almost entirely by China. Most other nations, including the US, will need to wait until at least 2022 to see full recovery to pre-virus levels.The world’s second-largest economy will boost its share of global growth to 27.7% in 2025, almost triple that of the US, according to Bloomberg calculations using IMF data.Meanwhile, the Asian nation is also owed almost 60% of the bilateral debt that the world’s poorest countries are due to repay this year, making Beijing’s participation in debt relief a key factor in the recovery prospects for crisis-stricken nations.Help for the PoorestWhile extending temporary debt relief for the world’s poorest nations until mid-2021 is a good step, the Bretton Woods institutions and some countries see the move as just delaying inevitable write-offs.The debt of the 73 poorest nations eligible for the G-20’s Debt Service Suspension Initiative climbed to a record $744 billion last year, according to the World Bank. So far, they’ve had just $5 billion in relief from the program. The European Network on Debt and Development likened the relief to “draining out the Titanic with a bucket” and argued it only pushed debt risk further down the road.World Bank President David Malpass called on banks and investment firms to provide more relief, adding that “private creditors and non-participating bilateral creditors should not be allowed to free-ride on the debt relief of others,” an implicit criticism of China. Georgieva also lamented the lack of progress, while the G-20 planned another meeting to push ahead on the issue and said that it could issue another six-month extension of debt relief next year.Spending to the RescueThe IMF underscored that countries shouldn’t prematurely remove fiscal stimulus and signaled that additional US measures would be welcome. While the IMF forecast 3.1% growth in the world’s largest economy next year, it said another round of stimulus like the package passed in March could add about 2 percentage points to the expansion pace.Still, the IMF warns that soaring debt eventually will challenge policy makers as the global ratio of borrowing to gross domestic product reaches a record 100% this year and is poised to keep climbing. While low interest rates and faster growth will help, the fund says countries must think about how to boost revenues through digital taxes and from high-income earners.Brace for Climate ChangeThe climate crisis also was a key topic of discussion, with Georgieva warning that the virus is just a preview of the looming global challenge.“If you don’t like the pandemic, you’re not going to like the climate crisis one iota,” she said in a panel with Larry Fink. The BlackRock chief executive officer said that the pandemic is accelerating the need to confront climate change, and that the private sector is doing more than governments to tackle the problem.Regulators and corporations are facing greater pressure to set universal standards for the growing sustainable finance industry. Climate solutions are fast becoming a key business for banks and fund managers given the need for trillions of dollars in investment in everything from renewable energy to electric vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-economic-pain-from-coronavirus-is-far-from-over-imf/story-0jD6g1nVf7TmiXgjH4OZSK.html
16-10-2020||World||India ready for further cooperation with Sri Lanka in water, sanitation, agriculture, manufacturing||The Indian High Commissioner to Sri Lanka, Gopal Baglay, has called on Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa during which he conveyed that New Delhi was ready for further cooperation with Colombo in water, sanitation, agriculture and manufacturing in accordance with Sri Lanka’s requirements.This was the first meeting between Baglay and Rajapaksa after the Virtual Bilateral Summit (VBS) between the Prime Ministers of India and Sri Lanka on September 26. The Thursday’s meeting provided an excellent opportunity to follow up on the implementation of the decisions taken in that high-level interaction last month, Indian High Commission said in a statement.“The Indian High Com. Gopal Baglay and I met as a follow up to the virtual summit I had with PM Modi. I highlighted water & sanitation as priorities for #lka & we explored the possibility of collaborating with PM @narendramodi’s ‘Jal Jeevan Mission’ (Water for Life Mission) project,” Rajapaksa tweeted. Jal Jeevan Mission is a project by the Centre to provide safe and adequate drinking tap water connection to every household in the rural areas of the country by 2024 at a service level of 55 litres per capita per day. The mission was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2019.“Furthermore I requested the H.C. to look into the opportunities in the pharmaceutical sector and encourage Indian investors to establish research and manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka to help the country meet its requirement of medicinal drugs,” he added.In the context of the Government of Sri Lanka’s high priority attached to water, sanitation, agriculture and manufacturing, the High Commissioner referred to India’s recent experience in these areas and stated that India was ready for developing further bilateral cooperation in accordance with Sri Lanka’s requirements.According to the Indian High Commission statement, Baglay responded positively to the suggestions of the Prime Minister Rajapaksa for Indian investment in research and manufacturing in Sri Lanka, including in the pharmaceutical sector.Referring to the tone set by the PM Modi and Rajapaksa in the VBS for expanding existing mutually beneficial bilateral cooperation in a number of areas, the High Commissioner sought the guidance of the Sri Lankan Prime Minister for further steps, including in the spheres of priority to Sri Lanka.“The High Commissioner mentioned to the Prime Minister that he and his colleagues in the High Commission had fruitful discussions in the days since VBS with a number of senior members of Sri Lanka’s Council of Ministers, including in the areas of the economy, connectivity, power and energy, agriculture and animal husbandry, development cooperation, education &capacity building, water and sanitation, health and pharmaceuticals, culture and people-to-people relations,” the statement read. Recalling the importance attached by Prime Minister Modi to promoting people-to-people relations between the two countries, the High Commissioner stressed in this context the significance of the grant assistance of USD 15 million announced by Prime Minister Modi during VBS for promoting Buddhist ties between the two countries.He mentioned that details of its implementation are being discussed with the Sri Lankan authorities concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-ready-for-further-cooperation-with-sri-lanka-in-water-sanitation-agriculture-manufacturing/story-eew7IrpcGtskiNMSx8UUwI.html
16-10-2020||World||UK’s Johnson threatens to force Manchester into Covid-19 lockdown||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned he will have no choice but to impose the toughest available pandemic restrictions on Manchester, northwest England, unless the city’s mayor backs down and agrees to new curbs.Johnson’s government has been in an escalating stand-off with Greater Manchester Mayor Andy Burnham, who is refusing to allow his city to be put into lockdown despite figures showing the pandemic is spreading out of control.Burnham has accused the government of failing to provide enough financial help for business that will be hit by virus restrictions, but Johnson urged him to reconsider and engage constructively with the government in London.“The situation in Manchester is grave and worsens with each passing day,” Johnson told a televised press conference from his Downing Street offices. “If agreement cannot be reached, I will need to intervene in order to protect Manchester’s hospitals and save the lives of its residents.”The government’s own scientific advisers have said the government’s three-tier system of virus restrictions won’t be enough to control the virus and some of them have called publicly for a short “circuit breaker” national lockdown. Johnson disagreed. “If at all possible I want to avoid another national lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-johnson-threatens-to-force-manchester-into-covid-19-lockdown/story-ye75buKxpSjlaRueUyOYkI.html
16-10-2020||World||WHO study finds remdesivir didn’t help Covid-19 patients||A large study led by the World Health Organization suggests that the antiviral drug remdesivir did not help hospitalized Covid-19 patients, in contrast to an earlier study that made the medicine a standard of care in the United States and many other countries.The results announced Friday do not negate the previous ones, and the WHO study was not as rigorous as the earlier one led by the US National Institutes of Health. But they add to concerns about how much value the pricey drug gives because none of the studies have found it can improve survival.The drug has not been approved for Covid-19 in the US, but it was authorized for emergency use after the previous study found it shortened recovery time by five days on average. It’s approved for use against Covid-19 in the United Kingdom and Europe, and is among the treatments US President Donald Trump received when he was infected earlier this month.The WHO study involved more than 11,000 patients in 30 countries. About 2,750 were randomly assigned to get remdesivir. The rest got either the malaria drug hydroxychloroquine, the immune-system booster interferon, the antiviral combo lopinavir-ritonavir, or just usual care. The other drugs have largely been ruled out for Covid-19 by previous studies, but not remdesivir.Death rates after 28 days, the need for breathing machines and time in the hospital were relatively similar for those given remdesivir versus usual care.The results have not been published in a journal or reviewed by independent scientists, but were posted on a site researchers use to share results quickly.“The big story is the finding that remdesivir produces no meaningful impact on survival,” Martin Landray, an Oxford University professor who led other coronavirus treatment research, said in a statement.“This is a drug that has to be given by intravenous infusion for five to 10 days,” and costs about $2,550 per treatment course, he said. “COVID affects millions of people and their families around the world. We need scalable, affordable and equitable treatments.”Dr. Margaret Harris, a WHO spokeswoman, attributed the difference in the conclusions of the two studies to the fact WHO’s was larger.“It’s just a much higher-powered study,” she said. “It’s quadruple the number of people in all the other studies.”However, Dr. Andre Kalil, a University of Nebraska infectious disease specialist who helped lead the US remdesivir study, said the WHO one was poorly designed, which makes its conclusions less reliable. Patients and doctors knew what treatment they were using, there was no placebo infusion to help avoid biased reporting of risks or benefits, there was little information about the severity of patients’ symptoms when treatments began and a lot of missing data, he said.“Poor quality study design cannot be fixed by a large sample size, no matter how large it is,” Kalil wrote in an email.Furthermore, the WHO study tested 10 days of remdesivir, so some patients may have been hospitalized longer than they needed to be just to finish treatment, making their length of stay look bad in comparison to others getting usual care.Remdesivir’s maker, Gilead Sciences, said in a statement that the results are inconsistent with more rigorous studies and have not been fully reviewed or published.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-study-finds-remdesivir-didn-t-help-covid-19-patients/story-MxSJUHFID8Fz56f8ODhsKI.html
16-10-2020||World||US Elections 2020: Indian-Americans who are seeking office this year||Indian-American voters form a little percentage of voters in the United States, but their opinion matters, as several surveys are conducting opinion polls on which party will have their sway over the diaspora voters. Interestingly, a considerable number of politicians of Indian origin are seeking political office in the US elections 2020 and making their voices heard at the federal, state and local levels. Here are some of the most prominent ones:Kamala Harris: Kamala Harris who became the first Indian-American and the second African-American woman to be sworn in as a US Senator for California in 2016 is the Democratic Vice Presidential nominee for the 2020 election. Hailing from Chennai, she was born in Oakland, California and has served as the district attorney of San Francisco and California.Sara Gideon: Democratic nominee for US Senate election in Maine. Democrat Sara Gideon who is a half Indian-American and is currently the Speaker of the Maine House of Representatives is challenging the incumbent Republican Susan Collins. She has also been a member of her local town council and a state representative. Her father is from India.Rik Mehta: Republican nominee for US Senate election in New Jersey. His parents migrated to the US before he was born.Dr. Rik Mehta who is a biotech entrepreneur and attorney is facing Senator Cory Booker in the Senate race in New Jersey. Senator Cory Booker ran an unsuccessful campaign for the Democratic Presidential nominee 2020.Sri Preston Kulkarni: Democratic nominee for Texas’s 22nd Congressional District. His father Venkatesh Srinivas Kulkarni was born in India. Sri Kulkarni, a diplomat and Harvard University alumnus is running for election to the US House to represent Texas’ 22nd Congressional District. If elected, Kulkarni will be the first Hindu representative in the US Congress from Texas.Niraj Antani: Republican nominee for Ohio’s 6th District. His parents came to the United States in 1987.Niraj Antani, a staunch Republican who represents District 42 in the Ohio House of Representatives, is running for election to the Ohio State Senate to represent District 6. He was named the 9th most influential Republican under 30 by Newsmax in 2018. Amerish Babulal “Ami” Bera: Re-election from California’s 7th Congressional District for the Democratic Party. His father immigrated to the United States in 1958.Ami Bera who is a member of the US House of Representatives from the 7th Congressional District of California is running for re-election. He has represented the district since 2013 and is a first generation Indian American who hails from Gujarat.Ro Khanna: Re-election from California’s 17th Congressional District for the Democratic Party. His parents immigrated to the United States. His maternal grandfather Amarnath Vidyalankar worked with Lala Lajpat Rai.Ro Khanna, a lawyer and an academic who served as the Deputy Assistant secretary in the United States Department of Commerce under President Barack Obama and is currently a member of the US House representing California’s 17th Congressional District is running for re-election.Pramila Jayapal: Re-election from Washington’s 7th Congressional District for the Democratic PartyPramila Jayapal who was born in Madras, Chennai and is the first Indian- American woman to serve in the US House of Representatives and the first Asian American to represent the State of Washington at the federal level is running for re-election from Washington’s 7th Congressional District. Raja Krishnamoorthi: Re-election from Illinois’ 8th Congressional District for the Democratic PartySubramanian Raja Krishnamoorthi who was born into a Tamil speaking family in New Delhi is running for re-election from Illinois’ 8th Congressional District for the Democratic Party. He currently serves on the House Oversight Committee and the House Permanent Select committee on intelligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-indian-americans-who-are-seeking-office-this-year/story-0bT0SWBjoBzipyg5D5skJJ.html
16-10-2020||World||Brexit at dead end again, talks ‘over’ for us says UK||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s spokesman says talks on a trade deal with the European Union are effectively “over,” despite the EU’s insistence they will continue next week.James Slack said Friday that “the trade talks are over” because the EU is refusing to give Britain a Canada-style free trade deal.Reiterating a statement by Johnson earlier, he said, “only if the EU fundamentally changes its position will it be worth talking.”EU negotiator Michel Barnier says he plans to go to London next week for more negotiations.Slack said “there is only any point in Michel Barnier coming to London next week if he is prepared to discuss all the issues on the basis of legal texts in an accelerated way without the U.K. being required to make all of the moves.”British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Friday that the U.K. must prepare for a no-deal break with the European Union unless there is a “fundamental” change of position from the bloc, as the two sides swapped blame for failing to strike a deal with just weeks until the end-of-year deadline.Johnson accused the EU of refusing to give Britain a trade deal like the one it has with Canada, which the U.K. is seeking.EU leaders meeting in Brussels said that the U.K. needs to shift its position to make an agreement possible. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the bloc still wants a deal, “but not at any price.”But even as they sniped, the two sides refused to shut the door on talks. Von der Leyen said EU negotiators would head to London next week as planned, “to intensify these negotiations.”German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she still believes it would be in both sides’ interest to have a deal.“No one, neither Britain nor the EU, wants an agreement at any price,” she told reporters in Brussels. “We are prepared to continue negotiating. We have seen light but of course also still shadows in the most recent negotiations, and if it is up to the European Union -- and me personally -- we should simply continue these talks.”The U.K. had threatened to walk away from negotiations if a deal was not struck by the EU summit that ends Friday.Johnson didn’t go that far, but ramped up the tension, saying the EU seemed to have given up on a deal. He said Britain would listen if there was “a fundamental change of approach” from Brussels.“As far as I can see they have abandoned the idea of a free trade deal. … Unless there is a fundamental change of approach we are going to go for the Australia solution,” he said in London.Australia has no comprehensive trade deal with the EU. Johnson’s Conservative government insists Britain can still thrive under those conditions, which would mean tariffs and other barriers between the U.K. and the EU, its biggest trading partner. But many economists say it would be devastating for many British businesses, which are already struggling with a huge economic hit from the coronavirus pandemic.Britain officially left the EU on January 31 but remains part of its economic structures until December 31. The two sides have been trying to strike a deal on trade and other relations before then, and say in practice it must be agreed this month if it is to be ratified by year’s end.Despite Johnson’s intransigent tone, U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said Friday that gaps between the two sides were narrow.“There is a deal to be done but there needs to be flexibility on both sides,” he told the BBC. “It feels a little bit lacking from the European Union.”Raab said differences remained on only two issues: EU boats’ access to U.K. fishing waters, and “level playing field” rules to ensure fair economic competition between Britain and the bloc.“The issues are really narrow now,” Raab said.Months of talks have ground to a halt on the issues of fishing — highly symbolic for maritime nations on both sides — and rules to ensure common regulatory standards and fair competition. The EU fears the U.K. will gain an unfair advantage by slashing food, workplace and environmental standards and pumping state money into businesses once it is free of the bloc’s rules.Britain accuses the bloc of seeking to impose demands that it has not placed on other countries it has free trade deals with, such as Canada.“They want the continued ability to control our legislative freedom, our fisheries, in a way that is obviously unacceptable to an independent country,” Johnson said.French President Emmanuel Marcon said a deal “requires effort, particularly from the U.K.”“Let’s keep in mind that it is the U.K. that wanted to leave the EU and needs an agreement much more than we do,” he said in Brussels.Merkel, the veteran diplomat, sought to soothe tempers, saying that “we asked Britain to be willing to compromise. This of course means that we too have to make compromises.”Chief EU negotiator Michel Barnier said late Thursday that his team would be London-bound for more talks next week and planned to host negotiations in Brussels the week after that. Britain has not commented on that timetable.Trust between the two sides, already frayed by years of Brexit acrimony, took a nosedive last month when Johnson introduced legislation that breaches parts of the withdrawal agreement he himself signed with the EU only last year.The European Parliament, which must approve any deal, has vowed not to approve any trade deal if the U.K. government doesn’t withdraw this legislation. Britain says the bill, which has yet to become law, is needed as an insurance policy in case the EU behaves unreasonably after Brexit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brexit-at-dead-end-again-talks-over-for-us-says-uk/story-tn1QqNuvBNWQiRoWNSf3xH.html
16-10-2020||World||Covid-19 deaths fuelled by ‘perfect storm’ of chronic illnesses: Study||The interaction of Covid-19 with the continued global rise in chronic illnesses and related risk factors such as obesity, high blood sugar and outdoor air pollution over the past 30 years has created a perfect storm, fuelling virus-related deaths in India and elsewhere, a new global study published on Friday says.The latest findings from the Global Burden of Disease Study published in The Lancet provide new insights on how well countries were prepared in terms of underlying health for the Covid-19 pandemic, and set out the scale of the challenge to protect against new pandemic threats.The study’s key findings on India include the country gaining more than a decade of life expectancy since 1990, rising from 59.6 years to 70.8 years in 2019, but there are wide inequalities between states, ranging from 77.3 years in Kerala to 66.9 years in Uttar Pradesh.The increase in healthy life expectancy (life without illness) in India, which was 60.5 years in 2019, has not been as dramatic as the growth of life expectancy, so people are living more years with illness and disability, it says.The largest contributors to increasing health loss in India over the last 30 years, it adds, were ischaemic heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes, stroke, and a group of musculoskeletal disorders.The study says: “In 2019, the top-5 risk factors for death in India were air pollution (contributing to an estimated 1.67 million deaths), high blood pressure (1.47 million), tobacco use (1.23 million), poor diet (1.18 million), and high blood sugar (1.12 million)”.“Since 1990, India has made substantial gains in health, but child and maternal malnutrition is still the number-one risk factor for illness and death in India, contributing to more than 20% of the total disease burden in several states in northern India (Bihar and Uttar Pradesh)”. “High blood pressure is the third leading risk factor (after air pollution), responsible for 10-20% of all health loss in eight states in India, primarily in the south”, it adds.According to the study authors, the promise of disease prevention through government actions or incentives that enable healthier behaviours and access to health-care resources is not being realised around the world.“Most of these risk factors are preventable and treatable, and tackling them will bring huge social and economic benefits. We are failing to change unhealthy behaviours, particularly those related to diet quality, caloric intake, and physical activity, in part due to inadequate policy attention and funding for public health and behavioural research”, says Christopher Murray of the University of Washington, who led the research.Richard Horton, editor-in-chief of The Lancet, adds: “The syndemic nature of the threat we face demands that we not only treat each affliction, but also urgently address the underlying social inequalities that shape them—poverty, housing, education, and race, which are all powerful determinants of health.”“Covid-19 is an acute-on-chronic health emergency. And the chronicity of the present crisis is being ignored at our future peril. Non-communicable diseases have played a critical role in driving the more than 1 million deaths caused by Covid-19 to date, and will continue to shape health in every country after the pandemic subsides.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-deaths-fuelled-by-perfect-storm-of-chronic-illnesses-study/story-0zNvOrlPp4iCjuaoXRwYUO.html
16-10-2020||World||Vladimir Putin proposes yearlong extension of nuclear pact with US||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday made a strong call to save the last existing nuclear arms control pact between his country and the United States, proposing to extend it at least for one year.Putin’s statement comes amid conflicting signals from Russian and US diplomats about the fate of the New START treaty that is set to expire in February unless Moscow and Washington agree on its extension.Speaking at a meeting of his Security Council, Putin said that “it would be extremely sad if the treaty ceases to exist without being replaced by another fundamental document of the kind.”“All those years, the New START has worked, playing its fundamental role of limiting and containing an arms race,” he noted.The New START treaty was signed in 2010 by US President Barack Obama and Russian President Dmitry Medvedev. The pact limits each country to no more than 1,550 deployed nuclear warheads and 700 deployed missiles and bombers, and envisages sweeping on-site inspections to verify compliance.After both Moscow and Washington withdrew from the 1987 Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty last year, New START is the only nuclear arms control deal between the two countries still standing.Russia previously offered its extension for five years without any conditions, while the US administration pushed for a new arms control agreement that would also include China. Moscow has described that idea as unfeasible, pointing at Beijing’s refusal to negotiate any deal that would reduce its much-smaller nuclear arsenal.Putin on Friday proposed to “extend the existing treaty without any conditions for at least one year” to allow for “substantive talks.” He emphasized that Russia is ready to discuss the new weapons it deployed in future arms talks with the United States.Earlier this week, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov voiced skepticism about reaching a deal on New START, noting that Russia can’t accept the conditions put forward by the United States for its extension.Lavrov specified that Russia can’t agree to the US proposal to limit battlefield nuclear weapons alongside nuclear warheads that arm strategic missiles and bombers until the US agrees to withdraw its tactical nuclear weapons from Europe.He also noted that Moscow wouldn’t accept the US demand to have intrusive verification measures like those that existed in the 1990s when inspectors were positioned at missile factories.Lavrov’s pessimistic view contrasted with statements from US diplomats, who said that Moscow and Washington were close to a deal.“We would welcome the opportunity to complete an agreement based on understandings that were achieved over the last couple weeks about what the range of possibilities look like for an extension of New START and an outcome that benefits the entire world, increased stability of the most dangerous weapons in the world,” US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Wednesday.Pompeo said that “I am hopeful that the Russians will find a way to agree to an outcome that, frankly, I think is in their best interest and in our best interest,” and voiced hope that China will eventually join the talks too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vladimir-putin-proposes-yearlong-extension-of-nuclear-pact-with-us/story-6gwQRZOohGyJTO7qeTINNO.html
16-10-2020||World||Study finds 4 drugs have little to no effect on Covid: WHO||The U.N. health agency says the world’s largest randomized trial of Covid-19 treatments found “conclusive evidence” that remdesivir, a drug used to treat U.S. President Donald Trump when he fell ill, has little or no effect on severe cases.The World Health Organization announced Friday the long-awaited results of its six-month “Solidarity Therapeutics Trial” that endeavored to see if existing drugs might have an effect on the coronavirus.The study, which was not peer-reviewed, found that four treatments tested — remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon — had “ little or no effect” on whether or not patients died within about a month or whether hospitalized patients recovered.Most of those had already been ruled out. But remdesivir, a repurposed malaria drug, has been classified as standard-of-care in the United States, and it has been approved for use against Covid-19 in the UK and EU. Supplies of the drug have been limited, and the European Medicines Agency is now reviewing whether remdesivir is causing kidney problems as reported by some patients.Martin Landray, a professor of medicine and epidemiology at Oxford University, said the WHO trial results for hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir were in line with a previous British study he co-led.“The big story is the finding that remdesivir produces no meaningful impact on survival,” he said in a statement. He said the drug is now recommended in some countries but there have been significant concerns about supply, cost and access.“This is a drug that has to be given by intravenous infusion for 5 to 10 days,” noting it costs about $2,550 per treatment course. “COVID affects millions of people and their families around the world. We need scalable, affordable, and equitable treatments.”A cocktail of treatments given to President Trump after he tested positive for the coronavirus included remdesivir.WHO said the study, which covered more than 30 countries, looked at the effects of the treatments on overall death rates, whether or not patients need breathing machines, and how much time patients spent recovering in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/study-finds-4-drugs-have-little-to-no-effect-on-covid-who/story-mqiKShWnup6JymSnK3D9SO.html
16-10-2020||World||UK slaps $25 million fine on British Airways for 2018 data security failure||Britain’s information commissioner has fined British Airways 20 million pounds ($25 million) for failing to protect personal data for some 400,000 customers, the largest fine the agency has ever issued.The ICO said in a statement on Friday that the airline was processing personal data without adequate security measures. It also noted that it did not detect a 2018 cyber attack for two months.Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham said, “BA’s failure to act was unacceptable and affected hundreds of thousands of people, which may have caused some anxiety and distress as a result.’’Under the European Union’s General Data Protection Rules imposed in 2018, organizations face fines of up to 20 million euros ($23 million) or 4% of annual global turnover — whichever is greater — for the most serious violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-slaps-25-million-fine-on-british-airways-for-2018-data-security-failure/story-vs3KTlSfHXPp5ek6kFQ9QI.html
16-10-2020||World||Thailand’s prime minister rejects calls to resign, braces for renewed protest||Thailand’s prime minister rejected calls for his resignation on Friday as his government stepped up efforts to stop student-led protesters from rallying in the capital for a second day in defiance of a strict state of emergency.Police closed roads and put up barricades around a major Bangkok intersection where the protesters have vowed to gather again to push their core demands, including that Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha leave office, the constitution be amended and the nation’s monarchy undergo reform.Police in riot gear moved into the area, while malls in the normally busy shopping district were closing early. Nearby mass transit stations were being closed to stop crowds of protesters from getting near the area. In addition to the security measures, heavy monsoon rains threatened to keep crowd numbers lower than the thousands that gathered the night before.The student protesters said they would simply rally just down the street at another large intersection.Prayuth’s government declared a strict new state of emergency for the capital on Thursday, a day after protesters gathered in a different part of the city heckled a royal motorcade. Such actions are unprecedented in Thailand, where those waiting for a royal motorcade regularly sit on the ground or prostrate themselves.Also Read | Thailand declares emergency due to unprecedented student uprisingThe state of emergency outlaws public gatherings of more than five people and bans the dissemination of news that is deemed to threaten national security. It also gives authorities broad powers, including detaining people at length without charge.Some 10,000 protesters defied the decree Thursday to rally at the Bangkok intersection.A number of protest leaders have already been rounded up since the decree went into effect. On Friday another two activists were arrested under a law covering violence against the queen for their alleged part in the heckling of the motorcade. They could face up to life in prison if convicted.The protest movement was launched in March by university students and its original core demands were new elections, changes in the constitution to make it more democratic, and an end to intimidation of activists.The protesters charge that Prayuth, who as army commander led a 2014 coup that toppled an elected government, was returned to power unfairly in last year’s general election because laws had been changed to favor a pro-military party.But the movement took a stunning turn in August, when students at a rally aired unprecedented criticism of the monarchy and issued calls for its reform. Using direct language normally expressed in whispers if at all, the speakers criticised the king’s wealth, his influence and that he spends much of his time outside the country.Thailand’s royal family has long been considered sacrosanct and a pillar of Thai identity. King Maha Vajiralongkorn and other key member of the royal family are protected by a lese majeste law that has regularly been used to silence critics who risk up to 15 years in prison if deemed to have insulted the institution.Conservative royalist Thais accuse the protest movement of seeking to end the monarchy, an allegation its leaders deny.Wednesday’s incident with the royal motorcade has stunned many Thais. Video that circulated widely showed members of a small crowd heckling a motorcade carrying Queen Suthida and Prince Dipangkorn as it slowly passed. Security personnel stood between the vehicles and the crowd and there was no visible violence and none was described by witnesses.Prayuth’s declaration of a state of emergency said the measure was necessary because “certain groups of perpetrators intended to instigate an untoward incident and movement in the Bangkok area by way of various methods and via different channels, including causing obstruction to the royal motorcade.” Prayuth said on Friday that he had no plans to resign as he had done nothing wrong. He said his government hopes it can drop the state of emergency ahead of its normal 30-day duration “if the situation improves quickly.” The legal aid group Thai Lawyers for Human Rights said at least 51 people have been arrested since Tuesday in connection with the protests.Police on Friday went to search the offices of the Progressive Movement, a group formed by former lawmakers from a reform-minded political party that was controversially dissolved by the Constitutional Court.The two activists charged over the incident with the queen are Ekachai Hongkangwan and Paothong Bunkueanum.Also Read | Thailand police arrest two students for disrupting Queen’s motorcadeEkachai is a veteran activist who has been physically attacked several times, in apparent response to his criticism of the military. Paothong, a university student, has been involved in organising the protests.The Wednesday incident in which the two were allegedly involved was stunning to most Thais, because by tradition and law, members of the royal family are treated with the utmost respect.The Ministry of Digital Economy, meanwhile, announced it would file complaints with police covering five Twitter accounts and five Facebook accounts inviting people to attend Friday’s rally. Such posting could be deemed illegal under the state of emergency, as well as other laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-s-prime-minister-rejects-calls-to-resign-braces-for-renewed-protest/story-3CaRAvdWvFf8KHyFeROc4M.html
16-10-2020||World||Joe Biden vows to repeal ‘Muslim ban’ imposed by Donald Trump admin if elected||Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has vowed to include Muslim Americans in every social and political aspect in his administration as well as repeal President Donald Trump’s “Muslim ban” if voted to power.In a video message to Muslim Advocates, a civil rights organisation, on Thursday, Biden also promised to push lawmakers for legislation to fight the growing spike in hate crimes in the US. “As president, I’ll work with you to rip the poison of hate from our society to honour your contributions and seek your ideas. My administration will look like America, with Muslim Americans serving at every level,” he said. “On day one, I’ll end Trump’s unconstitutional Muslim ban. I’ll push Congress to pass hate crimes legislation. I’ll implement the national strategy I’ve laid out since March to beat Covid. I’ll end the deadly inequities in health care, education, and opportunity that this crisis has amplified. And together, we’ll rebuild the criminal justice system focused on redemption, not retribution,” Biden added.President Trump has imposed a controversial travel ban, often referred to by critics as a “Muslim ban”, on several Muslim majority countries, including Iran and Syria, through a series of executive orders. In February, the travel ban was expanded to include six additional countries, including Nigeria.Observing that Muslim American voices matter to the community and to the country, Biden claimed that the community haven’t always gotten the respect or representation they deserve under the Trump administration. “This is not who we are. Abraham Lincoln told us at Gettysburg, a house divided cannot stand. Today, trust is ebbing. Hope seems elusive. Instead of healing, we’re being ripped apart. And I refuse to let that happen. We have two brighter future to leave it shipwrecked on the shores of anger and division,” he said.“I said from the start. I’m running the United States country to embrace hope, not fear, light, not darkness, the future, not the past, and I’m going to appeal to the best of us, not our worst side. I mean, you all know better than anyone it’s in our power to change course, to organise, advocate, and to vote.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-vows-to-repeal-muslim-ban-imposed-by-donald-trump-admin-if-elected/story-TSjTT1QocGllDbGKyhOa0N.html
16-10-2020||World||Pfizer sees emergency use filing for Covid-19 vaccine after US election||Pfizer Inc expects to provide safety data and file for authorization of the Covid-19 vaccine it is developing with German partner BioNTech in late November, delaying any clarity on the vaccine until after the Nov. 3 U.S. presidential election.The regulatory filing for the vaccine could come as soon as safety data is available in the third week of November, Pfizer said, lifting the company’s shares and the broader U.S. stock market.The timeline now allows for possible U.S. authorization of a coronavirus vaccine this year, a key step in controlling a pandemic that has killed more than a million and ravaged the global economy.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has said it wants at least two months of safety data before authorizing emergency use of any experimental coronavirus vaccine.Pfizer’s Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla noted in a letter posted on its website that the filing depended on several factors, including data on effectiveness that may or may not be available by late October.Based on current trial enrollment and dosing pace, Pfizer expects to have the safety data in the third week of November, Bourla said.A filing for emergency use authorization with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration could come ‘soon after’ that data is ready, Bourla said.Bourla said data on the vaccine’s effectiveness may come earlier or later based on whether the late-stage trial of the vaccine had accumulated enough patients with Covid-19 to compare its effectiveness versus a placebo.Pfizer had said previously that it expected late-stage trial data in October.BioNTech was not immediately available for comment.Pfizer’s shares rose 1% before market trading, while BioNTech’s U.S-listed shares were up 2.4% before the opening bell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-sees-emergency-use-filing-for-covid-19-vaccine-after-us-election/story-kz3gN7NJkizDeNvBvNFUvL.html
16-10-2020||World||Twitter changes hacked content rules after Joe Biden story furor||Twitter said late Thursday it was changing its policy on hacked content after an outcry about its handling of an unverified political story that prompted cries of censorship from the right.The social media company will no longer remove hacked material unless it’s directly shared by hackers or those working with them, the company’s head of legal, policy, trust and safety, Vijaya Gadde, said in a Twitter thread.And instead of blocking links from being shared, tweets will be labelled to provide context, Gadde said.“We want to address the concerns that there could be many unintended consequences to journalists, whistleblowers and others in ways that are contrary to Twitter’s purpose of serving the public conversation,” she said.Twitter and Facebook had moved quickly this week to limit the spread of the story published by the conservative-leaning New York Post, which cited unverified emails from Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden’s son that were reportedly discovered by President Donald Trump’s allies. The story has not been confirmed by other publications.Twitter initially responded by banning users from sharing links to the article in tweets and direct messages because it violated the company’s policy prohibiting hacked content. But it didn’t alert users about why they couldn’t share the link until hours later.Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey tweeted that it was “unacceptable” the company hadn’t provided more context around its action. A little over 24 hours later, Gadde announced the company was making changes after receiving “significant feedback (from critical to supportive)” about how it enforced the policy.Facebook said it was “reducing” the story’s distribution on its platform while waiting for third-party fact-checkers to verify it, something it regularly does with material that’s not banned outright from its service, though it risks spreading lies or causing harm in other ways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-changes-hacked-content-rules-after-joe-biden-story-furor/story-3WyKl3gtqi3jFrlaLESqtN.html
16-10-2020||World||ECTA denounces ban on Chinese vendors, warns about potential rise in costs||A business group representing challenger telecoms operators in Europe warned on Friday against banning Chinese equipment vendors, saying that doing so for political reasons would force up costs and delay network upgrades.In a strongly-worded statement, the European Competitive Telecommunications Association (ECTA), said it “denounces any bans of Chinese 5G suppliers for geopolitical reasons and emphasises that such decisions can only be justified on the basis of well-established facts”.ECTA groups alternative telecoms such as Germany’s 1&1 Drillisch, Iliad of France and Spain’s Masmovil. China’s Huawei Technologies, the global networks market leader, is also on board.Huawei’s position in Europe has come under pressure from a US campaign to purge next-generation networks of kit that Washington says can be used for spying - claims that the Chinese company denies.ECTA’s statement comes after France imposed restrictions on Huawei equipment that sources familiar with the matter said amounted to a de-facto ban.Politics also loomed large over last week’s decision by Orange Belgium and Proximus to replace Huawei with Nokia as provider of radio access network gear for their shared 5G network in Belgium.ECTA’s General Director Luc Hindryckx told Reuters the statement reflected concerns of member CEOs that the adoption of a common EU approach to assessing vendor risk - known as the Toolbox - was leading more and more member countries to impose “actual or de-facto bans” on Chinese vendors.The exclusion of Huawei and ZTE, another Chinese vendor, would leave telecoms with a choice of just three suppliers - the other global players are Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung.“A reduction in the number of worldwide suppliers from five to three will not only impact the telecoms sector by increasing costs, negatively impacting performance, delaying the deployment of 5G networks and constraining innovation potential,” ECTA said.Industry consultant John Strand challenged that view, however, saying that Nordic operators Telenor, Telia and TDC had ripped and replaced Chinese equipment “without increasing cost”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ecta-denounces-ban-on-chinese-vendors-warns-about-potential-rise-in-costs/story-a4aBkyiS1lOX8mjHC4R0AL.html
16-10-2020||World||Germany records 7,334 new Covid-19 cases, logs highest single-day increase||Germany has confirmed 7,334 new Covid-19 cases over the past 24 hours marking the largest daily increase since the start of the outbreak, with the total count reaching 348,557, the Robert Koch Institute said on Friday.The death toll has grown by 24 to 9,734 people within the same period of time. More than 284,000 people have recovered since the start of the outbreak.A day earlier, the country confirmed 6,638 new coronavirus cases and 33 fatalities.The World Health Organisation declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic on March 11. To date, more than 38.8 million people have been infected with the coronavirus worldwide, with over 1.09 million fatalities, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-records-7-334-new-covid-19-cases-logs-highest-single-day-increase/story-JpFXgFho8pYYEaOOFJiodO.html
16-10-2020||World||China rapidly expands use of experimental COVID-19 vaccines||China is rapidly increasing the number of people receiving its experimental coronavirus vaccines, with a city offering one to the general public and a biotech company providing another free to students going abroad.The city of Jiaxing, south of Shanghai, is offering a vaccine under development by Sinovac, it said in an announcement Thursday. It said high-risk groups, including people who are “responsible for the basic operations of the city” will receive priority, but that residents who have emergency needs can also sign up.The vaccine is in the final stage of clinical testing, but has not yet been approved. The city government said it is being provided under an emergency authorization.China National Biotech Group, another Chinese vaccine company, is offering its vaccine free to students who study abroad in a strategy health experts say raises safety and ethical concerns.More than 168,000 people signed up to receive the vaccine via an online survey and more than 91,000 are being considered, CNBG said on its website. That page had been removed by Tuesday.Chinese drug companies have five vaccines in final stages of testing but none is approved for public use. They are part of a global race to develop a vaccine that, if successful, offers the fledgling Chinese industry the potential for prestige and worldwide sales.Top Chinese health officials have promised a vaccine for the general public before the end of this year.CNBG’s vaccine has already been given to medical workers and employees of Chinese companies being sent abroad under an emergency authorization for people in high-risk categories. It has given the vaccine to 350,000 people outside its clinical trials, a company executive said in September. The trials have about 40,000 people enrolled.“Currently, it seems Chinese students going abroad have a strong desire to take the vaccine,” a CNBG employee was quoted as saying by a state-owned newspaper, the Paper, based on the survey results in September.Students in China who are due to start their semesters abroad say they want the vaccine because they are worried about getting sick.“It’s very dangerous over there, the town we study in, it’s a red danger zone,” said a student who goes to school in Poland and gave only her surname, Ouyang. She signed up for the CNBG vaccine in September but hasn’t heard back yet. “We all really want this vaccine.”A student who is due to go to Britain said she signed up via the online link after classmates said they received the vaccine.The student, who would give only her English name, Sally, said she started to hear in September that the vaccine was available to people such as her. She said other students said she might need to travel to Beijing, the national capital, or Wuhan, where the outbreak emerged in December, to receive the vaccine.If the vaccine works, it might help protect students going to Europe or the United States, where the pandemic is still raging, medical experts said. But they said developers need to make clear it is unproven and keep track of what happens to people who receive it.If the vaccine doesn’t work, then “this is giving people a false sense of security,” said Sridhar Venkatapuram, a specialist in bioethics at King’s College London’s Global Health Institute.The ruling Communist Party declared the coronavirus under control in March but has warned that the risk of a new outbreak is high. Travelers and visitors to public buildings still are checked for signs of infection. Those arriving from abroad are required to be quarantined for two weeks. The country has reported 4,634 deaths and 85,622 confirmed cases.This week, 10 million people were tested in the eastern port of Qingdao after 12 cases were found last weekend, the government said Friday. That ended a nearly two-month period with no local virus transmissions reported within China.It was unclear whether Chinese students were being offered the CNBG vaccine under the same emergency authorization that residents of Jiaxing were.The agency that oversees drug and vaccine approvals, the National Medical Products Administration, did not respond to questions sent by fax. CNBG did not respond to a request for comment.The final stage of clinical trials, conducted on larger groups, is used to find any rare side effects and study the effectiveness of a treatment. The first and second stage trials are meant to determine whether a vaccine or treatment is safe.“The manufacturer has an obligation to obtain follow-up information” from people who receive a vaccine under emergency use, K. Arnold Chan, a National Taiwan University expert on drug regulation, said in an email.Failing to do that “is irresponsible and not compliant with international standards,” he wrote.More than 600,000 Chinese students studied abroad before the pandemic, according to Ministry of Education figures. They make up a large share of the foreign student body in the United States, Britain, Australia and some other countries.Western universities are “not protecting their students,” Venkatapuram said. “The company is basically offering its citizens protection going outside of China, which in essence is what any country would ideally be doing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-rapidly-expands-use-of-experimental-covid-19-vaccines/story-UnnpD6ljSvd8XgBGngo8aP.html
16-10-2020||World||Bad weather hampers Vietnam’s search for victims of landslide||Vietnamese rescuers battled driving rain on Friday as they searched for at least 15 construction workers missing and feared dead after a landslide at the start of the week in the mountainous central part of the country.Intense rains since early October have caused floods and mudslides that have killed at least 55 people in central Vietnam, with more heavy rainfall expected until early next week.The landslide took place on Monday at a hydropower dam project in the province of Thua Thien Hue, with two workers confirmed dead up to now.Another landslide later that night killed 13 rescuers, mostly soldiers, while they were on the way to search for the missing workers. Their bodies were recovered on Thursday.“They bravely sacrificed to save people,” Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said in a statement on Friday, describing the deaths as a great loss to the army.Heavy rain and the risk of more landslides was making it difficult to bring badly needed equipment to the site of the hydropower dam to aid the search, the government said in the statement on its website.“The military is determined to continue to send troops and equipment to the site of Rao Trang 3 hydropower plant project for the search and rescue operations,” the government said.State media said on Friday it would take days for the rescuers to reopen a damaged road leading to the site, more than 90 km (56 miles) west of the ancient city of Hue.A tropical depression that is moving towards central Vietnam will bring more heavy rain until next Wednesday and beyond, the government’s weather agency said on Friday.The depression is expected to dump up to 500 millimetres (20 inches) of rain in Thua Thien Hue and other parts of central Vietnam, the agency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bad-weather-hampers-vietnam-s-search-for-victims-of-landslide/story-JbiPvFyNzcZRyL0KqDAcyH.html
16-10-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine offered by Chinese city for emergency use costs $60||A city in eastern China is offering an experimental Covid-19 vaccine outside of clinical trials for around $60 to high-risk groups under an emergency inoculation programme.CoronaVac, the Beijing-based Sinovac Biotech’s vaccine, is being offered in Jiaxing in eastern China’s Zhejiang province to care givers, especially epidemic-prevention workers, public service personnel and port inspectors.The experimental vaccine will be eventually offered to ordinary citizens, state media reports said on Friday.“The vaccine, developed by Chinese company Sinovac Biotech Ltd, will be provided to people aged between 18 and 59 at a price of 400 yuan ($59.5) for 2 shots,” the Jiaxing Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was quoted by state media as saying.The Jiaxing CDC added that as the vaccine hasn’t been “officially approved for marketing”, it is only approved for urgent use.This vaccine contains two doses at an interval of 14-28 days, the CDC told state media.“Its (the company’s) vaccine is in late stage trials in Brazil, Indonesia and Turkey, and the company has said that an interim analysis of Phase 3 trial data could come as early as November,” Reuters said in a report Friday.In late June, China’s National Health Commission (NHC), under Chinese vaccine management law, had allowed emergency vaccines to be used on certain people at high risk of contracting the disease, such as medical workers, front-line pandemic control workers and customs workers – a move considered controversial by experts as the vaccines are still at an experimental stage.On September 25, a top health official said Beijing had gained the “understanding and support” from the World Health Organization before starting the emergency use programme.Since July, China has administered experimental vaccines to hundreds of thousands of people under the programme.The WHO had told HT that Beijing’s decision to launch the programme was a domestic authorisation.“WHO has not issued any Covid-19 vaccine Emergency Use Listings (EULs) yet -- yesterday we published draft EUL/PQ criteria for assessment of Covid-19 vaccines and the public is invited to comment,” the WHO had told HT in an emailed statement on September 26.“What China has issued is a domestic emergency use authorisation. These are issued at the discretion of countries and not subject to WHO approval,” it said.Until late September, 11 Chinese Covid-19 vaccines had entered clinical trials, with four in Phase 3.Last week, China announced it will join COVAX, an international initiative aimed at ensuring equitable global access to Covid-19 vaccines, becoming the largest economy to support the initiative so far. The number of daily cases of Covid-19, which first emerged from the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year, has fallen drastically in mainland China from peaks seen in February.Confirmed cases in the mainland is at over 85,500, while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,634.More than 3,000 imported cases of Covid-19 have been reported as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-offered-by-chinese-city-for-emergency-use-costs-60/story-kpKQbPYskDVgiygC30J1MJ.html
16-10-2020||World||Racial tensions simmer in South Africa over alleged murder of farmer||Emotions ran high Friday as two black suspects appeared in a South African court over the murder of a white farmer which has sparked racial tensions. A barbed wire fence ringed the court house in the central town of Senekal and police and a water cannon were deployed as opposing groups of white farmers and black activists gathered near the site.Crime in this sleepy area, 300 kilometres (180 miles) south of Johannesburg, is relatively rare. But on October 2, the body of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner was found. He had been strangled and tied to a fence at a farm in Paul Roux near Senekal. A silver cross with his name engraved on it has been erected at the spot where the body was discovered. The killing of white farmers is a highly emotive issue in South Africa. Some conservative groups say the farmers are victims of a genocide and the government is not doing enough to protect them.“This young man is paying with his life, he is going to help us solve the (crime) problem,” Horner’s employer Gilly Scheeper, 58, said.Scheeper has hired private investigators to run a parallel probe into the death “because police here are corrupt”.The motive for the murder has not been established. Half a dozen policemen guarded the court house on Friday, dressed in bulletproof jackets and armed with assault rifles.Inside the court, the judge said only the final arguments and the verdict could be televised.Farmers rioted, stormed the court house and torched a police van when the suspects first appeared in court last week.One of the suspects had been arrested 16 times before the latest arrest.The alleged instigator of last week’s court rioting, businessman Andre Pienaar, is in custody facing charges of public violence, attempted murder and incitement.President Cyril Ramaphosa tried Monday to ease the tensions in post-apartheid South Africa.“Killings on farms are not ethnic cleansing,” he said in a weekly newsletter. “They are not genocidal. They are acts of criminality and must be treated as such.”South Africa, where white minority rule and apartheid only ended in 1994, has one of the world’s highest crime rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/racial-tensions-simmer-in-south-africa-over-alleged-murder-of-farmer/story-gDc40cdYVNZit7WaiMZfQI.html
16-10-2020||World||LeT, JeM backing Taliban in fighting in Helmand, says top Afghan official||Against the backdrop of intense attacks by the Taliban in Helmand province of Afghanistan, a top Afghan official has said that fighters from Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) are involved in the fighting. The crucial province has witnessed violent clashes between the Taliban and Afghan forces since the last weekend, and the UN has said some 35,000 people have been displaced by the fighting. Taliban cadres launched offensives to capture cities such as provincial capital of Lashkargah and several districts. Helmand’s governor Yasin Khan has said foreign fighters associated LeT, JeM and al-Qaeda are backing the Taliban in the attacks. Though the Taliban captured several check posts, Afghan forces have mounted counter-attacks to drive them out. Also Read: 16 security personnel killed in Taliban attack in Afghanistan’s Baghlan province: ReportThe Taliban have provided safe havens to foreign fighters from the three terrorist organisations, and they, in turn, are providing military and bomb-making training to Taliban fighters, Khan was quoted as saying by Tolo News channel. “There is the presence of al-Qaeda, Jaish-e-Mohammad, Lashkar-e-Taiba and terrorists from Central Asia. They collaborated with the Taliban now and in the past,” Khan said. A Taliban spokesman was quoted by Tolo News as rejecting the governor’s remarks. A former Indian intelligence official, who was involved in tracking developments in Afghanistan, said reports suggested the Taliban fighters in Helmand were not under the control of the organisation’s leaders who are involved in the ongoing talks in Doha with the Afghan government. “Reports also suggest that the groups in Helmand are under the influence of Iran and that was the reason why the US swiftly launched counter strikes in Helmand. The province is crucial as it has traditional been the route to capturing power in Kabul,” he said, declining to be identified. Also Read: Why Pakistan is wrong, again | HT EditorialPeople familiar with developments also said the Taliban groups in Helmand were being supported by Pakistan and Iran and were opposed to the talks underway in Doha. Helmand is also one of the main poppy growing areas in Afghanistan and crucial for the illegal narcotics trade, which generates sizeable funds for the Taliban. A UN report issued in May this year had said there are some 6,500 Pakistanis among foreign terrorists operating in Afghanistan, and that the JeM and LeT play a key role in bringing foreign fighters into the war-torn country. The groups have a presence in the eastern Afghan provinces of Kunar, Nangarhar and Nuristan, “where they operate under the umbrella of the Afghan Taliban”, according to the report from the UN Security Council’s analytical support and sanctions monitoring team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/let-jem-backing-taliban-in-fighting-in-helmand-says-top-afghan-official/story-UdyDgQBd9mb9I7v2GMll4H.html
16-10-2020||World||Philippines, to avoid ban on seafarers, probes Covid-19 outbreaks in ships||The Philippines is investigating Covid-19 outbreaks on ships that changed crews in Manila in a bid to avoid a ban on Filipino seafarers.Stricter protocols in crew-change hubs may be put in place, depending on the probe’s results, Transportation Assistant Secretary Narciso Vingson Jr. said in a statement Friday.The investigation comes after infections were recorded among crew of Australia-bound bulk carriers Vega Dream and the Patricia Oldendorff, raising possibility of a ban on seafarers from the Philippines, which supplies a quarter of the world’s merchant marine workforce.Vingson said the infections may have occurred before the government standardized testing in a new facility it opened in Manila’s port last month for arriving and departing Filipino seafarers. Prior, manning agencies were “operating on their own and may be lacking in monitoring,” he said.Virus Cases Rise on Ship Stranded Off World’s Key Iron Ore HubThe Western Australia Today reported on Oct. 12 that Australian mining companies won’t use any seafarers from Manila, the epicenter of the Philippine outbreak. The Southeast Asian nation’s maritime agency has not received official notice of this move, said Luisito delos Santos, who heads its information service.Vessels have been diverting to the Philippines to facilitate crew changes after the pandemic shut borders and limited flights. The nation has more than 350,000 Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-to-avoid-ban-on-seafarers-probes-covid-19-outbreaks-in-ships/story-OYf4zPB5WTC7xlshciedUP.html
16-10-2020||World||Finnish PM Sanna Marin leaves EU summit as ‘precautionary’ measure||Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin said Friday that she had left the European Union summit in Belgium “as a precautionary measure” and was flying back home to undergo a coronavirus test.The move came one day after European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen left the summit venue in Brussels shortly after the meeting began because one of her close staffers tested positive for Covid-19.Marin wrote, “I left the European Council meeting as a precautionary measure and asked the Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven to represent the Finnish end of the meeting time.”Marin had attended a meeting Wednesday at the Finnish parliament together with lawmaker Tom Packalen who later had tested positive for the coronavirus and had mild flu symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/finnish-pm-sanna-marin-leaves-eu-summit-as-precautionary-measure/story-0zPkWexK4WJWLAEaByUVmN.html
16-10-2020||World||Top copper producer Chile says it can run mines in the Andes without affecting glaciers||Chile’s government seeks to strike a balance between protecting glaciers and appeasing investors in the top copper producer -- even as the political opposition pushes a law that could constrain mining in such environmentally fragile areas.“We are in favor of protecting the environment including water reserves and glaciers, but we have to do it correctly,” Chile’s Environment Minister Carolina Schmidt told the Pauta Bloomberg radio show on Thursday. “We have many scientists and data that show us glacial protection can be done correctly.”The government of the South American nation and the mining industry say that huge copper deposits high up in the Andes Mountains can be tapped without destroying the glaciers that provide water for millions of people. Those glaciers are already receding thanks to global warming. Chile is grappling with challenges governments worldwide face with growing pressure to curb environmental impacts while trying to generate revenue to prop up the economy amid a pandemic.Proposed reforms to Chile’s water code should safeguard the resource in the country while providing certainty to companies that invest in key industries including agriculture, which has been hit by a years-long drought, Schmidt said. Critics of the existing code say it doesn’t explicitly protect human consumption.An opposition-led bill being debated in a Senate mining and energy commission would provide blanket protections for the country’s glaciers and permafrost areas, though such a law threatens to restrict mining operations and prohibit some development projects. Two divisions of state-owned Codelco and Anglo American Plc’s Los Bronces mine could be affected by the proposed bill, which was introduced to the Senate in July 2018.Chile’s government is also promoting the use of hydrogen and renewable energy in mining operations as a way of reaching carbon neutrality and delivering “green” copper that would fetch a premium, Schmidt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-copper-producer-chile-says-it-can-run-mines-in-the-andes-without-affecting-glaciers/story-6qDdqvpgzlb060giZ8CpRM.html
16-10-2020||World||Nagorno-Karabakh feud: Death toll among military reaches 633||The defence ministry of the Nagorno-Karabakh region said on Friday it had recorded another 29 casualties among its military, pushing the military death toll to 633 since fighting with Azeri forces erupted on Sept. 27.The fighting has surged to its worst level since the 1990s, when some 30,000 people were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nagorno-karabakh-feud-death-toll-among-military-reaches-633/story-wdDziOYFs13AWcpAFd4qVK.html
16-10-2020||World||Thailand police arrest two students for disrupting Queen’s motorcade||Thai police arrested two activists Friday under a rarely-used law banning violence against the queen, after thousands of pro-democracy protesters defied an emergency decree to rally on the streets of Bangkok.The kingdom’s political elite has been jolted by a youth-led movement that has demanded the resignation of Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-Cha and issued a once-taboo call for reforms to Thailand’s powerful monarchy.Ekachai Hongkangwan and Bunkueanun Paothong were among activists who crowded around a royal motorcade carrying Queen Suthida on Wednesday during a large demonstration near the capital’s government house. Bunkueanun said during a Friday morning Facebook broadcast that he was surrendering himself to police.“I am accused of trying to harm the queen,” he said. “I am innocent. That was not my intention.”Ekachai told AFP by phone he had also been charged and police later confirmed he was in their custody.Both men could face life in prison under a law that has not been used for decades and punishes any “act of violence against the queen or her liberty”.It is not clear why the pair were singled out.This is the first time such a serious charge has been levelled against pro-democracy activists, many of whom have already been hit with lesser charges, including sedition and breaking coronavirus rules on gatherings.Their movement’s demands include the abolition of a strict royal defamation law -- which shields the monarchy from criticism -- and for the royal family to stay out of politics.- ‘Free our friends!’ -Police closed down roads in central Bangkok on Friday after protesters vowed to return to the streets in the evening -- a move that would again defy an emergency decree banning gatherings of more than four people.“I warn everyone not to violate the law,” premier Prayut said after holding a special cabinet meeting. Some 10,000 people had rallied Thursday late into the night at the flashpoint junction of Ratchaprasong. Confronting police, they demanded the release of around two dozen arrested activists, chanting “Free our friends!” and “Prayut get out!”.Many displayed a three-fingered salute adopted from the “Hunger Games” movies as a symbol of the burgeoning movement.Prayut said he had no intention of stepping down.“No, I won’t quit,” he said. “What have I done wrong?”Among the top activists arrested Thursday was Panusaya “Rung” Sithijirawattanakul, whose detention was live-streamed on Facebook.Anon Numpa, another leading activist, said he was forcibly taken by helicopter to Chiang Mai in northern Thailand.His lawyer Krisadang Nutcharut told AFP that Anon had been refused bail and was being held in Chiang Mai prison.“Keep on fighting! My freedom is a very small issue compared to the entire struggle for democracy,” Anon posted on Facebook late Thursday.- History of unrest -Thailand’s modern political history is dotted with periods of violent civil unrest and more than a dozen military coups, the most recent of which brought Prayut to power in 2014.Bangkok-based analyst Thitinan Pongsudhirak said the protest movement could heighten the chances of Thailand facing yet another military takeover. “This endgame for Thailand’s future has been building up for years, and it is finally here and now,” he said.“A brutal dispersal of the protest may take place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-police-arrest-two-students-for-disrupting-queen-s-motorcade/story-Wy85TDYRakspCQzQaeT6bP.html
16-10-2020||World||Italy has 2 weeks to control Covid-19 highs, spreads to at-risk population: Virologist||Italy has two weeks to stop the rising rate of transmission of coronavirus or it risks “following in the footsteps” of European neighbours where exponential spreads have ushered back harsh restrictions, a virologist on the front lines says.Italian health officials have declared that the resurgence of Covid-19 has reached an “acute phase.” Massimo Galli, the director of infectious diseases at Milan’s Luigi Sacco hospital, said Italy’s surge — which hit pandemic highs of new daily infections this week — is not the result of record testing, as policy makers have suggested, but a sign of a real return among the population most at risk.It only takes a look at Sacco’s Covid-19 ward, a few steps from Galli’s office, to raise the alarm.“We have a situation that reminds one quite distressingly of the one that we already have experienced,’‘ Galli told The Associated Press, referring to the peak in March and April when the surge in infections resulted in a one-day record of 969 deaths.Already in Milan, he said, the number of elderly patients or those with other risk factors is growing, indicating a spread beyond the expansion seen in late September, when most new positives were among people caught by contact tracing and screenings, for example people returning from vacation.‘‘The trend is already there, and it is frankly alarming,’‘ he said, adding that “it is not a generalized situation, it is not all of Italy.” But he fears that new nationwide restrictions adopted over the past two weeks — including mandatory masks outdoors, a ban on pick-up sports and restaurant closures at midnight — are not enough.“If we don’t in 15 days ... have an indication of being able to control all of the major outbreaks, there won’t be a choice but to enter another phase of limiting activities,’‘ Galli said.On Friday, the region of Campania, which includes Naples and which has been under pressure since early September, closed schools until the end of the month — angering the government in Rome.That came after Italy reported a new daily record of confirmed virus cases — 8,804 — on Thursday, including more than 2,000 in Lombardy and 1,000 in Campania. After hovering around 40 for days, the death toll surged to 83, one-third of those in Lombardy.Newly confirmed cases have also reached record levels in the Czech Republic, which also shut schools, and Poland, which has limited restaurant hours and closed gyms and schools. France, meanwhile, has imposed a 9 p.m. curfew in Paris and other big cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-has-2-weeks-to-control-covid-19-highs-spreads-to-at-risk-population-virologist/story-ZDYkY3b9Mpcwgj2v3xqy3M.html
16-10-2020||World||UK government under pressure for Covid-19 strategy||The British government is sticking to its strategy of tiered, regional restrictions to combat Covid-19 amid mounting political and scientific pressure for stronger nationwide measures to prevent the coronavirus pandemic from spiraling out of control.Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab on Friday reiterated the government’s belief that a regional approach where the toughest restrictions are imposed only in the areas where infection rates are highest is the best way to slow the spread of the virus and protect the economy.“I think the right thing, both on public health grounds but also supporting the economy, supporting jobs, livelihoods, supporting our society and the most vulnerable in it, is to avoid a second national lockdown,” Raab told Sky News.The government has been under fire since Prime Minister Boris Johnson unveiled his three-tier strategy on Monday amid revelations that scientific advisers had recommended a short nationwide lockdown to slow rapidly rising infection rates. Leaders of northern cities have refused to accept the tightest restrictions unless the government provides more support to cushion the impact on business and individuals.Opposition politicians accuse ministers of doing too little, too late.Jeremy Farrar, an infectious disease specialist who sits on the government’s scientific advisory panel, said Friday that restrictions imposed under the three-tier strategy aren’t tough enough to bring the virus under control, and that squabbling over where and when to impose the measures risks confusing the public.Calling the situation the “worst of all worlds” Farrar said the UK needs to quickly implement tighter restrictions nationwide to slow the spread of the virus and limit broader damage to society.“I think we’ve got to come together as a country,” Farrar told the BBC. “The fragmentation and, frankly, making this either a north-south or a party political issue, that’s a very, very dangerous route to go on.”London and seven other areas will move into the second-highest risk tier on Saturday, leading to increased restrictions on more than 11 million people. So far, only the northwestern city of Liverpool has been placed into the top risk tier, which requires the closure of pubs and bars, and bans social gatherings between people from different households.Raab said negotiations are continuing with officials in Manchester, Lancashire about moving those areas into the top tier as well.“We will keep talking and we’ll keep working,” Raab said. “Obviously, in the last resort the government has the powers to proceed in any event, but we would much rather work with the local leaders if at all possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-government-under-pressure-for-covid-19-strategy/story-NtajtTB20he4a74mV8dlJO.html
16-10-2020||World||Singapore says employers can temporarily cut wages to save jobs||Employers in Singapore can consider implementing reasonable temporary wage cuts if such a move minimizes retrenchments, the National Wages Council said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-says-employers-can-temporarily-cut-wages-to-save-jobs/story-ZvI14sq9K6HYnNOlBqsB9N.html
16-10-2020||World||Boris Johnson to answer EU’s Brexit trade deal concerns||Prime Minister Boris Johnson will on Friday give Britain’s response to the European Union’s demand that he either make more concessions to secure a trade deal or brace for a disorderly Brexit at the end of the year.A tumultuous “no deal” finale to the United Kingdom’s five-year Brexit crisis would sow chaos through the delicate supply chains that stretch across Britain, the EU and beyond - just as the economic hit from the coronavirus pandemic worsens.At what was supposed to be the “Brexit summit” on Thursday, the EU delivered an ultimatum: it said it was concerned by a lack of progress and called on London to yield on key sticking points or see a rupture of ties with the bloc from Jan. 1.Britain’s chief negotiator, David Frost, said he was surprised that the EU was no longer committed to working “intensively” for a deal. Johnson, he said, would set out his response.“We are disappointed and surprised,” British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said, adding that the two sticking points were fishing and the so-called level playing field - rules aimed at stopping a country gaining a competitive advantage.“Having said that, we are close,” Raab said of a deal. “A deal should be able to be done but it must require goodwill on both sides.”Britain formally left the EU on Jan. 31, but the two sides are haggling over a deal that would govern trade in everything from car parts and salmon, to Camembert and medicines when informal membership known as the transition period, with Britain still in the EU single market and customs union, ends Dec. 31.As he grapples with a accelerating second wave of the novel coronavirus outbreak, Johnson will ultimately have to make the final call on whether to accept a narrow trade deal or go for a more tumultuous no-deal that he would seek to blame on the EU.After Johnson’s bid to undercut the 2020 Brexit divorce treaty, there are fears that London is employing what one European diplomat said was Madman Theory - a reference to former U.S. President Richard Nixon’s attempt to convince Moscow that he was irrational during the Cold War in the 1970s.DRAMA OR NO DEAL? Johnson has repeatedly said that his preference is for a deal but that Britain could make a success of a no-deal scenario, which would throw $900 billion in annual bilateral trade into uncertainty and could snarl the border, turning the southeastern county of Kent into a vast truck park.The EU’s 27 members, whose combined $18.4 trillion economy dwarfs the United Kingdom’s $3 trillion economy, say a deal is still possible but that Johnson must give ground.German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Europe’s most powerful leader, said compromise would be needed for a deal. “In some areas, things have progressed well. In others, much work remains to be done. We have asked the United Kingdom to remain open to compromise, so that an agreement can be reached,” Merkel said.“This of course means that we, too, will need to make compromises. Each side has its red lines,” she said adding that top EU aims were to safeguard peace in Ireland and protect the bloc’s single market. On fishing, the EU’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, said the bloc was seeking sustainable access to UK waters, as well as a fair share of fish catch quotas, just as Britain wanted continued access to the bloc’s energy market.On competition, Barnier said the EU needed to know if any British divergence from EU standards would be “reasonable”, who would control that decision within the UK, and would London inform Europe in advance to let it prepare.Goldman Sachs said there could be Brexit drama ahead but that a bare-bones Brexit trade deal was likely to struck by early November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-to-answer-eu-s-brexit-trade-deal-concerns/story-o3wg11rECDNTUu3b0evv6N.html
16-10-2020||World||Britain moves closer to Covid-19 vaccine trials that infect volunteers||“Human challenge” trials of potential Covid-19 vaccines, where volunteers are deliberately infected with the disease, could become a reality after a British biotech firm said it was in advanced talks with the government to create and provide strains of the virus.Preliminary work for the trials, which aim to speed up the process of determining the efficacy of a vaccine candidate, is being carried out by hVIVO, a unit of pharmaceutical services company Open Orphan, hVIVO said on Friday.If agreed, this would involve creating a human challenge study model that could be used should such trials gain ethical and safety approval from regulators.Supporters of human challenge trials say they are a good way to cut short the often lengthy process of testing potential vaccines on tens of thousands of volunteers in the real world who go about normal life and are monitored to see if they contract the disease or are protected from it.In these tightly-controlled trials, volunteers are given a vaccine and then about a month later are deliberately infected with the disease under controlled conditions. They are then isolated in a quarantine facility and monitored to see if they become sick or if the vaccine protects them.Critics say deliberately infecting someone with a potentially deadly disease for which there is currently no effective treatment is unethical.Any human challenge trials conducted in Britain would have to be approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, the healthcare regulator that looks into safety, ethics and protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-moves-closer-to-covid-19-vaccine-trials-that-infect-volunteers/story-5LkgQWp6v0FcWCCC2mSkJJ.html
16-10-2020||World||Gilead questions WHO study that cast doubts on drug’s Covid-19 benefits||Gilead Sciences Inc has questioned the findings of a World Health Organization (WHO) study that concluded its Covid-19 drug remdesivir does not help patients who have been admitted to hospital.The American company told Reuters the data appeared inconsistent, the findings were premature and that other studies had validated the drug’s benefits. In a blow to one of the few drugs being used to treat people with Covid-19, the WHO said on Thursday its “Solidarity” trial had concluded that remdesivir appeared to have little or no effect on 28-day mortality or length of hospital stays among patients with the respiratory disease.The antiviral medication was one of the drugs used to treat U.S. President Donald Trump’s coronavirus infection, and has been shown in previous studies to have cut time to recovery, though the European Union is investigating it for possible kidney injury.The WHO trial was conducted in 11,266 adult patients in more than 30 countries. The evidence was conclusive, the WHO said.Gilead said other trials of remdesivir, including with 1,062 patients that compared it with a placebo, showed the treatment cut Covid-19 recovery time.“The emerging (WHO) data appears inconsistent, with more robust evidence from multiple randomized, controlled studies published in peer-reviewed journals validating the clinical benefit of remdesivir,” Gilead told Reuters.Gilead said it was “unclear if any conclusive findings can be drawn” given what it called differences in how the trial was conducted from site to site and between the patients who received the medicine. In April, the top U.S. infectious disease official, Anthony Fauci, predicted remdesivir would become “the standard of care”.Companies such as Gilead are racing to find a treatment for Covid-19. Some 1.1 million people have died and 39.1 million have been reported infected in the pandemic, and the global economy has been thrown into chaos. Remdesivir was developed for Ebola, which causes fever, bleeding, vomiting and diarrhoea and spreads among humans through bodily fluids.It was quickly repurposed and has offered some hope for patients, though the WHO’s findings may shift the focus of the search for a vaccine to new monoclonal antibodies being developed by companies including Regeneron.The Solidarity trial also evaluated hydroxychloroquine, anti-HIV drug combination lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon, and concluded that they, like remdesivir, did little to help patients survive or leave the hospital more quickly.The WHO trial’s results are yet to be reviewed and were uploaded on the preprint server medRxiv.“PREMATURE”Gilead say the Solidarity conclusions, lacking scrutiny from other scientists, were premature.“We are concerned the data from this open-label global trial has not undergone the rigorous review required to allow for constructive scientific discussion, particularly given the limitations of the trial design,” it said.Remdesivir got emergency use authorization from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on May 1, and has been authorized for use in several countries.During the Solidarity study, trials of hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir were stopped in June after they proved ineffective, but the studies of Gilead’s drug and interferon continued in more than 500 hospitals and 30 countries. WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said this week the U.N. health agency was now looking at other, emerging treatment options such as monoclonal anti-bodies, immunomodulators and some newer anti-viral drugs.Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc is developing a monoclonal antibody that Trump received for his Covid-19 infection.Eli Lilly and Co said on Tuesday a trial of its Covid-19 antibody treatment had been paused by the U.S. government because of a safety concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gilead-questions-who-study-that-cast-doubts-on-drug-s-covid-19-benefits/story-WIdSEVCFL0c1MGEBFXDBMN.html
16-10-2020||World||Donald Trump accuses Joe Biden of corruption, says he belongs to political class that enriches self||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden is a corrupt politician and belongs from the political class that enriches self, President Donald Trump has said.Speaking at an election rally on Thursday, Trump also accused Biden of constantly telling lies about his son. “He (Biden) is the embodiment of the political class that enriches self while draining the economic life and soul out of our country. Yesterday, we learned from newly released emails and I want to thank the New York Post for showing real bravery,” Trump said.Trump accused Biden’s son Hunter of making a deal with a wealthy Chinese magnet for USD 10 million a year for introductions only. “That Joe Biden has been blatantly lying about his involvement in his son’s corrupt business dealings. He is a corrupt politician and has been corrupt for many years and everybody in Washington knew it. And just now a little while ago a new story shows up that Hunter made a deal with a wealthy Chinese magnet for USD 10 million a year for introductions only,” he said.Trump during his speech accused Biden of betraying the workers of North Carolina for the last 47 years through acts of economic treachery.“For the last 47 years, he has betrayed the workers of North Carolina through one act of economic treachery after another and now they got caught stealing, folks,” he said.“Biden’s a servant of the wealthy donors and globalists and special interest who got rich bleeding America dry, taking your jobs from North Carolina and every other place and moving them out of the country and we turned it around you got to remember that,” he said.Trump said for five decades Biden shipped away people’s jobs, shut down factories, threw open borders and ravaged cities while sacrificing American blood and dredger in endless foreign wars, he alleged.Meanwhile, in a video message, Trump’s son Donald J Trump Jr alleged that the Biden family is the most corrupt political family in American history.“Hunter Biden used Air Force 2 to travel to China with his father for business meetings with top communist, Chinese officials,” he said. Biden has repeatedly denied these allegations.Trump Jr said Hunter sat on the board of a private equity firm that raised USD 1.5 billion from the Chinese government through the state-owned bank of China. “Hunter was involved with communist Chinese nationalists who gave the Bidens millions in exchange for access to American companies that produced technology with our military,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-accuses-joe-biden-of-corruption-says-he-belongs-to-political-class-that-enriches-self/story-h3406PAJjQefXcDO8SZijK.html
16-10-2020||World||Donald Trump says lungs were ‘a little bit infected’ when he was hospitalised||President Donald Trump says he has “nothing, whatsoever” remaining of symptoms from his coronavirus infection. But he acknowledged that doctors determined that his lungs were “a little bit infected” when he was hospitalised.Trump’s comments came in the opening moments of Thursday night’s town hall-style meeting on NBC. His Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, was appearing at a similar event at the same time on another network.Trump was seated on stage, not wearing a mask, on a set with several voters spaced several feet apart, all of them wearing masks.He said he “probably” took a test the day of the opening debate last week.The duelling events replaced the second presidential debate, which was cancelled because of health concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-lungs-were-a-little-bit-infected-when-he-was-hospitalised/story-io8LmCiJUGgiFiDPNxNlsJ.html
16-10-2020||World||PharmaMar aims to start phase III trial of cancer drug for Covid-19||Spanish pharmaceutical company PharmaMar said on Friday a clinical trial of its cancer drug Aplidin to treat adult patients with Covid-19 had achieved its safety and efficacy goals and it aimed to start phase III trials.PharmaMar shares rose 4.4% in morning trading.The company said there was a substantial reduction in viral load and the C-reactive protein (CRP) in patients, and that 80.7% of the patients had been discharged before the 15th day of hospitalization, and 38.2% before the 8th day.“With these data, the company will begin, in the next few days, conversations with the regulatory agencies to define the next phase III pivotal study for plitidepsin (Aplidin) in patients with Covid-19, who require hospitalization,” PharmaMar said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pharmamar-aims-to-start-phase-iii-trial-of-cancer-drug-for-covid-19/story-k5um7DlHH0miIqUohxgRNO.html
16-10-2020||World||Donald Trump and Joe Biden hold separate town halls in lieu of cancelled second presidential debate||US President Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger Joe Biden held simultaneous and separate televised town halls in lieu of the second presidential debate, taking questions from pre-selected individuals at sessions moderated by eminent television journalists.While Trump’s town hall was hosted by the National Broadcasting Company (NBC) in Miami, Florida, that of Biden was held in Pennsylvania, Philadelphia by the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) News. The second presidential debate had originally been scheduled for Thursday night. However, it was cancelled after Trump refused to participate in a virtual format of the presidential debate as amended by the independent debate commission following the president’s Covid-19 diagnosis. A final debate is still scheduled for October 22 in Nashville, Tennessee. The first debate was held on September 29 in Cleveland, Ohio. Trump, 74, has recovered from a brief spell of Covid-19 after he and First Lady Melania Trump, 50, tested positive for the deadly viral infection on October 1. Trump’s doctors have now cleared him for his election campaigns.During the town hall, Trump defended his handling of the coronavirus pandemic. He also reiterated his stand on tax returns. However, Trump refused to denounce the QAnon conspiracy theory.According to QAnon, a far-right group that has been labelled a terror threat by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Democrats are running a secret paedophilia ring.When asked by moderator Savannah Guthrie if he would denounce the QAnon theory and “just say it’s crazy and not true”, Trump said, “I don’t know about QAnon.” When pressed further on whether or not he believed that Democrats were running a pedophile ring, Trump said, “I have no idea.” Biden’s during his town hall said he would soon express his position on court packing, an issue that he has avoided so far.The 77-year-old democratic presidential nominee said he will come out with a clear position before Election Day about where he stands on expanding the Supreme Court, depending how the rest of the confirmation process of Judge Amy Coney Barrett is handled. President Trump has selected Judge Barrett to succeed Supreme Court Justice late Ruth Bader Ginsburg.The Senate Judiciary Committee finished its confirmation hearings for Barrett earlier on Thursday. Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham said that the committee will vote on Barrett’s nomination on October 22. If the committee approves her nomination, which is expected, it would be sent to the full Senate floor.  At the town hall with ABC’s George Stephanopoulos, Biden said he is “not a fan” of court packing. When asked by Stephanopoulos if he was open to increasing the number of judges on the court if Barrett is confirmed before the election, Biden said, “I’m open to considering what happens from that point on”. Republicans have repeatedly criticised Biden for not directly giving his view on court packing. “They do have a right to know where I’ll stand and they’ll have a right to know where I stand before they vote,” Biden said, when asked whether voters had a right to know where he stands on the issue of expanding the court. Replying to a question on if he would make his position clear before the Election Day, Biden said, “Yes, depending on how they handle this”, referring to the Republicans. Expanding the number of justices on the court would take an act of Congress and approval from the president. The Biden’s townhall had no question on the allegations related to his son Hunter Biden’s corruption. According to a Senate Republican report released last month, during Biden’s tenure as vice president, Hunter, 50, received a USD 3.5 million wire transfer from Elena Baturina, the widow of Moscow’s former mayor Yury Luzhkov. The report further alleged that Chinese nationals lavished Hunter and other members of the Biden family with money, giving Hunter and Biden’s brother James credit cards for a USD 100,000 international shopping spree.Both Trump and Biden campaigns claimed that their candidates won the shows Thursday night.“Even though the commission cancelled the in-person debate that could have happened tonight, one occurred anyway, and President Trump soundly defeated NBC’s Savannah Guthrie in her role as debate opponent and Joe Biden surrogate,” said Tim Murtaugh, Trump 2020 communications director.“President Trump masterfully handled Guthrie’s attacks and interacted warmly and effectively with the voters in the room,” he said.“Over on ABC, it was a completely different scene, as once again Biden was kept comfortable and away from any questions that might challenge him,” Murtaugh alleged. Biden for President Deputy Campaign Manager and Communications Director Kate Bedingfield said that the two town halls showed that there was one leader and one liar.“Joe Biden gave thoughtful answers to voters’ questions about Covid-19, taxes, racial equity, climate change, and more...1,100 miles away, and in a false, alternate reality of his own making, President Trump was combative and lashed out at voters. He refused to denounce QAnon...He lied about the effectiveness of masks,” he said.“Trump has no answers for his failures to contain Covid-19 and manage our economy. And, after nearly four years in office, Trump still has no vision for how he’ll make health care more affordable,” Bedingfield said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-and-joe-biden-hold-separate-town-halls-in-lieu-of-cancelled-second-presidential-debate/story-49JFpAGnYsi2Tgpfamd8DO.html
16-10-2020||World||White House designates two appointees with no experience in public health at CDC in bid to control info||The Trump White House has installed two political operatives at the nation’s top public health agency to try to control the information it releases about the coronavirus pandemic as the administration seeks to paint a positive outlook, sometimes at odds with the scientific evidence.The two appointees assigned to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Atlanta headquarters in June have no public health background. They have been tasked with keeping an eye on Dr. Robert Redfield, the agency director, as well as scientists, according to a half-dozen CDC and administration officials who spoke to The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal government affairs.The appointments were part of a push to get more “politicals” into the CDC to help control messaging after a handful of leaks were “upsetting the apple cart,” said an administration official.When the two appointees showed up in Atlanta, their roles were a mystery to senior CDC staff, the people said. They had not even been assigned offices. Eventually one, Nina Witkofsky, became acting chief of staff, an influential role as Redfield’s right hand. The other, her deputy Trey Moeller, began sitting in on scientific meetings, the sources said.It’s not clear to what extent the two appointees have affected the agency’s work, according to interviews with multiple CDC officials. But congressional investigators are examining that very question after evidence has mounted of political interference in CDC scientific publications, guidance documents and web postings.The White House declined to comment. A CDC spokesperson confirmed that Witkofsky and Moeller were working at the agency reporting to Redfield, but did not comment further.Moeller said in an email to The AP, “I work for Dr. Redfield who is 100% committed to the science and the thousands of incredibly dedicated employees at the CDC.”During previous pandemics such as Ebola, the CDC was the public face of the US response, offering scientifically driven advice. The agency played the same role at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, but stumbled in February when a test for the virus sent to the states proved flawed. Then, in late February, a top CDC infectious disease expert, Dr. Nancy Messonnier, upset the administration by speaking frankly at a news conference about the dangers of the virus when the president was downplaying it.Within weeks, the agency was pushed offstage.Still, CDC persisted in assembling science-based information that conflicted with the White House narrative. In May, a series of leaked emails and scientific documents obtained by The AP detailed how the White House had buried CDC’s detailed guidelines for communities reopening during a still-surging pandemic. The resulting news stories angered the administration, and sparked renewed efforts to exert control over CDC, according to current and former officials.On a Monday in June, the new faces arrived unexpectedly at Redfield’s Atlanta offices, said a former CDC official who also spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal agency affairs.One was Witkofsky, who according to federal election records had a minor role in Trump’s presidential campaign. She was installed initially as a senior adviser to Redfield. In a few weeks, she would take over as the agency’s acting chief of staff and become the person at CDC headquarters who has the most daily interactions with him, the CDC officials said.Presidential administrations appoint CDC directors. And there’s nothing new about a White House seeking a better handle on information released by the agency, said Glen Nowak, a University of Georgia professor who ran CDC’s media relations. But past administrations placed overtly political appointees in Washington; the Trump administration has taken it to a new level by placing people in CDC’s Atlanta headquarters, Nowak said.Before Witkofsky and Moeller, the Trump administration had appointed others at CDC in Atlanta who were viewed by staff with some suspicion. But none of the predecessors were there to report internal agency business up to Washington, according to the officials.Witkofsky seemed a particularly strange fit for the nation’s top public health agency. She studied finance and business administration in college and graduate school, and at one point worked as a publicist and talent booker for Turner Broadcasting’s Cartoon Network. Her political work included being an events director during the George W. Bush 2000 presidential campaign.Though Witkofsky was largely unknown, she had met a few CDC workers months earlier. In March, on behalf of the administration, she had worked communications when Trump visited a CDC lab.In her new role, Witkofsky communicated regularly with Michael Caputo, chief of communications for CDC’s parent agency, the US Department of Health and Human Services, an administration official said. At the time Caputo’s office was attempting to gain control over the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, or MMWR, a CDC scientific weekly known for publishing authoritative and unvarnished information about disease-fighting efforts, according to multiple accounts.Witkofsky’s deputy, Moeller, is a longtime GOP supporter who worked on the Bush-Cheney presidential campaign in 2004. The most recent post on his Facebook page was a “Make America Great Again” Trump campaign banner.They wanted him to sit in meetings and “listen to scientists,” said one health official.An HHS spokesperson said Witkifsky and Moeller both report to Redfield.Witkofsky and Moeller are among officials the House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis is seeking to interview as part of a probe it launched in mid-September into allegations that Caputo and others in the Trump administration blocked the CDC from publishing accurate scientific reports during the pandemic.The apparent meddling and political pressure from the Trump White House, and from HHS, have caused even scientific experts to question some CDC decisions.“I don’t trust the (political appointees) that they’ve dropped into the CDC,” said Dr. Rick Bright, a federal vaccine expert who filed a whistleblower complaint alleging he was reassigned to a lesser job because he resisted political pressure to allow widespread use of hydroxychloroquine, a malaria drug pushed by Trump as a COVID-19 treatment.“That is absolutely frightening,” he said. “(It) leads to the mixed signals to the public. And I think that is increasing the magnitude and duration of this entire pandemic.”___Lardner reported from Washington.___To contact AP’s investigative team, email investigative@ap.org||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-designates-two-appointees-with-no-experience-in-public-health-at-cdc-in-bid-to-control-info/story-q6tQY3odk3lXWJ1YxGJUJP.html
16-10-2020||World||US Elections 2020: Joe Biden campaign finds 3rd virus link, Kamala Harris suspends travel||At least three people connected to Joe Biden’s presidential campaign have tested positive for the coronavirus, leading the campaign to suspend in-person events for vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris through Monday.Biden is not altering his public schedule, his campaign said Thursday, because he had no direct exposure to the individuals who tested positive, as defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.(CDC).The travel suspension interrupts the Biden campaign’s aggressive push across a wide battleground map, including North Carolina and Ohio, with less than three weeks to go until Election Day.It’s the campaign’s first major coronavirus scare, after months of enforcing safety precautions that drew mockery from President Donald Trump, even after he, first lady Melania Trump, and others contracted the virus themselves. The Democratic campaign’s cautious reaction underscores the differences in how the rival camps have approached the pandemic, both in terms of preferred government response and in the candidates’ personal protocols.Biden’s campaign announced two positive cases Thursday morning, identifying Harris’ communications director Liz Allen and an unnamed member of the flight crew for one of Harris’ recent campaign trips. The campaign announced a third case Thursday afternoon as part of its contact tracing efforts from the first two cases.The third individual is an aviation company employee who was on Biden’s plane for trips to Ohio and Florida earlier this week but who entered the back of the plane and sat far away from Biden, according to the campaign.Harris and Biden, meanwhile, spent several hours campaigning together in Arizona on Oct. 8, when the first two people who tested positive were on a flight with Harris. Both candidates have tested negative for the coronavirus multiple times since then, including on Thursday. Everyone travelling on the Biden campaign’s aircraft is required to wear a mask.Trump, speaking without a mask at a crowded outdoor rally in North Carolina on Thursday afternoon, offered his best wishes to Harris and reiterated his skepticism of wearing masks.“We worry about her. I’m very concerned about her,” he said, later adding: “Masks, no masks, everything, you can do all you want, but you know, you still need help.”Harris was set to encourage early voting on Thursday in North Carolina. Her Friday trip to Cleveland would have been her first to Ohio as the vice presidential nominee and would have taken her into the metropolitan area with the state’s largest concentration of Black voters.Harris will continue virtual campaigning, including fundraisers previously scheduled for Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.The senator’s brief hiatus from the trail comes as Trump ramps up his own travel after he, the first lady, their son, his campaign manager, and several White House staffers contracted the virus.Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon told reporters Thursday morning that under CDC guidelines, there was no need for the candidates to quarantine, although she said Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, would suspend travel for several days “out of an abundance of caution.” “Neither of these individuals had any contact with Vice President Biden, with Sen. Harris or any other staff member since testing positive or in the 48-hour period prior to their positive test results,” O’Malley Dillon said.Harris followed up in a statement saying she’d be “transparent with you about any test results that I do receive. In the meantime, remember: wear a mask, practice social distancing, and wash your hands regularly. It is possible to stop the spread.” O’Malley Dillon announced the third case late Thursday afternoon. She said Biden’s medical advisers recommended against a quarantine because of the distance between Biden and the third individual who tested positive.Harris and Biden spent several hours together on Oct. 8 through multiple campaign stops, private meetings and a joint appearance in front of reporters at an airport. They were masked at all times in public, and aides said they were masked in private, as well, including on all flights.O’Malley Dillon said all campaign staff members on the Oct. 8 flight have been tested at least twice since then. All tests have been negative, she said.The campaign became aware of the first two positive tests Wednesday night, O’Malley Dillon said. Harris had opted earlier this week to attend virtually — rather than in person — the Senate Judiciary Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Amy Coney Barrett, after some of her GOP Senate colleagues tested positive for the coronavirus or disclosed their exposure to others who had tested positive.The Democratic ticket’s campaign events are socially distanced and require participants to wear masks. Staff often set chairs inside white plastic circles to denote 6 feet (1.8 meters) of distance. During a recent indoor speech at a North Carolina event for Harris, reporters were given and asked to wear KN95 masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-joe-biden-campaign-finds-3rd-virus-link-kamala-harris-suspends-travel/story-3gtr2gpiPlBUKxillB5UaN.html
16-10-2020||World||Chinese drug company announces potential drug to ‘inhibit’ Covid-19||A maker of traditional Chinese medicine products saw its stock surge the most in two years Friday after one of the nation’s top medical advisers reportedly said one of its treatments could potentially inhibit Covid-19.Speculative traders pushed Co. up 14% in Hong Kong and by its 10% limit in Shanghai. Guangzhou-based Nanfang Daily cited Zhong Nanshan as saying Baiyunshan’s “banlangen” product was effective in a series of in-vitro studies. Zhong is a senior medical adviser to Beijing who confirmed the risk of human-to-human Covid-19 infection on Jan. 20.Zhong was speaking at a Oct. 13 ceremony in Guangzhou to launch a Baiyunshan banlangen project. Zhong will lead a team working on development and upgrades of the drug, according to the paper. Zhong’s team had worked with Baiyunshan in research on the product’s properties after the SARS outbreak, it added.Banlangen is a traditional Chinese medicine made from isatis root and often used as a common cure for cold and flu. In 2013 the product sold out in various parts of China during a fatal avian flu virus outbreak. Baiyunshan, which has a market value of around $7.7 billion, also retails Western pharmaceutical products. Its Hong Kong shares are down 19% this year.Tests cited in the report are still early stage and it remains unclear whether the medicine is effective beyond a test tube.Traders sent the stock’s trading volume in Hong Kong to 21 times above its 30-day average. CSPC Pharmaceutical Group Ltd. which also makes a version of banlangen, dropped as much as 5.3% in Hong Kong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-drug-company-announces-potential-drug-to-inhibit-covid-19/story-OULrjy0wwMLZkQtBIcCY6J.html
16-10-2020||World||Improper disinfection at China’s Qingdao hospital causes new Covid-19 cluster||Improper disinfection at a hospital in China’s Qingdao has caused new COVID-19 cluster infections, prompting the city to test over 10 million people, a senior local health official said on Friday.No new positive cases were reported from over 10 million tests in the city.“Inappropriate disinfection in the CT room at the Qingdao Chest Hospital has led to the new cluster of COVID-19 infections in Qingdao,” Ma Lixin, the deputy party chief of the provincial health commission, said at a press conference.The possibility that the new cluster infections were caused by cross-infection in the community was also ruled out, state-run Xinhua news agency, quoted him as saying.He said no community transmission has occurred.The Qingdao cluster has created nationwide concern as thousands visited the tourist city during the recent National Day holidays. Beijing officials announced strict management of international arrivals to the capital, including three tests — before departure, at Chinese customs and after finishing a quarantine period.Some 34 hotels have been opened for medical observation for people who entered the capital after September 3, when the city resumed some international flights. As of Thursday, the Qingdao city had collected and tested more than 10.4 million samples and had released more than 8.8 million results, state-run China Daily reported.Sui Ruwen, the city’s vice-mayor and chief of the public security bureau, said there were no additional positive results beyond those already under quarantine. The testing effort, which aims to cover the total population of 11 million residents, is expected to be finished on Friday, he said.On Thursday morning, the city reported one new confirmed COVID-19 case. The case is an independent virus infection of a 40-year-old port worker whose test was positive but had showed no symptoms three weeks ago.“Generally, the incubation period of the virus ranges from one to 14 days, but there are also reported cases whose incubation period lasted four weeks,” said Sun Yunbo, director of a medical experts team organised to treat the city’s novel coronavirus, adding that the dock worker is an individual case. The new case was in addition to 12 infections reported earlier, which were closely linked to the city’s pulmonary hospital. Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, said that efforts in the coming days should be focused on the close contacts of cases in the pulmonary hospital, especially if there are close contacts that have not been found out and isolated.“Priorities for prevention should be on wards in hospitals, especially those receiving overseas confirmed cases, and the use of major medical equipment should also be isolated,” said Wu.“Wearing face masks, keeping social distances and washing hands frequently should become a daily routine,” he added, the China Daily reported.In response to the recent outbreak in Qingdao, Sui Zhenhua, director of the Qingdao health commission, was suspended from his post and is being investigated, and Deng Kai, dean of the pulmonary hospital, was removed, according to the statements from the city government on Thursday. Meanwhile China’s National Health Commission, (NHC) said on Friday a total of 24 confirmed cases arriving from outside the mainland were reported on Friday.One new suspected COVID-19 case from outside the mainland was reported in Shanghai, the commission said.Of the new imported cases, 11 were reported in Shanghai, five in Inner Mongolia, two in Tianjin, Jiangsu and Guangdong each, and one in Fujian and Chongqing each, according to the commission.By the end of Thursday, 240 people, who came from abroad were being treated in hospitals. The Commission said 376 asymptomatic cases, including 375 from outside the mainland, were still under medical observation. As of Thursday, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases on the Chinese mainland had reached 85,646, of whom 253 patients are still being treated, with four in severe condition.Altogether 80,759 patients had been discharged after recovery, and the death toll due to coronavirus stood at 4,634, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/improper-disinfection-at-china-s-qingdao-hospital-causes-new-covid-19-cluster/story-eAR9XqKZQQWB4XfNhWi7JK.html
16-10-2020||World||At least 20 killed in two militant attacks in Pakistan||At least 20 people including soldiers were killed in two separate attacks in Pakistan on Thursday, including an assault on a convoy of oil workers. The first attack took place in Balochistan, where at least seven assailants armed with rocket launchers and other heavy weapons attacked a convoy of the state-owned Oil and Gas Development Corporation, the military said.Seven soldiers of Frontier Corps and seven private security guards escorting the oil workers were killed in the encounter, which took place on the Coastal Highway near Ormara. The staff of the company remained unharmed. No group has claimed responsibility for the attack but it is believed that the attack may have been carried out by one of two major groups which are fighting for an independent Balochistan.ISPR, the Pakistan Army’s public relations department, said that such cowardly acts by inimical elements to sabotage peace, stability and economic development in Balochistan shall never be allowed to succeed.“Moreover, these acts cannot subdue the resolve of our forces which are determined to defend the motherland, even at the cost of their lives,” said the ISPR.In another incident on the same day, six soldiers, including an officer, were killed by an improvised explosive device attack on a convoy near Razmak in North Waziristan. The latest incidents come four days after two soldiers were killed and three injured in an attack on a security post in Shawal valley of North Waziristan.In September, Pakistan security forces had killed four terrorists, including militant commander Ihsanullah alias Ihsan Sanray, in an intelligence-based operation. The ISPR had termed the killing as a “major breakthrough” in its fight against militants in North Waziristan. That operation had come days after wanted terrorist Waseem Zakeria was killed during an intelligence operation in North Waziristan along with four accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-20-killed-in-two-militant-attacks-in-pakistan/story-yUubSpT8OrqBdyR6XSCKmO.html
16-10-2020||World||Trump boasts of best environmental numbers; Blames China, India, Russia for ‘spewing stuff into air’||US President Donald Trump has blamed countries like China, Russia and India for adding to the global air pollution and asserted that his country has the best environmental numbers.Speaking to his cheering supporters at an elections rally in the key battleground State of North Carolina on Thursday, Trump said the US under his administration has achieved energy independence while protecting its pristine environment. “We have the best environmental numbers, ozone numbers, and so many other numbers. In the meantime, China, Russia, India all these countries they’re spewing stuff into the air,” he alleged during the rally.He said the US has achieved energy independence while protecting its pristine environment. Trump in June, 2017 announced his decision to withdraw from the Paris deal, saying the accord would have cost America trillions of dollars, killed jobs, and hindered the oil, gas, coal and manufacturing industries.He has continuously argued that countries like China and India are benefiting the most from the Paris agreement and the agreement itself was unfair to the US, as it badly hit its businesses and jobs.During Thursday’s rally too, Trump said to the cheering crowd that it were a few nations that were contributing to global pollution.     “I keep telling my people you know, I love clean air but Russia and China, you look at a map you have all these spots and India and many others are spewing it in. What do you suggest?” he asked his thousands of supporters who had gathered at a city airport here to listen to his election speech.Trump also mocked at those who call for replacing plastic with paper.“Well, we don’t think you should sell straws anymore. Oh great ok. You ever hear that, the straw, right? I say ok the straw is good, what about the plastic plate? What about the carton? What about the glass that’s out of plastic? Well we’ll get to that later. These people are crazy,” he said.In his speech, Trump also talked about jobs for the Americans and mentioned that he recently fired the head of a semi-private company for replacing American workers with foreign workers. “The chairman of Tennessee Valley Authority was fired because he replaced American workforce with foreign workers. I told the board chairman, chairman, you’re fired. Out. You’re fired, chairman,” he said.“And what happened is as soon as I said that they hired all the employees back from Tennessee and five other states, six other states. They’re all back and they were great. They were great. So we do our little things, right? We did that one and it was great,” he said.Trump alleged that the immigration plan of his Democratic opponent Joe Biden is the most extreme in the history of the country.“Biden’s plan would eliminate US borders by implementing nationwide catch and release that’s catch, murderer comes over you catch him. What do you do? Well, not much. Most of them don’t say they kill people right? You catch them. You take their name and you release them into our country. It was a big deal, it sounds easy,” he said, adding that he ended catch and release.“One of the worst things. Now we release them. You know where we release them? We release them back into their country. We don’t release them into our country anymore. We say congratulations we got them,” he said. Biden in one of his rally on Wednesday said that if voted to power he would give citizenship to 11 million illegal immigrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-boasts-of-best-environmental-numbers-blames-china-india-russia-for-spewing-stuff-into-air/story-ApJXNwgfon9hJpqkts46vO.html
16-10-2020||World||First rally of Pakistan oppn parties against Imran Khan govt today to kick off protest movement||All is set for Pakistan’s opposition coalition to hold their first public meeting on Friday evening to kick off a series of agitations aimed at forcing out the government of Prime Minister Imran Khan. Maulana Fazlur Rehman, the chief of the Jamiat-Ulema Islam (F), who is also heading the 11-party Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), will lead a rally from Lahore to Gujranwala ahead of the public meeting, which will be attended by leaders of almost all opposition political parties.PPP leader Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and PML-N leaders Maryam Nawaz and Shehbaz Sharif will also be attending the meeting. In a bid to pressurise the opposition, the government through its anti corruption watchdog the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) on Thursday issued arrest warrants for former president Asif Ali Zardari in a corruption case. Zardari is currently in hospital in Karachi. Party leader Bilawal Bhutto commented that these were “common tactics used to pressurise the opposition.”For its part, the government has threatened to shut down parts of the country, citing the rise in coronavirus cases. Minister for planning Asad Umar said on Thursday there are “unmistakable signs of the rise of corona” in the country and the government may have to take “restrictive actions” to curb the spread, which will have “negative effects” on the livelihoods of people.Umar said in a number of tweets that the national positivity of Covid-19 cases was 2.37% on Wednesday, the highest in more than 50 days. The minister, who also oversees Pakistan’s response to the pandemic, said 11 virus deaths on average have been reported during the first four days of this week, the highest since August 10.Despite the onset of winter, analysts say that the political temperature had started to rise in Pakistan. One expert said if the opposition parties managed to hold successive rallies and meetings in Pakistan in the coming week and are able to pull large crowds, “the Imran Khan government is in real danger.”Opposition leader and former prime minister Nawaz Sharif led the charge against Prime Minister Imran Khan in September, when he told an All Parties Conference that he had nothing to do with Khan, who was a selected prime minister and more to ask those who selected him, a hint at the country’s powerful military leadership. Describing it as a “state above the state”, Sharif had accused the Army of interfering in the politics of Pakistan and sabotaging democracy and democratic institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-rally-of-pakistan-oppn-parties-against-imran-khan-govt-today-to-kick-off-protest-movement/story-o51A28wSC0jRywdCFfd7jK.html
16-10-2020||World||New Japan PM Suga to make first foreign visits, to visit Vietnam and Indonesia from October 18-21||New Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga will make his first foreign visit in this post from October 18-21, Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato said on Friday.The first two countries that will be visited by the new Prime Minister will be Vietnam and Indonesia. The first official visit of previous Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was also made to these two countries.Last month, Japanese lawmakers elected Suga as the new Prime Minister after the former head, Abe, unexpectedly announced on August 28 his intention to resign due to an aggravation of a chronic illness. (ANI/Sputnik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-japan-pm-suga-to-make-first-foreign-visits-to-visit-vietnam-and-indonesia-from-october-18-21/story-uI9vlZXwl5snZyvZ12DrZN.html
16-10-2020||World||Mexico’s ex-defense minister detained in US on DEA orders||Mexico’s former defense minister, General Salvador Cienfuegos, was detained by U.S. authorities on the Drug Enforcement Administration’s orders, the country’s most senior military official involved in an investigation by the narcotics-fighting agency.Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard said in a tweet Thursday night he expects to be informed of the charges against Cienfuegos in the coming hours, having been told of the detention by US Ambassador to Mexico Christopher Landau. Cienfuegos was held after arriving at an L.A. airport on orders of the DEA, according to the Foreign Ministry’s North America director Robert Velasco.Cienfuegos, 72, was the top military official during the six years of former President Enrique Pena Nieto’s administration, whose 2012 to 2018 government has come under intense scrutiny from current President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador.The president delights in railing against corruption under past administrations. Yet graft in the military could prove delicate territory for Lopez Obrador, who has drastically expanded the army’s role in Mexican life, from protecting oil facilities and ports to undertaking public works including airports and even government bank branches.Read More: Mexico Minister Resigns in Protest Over Militarization of PortsMike Vigil, a former head of DEA international operations, said he was informed by current officials that the charges against Cienfuegos include drug trafficking and money laundering related to a case in New York. Bloomberg News hasn’t been able to confirm the information, and a former press official for Cienfuegos didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.“Given the army’s current prominence in Mexico, the arrest will have disastrous consequences,” Vigil said in an interview. “Mexico has always held the army on a pedestal as being incorruptible.”Before stepping down in 2018, Cienfuegos had publicly praised Lopez Obrador’s pick to replace him, current Defense Minister Luis Crescencio Sandoval, who has become a close ally of the president.Cienfuegos is now the second major Mexican ex-security official being held by U.S. law enforcement. Former federal police chief Genaro Garcia Luna is on trial in New York for allegedly taking millions of dollars in bribes to protect convicted kingpin Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman’s Sinaloa drug cartel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-s-ex-defense-minister-detained-in-us-on-dea-orders/story-O83rBPRmQhXcF7rnQ4Iq7H.html
16-10-2020||World||DEA arrests Former Mexican defense minister on drug trafficking charges||Former Mexican defense secretary Gen. Salvador Cienfuegos, who led the country’s army for six years under ex-President Enrique Peña Nieto, has been arrested on drug trafficking and money laundering charges at Los Angeles International Airport, US and Mexican sources said Thursday.Two people with knowledge of the arrest said Cienfuegos was taken into custody on a US Drug Enforcement Administration warrant. One of the people said the warrant was for drug trafficking and money laundering charges. Both spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the case publicly.The DEA declined to comment Thursday night.Mexico’s Foreign Minister, Marcelo Ebrard, wrote on his Twitter account that US Ambassador Christopher Landau had informed him of the retired general’s arrest and that Cienfuegos had a right to receive consular assistance.A senior Mexican official, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to give details of the case, said Cienfuegos was arrested when he arrived at the Los Angeles airport with his family. His family members were released and he was taken to the Metropolitan Detention Center.Cienfuegos served from 2012 to 2018 as secretary of defense under Peña Nieto. He is the highest-ranking former Cabinet official arrested since the top Mexican security official Genaro Garcia Luna was arrested in Texas in 2019. Garcia Luna, who served under former President Felipe Calderón, has pleaded not guilty to drug trafficking charges.Cienfuegos is 72 years old and has retired from active duty. Mexico’s Defense Department had no immediate reaction to the arrest.Mike Vigil, the DEA’s former chief of international operations, said when he was in Mexico in 2012 he heard corruption allegations about Cienfuegos.“There were always allegations of corruption, nothing we could sink our teeth into. That was kind of unheard of because Mexico has always put the military on a pedestal,” said Vigil, author of the book “The Land of Enchantment Cartel.”“The corruption is just coming to roost, because individuals who were once untouchable are now getting arrested,” Vigil said. “If they cooperate (with US prosecutors) there are others who are going to be falling, noting US officials “usually don’t want to trade down, they usually trade up,” seeking evidence against equal or higher-ranking officials. “It’s really a precarious situation for Mexico to have two Cabinet-level officials arrested in the US”Whatever the charges, it will be a tough blow for Mexico, where the army and navy are some of the few remaining respected public institutions.While current President Andrés Manuel López Obrador has vowed to go after corruption and lawbreaking under past administrations, he has also relied more heavily on the army — and charged it with more tasks, ranging from building infrastructure projects to distributing medical supplies — than any other president in recent history.Under Cienfuegos, the Mexican army was accused of frequent human rights abuses, but that was true of both his predecessors and his successor in the post.The worst scandal in Cienfuegos’ tenure involved the 2014 army killings of suspects in a grain warehouse.The June 2014 massacre involved soldiers who killed 22 suspects at the warehouse in the town of Tlatlaya. While some died in an initial shootout with the army patrol — in which one soldier was wounded — a human rights investigation later showed that at least eight and perhaps as many as a dozen suspects were executed after they surrendered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dea-arrests-former-mexican-defense-minister-on-drug-trafficking-charges/story-e8dyEAJJnD4IHGuwa2UNVO.html
16-10-2020||World||‘I’m not afraid’: Thai protesters defy ban on protest gatherings||From shops, offices and schools they spilled onto a Bangkok street in their tens of thousands, voicing shock and anger and above all defiance.Thailand’s government had announced emergency measures to ban gatherings of five or more people to try to end three months of protests. The response was one of the biggest demonstrations so far, in the heart of the capital.“I’m not afraid. Emergency or not, I have no freedom,” said 26-year-old illustrator Thanatpohn Dejkunchorn, who left work early to attend the protest with friends. “I want freedom to exist in this country. I want it to be free from this vicious cycle.”Protests have built since mid-July in the biggest challenge in years to the political establishment - seeking the removal of Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, a former junta leader, and to curb the powers of King Maha Vajiralongkorn.“We have to create understanding with the protesters,” government spokesman Anucha Burapachaisri told Reuters, complaining that protest leaders were not giving protesters “complete information.”Police said they would arrest all protesters, though they did not explain how they would charge tens of thousands of people.The Royal Palace has declined all comment on the protesters or their demands.Until Wednesday, the government had largely allowed demonstrations to happen, while making no sign of meeting protesters’ demands.But that changed after an incident in which protesters jeered Queen Suthida’s motorcade as she and the king were paying a rare visit from Europe, where they spend most of their time.The government cited that as well as the risks to national security and the economy from protests and the danger of spreading coronavirus as reasons for imposing emergency measures.The government then launched a crackdown, sweeping away a camp set up outside Prayuth’s office and arresting three protest leaders - among around 40 arrests in the past week.“EXCESSIVE AND UNNECESSARY POWER”“It’s obvious that the state wants to exercise excessive and unnecessary power on people,” said 22-year-old student Pattanun Arunpreechawat, who joined Thursday’s protest after studies.Protesters want to oust Prayuth, who first took power in a 2014 coup, saying he engineered election rules last year to keep his position - an accusation he denies. Breaking a longstanding taboo, protesters have also challenged the monarchy - saying it has helped entrench decades of military influence.They gathered in the shadow of upmarket shopping malls and shiny tower blocks that are home to multinationals and other businesses in Southeast Asia’s second biggest economy.But the Ratchaprasong Intersection also has a historic resonance for protesters. In 2010, it was the scene of bloodshed as security forces cracked down on Red Shirts who battled pro-establishment Yellow Shirts during a decade of turmoil.“I’m not afraid. I’ve been chased by guns,” said beef noodle seller Thawat Kijkunasatien, 57, a veteran of the bloody crackdown a decade ago and another in 1992. “Wherever the kids go, I go,” he said at the protest while sipping a can of beer.One characteristic of the latest Thai protests has been the extent to which they are led by students and other young people. Most protest leaders are in their 20s, but an even younger generation is following.From giving the three-finger salute of protest when the national anthem plays at school to tying white ribbons in their hair and on school bags as symbols of protest, high school students have rallied to the campaign.Many left school to join Thursday’s protest - among them 18-year-old Tan, who came along after finishing school exams. He declined to give his full name for fear of reprisals.“I make sure I’m prepared for exams before I go to protests. I have to give importance to both things,” he said. “We can’t let it go on like this, or it will never end.” (Additional reporting by Matthew Tostevin and Panarat Thepgumpanat; Editing by Toby Chopra)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-m-not-afraid-thai-protesters-defy-ban-on-protest-gatherings/story-YH6lUKIwX3dAEEPVy7v8RI.html
16-10-2020||World||‘History is made today’: Head of Tibetan government-in-exile meets US’ Tibet envoy||The head of the Tibetan government-in-exile Lobsang Sangay met special coordinator for Tibetan issues, Robert Destro, on Thursday marking the first meeting between the president of the Central Tibetan Administration with that of the US state department.Sangay shared a picture with Destro on Facebook. “Great honor to meet with the Special Coordinator on Tibetan Issues Robert A Destro. This is the first time in six decades, a Sikyong (President) of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) was formally invited inside the State Department,” Sangay said in the post.Sangay also thanked US secretary of state Mike Pompeo for appointing Destro, who is also a human rights official. He said, “I want to thank the State Department for acknowledging the democratically elected leader of CTA and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo for approving the visit. History is made today!”The United States had on Thursday confirmed the appointment of Robert Destro as the special coordinator for Tibetan issues. The move is aimed to create pressure on China regarding the autonomy of Tibet and bring issues concerning human rights and forced labour in the region to the fore.Following Destro’s appointment, Pompeo criticised the Chinese government in a statement, which was accessed by Bloomberg. “The United States remains concerned with the PRC’s repression of the Tibetan community, including the lack of meaningful autonomy, the deteriorating human rights situation in Tibetan areas, and severe restrictions on Tibetans’ religious freedom and cultural traditions within China,” Pompeo said.China lashed out at the US and called the appointment as an attempt to interfere in China’s domestic affairs. Foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian alleged that the appointment is a case of political manipulation. “Tibet affairs are China’s internal affairs that allow no foreign interference. The setting up of the so-called coordinator for Tibetan issues is entirely out of political manipulation to interfere in China’s internal affairs and destabilise Tibet. China firmly opposes that,” Zhao said.The appointment’s timing has angered China as it tries to stifle Hong Kong’s growing demands for larger autonomy and independence. Taiwan continues to claim that it is an independent nation and have never been part of China which has led to tensions between both nations.Destro was also part of the committee along with Keith Krach, the undersecretary of state for economic growth, who visited Taiwan last month to sign new trade deals. The US is looking to boost its relations with Taiwan and Tibet to increase pressure on China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/history-is-made-today-head-of-tibetan-government-in-exile-meets-us-tibet-envoy/story-Oobm1GUwGuLijP8pXmbNyL.html
16-10-2020||World||‘If you care about safety of 300,000 Canadian passport holders...’: China warns Canada over granting Hong Kongers asylum||A top Chinese diplomat warned Canada Thursday against granting asylum to Hong Kong democracy protesters, adding that doing so could jeopardize the “health and safety” of Canadians living in the southern Chinese financial hub.The remarks by Cong Peiwu, Beijing’s Ottawa envoy, prompted a rebuke from Canada’s foreign minister, further escalating tensions between the two countries.Cong was responding to reports that a Hong Kong couple who took part in last year’s huge and sometimes violent protests had been granted refugee status.The landmark decision makes it likely other Hong Kongers will be given sanctuary in Canada, which has emerged as a top destination for those fleeing Beijing’s crackdown.“We strongly urge the Canadian side not (to) grant so-called political asylum to those violent criminals in Hong Kong because it is the interference in China’s domestic affairs. And certainly, it will embolden those violent criminals,” Cong said in a video press conference.“So if the Canadian side really cares about the stability and the prosperity in Hong Kong, and really cares about the good health and safety of those 300,000 Canadian passport-holders in Hong Kong, and the large number of Canadian companies operating in Hong Kong SAR, you should support those efforts to fight violent crimes,” Cong said.When asked by reporters if that latter comment was a threat, Cong replied: “That’s your interpretation.”Canada’s Foreign Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne described Cong’s comments as “totally unacceptable and disturbing”.“I have instructed Global Affairs to call the ambassador in to make clear in no uncertain terms that Canada will always stand up for human rights and the rights of Canadians around the world,” he said in a statement carried by the Globe and Mail and other Canadian news outlets.China and Canada are marking 50 years since they forged diplomatic ties -- but those relations are deeply strained.Ties plummeted following Canada’s arrest of Meng Wanzhou, chief financial officer of Chinese telecoms giant Huawei and daughter of its founder.Meng was arrested on a US warrant in December 2018 during a stopover in Vancouver and is charged with bank fraud related to violations of US sanctions against Iran. She has been fighting extradition ever since.Canadian former diplomat Michael Kovrig and businessman Michael Spavor were arrested in China on spying charges soon afterwards, disappearing into Beijing’s opaque judicial system.Western governments see the detention of the two Canadians as direct retaliation by Beijing. On Tuesday, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau hit out at Beijing for what he said was its “coercive diplomacy” as well as the ongoing crackdowns in Hong Kong and on Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang. Cong rejected Trudeau’s comments at his Thursday press conference. “There is no coercive diplomacy on the Chinese side,” he said.“The Hong Kong issue and the Xinjiang-related issue are not about the issue of human rights. They are purely about internal affairs of China, which brooks no interference from the outside,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/if-you-care-about-safety-of-300-000-canadian-passport-holders-china-warns-canada-over-granting-hong-kongers-asylum/story-wvoZk9mkBA67JgzdgXhhMK.html
16-10-2020||World||China warns Canada against granting asylum to Hong Kong protestors||The Chinese ambassador to Canada warned the Trudeau government on Thursday not to grant asylum to Hong Kong residents fleeing a widely criticized National Security Law imposed by Beijing.Ambassador Cong Peiwu branded pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong as violent criminals and said if Canada grants them asylum that amounts to interference in China’s internal affairs.Protests against the Hong Kong and mainland Chinese governments swelled last year, and Beijing clamped down on expressions of anti-government sentiment in the city with a new national security law that took effect on June 30.The law outlaws subversive, secessionist, and terrorist activity, as well as collusion with foreign powers to interfere in the city’s internal affairs. The US, Britain, and Canada accused China of infringing on the city’s freedoms.“If the Canadian side really cares about the stability and the prosperity in Hong Kong, and really cares about the good health and safety of those 300,000 Canadian passport holders in Hong Kong, and the large number of Canadian companies operating in Hong Kong SAR, you should support those efforts to fight violent crimes,” Cong said.Cherie Wong, the executive director of Alliance Canada Hong Kong, said Cong’s comment is a “direct threat” to all Canadians.“Their actions are the reason that many Hong Kongers are seeking asylum in Canada, because they no longer feel safe in Hong Kong or their human rights will be protected in Hong Kong under control of the new National Security Law,” she said in a statement.“It should not be lost on Canadians living in Hong Kong or China, they could be next. Ambassador Cong suggested so himself.” Cong also flatly rejected Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s assertion that China is engaging in coercive diplomacy by imprisoning two Canadian men in retaliation for the arrest of a Chinese Huawei executive on an American extradition warrant. Meng Wanzhou is living under house arrest in Vancouver while her case wends through a British Columbia court.In December 2018, China imprisoned two Canadian men, Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor, and charged them with undermining the country’s national security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-warns-canada-against-granting-asylum-to-hong-kong-protestors/story-XEtYJDvGGZIat4OeymFOLL.html
16-10-2020||World||Jacinda Ardern set for another term as New Zealanders reward her response towards Covid-19||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern looks set for a resounding election victory on Saturday as voters applaud her masterful handling of the coronavirus pandemic.Ardern’s Labour Party had 46% support in the latest opinion poll while the main opposition National Party had 31%. With its ally the Green Party on 8%, Labour is on track for a comfortable majority in parliament.New Zealand’s success in crushing community transmission of Covid-19 stands in stark contrast to countries like the UK, US and even neighboring Australia, where authorities are still battling to contain the virus. That hasn’t been lost on voters, who have mobbed Ardern on the campaign trail in a repeat of the “Jacinda-mania” that accompanied her rise to power three years ago.“For so many voters it comes down to Ardern,” said Bryce Edwards, a political analyst at Victoria University in Wellington. “Her leadership during this crisis has led to what we’re seeing, which is a landslide for Labour.”Polling stations in the nation of five million people close at 7 p.m. local time Saturday and a provisional result is due around midnight.Ardern, 40, has captured the hallowed center ground in New Zealand politics with a blend of empathetic leadership and skilled crisis management that has also won her fame abroad. The pandemic has given her a stage on which to display those strengths, drowning out criticism that she hasn’t delivered on some key promises during her first term in office.Ardern has put the government’s pandemic response at the forefront of her bid for a second term, urging voters to trust it to keep the virus out and navigate an economic recovery.Her opponent, National Party leader Judith Collins, has offered temporary tax cuts to spur growth while attacking Ardern for policy failures.Both major parties are pledging massive spending on infrastructure to boost the economy. With government debt set to spiral, Labour would impose a higher tax rate on income over NZ$180,000 ($120,000) a year to raise more revenue.In their final televised debate before the election, Ardern reminded viewers “how lucky we are” to be free of Covid-19 and asked for more time to enact change, while Collins warned of dark economic times ahead and appealed to undecided voters for their support.The challenges ahead are enormous. The border remains closed to foreigners, crippling the key tourism industry, and unemployment is forecast to rise. But Collins, 61, hasn’t been able to gain traction with voters still focused on Ardern’s pandemic success.In the battle against Covid-19, Ardern was alone among her western peers in pursuing an explicit elimination strategy and imposed one of the strictest nationwide lockdowns in the world.The economy suffered its most severe contraction since the Great Depression, slumping 12.2% in the second quarter, but the lockdown wiped out community spread of the virus and restrictions were removed sooner than in many other countries. After more than 100 days without community transmission, an outbreak flared in largest city Auckland, but that was also quickly stamped out.New Zealand has now gone three weeks without any cases in the community, with all new infections limited to returned overseas travelers undergoing mandatory quarantine. The nation has recorded just 25 coronavirus deaths.Under Ardern, New Zealand has taken a nuanced foreign-policy stance toward China, trying not to antagonize its largest trading partner while staying in line with the U.S. and its other western allies in the Five Eyes alliance. This approach has so far helped it to avoid the souring of relations Australia is currently experiencing with Beijing.Labour’s ascendancy under Ardern has overshadowed her current coalition partner New Zealand First, which at 3% is polling below the 5% it needs to be returned to parliament. The election may therefore bring the curtain down on the political career of its leader, Winston Peters, a maverick who’s often held the balance of power.The libertarian ACT Party has seen its fortunes rise at the expense of both New Zealand First and National. ACT had 8% support in the latest poll.New Zealand’s proportional representation electoral system lends itself to coalitions, with no party managing to secure an outright majority since its introduction in 1996. Labour is expected to govern with the Greens, which may see the next administration address issues such as poverty and climate change more actively.Ardern has been criticized for failing to deliver the transformational government she promised at the outset of her first term.She ditched plans for a capital gains tax that might have addressed the widening gap between rich and poor. A program to build tens of thousands of new homes to help fix a housing crises fell well short of goals, and environmental groups say her climate-change policies are too tame.“They have been timid in pushing things through on poverty and housing,” said Shamubeel Eaqub, an economist and public policy consultant at Sense Partners in Auckland. “But if you think there are risks on the horizon and there will be more crises to deal with, you want someone you think is going to be a good leader under pressure. I think Ardern has earned that trust and confidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ardern-set-for-another-term-as-new-zealanders-reward-her-response-towards-covid-19/story-41TsB4EB1xPXayHu3TL8BO.html
16-10-2020||World||‘US has allowed China’s CCP to walk all over us,’ says secretary of state Pompeo||US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo on Thursday said that the threat from the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) “is real” and added that the US has allowed the CCP to “walk all over us”.“Look, this risk from the Chinese Communist Party is real. For 40 years - and this isn’t political, remotely - Republican presidents, Republican congresses, Democrat, it didn’t make a difference - we went on bended knee. We allowed the Chinese Communist Party to walk all over us. And President Trump is working to right that ship. It’ll be good for American jobs, it’ll be good for American security,” Pompeo said in an interview with Erick Erickson of The Erick Erickson Show on WSB Atlanta.Pompeo further said that the CCP is “under the veil of these things called Confucius Institutes impacting our kids, putting their propaganda on top of our children.”Pompeo further called taking money from the CCP in order to keep schools afloat as an “unacceptable tradeoff” adding that the people need to “face up” to the fact that the money provided by the CCP is to ‘subvert our democracy’.“It’s often about money, whether it was the desire of our companies to sell products in China, or in this case for universities to take grant money from the Chinese Communist Party. It’s often about economics. We need to just face up to the fact that this money is being used to subvert our democracy, to undermine our way of life, and we should simply say it’s unacceptable, we’ll find another way to underwrite our schools, to pay for our kids to go where they need to go,” added the US Secretary of State.President Donald Trump has raised the issue repeatedly that China is not considered a developed nation in the World Trade Organization as it enjoys the benefits of a developing nation despite having an “advanced military” to which, Pompeo said that there are not many countries who find it ‘plausible’ that China claims itself of being a developing country.“President Trump and our team have built out a real coalition on this issue, Erick. It was the President who flagged this first, but now we can see that the world has come to understand China the same way that the United States does. Only the poorest countries in the world are supposed to get trade deals, and the whole world I think is united,” Pompeo said.“It will take some real work to fix what happens at the World Trade Organization on this. But I don’t think there are many defenders left that think it’s plausible for China to claim that it’s a developing country when it has one of the most advanced militaries,” he added.Trump has repeatedly labelled China’s entry into the World Trade Organization most disastrous trade deals” in history. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-has-allowed-china-s-ccp-to-walk-all-over-us-says-secretary-of-state-pompeo/story-uW6cWP8hMaXdVnbxPXyvLO.html
16-10-2020||World||Imran Khan tries to dodge FATF’s ‘grey list’ on 3 counts. It won’t work||The Imran Khan government, which has missed another deadline to deliver on action plan outlined by anti-terror financing watchdog for Islamabad, is trying hard to get off the Financial Action Task Force’s ‘grey list’, telling the world that it should reward Pakistan for the steps taken to curb terror financing and money laundering.Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi reflected the optimism in Islamabad when he recently declared that Pakistan would “very soon” get out of the grey list. Qureshi told a gathering in Pakistan’s seventh-largest city of Multan that Islamabad had complied with 80 per cent of the FATF recommendations and “very soon Pakistan will be on the white list of the FATF”.Counter-terror officials in New Delhi who have been tracking the implementation of steps by Pakistan said Islamabad appeared to be heavily relying on lobbying firm Linden Strategies to sell its narrative that Pakistan was on track to deliver on its obligations and had earned a reprieve.Much of this campaign is designed to identify and influence at least 12 out of the 39 member states to back up its request at the plenary meeting of Paris-based global dirty money watchdog.This pitch, one of them said, was primarily based on three arguments that Pakistan had been putting forth.One, the Imran Khan government will attempt to showcase the arrest and conviction of some Lashkar-e-Tayyiba leaders to claim that it had cracked down on terrorists. Second, it is expected to highlight the action taken under the anti-money laundering regime against entities of concern including those linked with terrorist outfits. Third, Pakistan is also expected to underline that it has complied with 21 out of the 27 action plan points and is about to clear the bar in the remaining six items.“These arguments are essentially jugglery of facts… a deception,” a senior Indian official said. It is highly unlikely that anyone will fall for them.For instance, it misses the fact that Pakistan is yet to act against the 6,500 Pakistani terrorists mentioned in the UN monitoring team’s report of May 2020 who have been deployed in Afghanistan to fulfil Pakistani objectives.Pakistan had tried to impress the meeting of the Asia pacific Joint Group last month telling them about the arrest and conviction of a select group of the terrorist leader. But Pakistan was grilled, diplomats familiar with the proceedings said, over the prosecution of UN-designated terrorists under ancillary charges and not for terror financing. A prominent example was the verdict of an anti-terror court in Lahore that convicted three members of the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and its front organisation, Jamaat-ud-Dawa and awarded them minor punishments. Like Abdul Rehman Makki, brother-in-law of Lashkar co-founder Hafiz Saeed was handed an 18-month jail term which was later suspended by the Lahore high court. It is not clear if Makki, who had designated a terrorist by the US in 2010 and carries a $ 2 million (Pakistani Rs 32.6 crore) bounty - had to pay the Pakistani Rs 20,000 fine imposed on him by Pakistan’s anti-terror court. A few months earlier, Pakistani courts had ordered release of 196 terrorists convicted by military courts.Pakistan also had to face some embarrassing moments at the September meeting of the Asia Pacific - Joint Group where it was pointed out that Islamabad had failed to act against eight entities of concern mentioned in the FATF-approved action plan and non-profit organisations notorious for channelling funds to terror groups.Officials also question the effectiveness of the three laws pushed through parliament at a joint session. The laws, which were ostensibly aimed at plugging the possibility of terror financing, were riddled with loopholes and did not even have a provision to penalise government officials who support terror, a Pakistan watcher said.Pakistan has a long history of taking cosmetic steps that it uses to persuade the international community to ease the pressure, he said, recalling how Islamabad had produced a list of 7,600 individuals notified as terrorists to the FATF in October 2018 to signal that it meant business. Less than two years later, it erased 3,600 names from this list claiming that they had been added inappropriately and had incomplete details of the individuals concerned. Pakistan had earlier this year told a visiting UN team that it had been able to locate only 19 of the 130 individuals designated as terrorists by the world body’s security council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-will-try-to-jump-out-of-at-fatf-grey-list-why-he-will-trip/story-RRBCBofiwHUDIHleoaM0xK.html
16-10-2020||World||Remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine did not cut hospital stay or mortality in Covid-19 patients: WHO||Gilead Sciences Inc’s remdesivir had little or no effect on Covid-19 patients’ length of hospital stay or chances of survival, a clinical trial by the World Health Organization (WHO) has found.The antiviral medication, among the first to be used as a treatment for Covid-19, was one of the drugs recently used to treat US President Donald Trump’s coronavirus infection.The results are from WHO’s “Solidarity” trial, which evaluated the effects of four potential drug regimens, including remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, anti-HIV drug combination lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon, in 11,266 adult patients across more than 30 countries. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The study found the regimens appeared to have little or no effect on 28-day mortality or the length of the in-hospital course among patients hospitalized with Covid-19, the WHO said on Thursday. The results of the trial are yet to be reviewed and were uploaded on the preprint server medRxiv. (https://bit.ly/3nViYIf)Earlier this month, data from a US study of remdesivir by Gilead showed the treatment cut Covid-19 recovery time by five days compared with patients who got a placebo in a trial comprising 1,062 patients.“The emerging (WHO) data appears inconsistent, with more robust evidence from multiple randomized, controlled studies published in peer-reviewed journals validating the clinical benefit of remdesivir,” Gilead told Reuters.“We are concerned the data from this open-label global trial has not undergone the rigorous review required to allow for constructive scientific discussion, particularly given the limitations of the trial design.” WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Wednesday that during the study, hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir/ritonavir were stopped in June after they proved ineffective, but other trials continued in more than 500 hospitals and 30 countries. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We’re looking at what’s next. We’re looking at monoclonal anti-bodies, we’re looking at immunomodulators and some of the newer anti-viral drugs that have been developed in the last few months,” Swaminathan said.Remdesivir received emergency use authorization from the US Food and Drug Administration on May 1, and has since been authorized for use in several countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/remdesivir-hydroxychloroquine-did-not-cut-hospital-stay-or-mortality-in-covid-19-patients-who/story-VZgUfU8T4n14g589jufbNM.html
16-10-2020||World||In split-screen town halls, Joe Biden accuses Trump administration of ‘panicking’ during pandemic||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Thursday criticized what he called President Donald Trump’s “panicked” response to the coronavirus pandemic, while Trump defended his handling of a crisis that has killed more than 216,000 Americans.The rivals spoke in simultaneous town halls broadcast on separate television networks after a debate originally scheduled for Thursday was called off following Trump’s Covid-19 diagnosis. The split-screen showdown offered a stark reminder of the many ways the campaign season has been changed by a pandemic that has prompted more than 18 million people to cast ballots more than two weeks before Election Day on Nov. 3.Biden, speaking to voters in Philadelphia on ABC, blamed the Republican president for concealing the deadliness of the virus. “He said he didn’t tell anybody because he was afraid Americans would panic,” Biden said. “Americans don’t panic. He panicked.”Trump defended both his response to the pandemic as well as his own personal conduct, including staging a Rose Garden event at the White House where few wore masks or practiced social distancing, which resulted in numerous attendees contracting the disease.“Hey, I’m president - I have to see people, I can’t be in a basement,” Trump said on NBC in front of an outdoor audience of voters in Miami, implicitly criticizing Biden for spending months off the campaign trail as the pandemic raged.He did not answer questions about the last time he tested negative before contracting the virus, saying he did not recall precisely.Trump, who aggressively interrupted Biden during a chaotic debate two weeks ago, showed little interest in altering his belligerent tone, sparring frequently with moderator Samantha Guthrie.He said he “heard different stories” about the efficacy of masks, even though his own administration’s public health experts have said wearing them is key to stopping the spread of the virus.The president declined to denounce QAnon, the false conspiracy theory that Democrats are part of a global pedophile ring, first praising its adherents for opposing pedophilia before saying he knew nothing about the movement. Trump also dodged questions about a New York Times investigation of two decades of his tax returns, which he has refused to release publicly despite decades of precedent for presidential candidates.He appeared to confirm the paper’s report that he has some $400 million in personally guaranteed loans, arguing that the amount was a “peanut” compared with his worth. He also did not deny the Times’ report that he paid only $750 in federal income tax during his first year in the White House, although he said at one point the paper’s numbers were “wrong.”Early voting surgeThe second presidential debate had originally been scheduled for Thursday, but Trump pulled out of the event after organizers decided to turn it into a virtual affair following his diagnosis two weeks ago. A final debate is still scheduled for Oct. 22 in Nashville, Tennessee.Trump, who spent three days in a military hospital but has since returned to the campaign trail, is trying to alter the dynamics of the race. Reuters/Ipsos polls show Biden has a significant national lead, although his advantage in battleground states is less pronounced.North Carolina, a highly competitive state, saw huge lines as it began more than two weeks of in-person early voting on Thursday, following record turnout in Georgia and Texas earlier in the week.Some 18.3 million Americans have voted either in person or by mail so far, representing 12.9% of the total votes counted in the 2016 general election, according to the U.S. Elections Project at the University of Florida. Voters are seeking to avoid in-person lines on Election Day to stay safe as coronavirus infections and hospitalizations continue to rise, but also to make sure their ballots will count. Many are concerned that Trump will challenge widely used mail-in ballots, after his repeated claims without evidence that they were fraudulent.Supreme court battleThe Senate confirmation hearings for Amy Coney Barrett, Trump’s nominee for a vacant Supreme Court seat, prompted careful answers from both candidates. Republicans have pushed to seat Barrett before the election after refusing to do so for former Democratic President Barack Obama’s nominee in 2016, saying it was inappropriate in an election year.Biden said he was not a “fan” of court-packing, the idea promoted by some Democrats of adding justices to countermand what they view as a stolen seat. But he declined to rule it out after moderator George Stephanopoulos pressed him, saying: “It depends on how this turns out.”Trump would not say whether he would like to see abortion rights invalidated, an outcome that many legal scholars believe is more likely with the conservative Barrett on the court.“I think that she’s going to make a great decision,” he said. “I did not tell her what decision to make.”$1.5 billionIn a sign of Democratic determination to defeat Trump, a massive amount of money has poured into the party’s coffers in recent months.Democratic fundraising organization ActBlue said on Thursday it collected $1.5 billion online from July to September, the most it had ever raised in one quarter. By comparison, major Republican fundraising platform WinRed said on Monday that it collected $623.5 million in the same period.Biden’s campaign collected $383 million in September, setting a new record for a U.S. campaign for the second consecutive month. The Trump campaign has not released its monthly figures.Both candidates have been visiting battleground states this week, with Trump holding rallies in Florida, Pennsylvania and Iowa and Biden traveling to Ohio and Florida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-split-screen-town-halls-joe-biden-accuses-trump-administration-of-panicking-during-pandemic/story-W03kKWRGJCO8cmm2gAYOfJ.html
16-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: Trump ‘panicked’ about Covid-19, says Joe Biden||Former US vice president Joe Biden hit out at the Donald Trump administration saying that the president panicked about the Coronavirus outbreak in the country.“The president was informed about how dangerous this virus was. We learned that he knew well how serious it was when he did an interview with Bob Woodward and at the time he said he didn’t tell anybody because he was afraid Americans would panic--Americans don’t panic, he panicked and didn’t say a word to anybody,” Biden said during his town hall at Philadelphia.“He didn’t talk about what needed to be done because he kept worrying, in my view, about the stock market. He worried if he talked about how bad this could be, unless we took these precautionary actions, then, in fact, the market would go down. And his barometer of the success of the economy is the market,” he added.Speaking about the vaccine, he responded saying, “Trump talks about things that are not accurate.”“If the body of scientists say (it’s ready) and it’s been tested, it’s gone through the three phases - yes, I would take and I would encourage people to take it. But President Trump is saying things like injecting bleach on your arms,” the former US vice president said in response to a vaccine-related question. As per the latest updates by Johns Hopkins University, the US -- which is the worst affected country from the virus -- has a total of 7,975,725 Covid-19 cases and the highest death toll in the world with 217,746 deaths. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-trump-panicked-about-covid-19-says-joe-biden/story-OW8fbOnR2Cfg1qoqWIpwkM.html
16-10-2020||World||China sees red as US names officer for Tibet affairs||China on Thursday accused the US of trying to destabilise Tibet, hours after Washington appointed a senior official to oversee Tibetan affairs as it mounts pressure on Beijing on human rights issues. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo on Wednesday named Robert Destro as the new special coordinator for Tibetan issues. The US remains concerned with China’s “repression of the Tibetan community, including the lack of meaningful autonomy, the deteriorating human rights situation in Tibetan areas, and severe restrictions on Tibetans’ religious freedom and cultural traditions within China,” Pompeo said in statement. Reacting sharply, the Chinese foreign ministry said Beijing will not allow foreign interference in its internal affairs. “Setting up of the so-called special coordinator for Tibetan issues is entirely out of political manipulation to interfere in China’s internal affairs and destabilise Tibet,” said ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian. “China firmly opposes this (the interference) and has never recognised this,” Zhao said at the briefing when asked to comment on the appointment. China also said on Thursday the US was seriously undermining peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait after a US Navy destroyer sailed through the waters amid escalating tensions between Beijing and Taipei. The spokesperson for its Eastern Theatre Command, Zhang Chunxuan, said air and sea forces were mobilised to keep tabs on Wednesday on the USS Barry, an Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer.Zhang said the US has been sending “the wrong signal” to proponents of independence for Taiwan, a pro-US self-governing democracy that China claims as its own territory. (With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sees-red-as-us-names-officer-for-tibet-affairs/story-tfxQSzt4wmRxx49GdZPGKI.html
16-10-2020||World||Covid-19 cases surge, London on high alert from Saturday||London will be on ‘high alert’ from Saturday - the second of the three-tier system introduced by the UK government earlier this week - as new Covid-19 cases surged across various parts of the British capital.“Things will get worse before they get better,” health secretary Matt Hancock said, announcing new curbs in Essex, York and other areas. It means half of England’s population is now under local lockdowns.MPs and local leaders from Manchester were in talks with Downing Street over placing the Greater Manchester area in the highest Tier 3 level, which would mean closing pubs, restaurants and other venues. Liverpool and some areas of Leicester are under toughest curbs in Tier 3.There was alarm in Germany as the country reported more than 6,600 new cases, its highest recorded daily total since the pandemic began. On Thursday, 6,638 infections were reported over the past 24 hours. EU chief Ursula von der Leyen was forced to leave an EU summit on Thursday shortly after it opened because one of her close staffers tested positive for Covid-19. She said that she herself tested negative.Also Read: European Commission chief self-isolates as Covid makes its mark at a summitIn Copenhagen, the WHO’s regional director for Europe Hans Kluge told reporters it was time to “step up the measures” as rising cases on the continent were of “great concern”. But he said the situation was not as bad as the peak in March and April.In the US, top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci said Americans should rethink their usual plans for Thanksgiving gatherings, citing increased infections and hospitalisations.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-surge-london-on-high-alert-from-saturday/story-pfEJefkpqBIhbZjrfEU2iJ.html
16-10-2020||World||GBD report shows world affected by ‘syndemic’ of chronic diseases, Covid-19||The world is caught in a perfect storm of rising rates of chronic disease, persistent infectious diseases and public health failures that have fuelled deaths in the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a major global study of human health.The emergence and overlap of the coronavirus pandemic with a continued global rise in chronic conditions such as obesity and diabetes - with added environmental risks such as air pollution - have exacerbated the coronavirus death toll, it said.The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study is the most comprehensive of its kind. Published in The Lancet medical journal, it analysed 286 causes of death, 369 diseases and injuries and 87 risk factors in 204 countries and territories to offer a view on the underlying health of the global population and the impact of Covid-19.“Covid-19 is an acute-on-chronic health emergency,” said Richard Horton, the Lancet’s editor-in-chief. He described the coronavirus pandemic combined with high global rates of obesity, diabetes and other chronic diseases as a “syndemic”.The study found that leading causes of ill health in people aged 50 and older worldwide were ischaemic heart disease, stroke, and diabetes. In younger people - aged 10 to 49 - road injuries, HIV/AIDS, lower back pain and depressive disorders were dominant.It also found that the rise in chronic diseases, combined with a failure of public health to tackle preventable risk factors, had left populations vulnerable to health emergencies such as the coronavirus pandemic.“The ‘syndemic’ nature of the threat we face demands that we not only treat each affliction, but also urgently address the underlying social inequalities that shape them,” Horton said.He said chronic conditions such as high blood pressure, high blood sugar, obesity and high cholesterol suffered by millions around the world had played a critical role in driving the more than 1 million deaths caused by Covid-19 to date.Such conditions - driven by unhealthy diets and inadequate levels of exercise - “will continue to shape health in every country after the pandemic subsides”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gbd-report-shows-world-affected-by-syndemic-of-chronic-diseases-covid-19/story-GSmuQwsAaBG3MnlEjztMPK.html
16-10-2020||World||US coronavirus cases cross eight million as highest spike in nearly 2 months recorded||US cases of the novel coronavirus crossed 8 million on Thursday, rising by 1 million in less than a month, as another surge in cases hits the nation at the onset of cooler weather.Since the pandemic started, over 217,000 people have died in the United States.The United States reported 60,000 new infections on Wednesday, the highest since August 14, with rising cases in every region, especially the Midwest.Health experts have long warned that colder temperatures driving people inside could promote the spread of the virus. They have not pinpointed the reason for the rise but point to fatigue with Covid-19 precautions and students returning to schools and colleges.According to a Reuters analysis, 25 states have so far set records for increases in new cases in October. All Midwest and Northeast states have reported more cases in the past four weeks than in the prior four weeks, with the number of new cases doubling in states like Wisconsin, South Dakota and New Hampshire.In the Midwest, daily new cases hit a record on Wednesday with over 22,000 new infections. The positive test rate tops 30% in South Dakota and 20% in Idaho and Wisconsin.Ten states on Thursday reported record increases in new cases, including Wisconsin with 4,000 new cases. “Our numbers are high and they’re growing rapidly,” state Health Secretary-Designate Andrea Palm told a news conference.“We have now surpassed 1,000 Covid-19 patients who are in the hospital. In some regions of our state, our ICU beds are 90% or more full. Over the course of the past six weeks, our average daily deaths have more than tripled,” Palm added.California remains the state with the most total cases followed by Texas, Florida, New York and Georgia. Those five states account for over 40% of all reported Covid-19 cases in the nation.With both cases and positive test rates rising in recent weeks, New York City has closed businesses and schools in neighborhood hot spots despite protests from a small contingent of Orthodox Jews.In addition to rising cases, hospitals in several states are straining to handle an influx of patients.In the Midwest, Covid-19 hospitalizations hit a record high for a tenth day in a row on Wednesday. Nationally, the United States reported nearly 37,000 hospitalizations, the highest since August 28.Wisconsin, which reported record hospitalization on Wednesday, has opened a field hospital outside of Milwaukee to handle Covid-19 patients. (Reporting by Anurag Maan, Shaina Ahluwalia and Chaithra J in Bengaluru; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-cases-cross-eight-million-as-highest-spike-in-nearly-2-months-recorded/story-6yPtGCFs5XXLzZ1rvJtXwO.html
16-10-2020||World||Donald Trump says mail-in extension may harm ‘procrastinating voters’||President Donald Trump’s campaign and the Republican National Committee filed an emergency request to delay a North Carolina court ruling allowing mail-in ballots to be accepted as many as nine days after Election Day, arguing the extension could confuse “procrastinating voters.”US District Judge William Osteen’s ruling late Wednesday extending the deadline will cause “mass confusion” and could result in voters failing to send their ballots in on time, the Trump campaign and the RNC said in a filing Thursday in Greensboro.The ruling “gives procrastinating voters another excuse to wait, and perhaps miss the postmark deadline, or may mislead voters if it turns out that the extension is overturned on appeal before Election Day,” they said.North Carolina voters have already requested 1.3 million absentee ballots, and more than 500,000 have been cast under the existing rules, which allow votes to be counted as many as three days after the Nov. 3 contest, according to the plaintiffs, who are appealing the decision to the US Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit.State election officials extended the deadline last month. Osteen ruled that returning to the earlier deadline now would violate Supreme Court precedent because it’s too close to the election to make that change. The Republicans argue it’s the judge’s decision that’s changing the status quo late in the game. They asked Osteen to place a hold on his ruling pending their appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-mail-in-extension-may-harm-procrastinating-voters/story-5bUa5h7PK0WOf98RIfSM7I.html
16-10-2020||World||GOP pushes Amy Coney Barrett toward court as Democrats decry ‘sham’||Republicans powered Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett closer to confirmation Thursday, pushing past Democratic objections and other priorities during the Covid-19 crisis in the drive to seat President Donald Trump’s pick before the November 3 election.The Senate Judiciary Committee set Oct. 22 for its vote to recommend Barrett’s nomination to the full Senate, with a final confirmation vote expected by month’s end.“A sham,” said Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn. “Power grab,” protested Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn. “Not normal,” said Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill.“You don’t convene a Supreme Court confirmation hearing, in the middle of a pandemic, when the Senate’s on recess, when voting has already started in the presidential election in a majority of states,” declared Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del.Republicans eager to fill the seat of the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg countered that Trump is well within bounds to fill the vacancy, and they have the votes to do it. Relying on a slim Senate majority, Trump’s Republicans are poised to lock a 6-3 conservative court majority for years to come.Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said he understands Democrats’ “disappointment.” He said, “Their loss is the American people’s gain.” Barrett’s confirmation would bring the most pronounced ideological change on the court in 30 years, from the liberal icon Ginsberg to the conservative appeals court judge from Indiana. The shift is poised to launch a new era of court rulings on abortion, voting rights and other matters that are now open to new uncertainty.The 48-year-old Barrett was careful during two days of public testimony not to tip her views on many issues, or take on the president who nominated her. Facing almost 20 hours of questions from senators, she declined to offer specifics beyond a vow to keep an open mind and take the cases as they come.“It’s not the law of Amy,” the mother of seven told the senators at various times.Barrett wasn’t present for Thursday’s hearing, the last of the week’s sessions as the coronavirus pandemic hangs over the country. Two GOP senators on the committee tested positive for the virus and two campaign staff members for Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris, the vice presidential nominee, also tested positive, grounding her travel Thursday, the campaign announced.Stakes are high for all sides. Liberals pounced when top Democrat Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California hugged the chairman, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., as days of hearings closed, praising his handling of the process. They called for her immediate removal from leadership.Among those testifying Thursday in support of Barrett’s nomination, retired appellate court Judge Thomas Griffith assured senators that Barrett would be among justices who “can and do put aside party and politics.” But a coalition of civil rights groups opposed her nomination. Kristen Clarke, the president of the Lawyers Committee on Civil Rights, said the judge’s unwillingness to speak forcefully for the Voting Rights Act and other issues should “sound an alarm” for Americans with a case heading to the high court.“Our nation deserves a justice who is committed to preserving the hard-earned rights of all Americans, particularly the most vulnerable,” Clarke testified.Trump’s Republican allies, led by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, are reshaping the judiciary, having changed Senate rules at the start of the president’s term to allow 51 votes, rather than the traditional 60, to advance Supreme Court nominees. With a slim 53-47 majority, her confirmation is almost assured. Two Republican senators, Alaska’s Lisa Murkowski and Maine’s Susan Collins, are opposed to voting before the election, but no others objected. Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, said Thursday he will vote to confirm Barrett. She would be Trump’s third justice on the high court.A former Notre Dame Law School professor, Barrett would be the only one of her Supreme Court colleagues not groomed in the Ivy League. She had little courtroom experience when the Senate confirmed her to the federal bench in 2017, but quickly became a rising conservative star.At the high court, she may be quickly called on, if confirmed, to consider the GOP-backed challenge to the Affordable Care Act in a case coming before the court Nov. 10, as well as any election-related challenges between Trump and Democrat Joe Biden in the heated presidential campaign.“Amy’s doing a fantastic job,” Trump said at the White House before heading out to a Wednesday night campaign rally.Trump has publicly stated he wants a justice swiftly seated for both situations. The president has said on Twitter he wants a justice who would rule differently than Chief Justice John Roberts, who helped preserve the law in previous cases. And he said he wants a justice in place for any disputes arising from the election, particularly concerning the surge of mail-in ballots expected during the pandemic.Barrett frustrated senators during two days of public hearings by declining to disclose views on those matters, and many others, despite a collection of public statements and writings against abortion and the court’s decisions on the health care law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gop-pushes-amy-coney-barrett-toward-court-as-democrats-decry-sham/story-HmM7UnaJATHcTLicuJrARJ.html
16-10-2020||World||US was beating China at a level they haven’t been beaten before: Donald Trump||US President Donald Trump on Thursday claimed that the United States “was beating” China at a level they haven’t been beaten before and added that the US was overtaking China while they weren’t even close.“We have hit the best unemployment numbers we ever had. We were beating China at a level they haven’t been beaten before. I was charging them tariffs and they didn’t know what to do. In 2019, we became much bigger and we were way overtaking them and they weren’t even close,” Trump said at a rally in North Carolina.Trump further said everybody was coming together but “the plague” (Covid-19) came along adding that under his administration, the US is number one in terms of the economic comeback.“Under my leadership, we are developing vaccines, therapies, and all those other things. It’s happening so fast, no one can believe it. We are the number one country by far for an economic comeback than any other country,” he said.Trump further said that he took the “toughest action” over the “rampant theft” by China over jobs adding that the US has the “best environmental numbers. The US President also went on to accuse China, Russia, and India of “spewing stuff’ into the air.“I took the toughest-ever action to confront China’s rampant theft of American jobs. We have achieved energy independence and we have the best environmental numbers. China, India, and Russia -- all of these countries are spewing stuff in the air. Russia China and India are spewing it in,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-was-beating-china-at-a-level-they-haven-t-been-beaten-before-donald-trump/story-9dgOOM73twbqEIK8cF7IoO.html
16-10-2020||World||Low risk of Covid-19 infection on planes if masks worn: US military||The risk of being infected with the coronavirus on an airliner is very low if passengers wear masks, according to a study carried out aboard Boeing long-haul jets by the US military and published Thursday.Researchers using sensors and fluorescent tracers measured the volume of airborne contagious matter emitted by a dummy simulating an infected person breathing normally.The passengers most exposed to the infected person -- those just in front of, behind or beside the dummy -- were represented in the study by the sensors.Some 300 test rounds were carried out on the ground and in flight over the course of eight straight days in August in cooperation with United Airlines on Boeing 767 and 777 jetliners.The study concluded that 99.7 percent of Covid contaminant particles were eliminated by the sophisticated ventilation systems on the planes before they reached the passengers seated closest to the dummy.Expanding outward to the 40 seats closest to the infected person, the elimination rate is 99.99 percent, the study said.The results prompted US military transport officials to conclude that even on a full plane, the level of transmission over 12 hours of flight was negligible.However, the tests only looked at a scenario involving a single infected passenger. They also assumed that everyone on the plane wore a mask continuously, and did not address a scenario in which an infected person walks around the cabin of the plane.“While the tests did have some limitations,” said Commander Joe Pope, the US Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) operations directorate liaison for the testing, “the results are encouraging.”“For both the 777 and 767 airframes, the calculations show about 54 flight hours are required for cumulative inhalation of an assumed infectious dose,” Pope said.The study was conducted by USTRANSCOM and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA).Since the start of the pandemic, the US military has suspended most movement of its troops and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/low-risk-of-covid-infection-on-planes-if-masks-worn-us-military/story-JxzkUhPrdEVe0NUiBfRK3J.html
16-10-2020||World||Japan decides to release contaminated water containing radioactive substances into the sea: Report||Japan’s government has decided to release treated water containing radioactive substances from the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant into the sea, Jiji news agency and other media reported on Friday.A formal decision is expected to be made within this month, the reports said.Tokyo Electric has collected more than a million tonnes of contaminated water since the plant was crippled by an earthquake and tsunami in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-decides-to-release-contaminated-water-containing-radioactive-substances-into-the-sea-report/story-ugXEgBm6k3eXCF2gDFbQJM.html
16-10-2020||World||US elections 2020: Donald Trump says Joe Biden will face ‘soft’ questions in dueling town hall||President Donald Trump suggested that he’s likely to face tougher questions during a televised town hall meeting on Thursday night than Democrat Joe Biden, who will appear concurrently on another network.“I’d like to watch him because I want to see if he can make it through the program,” Trump said at a rally in Greenville, North Carolina, on Thursday. “And, honestly, they’ll be so soft.”The candidates’ appearances -- each starting at 8 p.m. New York time with Trump on NBC from Miami and Biden on ABC from Philadelphia-- will make for one of the stranger moments of the 2020 campaign, fracturing television viewership as the candidates deliver their messages without the added tension and drama of a debate.Even so, the event will give Trump one of his highest-profile opportunities before the Nov. 3 election to reverse his slide in polls that show Biden ahead.The two candidates originally were supposed to debate Thursday night. Instead of sparring with each other over topics such as the coronavirus pandemic, the economy and health care, the town hall format typically gives the candidates a less contentious opportunity to lay out their positions, and engage one-on-one with voters about issues they care about.Trump backed out of the originally scheduled town hall format debate after his campaign rejected revised plans by the nonpartisan Commission on Presidential Debates for the candidates to appear remotely due to his infection with Covid-19. The campaign insisted that the president and his aides, a number of whom have also tested positive for coronavirus, posed no health risk.Complaint to NBCA group of more than 100 actors, writers and producers complained in a letter to Comcast Corp. and NBCUniversal about its decision to air Trump’s town hall opposite the Biden event. The letter, reprinted in publications such as Variety, called it “a disservice to the American public.”“We believe this kind of indifference to the norms and rules of our democracy are what have brought our country to this perilous state,” according to the letter, signed by director J.J. Abrams, actor Jon Hamm and writer-director Aaron Sorkin.NBCUniversal News Group Chairman Cesar Conde said in a statement: ”We share in the frustration that our event will initially air alongside the first half of ABC’s broadcast with Vice President Biden. Our decision is motivated only by fairness, not business considerations.”Biden’s town hall will last 90 minutes.Trump often complains that journalists ask easy questions of Biden, an assertion he reiterated on Thursday, pointing to a recent town hall on NBC. “They asked him questions that a child could answer,” Trump said, even though it was largely voters doing the questioning.Early VotingWith 19 days until the election, early voting is already underway in two-dozen states. In-person and mail-in voting are surpassing records amid concerns about Covid-19 transmission at polling places and what strategists in both parties say is heightened interest in the race.The pandemic, which has killed more than 217,000 in the U.S. and left millions infected, is sure to be a top topic among voters’ questions for each of the candidates.Two-thirds of registered voters say the president failed to take appropriate precautions against the virus, according to a Washington Post-ABC News poll released over the weekend. Biden has hammered Trump for his cavalier approach toward the pandemic.The president has spent recent days downplaying the threat posed by the virus, touting an experimental antibody treatment he received while hospitalized and saying social-distancing measures advocated by Democrats did more harm than good.“The cure cannot be worse than the problem itself,” Trump said Wednesday in remarks to the Economic Club of New York.Vaccine TimingWhile Trump had hoped to unveil a vaccine for coronavirus before Election Day, he’s acknowledged more recently that isn’t likely to happen after the Food and Drug Administration released safety guidelines, over objections from the White House, requiring a more strenuous safety review.Similarly, the president’s pledge to quickly and widely distribute the experimental treatment he received – and provide it free to American coronavirus patients – has been held up as the FDA evaluates emergency use authorizations.Both candidates are also likely to face questions about the Supreme Court. The town halls are taking place during the confirmation process for Trump’s high court nominee, Amy Coney Barrett.Democrats argue that the nomination shouldn’t be considered while voting for the next president is under way. They’re warning that Barrett could cast a deciding vote to overturn the Affordable Care Act, which has become increasingly popular. The president and his campaign aides, meanwhile, see the nomination as a way to activate conservative and religious voters who care deeply about the court’s composition.‘Court Packing’Trump and other Republicans have been pressing Biden to say whether he supports adding seats to the court, or “court packing,” an idea that has support from progressives who see it as the only way to regain a majority as conservatives appear on track to hold six of the court’s current nine seats.After weeks of ducking the question, Biden said Monday that he’s “not a fan of court packing” but still left open the possibility. Trump has argued that Biden’s refusal to answer is evidence that the former vice president is a puppet of the more extreme elements of the Democratic Party.Trump may be especially eager to discuss a report from the New York Post saying emails purportedly from Hunter Biden show he introduced his father, who was vice president at the time, to an executive at a Ukrainian energy firm. The paper claims the communication contradicts an assertion by Joe Biden that he hasn’t spoken to his son about his business dealings.But the email doesn’t detail the extent of the meeting or whether Biden spoke to his son about it. It also doesn’t say definitively whether Biden actually met the executive. The Biden campaign said the former vice president never met the executive.The Biden campaign has refuted the story, saying that Biden’s schedules do not include a meeting with the official, Vadym Pozharskyi. Biden has more broadly challenged his opponents’ claims that his son was able to influence Biden’s actions toward Ukraine, arguing he never discussed work with Hunter and also stressing that his views of the country aligned with the policy positions taken by the U.S. government and key allies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-biden-will-face-soft-questions-in-dueling-town-hall/story-rqT05Hjtc3RI45yc8OqAsK.html
16-10-2020||World||Twitter’s service mostly restored after apparent global outage||Twitter Inc. suffered an apparent worldwide outage on Thursday that lasted about an hour and a half, affecting users of its social network from New York to Sydney. Some service was restored and tweets began appearing again at about 7 pm New York time.The company earlier said it saw no evidence of a security breach or hack, but was investigating internal causes for the problems. San Francisco-based Twitter had said on its status website it was looking into an “irregularity” with its APIs, the technology that lets different software systems interact with each other.Downdetector.com, which tracks outages, received at least 50,000 reports about problems with the social media platform, starting at about 5:15 pm. The number of Twitter reports on the site had declined to less than 6,000 as of 7:03 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-s-service-mostly-restored-after-apparent-global-outage/story-704aX78IVgPErAJnKO095K.html
16-10-2020||World||Bolsonaro’s ally suspended after cops find cash in his undergarments||A Brazilian lawmaker stepped down from his position representing President Jair Bolsonaro’s government and was suspended from the senate, after police searched his house and found cash inside the underwear he was wearing.Federal police targeted Roraima state’s Sen. Chico Rodrigues as part of a probe into the alleged misappropriation of Covid-19 funds, according to the 90-day suspension issued by Luís Roberto Barroso, a justice on Brazil’s Supreme Court.Police initially found 10,000 reais ($1,780) and $6,000 inside a safe in Rodrigues’ house Wednesday, at which point the lawmaker asked if he could go to the bathroom, according to the police report, part of which is included in Barroso’s ruling. As Rodrigues walked away, a police officer noticed a large, rectangular bulge under the senator’s shorts.“Found inside his underwear, near his buttocks, were stacks of money that totaled 15,000 reais ($2,675),” the report says. The ruling was reviewed by The Associated Press.Asked three times whether he had any additional cash stowed, the senator angrily shoved his hand into his underwear to retrieve more stacks of bills, which totaled 17,900 reais ($3,200), according to the report.A subsequent police search turned up another 250 reais ($45) from inside his underwear. There is video of that search, which Barroso wrote in his ruling he was declining to provide to the senate as it was “well within his (Rodrigues’) intimate clothing″ and could cause ″greater discomfort.″Barroso wrote that Rodrigues’ decision to hide the money indicated impropriety and had raised the possibility of decreeing preventative imprisonment. The senate can vote to reverse the suspension.“My home was invaded for having done my job as a lawmaker, getting resources for the state to combat Covid-19,” Rodrigues said in a statement. “I believe in justice and I will prove that I have nothing to do with any illicit act.”Earlier Thursday, Rodrigues resigned as deputy leader of Bolsonaro’s government in the senate, according to the nation’s official gazette.Bolsonaro won the presidency in large part due to his vow to take on crime and corruption. However, his dedication to crimefighting has faced skepticism after his justice minister, Sergio Moro, resigned earlier this year, alleging Bolsonaro had sought to intervene improperly in the federal police. There are also investigations underway that target Bolsonaro’s sons, who are lawmakers.Late Wednesday, shortly before the first news report from online site Crusoe appeared about the police raid on Rodrigues’ house, Bolsonaro said he would deliver a kick to the neck of anyone in his government found to be corrupt.In the capital, Brasilia, Bolsonaro repeated his claim Thursday that his government hasn’t been marred by the scandals as have previous administrations. He also said that, unlike ministers and heads of state-owned enterprises, Rodrigues doesn’t form part of his government.“We are combating corruption; it makes no difference who the person is,” Bolsonaro said when asked about Rodrigues’ case, adding the investigation was a point of pride.Rodrigues is a member of the joint congressional committee tasked with executing the budget for Covid-19 measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bolsonaro-s-ally-suspended-after-cops-find-cash-in-his-undergarments/story-uq29Kn89vY39ztzYdcb9iK.html
16-10-2020||World||Twitter down for many users due to issues with internal systems||Twitter Inc said on Thursday its social networking site was down for many users due to “some trouble” with its internal systems.The company said in a tweet https://twitter.com/TwitterSupport/status/1316880612691591174 that it was working to solve the issue and that it did not have any evidence of a security breach or a hack.Outage tracking website Downdetector.com showed https://downdetector.com/status/twitter more than 55,000 users were facing issues with Twitter.In July, Twitter had reported a breach where hackers accessed its internal systems to hijack some of the platform’s top voices, including U.S. presidential candidate Joe Biden and reality TV star Kim Kardashian, and used them to solicit digital currency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-down-for-many-users-due-to-issues-with-internal-systems/story-drVbxJ861FjuN3DjiY7tXI.html
16-10-2020||World||YouTube follows Twitter and Facebook with QAnon crackdown||YouTube is following the lead of Twitter and Facebook, saying that it is taking more steps to limit QAnon and other baseless conspiracy theories that can lead to real-world violence.The Google-owned video platform said Thursday it will now prohibit material targeting a person or group with conspiracy theories that have been used to justify violence.One example would be videos that threaten or harass someone by suggesting they are complicit in a conspiracy such as QAnon, which paints President Donald Trump as a secret warrior against a supposed child-trafficking ring run by celebrities and “deep state” government officials.Pizzagate is another internet conspiracy theory — essentially a predecessor to QAnon — that would fall in the banned category. Its promoters claimed children were being harmed at a pizza restaurant in Washington D.C. A man who believed in the conspiracy entered the restaurant in December 2016 and fired an assault rifle. He was sentenced to prison in 2017.YouTube is the third of the major social platforms to announce policies intended rein in QAnon, a conspiracy theory they all helped spread.Twitter announced in July a crackdown on QAnon, though it did not ban its supporters from its platform. It did ban thousands of accounts associated with QAnon content and blocked URLs associated with it from being shared. Twitter also said that it would stop highlighting and recommending tweets associated with QAnon.Facebook, meanwhile, announced last week that it was banning groups that openly support QAnon. It said it would remove pages, groups and Instagram accounts for representing QAnon — even if they don’t promote violence.The social network said it will consider a variety of factors in deciding whether a group meets its criteria for a ban. Those include the group’s name, its biography or “about” section, and discussions within the page or group on Facebook, or account on Instagram, which is owned by Facebook.Facebook’s move came two months after it announced softer crackdown, saying said it would stop promoting the group and its adherents. But that effort faltered due to spotty enforcement.YouTube said it had already removed tens of thousands of QAnon-videos and eliminated hundreds of channels under its existing policies — especially those that explicitly threaten violence or deny the existence of major violent events.“All of this work has been pivotal in curbing the reach of harmful conspiracies, but there’s even more we can do to address certain conspiracy theories that are used to justify real-world violence, like QAnon,” the company said in Thursday’s blog post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/youtube-follows-twitter-and-facebook-with-qanon-crackdown/story-fw1O5mw811zXIrrq4QJIGK.html
16-10-2020||World||European Union leaders divided over new climate goals for 2030||European Union leaders agreed Thursday they need to raise their climate ambition above the existing target but stopped short of endorsing a proposal to cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% compared to 1990 levels.Leaders discussed the proposal from the bloc’s executive arm on the first day of an EU summit in Brussels, and came to the conclusion that the updated goal should be achieved “collectively” to take into account the different energy mixes of member states.According to the meeting’s conclusions, leaders will try to find a consensus during another meeting to be held in December, ahead of the adoption of the first-ever European climate law.“All Member States will participate in this effort, taking into account national circumstances and considerations of fairness and solidarity,” the conclusions read.The text was sufficiently vague to find a consensus and could open the door to tailor-made arrangements capable of clinching the approval of all 27 member states.While the European Parliament pushes for an even greater 60% reduction in emissions, eastern EU countries that depend on coal for much of their energy needs are less enthusiastic. They worry about the social, environmental and economic costs of the transition to a greener economy. Poland last year did not commit to the EU’s 2050 climate neutrality goal and has asked for more details about the measures.Speaking upon arrival at the summit, Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis pleaded in favor of a collective target, saying that his country could not reach it alone.“I think every country has a different energy mix, and we have to take it into consideration,” he said. “If we agree on 55% average in the EU, the Czech Republic (does not) have any problem.”In proposing a reduction of at least 55%, compared with the current target of a 40% reduction by 2030, EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen predicted in September that the new target would be “too much for some and not enough for others.”Also Read: European Commission chief self-isolates as Covid makes its mark at a summitSo far the cuts have been slightly more than 20% over the past 30 years. Reducing emissions by another 20% or even 35% within the next decade poses a big challenge to many countries.Supported by Germany, Von der Leyen’s revised target needs to be endorsed by the 27 member states in order to make it legally binding. On Wednesday, a group of 11 countries including Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Sweden embraced her ambition in a joint statement published ahead of the summit in Brussels.Von der Leyen has said she wants 37% of the 750 billion euros in the coronavirus recovery fund to be given to EU countries to spend on environmental objectives, while 30% of the bloc’s regular budget should be used for tackling climate change.World leaders agreed five years ago in Paris to keep the global warming increase to below 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), and ideally no more than 1.5 degrees C (2.7 F) by the end of the century.Scientists say countries will miss both of those goals by a wide margin unless drastic steps are taken to begin cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Under the Paris Agreement, countries are due to submit updated climate targets by the end of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-union-leaders-divided-over-new-climate-goals-for-2030/story-zc6CUpiRtgtThQ8pMEZLhP.html
16-10-2020||World||European Commission chief self-isolates as Covid makes its mark at a summit||As a fresh wave of the coronavirus sweeps across much of Europe, the reality of the disease struck a summit of European Union leaders on Thursday when one of the 27-nation bloc’s top officials abandoned the meeting to go into self-imposed quarantine.European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen left the summit venue in Brussels shortly after the meeting began because one of her close staffers tested positive for Covid-19.“I myself have tested negative,” von der Leyen, a doctor by training, tweeted. “However, as a precaution I am immediately leaving the European Council to go into self-isolation.”In its latest update on Thursday, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control said that more than 4.4 million cases of the virus have been reported in the 27 EU nations, plus Britain, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland since the pandemic began. More than 198,000 people have died. Several nations are tightening preventive measures.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicImages from inside the venue, which is off limits to reporters, showed von der Leyen mingling with several other heads of government and officials, including the prime ministers of the Czech Republic, Luxembourg, Portugal and the Netherlands, and the president of the European Parliament.Like the others, she mostly wore a mask except when sitting, and appeared to be observing adequate social distancing. The sprawling summit round table was generously spaced, and a few leaders could be seen washing their hands with gel as they entered. The usual hugs and kisses so common last year were replaced by elbow bumps.French President Emmanuel Macron notably engaged in a close-contact talk with Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis, who is also representing Poland because its premier, Mateusz Morawiecki is under quarantine after coming into contact with a coronavirus-infected bodyguard. A first test showed Morawiecki was not infected. He was to take another test later Thursday.Tackling the virus — which was due to be debated on Friday — tense post-Brexit trade talks with Britain, climate change and EU-Africa relations were the main items on the agenda.“The debate on Brexit today required a physical presence and a number of leaders were in favor of a physical presence,” European Council President Charles Michel, who is chairing the two-day summit, told reporters. “We have to adapt in the case of Covid-19.”“As far as the future goes, we will systematically assess and take into account the different elements and consult the delegations about what the best way of working is,” Michel said.Since the pandemic first surfaced in Europe in February, EU leaders have held several summits via videoconference. But they held their last meeting in person just two weeks ago. Officials say it’s often the only way to get really sensitive business done. However, not everyone was happy about travelling back to Brussels so soon.“This summit should be held as a video conference. I have on several occasions proposed holding video conferences instead of meeting in person,” Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen told reporters on arrival in Brussels. “There are some discussions where one needs to be brought a little closer to each other. And then there are other meetings where you can do it as a video conference.”Also Read: London and Paris clamp down as Europe hits Covid-19 recordsThe question remains whether this might be the last in-person meeting for a while if the coronavirus continues to spread at rates not seen for months. The next official summit in Brussels is scheduled for Dec. 10-11. On Thursday, the European Parliament said its next plenary session scheduled next week in the French city of Strasbourg would be held remotely.Parliament President David Sassoli said the virus has already infected a number of EU lawmakers, staffers and their associates. “Travelling is very dangerous. The situation in Strasbourg is critical and in Brussels it’s very serious,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-commission-chief-self-isolates-as-covid-makes-its-mark-at-a-summit/story-vErYmUqJf5ZH1UPEEFv3jM.html
16-10-2020||World||Pope taps cardinal from Congo to join group of key advisors||Pope Francis named the archbishop of Kinshasa, Congo, to his core group of cardinal advisers Thursday, giving the African prelate an influential new role in helping shape Vatican policy.Cardinal Fridolin Ambongo Besungu joins a geographically diverse group of seven cardinals who are helping Francis run the church and reorganize the Vatican bureaucracy.Besungu, a Cappuchin friar, was named archbishop of one of Africa’s biggest archdioceses in 2018 and was made a cardinal a year later.His predecessor in Kinshasa, Cardinal Laurent Monsengwo Pasinya, was also a member of Francis’ cabinet of advisors but stepped down in 2018 when he retired.Francis created the group soon after he was elected in 2013 to give him a core group of advisers from outside the Vatican who could provide perspectives from the church around the world.They meet every three or four months, most recently this week via a conference call due to Covid-19 travel restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-taps-cardinal-from-congo-to-join-group-of-key-advisors/story-vqWalCAsXIsJvUas22ZWQK.html
16-10-2020||World||Dueling town halls for Trump, Biden after debate plan nixed||President Donald Trump and challenger Joe Biden will compete for TV audiences in dueling town halls on Thursday night instead of meeting face-to-face for their second debate as originally planned.The two will take questions in different cities on different networks: Trump on NBC from Miami, Biden on ABC from Philadelphia. Trump backed out of plans for the presidential faceoff originally scheduled for the evening after debate organizers said it would be held virtually following Trump’s coronavirus diagnosis.The town halls offer a different format for the two candidates to present themselves to voters, after they held a chaotic and combative first debate late last month. But Trump, speaking on Fox Business on Thursday morning, kept up his same tone, calling Biden “mentally shot,” a “liar” and a “corrupt politician.”He said that “some people said I was rude” in the first debate, “but you have to be rude. The guy’s a liar.”He said NBC asked him to do the town hall.“It’s a different audience and it’s good for me to have a different audience,” he said.As the pace of the campaign speeds up in its final weeks, the two candidates first are taking care of other electoral necessities Thursday: Trump had a midday rally in battleground North Carolina, and Biden was raising campaign cash at a virtual event.During his fundraiser, Biden warned supporters that Trump is “going to throw everything but the kitchen sink at me” and will deliver “an overwhelming torrent of lies.”Biden’s son, Hunter Biden, came under scrutiny this week following a New York Post report outlining an email Hunter allegedly received from a Ukrainian businessman discussing a meeting with the elder Biden. Biden’s campaign has said the meeting never happened, and experts have raised questions about the veracity of the emails.Also Read: Trump slams Facebook, Twitter as ‘third arm’ of the Democratic partyIndeed, with just 19 days until Election Day, there remains ample time for unexpected developments to throw off the candidates’ plans — like they did Thursday, when Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon announced the campaign was canceling running mate Sen. Kamala Harris’ in-person campaign events through Sunday “out of an abundance of caution” after two staffers tied to the campaign tested positive for the coronavirus.The campaign told reporters Thursday morning that Harris’ communications director and a flight crew member tested positive after a campaign trip to Arizona last week, during which Harris and Biden campaigned together throughout the state.Biden and Harris both have tested negative multiple times since then. The campaign said Thursday morning that Biden had again tested negative for the virus and that Harris was never in close contact with the staffers. But in an effort to draw a contrast with Trump, the campaign has emphasized its strict protocols in dealing with the virus and said it’d be moving Harris’ campaign events online whenever possible in the next few days.Meanwhile Trump, after recovering from his own bout with the coronavirus, has been trying to shore up support from constituencies that not so long ago he thought he had in the bag: big business and voters in the red state of Iowa.In a Wednesday morning address to business leaders, he expressed puzzlement that they would even consider supporting Biden, arguing that his own leadership was a better bet for a strong economy. Later, the president held his third campaign rally in three nights, this time in Iowa, a state he won handily in 2016 but where Biden is making a late push.“I know I’m speaking to some Democrats, and some of you are friends of mine,” Trump said in a virtual address to the Economic Clubs of New York, Florida, Washington, D.C., Chicago, Pittsburgh and Sheboygan, Wisconsin. Should Biden be elected, he continued, “you will see things happen that will not make you happy. I don’t understand your thinking.”During his decades in the Senate representing Delaware, a center for the credit card and banking industries, Biden built relationships and a voting record in the business sector that has raised suspicion on the left but provides Wall Street with a measure of ease at the prospect of a Biden administration.After being sidelined by the coronavirus, Trump resumed a breakneck schedule this week, with aides saying he is expected to travel and host campaign rallies every day through Nov. 3. Trump has appeared hale in his public appearances since reemerging from quarantine, though at moments during his economic address on Wednesday his voice was raspy.In Iowa, Trump tossed away his tie and donned a red hat to fight off the stiff breeze on the airport tarmac. He made a direct appeal to the state’s farmers, saying that he was responsible for $28 billion in aid designed to help offset damage stemming from his trade war with China. “I hope you remember that on Nov. 3,” Trump said.But after years of farmers supporting him despite the trade war, some Republicans say Trump’s renewable fuel policy has sown some doubt.Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency granted dozens of waivers to petroleum companies seeking to bypass congressional rules requiring the level of the corn-based fuel additive ethanol that gasoline must contain. He has recently denied more waiver requests, but the EPA’s previous action removed about 4 billion gallons of ethanol demand, resulting in the closure — at least temporarily — of more than a dozen ethanol plants in Iowa.Biden has stepped up campaign travel in the past week, with visits to Arizona, Nevada, Florida and Pennsylvania, where he drove his consistent campaign message that Trump has mishandled the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dueling-town-halls-for-trump-biden-after-debate-plan-nixed/story-HCg8jTc6g8XdRMn5CVFZaL.html
16-10-2020||India||Prithvi-2 missile, capable of carrying nukes, blasts off from Odisha in user trial||India on Friday successfully conducted another night trial of its nuclear-capable Prithvi-2 missile as part of a user trial for the armed forces from a test range in Odisha coast. Friday evening’s user trial was carried out by the Strategic Force Command, people familiar with the matter said.The liquid-propelled Prithvi-2 has a range of 250 km and can carry a 1 tonne warhead. The 9-metre tall missile is the first to have been developed by DRDO under the Integrated Guided Missile Development Programme. It is India’s first indigenous surface-to-surface strategic missile.The trajectory of the missiles was tracked by a battery of long-range, multi-function radars and electro-optic telemetry stations at different locations.This is the second night trial of Prithvi-2 in less than three weeks. The DRDO had quietly carried out another round of night trial of the nuclear missile on 27 September.The flight test of the surface-to-surface missile is the 11th missile test by India’s Defence Research and Development Organisation in 40 days. The last one hadn’t ended very well and DRDO scientists had to abort the Nirbhay cruise missile that was launched from Odisha’s test facility into the Bay of Bengal eight minutes later.The Prithvi-2 missile met all parameters during the user trials conducted late on Friday, a top government official said. “The night trial was successful,” the official said.The state-of-the-art missile uses an advanced inertial guidance system with manoeuvring trajectory to hit its target.In the past too, the Strategic Force Command of the armed forces has executed night trials under the watch of DRDO scientists as part of a training exercise. The missile has already been deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prithvi-2-missile-capable-of-carrying-nukes-blasts-off-from-odisha-in-user-trial/story-EBEzXdoocz11h69gQhVFXK.html
16-10-2020||India||Air pollution, hypertension among top 5 risk factors for death in India in 2019: Study||Air pollution, hypertension, tobacco use, poor diet and high blood sugar levels were the top-five risk factors for death in India in 2019 according to a new study.The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study, published in the Lancet journal on Friday, assessed more than 286 causes of death and 369 diseases and injuries in more than 200 countries and territories across the world. It noted that India has gained more than a decade of life expectancy since 1990, but with wide inequalities between states. According to the researchers, including Srinivas Goli from the Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar, life expectancy in India has risen from 59.6 years in 1990 to 70.8 years in 2019, ranging from 77.3 years in Kerala to 66.9 years in Uttar Pradesh. However, they said the increase in ‘healthy life expectancy’ in India has not been as dramatic as the growth of life expectancy since “people are living more years with illness and disability. The study found that the largest contributors to increasing health loss in India over the last 30 years were non-communicable diseases (NCDs) like ischaemic heart disease, COPD, diabetes, and stroke. In 2019, the research noted that the top five risk factors for death in India were air pollution (contributing to an estimated 1.67 million deaths), high blood pressure (1.47 million), tobacco use (1.23 million), poor diet (1.18 million), and high blood sugar (1.12 million). According to the researchers, over the past decade there has been more than 0.5 per cent annual increase in the exposure to several highly preventable risks such as obesity, high blood sugar, alcohol use, and drug use globally. They warned that the greatest cumulative impact on health comes from the striking rise in metabolic risks like high blood sugar, hypertension, and high cholesterol, which have risen 1.5 per cent a year since 2010, and account for nearly 20 per cent of total health loss worldwide in 2019. The study noted that these metabolic risks have grown by a staggering 50 per cent since 1990, and are responsible for a huge number of deaths globally -- with high blood pressure contributing to 1 in 5 deaths (almost 11 million) in 2019, followed by high blood sugar (6.5 million deaths), high BMI (5 million), and high cholesterol (4.4 million). The scientists said several of the risk factors and NCDs highlighted by the study, including obesity and diabetes are associated with increased risk of serious illness and death from Covid-19. In the South Asia region, they said non-communicable diseases now contribute to more than half of the years lost due to ill-health, disability or early death, which was dominated by infectious, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional diseases 30 years ago. Citing an example, the researchers said 58 per cent of the total disease burden in India is now due to non-communicable diseases, up from 29 per cent in 1990, while premature deaths due to NCDs have more than doubled from 22 to 50 per cent. According to the study, hypertension is the third leading risk factor after air pollution, responsible for 10-20 per cent of all health loss in eight states in India, primarily in the south. “Most of these risk factors are preventable and treatable, and tackling them will bring huge social and economic benefits,” said study lead author Christopher Murray, Director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in the US. “We are failing to change unhealthy behaviours, particularly those related to diet quality, caloric intake, and physical activity, in part due to inadequate policy attention and funding for public health and behavioural research,” Murray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-hypertension-among-top-5-risk-factors-for-death-in-india-in-2019-study/story-SgodUK44xQdEVCEIObXhOL.html
16-10-2020||India||Smog returns to Delhi as agriculture fires start||The Indian capital’s air quality levels plunged to “very poor” on Friday and a smoggy haze settled over the city, days after the state government initiated stricter measures to fight chronic air pollution.The Air Quality Index in New Delhi rose past 270, according to SAFAR, India’s main environment monitoring agency, after agricultural fires in neighboring states sent smoke billowing across the city. The World Health Organization deems anything above 25 as unsafe.The national capital, one of the world’s most polluted cities, enjoyed a respite from air pollution up until September in part thanks to a virus lockdown. But with industrial activities resuming and cars back on the roads — along with the onset of cooler weather and less wind — air quality in the city has once again fallen to unhealthy levels.October is also the time of year when farmers in neighboring regions, including the states of Haryana and Punjab, set fire to their post-harvest fields to clear them, despite there being a ban on it.That smoke travels to New Delhi, leading to a surge in pollution levels in the city of more than 20 million people and exacerbating what is already a public health crisis.Health experts say high air pollution levels over a prolonged period have compromised the disease resistance of people living in New Delhi, making them more susceptible to the coronavirus.Over the years, the pollution crisis in New Delhi has piled public pressure on the government to tackle the root causes.Authorities have often introduced a system that restricts many private vehicles from taking to the roads for two weeks. It has also ordered firefighters to sprinkle water from high-rise buildings to settle the dust, tried to snuff out garbage fires and ordered builders to cover construction sites to stop dust from enveloping the area.But the problem continues to persist.During peak pollution periods last year, air pollution levels in New Delhi sometimes soared even off the measurable scale. A dark yellow haze blanketed the city for several days, forcing schools to close and flights to be diverted.The Indian Agricultural Research Institute says it has developed a microbial liquid solution that softens crop stubble and turns it into compost, thus ruling out the need to burn the agricultural crop.The watery solution is made of four capsules that cost a little less than half a dollar and can be used for the rapid decomposition of crop residue.K Annapurna, a senior scientist at the public institute, said the solution can help with pollution levels while at the same time retaining the essential nutrients in the soil that are otherwise damaged when the residue is burned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smog-returns-to-delhi-as-agriculture-fires-start/story-uqObN2hlbdaktzLVPemqwL.html
16-10-2020||India||Amid border tensions with China, Army vice chief to visit US||Indian Army vice chief Lieutenant General SK Saini will on Saturday kick off a four-day visit to the United States at a time India is locked in border tensions with China in the eastern Ladakh theatre and the country is in the midst of buying a raft of military items from the US to beef up the army’s capabilities, officials familiar with the developments said on the eve of the visit.Issues related to arms procurement and joint training will be discussed during the visit that seeks to bolster bilateral military cooperation, the officials said. Saini’s visit (October 17-20) assumes significance as he will be visiting the Hawaii-based United States Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM) whose responsibilities include deterring aggression and promoting security cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region even as the Ronald Reagan Carrier Strike Group returned to the South China Sea this week for its third deployment this year amid Beijing’s rising belligerence in the region. “The aim of the visit is to enhance military cooperation between both the armies,” an Indian Army spokesperson said on Friday. He said General Saini will visit the US Army Pacific Command --- the army component of USINDOPACOM --- and hold talks with the military leadership, witness the US Army’s training activities and get an overview of its equipment capabilities.Saini’s visit comes days ahead of the planned 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers of India and the US. The 2+2 dialogue is expected to be held in New Delhi on October 26-27, with secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper set to visit India for the talks.“He (the vice chief) will also visit INDOPACOM where aspects of military cooperation and furthering military-to-military engagement, including procurements, training in niche domains, joint exercises and capability building will be discussed,” the spokesperson said. The equipment ordered from the US by India for its army includes six Apache attack helicopters, more stocks of Excalibur precision guided munitions for its artillery guns and an additional 72,000 Sig Sauer assault rifles. The visit of the vice chief to the US is crucial in the context of the India-China standoff that is escalating into a serious situation, said former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd).“Strategic-level endeavours underway towards capability enhancement to meet the potential threat need to be expedited. Consequent to the recent meeting of the Quad, the threat perceptions have witnessed greater convergence. It is in this context that the visit is very significant,” Lamba added. The spokesperson said the visit would further enhance the operational and strategic collaboration between the two armies. He said India would be participating in two joint exercises with the US next year, despite the Covid-19 restrictions --- Yudh Abhyas (February 2021) and Vajra Prahar (March 2021).Cooperation for ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific that is in line with a rules-based order is expected to be a focus area for both the vice-chief’s visit and the 2+2 ministerial dialogue, the officials said. The USINDOPACOM is the US military’s largest unified command whose vast area of responsibility extends from the west coast of the US to the west coast of India. Its name was changed from the Pacific Command to Indo-Pacific Command in 2018 to reflect the greater emphasis on South Asia, and especially India, in protecting American strategic interests.The vice chief’s visit also comes at a time when Australia is likely to be part of the next Malabar naval exercise conducted by India with the US and Japan. The next edition of Malabar, delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic, is expected to be held in November, Indian Navy officials said. China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-vice-chief-jets-off-to-us-amid-border-tensions-with-china/story-NlybosAS9uYSRehsqqWA0M.html
16-10-2020||India||Cultural ministry issues SOPs for artistes to hold events online, claim benefits of govt schemes||The Culture Ministry Friday issued guidelines for holding events in online mode, allowing artistes to take benefits of government schemes even if they are unable to hold such programmes in physical settings owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The ministry said the guidelines will ensure continued financial assistance to artistes and help them tide over the present crisis.In a statement, the ministry said there has been a substantial impact on the performing arts and cultural sector with in-person exhibitions, events, and performances either cancelled or postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak. However, there were intensive efforts by the artistes and the institutions of the Ministry of Culture to provide alternative or additional services through digital platforms with proper documentation of the events, it said. The Ministry of Culture (Performing Arts Bureau) implements many schemes under its Kala Sanskriti Vikas Yojana (KSVY), where grants are sanctioned/approved for holding programmes/activities which involved large audience.¨This (the guidelines) will enable them to avail benefits under these schemes even if they are not able to stage programs in the physical format as before and will ensure continued financial assistance to tide over the present crisis,” the ministry said.The guidelines will be applicable on artists/organisations who have already been sanctioned grants under KSVY schemes. The ministry has urged them to conduct various components of the schemes such as virtual workshops on art and craft, lecture-cum-demonstrations, webinars, online programmes/festivals etc. through virtual mode on social media handles like Facebook, YouTube etc.The ministry has said that instead of the usual hard copies of documents relating to activities covered under the scheme/scheme, artistes or organisers can submit soft copies of the same for the release of the grant. The components will be dispensed with for the time-being and soft copies of the same will be admissible for release of grant.“The organisations who are conducting events on virtual mode may be given exemption from submission of proof of event such as Newspaper cutting but must submit link/recordings of the virtual events/activities with details of the event. The outreach of the program in terms of measure of the digital audience should also be indicated. “The expenditure incurred on activities as reflected in Utilization Certificate (UC) should be justified with reference to the program conducted via virtual platform,” it said.The Ministry of Culture is implementing Kala Sanskriti Vikas Yojana (KSVY) through which cultural organisations are given financial assistance for the promotion of art and culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cultural-ministry-issues-sops-for-artistes-to-hold-events-online-claim-benefits-of-govt-schemes/story-I9zMjvEOJ5RADOBX3dl65I.html
16-10-2020||India||International flights: India-Germany flights to start from October 26 after brief suspension of air bubble||After a brief standoff over who is flying more planes amid Covid-19 pandemic leading to a brief suspension of the air bubble between India and Germany, the Air India on Friday tweeted that it would start its Germany flights from October 26. It indicates that the new agreement reached between the two countries has been extended till March 28, 2021. #FlyAI: Air India will operate flights between India-Germany from 26th Oct' 20 to 28th March '21.Bookings open through AI website, Booking offices, call centre and Authorised Travel Agents. pic.twitter.com/KHCvZo4VkMAir bubbles are pacts signed by two countries allowing airlines of both the countries to fly. Under these agreements, the number of flights are restricted as all countries are now cautious so that the number of Covid-19 cases does not increase because of the resumption of international flights.India alleged that Germany was flying more flights to India while the government restricted the number of Indian flights in the country. After India asks Lufthanasa to curtail its schedule, it cancelled all flights to India till October 20. Following which, Air India too cancelled all its flights to Frankfurt till October 14. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation said Lufthansa was flying 20 flights a week while Indian carriers were operating only three to four flights. Lufthanasa was suggested to fly seven flights per week which the carrier rejected.As a result of the brief suspension of the air bubble, several flights were cancelled. Those who have Air India tickets between October 20 and October 26 have been asked to contact the airline for rescheduling after October 26.Commenting on the suspension of air bubble between India and Germany, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri recently said that talks were on between the two countries. “The issue is not about allowing foreign carriers in or not. We are all for foreign carriers operating here. Make no mistake. But I think the time has come for the message to go out loud and clear that it will not be done at the expense of the Indian carriers. Under the regulated (air bubble) arrangements, we are not insisting on total parity. Even near parity will do,” the minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-india-germany-flights-to-start-from-october-26-after-brief-suspension-of-air-bubble/story-QnSiTH8FSHLVxhOJyLrf5O.html
16-10-2020||India||25 lakh cases heard virtually in courts during Covid-19: Ravi Shankar Prasad||As many as 25 lakh cases were heard virtually in courts across the country, including 9,000 by the Supreme Court, during the coronavirus-triggered restrictions, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Friday. Prasad was hosting a virtual summit of ministers of justice of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) countries. He apprised the gathering of the high priority the government has given to framing business facilitating laws and rules, including Commercial Courts Act and arbitration laws, with a view to make India a preferred destination for investment and business. Besides Prasad, ministers from Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and an “authorised representative” of Pakistan’s Ministry of Law and Justice attended the meet. According to a Law Ministry statement, Prasad highlighted the initiatives taken by the government for providing affordable and easy access to justice for all. He referred to pro bono legal services provided to the marginalised sections of the society. Through Tele-Law services initiated in 2017, so far 3.44 lakh free legal consultations have been given to poor people through video conference, he said. Prasad also highlighted e-Courts projects with video conferencing facility and the rolling out of virtual courts as part of the government’s transformative change in process automation from the conventional brick and mortar court architecture. “During COVID-19 pandemic, over 25 lakh hearings through video conference have taken place at various courts of India, out of which 9,000 virtual hearings have taken place at the Supreme Court alone,” the statement said quoting him. As part of activities of Justice Ministers’ Forum, the minister urged SCO member states to promote exchange of ideas, best practices and experiences in identified areas through the platform.  He also stressed on widening the spectrum of activities being undertaken in the forum, in particular, and SCO in general.  Earlier, an Experts Working Group of SCO member states discussed the importance of promoting ab alternative dispute resolution mechanism, besides cooperation in all spheres, including legal, given the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The meet also adopted a joint statement. The joint statement calls for continuing the work on implementation of the action plans of the working groups of experts on forensic activities and legal services for 2018-2020, as well as to develop action plans for 2021-2023. It also calls for considering organising exchange programmes for representatives of the ministries of law and justice of the SCO member-states to study the best practices in alternative dispute resolution. According to the joint statement, efforts should continue to develop an online platform for the exchange of legal information, taking into account national laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-lakh-cases-heard-virtually-in-courts-during-covid-19-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-sXrK3i1gmbSph6IRuVIEoI.html
16-10-2020||India||Trial in Kerala actor’s assault case halted, plea seeks move to new court||Trial in the Kerala actor abduction and assault case was temporarily stalled after the prosecution moved an application in the special court in Kochi to adjourn the proceedings and shift the case to another court. In the petition, the special public prosecutor said he will approach the high court soon to shift the case to a new court. He said witnesses in the case were easily influenced.The high-profile case has 355 witnesses and 80 have been examined so far. Some actors like Edavela Babu, Bindu Paniker and Bhaama had changed their earlier statements.The prosecution and victim were upset after many witnesses turned hostile during the trial. The prosecution earlier moved the court to cancel the bail given to actor Dileep, eighth accused in the case, saying that some of the witnesses were influenced by him. The incident took place in 2017 when the 31-year-old woman actor who was returning after a shooting assignment was allegedly abducted and sexually assaulted in a moving car by a criminal gang. There were 10 accused in the case. The accused filmed the incident and threatened to release it if she approached the police.During the attack, the main accused Pulsar Suni, involved in many criminal cases, had reportedly told the victim that he was given a “supari (contract crime)” and was forced to do this. After the actor’s complaint, police arrested all accused who were directly involved in the crime. Since there were strong speculations that they carried out the sexual assault at the behest of someone, after six months the Special Investigation Team had arrested Dlieep and he spent three months in jail. The case has witnessed many twists and turns. At one point the state government said Dileep was filing unnecessary pleas in different courts to delay the trial. In November last the Supreme Court had directed the special court, headed by a woman judge, to complete the trial in six months. But the trial was delayed again due to the coronavirus outbreak.At least eight witnesses in the case have turned hostile so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trial-in-kerala-actor-s-assault-case-halted-plea-seeks-move-to-new-court/story-FjJMt1QlwceuQfNo2cpCXI.html
16-10-2020||India||Decision to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients temporary: Delhi govt to HC||The Delhi Government Thursday told the Delhi High Court that the policy decision directing 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients was taken as a stopgap and temporary measure with an intent to mitigate the surge of coronavirus cases in the national capital.The government defended its decision and opposed a plea challenging the September 13 order, directing all the private hospitals having bed strength of 50 or more to reserve at least 80 per cent of their total ICU bed strength for Covid-19 patients.In an affidavit filed before Justice Navin Chawla, the Aam Aadmi Party(AAP) government vehemently denied that the decision, which was stayed by the High Court on September 22, was in violation of any fundamental right of the citizens of Delhi and termed the petition by ‘Association of Healthcare Providers’ as wholly misplaced and baseless.The High Court granted one week time to the petitioner association, which claims that the 33 private hospitals against whom the order was passed are its members and sought to quash the order to reserve 80 per cent ICU beds for Covid-19 patients, to file rejoinder to the government’s affidavit and listed the matter for further hearing on November 18.The government has already challenged the single judge’s stay order before a division bench which has listed it for hearing on November 27.Additional Solicitor General, Sanjay Jain, representing the government, said there is a prediction that in the upcoming festive season, the number of Covid-19 cases will go up.The affidavit, filed through additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan, contended that the petitioner association was looking to secure the financial interests of its member hospitals, under the garb of expressing masked concerns over securing healthcare facilities for non-Covid patients, to be able to levy arbitrary and exorbitant medical treatment fee and other such charges from critical Covid-19 patients.“The act of the answering respondent (Delhi government), being that issuing the GNCTD Order, is a policy decision, that had been implemented, as a stopgap and temporary measure, with the intent and objective to mitigate the surge in the Covid-19 cases in the NCT of Delhi,” it said.It also referred to various judicial pronouncements saying it is settled law that courts will ordinarily exercise restraint while dealing with a challenge preferred to a policy decision of the State.It said it is not the domain of the court to embark upon the uncharted ocean of public policy in an exercise to consider as to whether a particular public policy is wise or a better public policy can be evolved and such an exercise must be left to the discretion of the executive and legislative authorities as the case may be.The Delhi government said several other states like Maharashtra and Odisha have also taken similar steps and put in place similar measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.“On account of the Covid-19 pandemic graph taking an alarming rise nation wide and also impacting upon the cases in the national capital, the Government of the NCT of Delhi has been adopting a hands-on dynamic approach for the management and mitigation of this disaster,” the affidavit said.It said since certain private hospitals have been the preferred choices of patients, it has been found that they hardly have any free and available ICU beds for Covid-19 patients and there is a section of the society including those with health insurance prefer admission in private hospitals despite availability of beds in the government sector.It was found that many such patients were made to wait for long hours and even days prior to their admission due to non-availability of Covid-19 ICU beds as a result of which their condition deteriorated.The government said when the emergency meeting was convened by it on September 12, out of 33 private hospitals, 25 participated and none of them raised any protest or objection to the decision of the authorities to reserve the ICU beds.Almost all of the 33 hospitals also started implementing the government’s order with immediate effect, it claimed, adding that order only covers 33 private hospitals and nursing homes, out of over 1150 private nursing homes and hospitals across the city.It said no patient, suffering from a critical illness other than Covid-19, has objected to the government’s order or complained of having been deprived of necessary medical treatment.“The alleged violation of fundamental right to life of one class of persons (being non- COVID patients, none of whom have come before the court alleging such a violation), cannot be given primacy over the fundamental right to life of critical Covid-19 patients,” especially when the government order is only a stopgap and temporary arrangement, to cater to the present and dynamics rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, it said.The government said the petition is an attempt to seriously imperil its pandemic management efforts and actually jeopardises the interests of hundreds of Covid-19 patients who have availed of the benefit of the order and secured ICU beds in private hospitals, at capped rates.It said the stay on the operation of the government’s decision, which has been granted to the petitioner, further leaves such patients at the mercy of these private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-to-reserve-80-per-cent-icu-beds-for-covid-19-patients-temporary-delhi-govt-to-hc/story-jqJKNIOdtsritWLYNxQgkJ.html
16-10-2020||India||UP girl on way to hospital to see her mother raped. She finds them on Facebook; arrested||A Class 11 student on her way to see her mother who was admitted to Jalaun district hospital was kidnapped by two men, dragged to a forested area and raped in Orai town, the police said on Friday. She lost consciousness at some point and was left there by the two.The two men, however, were eventually traced via their Facebook profile photo. The two were arrested using social media, said Jalaun superintendent of police, Yashveer Singh,Police said the girl recalled that when the two men were dragging her to the forest, one of the two men had called the other by his name. The rape survivor remembered his name but had no other information to share.Someone came up with the idea of checking out Facebook profiles of people by the name. Finally, she found one of them.Also read: Delhi next on NCB radar to launch Mumbai-style crackdown on drugsGaurav Soni, who drives a three-wheeler in Orai for a living, was arrested from his house. He identified his accomplice as his friend Neeraj Soni. Neeraj was arrested by the police after carrying out raids at several locations.The two men were being charged for rape and under Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the police said.The teenager’s mother had fallen ill earlier on Thursday and was rushed to the hospital by her father. The girl, who had been alone at home, also left for hospital around midnight, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/class-11-student-raped-on-way-to-hospital-accused-arrested-after-fb-search/story-oXm3TpsgM0Vnz8u25eCsAM.html
16-10-2020||India||What about victim’s trauma? Plea in SC against molester getting bail on ‘rakhi’ condition||The Madhya Pradesh High Court, in July, granted bail to an accused in a molestation case on the condition that he would request the alleged victim to tie him ‘Rakhi’. Nine women lawyers moved the Supreme Court against the high court order and said that courts across the country should be restrained from imposing such conditions as these are “against the principle of law”. The Supreme Court has now sought the assistance of the Attorney General on this plea to stay Madhya Pradesh High Court order.A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar issued notice to the office of Attorney General K K Venugopal on Friday.Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for the petitioners including lawyer Aparna Bhat, told the bench that the appeal has been filed in a “extraordinary circumstance”. “The trauma of the victim is trivialised by such conditions,” Parikh told the bench, also comprising Justice B R Gavai. “These kind of conditions are imposed which are against the principle of law. Repeatedly such observations are being made,” he said. Are you making the submission only for Madhya Pradesh or for the entire country? the bench asked.Answering this, Parikh said he is making submission with regard to entire country and the petitioners have made prayers to restrain courts, including high courts and trial courts, from making such observations. The bench, which said it is issuing notice to the office of the top law officer of the country, posted the matter for hearing on November 2.“The high court erred in imposing a condition that defeated the very purpose of granting bail by directing the alleged perpetrator to establish contact with the victim,” the plea said.It alleged that imposing such a condition results in “further victimization of the survivor” in her own house. “In the context of Rakshabandhan being a festival of guardianship between brothers and sisters, the said bail condition amounts to gross trivialisation of the trauma suffered by the complainant in the present case,” it said, adding that the alleged incident is said to have been committed by the accused by forcibly entering the complainant’s house.In the order, the Madhya Pradesh High Court stated, “The applicant along with his wife shall visit the house of the complainant with a Rakhi thread / band at 11 am on August 3 with a box of sweets and request the complainant to tie the Rakhi band to him with the promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come. He shall also tender Rs 11,000 to the complainant as a customary ritual, usually offered by the brothers to sisters on such an occasion and shall also seek her blessings. The applicant shall also tender Rs 5,000 to the son of the complainant for purchase of clothes and sweets.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-about-victim-s-trauma-plea-in-sc-against-molester-getting-bail-on-rakhi-condition/story-slesvTtpYglcP95TItIzEJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Pollution could worsen Covid-19 impact in winter: Experts||As smoky and hazy skies are back to haunt Delhi-NCR after a few months of blue skies and clean air, experts have cautioned people to brace for the winter season saying higher pollution level may worsen the impact of Covid-19. Environment and health experts have asked people, especially those vulnerable to Covid-19 attack, to be more careful as the chronic exposure to air pollutants is associated with severe infections and higher mortality.They feel that lungs compromised due to pollution could lead to complications like pneumonia during Covid-19.“There is abundant evidence that exposure to air pollution increases our vulnerability to respiratory viral infections both in terms of transmission and the severity of the infection,” said Avinash Chanchal, climate campaigner, Greenpeace India.“Researchers have linked air pollution with mechanisms that may reduce our immune defenses such as damage to human airways, cilia and epithelial barriers. In the case of Covid-19, current evidence indicates that chronic exposure to air pollutants is associated with more severe infections and higher mortality,” he said. Every year the winter season brings with it cold, polluted air in northern India and the problem this year can worsen due to the pandemic.A layer of smoky haze lingered over Delhi-NCR on October 15 with the air quality in the region hitting ‘very poor’ levels, even as stricter anti-air pollution measures, including a ban on electricity generators, came into force under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP).According to Health Ministry data updated on Friday, India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 73,70,468 with 63,371 new infections being reported in a day.Doctor Shuchin Bajaj from Ujala Cygnus Group of Hospitals in Delhi, said at the onset of winter and stubble burning, cases of Asthma and COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) rise but one needs to be more careful this year because of the pandemic. “When your lungs are compromised and weak, you have more chances of developing complications like pneumonia during COVID. You have to take care of SMS - social distancing, mask and sanitisation more so in the coming days,” Bajaj said.According to SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research), contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration was around 6 per cent on Thursday. It was only around one per cent on Wednesday and around 3 per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday. NASA’s satellite imagery showed a large cluster of farm fires near Amritsar, Patiala, Tarn Taran, and Firozpur in Punjab, and Ambala and Rajpura in Haryana. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) swung into action on October 15 by sending its 50 teams to inspect pollution hotspots in Delhi and neighbouring cities and file reports from field for next two months.The Environment Ministry recently held a meeting with the CPCB and officials of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh on stubble burning.Ravindra Khaiwal, Associate Professor, Environmental Health, PGI Chandigarh, said that air pollution has been identified as a major risk factor for premature deaths.“Air pollution has been identified as a major risk factor for premature death and non-communicable diseases. There are emerging evidence that air pollution could be linked with the severity of Covid-19 conditions,” he said, adding that stubble burning could spike pollution by 20-40 per cent.Experts advise that wearing mask is the most effective way to protect oneself from pollution as well as Covid-19. “Wearing face mask is single most effective way of keeping oneself safe from Covid-19 as well as pollution this winter. Avoiding strenuous outdoor exercise during peak pollution hours is also beneficial. For people with chronic lung diseases, it is very important to be compliant to their treatment,” Arunesh Kumar, Head Respiratory Medicine/Pulmonology at Paras Hospital, said. Piyush Goel, a doctor from Columbia Asia Hospital, Gurgaon, said while people need to follow basic principles of wearing masks, sanitising hands and maintaining distance, the government should ensure policy measures to prevent pollution. “Wear face mask covering nose and mouth upto chin, maintain social distancing and ensure hand hygiene. Face mask will also help to prevent impact of pollution such as particulate matters. “The government should ensure policy measures to prevent pollution. No stubble burning should be allowed, vehicular pollution should be avoided, and construction protocols should be followed. Besides, we must recognise that it is a collective responsibility of people to work together to defeat both Covid-19 and pollution,” Goel said.Khaiwal said the problem of pollution needs public policy and industry partnerships. “The government had last year launched the National Clean Air Program (NCAP) to reduce air pollution by 20-30 per cent by 2024. Public participation is vital as we are aware of the pollution problem. Still, our contribution is minimal, which we do by taking simple steps like recycling and segregating household waste, use of energy-efficient electronics and e-vehicles. “There should be policies to incentivise the public for walking and cycling. Cities should also adopt and promote a non-motorized mode of transportation. Industries should be encouraged to adopt a healthy business model having a focus on pollution reduction,” he said.India’s coronavirus death toll climbed to 1,12,161 with 895 fatalities reported on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-could-worsen-covid-19-impact-in-winter-experts/story-Oik2qbJkAR2AcGdrXuaxsJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Delhi resident Vibhor Anand arrested for spreading ‘fake news’ on Sushant Singh Rajput death case||Vibhor Anand, a Delhi resident who claims to be an advocate has been arrested by the Mumbai Police cyber cell for spreading ‘fake news’ regarding Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Reports said Mumbai Police has taken him into custody on Thursday.Following Sushant Singh Rajput’s death on June 14, Vibhor Anand made “sensational revelations” on his now-suspended Twitter account linking Rajput’s death with his former manager Disha Salian’s death. Anand allegedly dragged Bollywood actor-producer Arbaaz Khan’s name in the cases, which prompted Khan to file a case against Anand and a few others who have dragged his name. Anand was active on YouTube where he was posting videos peddling various theories behind Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. He allegedly defamed Maharashtra ministers in his video. The Mumbai Police has recently revealed that over 80,000 fake accounts were created on various social media platforms on June 14 to discredit the Mumbai Police and Maharashtra government over the investigation into Rajput’s death. Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has asked the cyber cell to investigate the matter, and register cases under the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-resident-arrested-for-spreading-fake-news-on-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case/story-i4YdSkBj2yJxa7SZTt7PcI.html
16-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Leopard kills 11-year old girl in Uttarakhand, 6th child killed in last 1 month and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Leopard kills 11-year old girl in Uttarakhand, 6th child killed in last 1 monthAn 11-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Uttarakhand’s Jaspur area in US Nagar district, said forest officials. The incident has created panic and resentment among villagers who accused the forest department of inaction despite having received complaints against the leopard. Read moreDelhi next on NCB radar to launch Mumbai-style crackdown on drugsThe Narcotics Control Bureau, which traced back the drug trail that emerged during investigations into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, and arrested nearly 20 people in Mumbai will next turn its focus on rampant drug abuse in the national capital Delhi too and other metros, a senior official of the country’s lead drug enforcement agency said. Read moreHow Centre borrowing Rs 1.1 lakh crore will impact states, Nirmala Sitharaman explains in a letterA day after the Centre announced that it would borrow Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of the states — much to the relief of the states as now they don’t have to borrow to pay the GST compensation shortfall— finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman wrote to all states explaining the change in stance. Read moreCongress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad tests positive for Covid-19, goes into home quarantineSenior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Azad confirmed on Twitter that he has contracted the viral disease and also requested people who came in contact with him in the last few days to follow Covid-19 safety protocol. Read moreIPL 2020: Eoin Morgan appointed KKR captain after Dinesh Karthik steps asideIPL 2020: Dinesh Karthik has informed the KKR management that with a view to focusing on his batting and contributing more to the team’s cause, he wished to handover the captaincy to Eoin Morgan. Read moreMicromax India to launch new smartphones in India soonGurugram-based tech company Micromax is gearing for a major launch in India. The company is planning to launch a new smartphone series in India soon. Read moreAnand Mahindra shares pics of floor drain and solar panel, asks similarity between them The business tycoon has again shared that image along with another picture of a solar panel and asked people to find the similarity between the two. His tweet is now creating a chatter on Twitter. Read moreWatch | From kickboxing to floor exercises: Kangana Ranaut begins training for Tejas||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-leopard-kills-11-year-old-girl-in-uttarakhand-6th-child-killed-in-last-1-month-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qEo1LEZU0J4bauYBDHt6pJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Adverse meteorological conditions could lead to spike in air pollution, says CPCB||The meteorological conditions for the dispersal of pollutants are more adverse this year compared to last year, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) officials said at a technical briefing on air pollution on Friday, suggesting that pollution levels could be relatively higher this year.Last year, in September and October, there were seven rainy days that brought around 121mm rain compared to only three rainy days this year in the same period that brought only 21mm rain. The average ventilation index in the same period this year is 1,389 m2/s but the minimum recorded was only 636 m2/s. A ventilation index of more than 6,000 m2/s is considered favourable for the dispersion of pollutants, according to CPCB officials. Prashant Gargava, member secretary, CPCB, said harvest of the kharif crop and stubble burning has started earlier than normal this year. He added so the peak of stubble fires may not coincide with the most adverse meteorological conditions this year.Last year, the contribution from stubble fires to Delhi’s air pollution peaked on October 31 when it was 44%. Diwali was celebrated on October 27 last year. “This year, because stubble fires have started relatively early, we are hoping that the peak contribution from fires reduces by the time minimum temperature start falling significantly and before Diwali,” said Gargava. Diwali will be celebrated on November 14 this year. Another development, which could mean lower contribution from stubble fires this year, is that area under non-Basmati paddy (which leaves stubble that needs to be disposed of) has reduced in both Haryana and Punjab this year. In Punjab, the area under non-Basmati paddy has reduced from 22.91 lakh ha to 20.76 lakh ha this year. In Haryana, the area has reduced from 6.48 lakh ha to only 4.27 lakh ha.“I have been informed that farmland of over 1 lakh ha has switched over from paddy this year which is a very important development,” added Shiv Das Meena, chairman, CPCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adverse-meteorological-conditions-could-lead-to-spike-in-air-pollution-says-cpcb/story-qqnRI32MC2FLoK0URMyn6K.html
16-10-2020||India||3-4 Rafale fighter jets to join Indian Air Force in November first week||Amid the ongoing China border conflict, Indian Air Force’s (IAF) offensive capabilities will get a boost as 3-4 Rafale fighter jets would be arriving at the Ambala airbase in Haryana by the first week of November.This would be the second batch of these French-origin fighter jet aircraft as the first batch of five Rafales had arrived in India on July 28 and were officially inducted on September 10 by the Narendra Modi government.“The second batch of 3-4 Rafale fighter jets would be arriving in India by first week of November from France and preparations are on for their arrival in the country,” government sources told ANI.“With the induction of these aircraft, the IAF would have 8-9 fighter aircraft which will be operationalised within a few days in view of the ongoing situation,” they said.The Rafale fighters have already been operationalised and have also been deployed in the conflict zone of Ladakh in the short duration of time they have been with the Air Force.An IAF team headed by Assistant Chief of Air Staff (Projects) Air Vice Marshal N Tiwari in France for reviewing the project as part of the annual routine meeting.The Indian pilots are training there in France and by March 2021, the Indian side is likely to complete the training phase there.The IAF will deploy one squadron each of the Rafale combat aircraft at its airbases in Ambala in Haryana and Hashimara in West Bengal.In September of 2016, India signed a deal with the French government and Dassault Aviation to acquire 36 Rafale fighter jets for over 7.8 billion euros to arrest the fall of combat squadrons and meet urgent requirements on the eastern and western fronts.The first five fighter aircraft were inducted in Ambala in presence of the French Defence Minister Florence Parry and Indian Chief Of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat along with the IAF Chief RKS Bhadauria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-4-rafale-fighter-jets-to-join-indian-air-force-in-november-first-week/story-YdnEZJOkxJBzAkHUfZCofM.html
16-10-2020||India||Statue of Unity to reopen from October 17: Check latest guidelines||Seven months after it was closed as the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, Gujarat’s Statue of Unity will be open for tourists from Saturday, which is also the first day of Navratri.Here are the guidelines issued by the Sardar Ekta Trust, which manages the 182-metre tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.1. Only 2,500 tourists will be allowed per day. The regular footfall before lockdown was 15,000 per day.2. Only 500 will be allowed to visit the viewer’s gallery located at a height of 153 metres.3. Tickets will be provided in two-hour slots through the website www.soutickets.in4. Entry will be allowed to tourists only in the slot for which the tickets have been purchased.5. No tickets will be issued physically from any ticket window.6. Social distancing to be maintained everywhere including the hop-on, hop-off busses.Monuments under the Archaeological Survey of India reopened since August with restricted number of tourists. On September 21, the Taj Mahal was reopened for tourists after a hiatus of six months. The Statue of Unity was inaugurated in 2018 and within 2019 it surpassed the footfall at the 133-year-old Statue of Liberty in the US, with an average of over 15,000 tourists visiting the monument daily.The Time magazine has mentioned the statue as among the 100 places to visit in 2019. It is built on an island in the Narmada river and overlooks the Sardar Sarovar Dam.The Shanghai Cooperation Organization has included the Statue of Unity in its list of eight wonders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statue-of-unity-to-reopen-from-october-17-check-latest-guidelines/story-cj9CDFaCuEvuwEh54v8SPN.html
16-10-2020||India||Pfizer, Bharat Biotech, AstraZeneca: Latest Covid-19 vaccine developments||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a review meeting to assess the progress of research and vaccine development ecosystem to fight coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The meeting was attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, NITI Aayog member (health), principal scientific advisor, senior scientists, and other officials.PM Modi said be it testing, vaccine and medication, the solution has to be cost-effective, easily available and scalable.Know all the latest updates on coronavirus vaccine:1. Pfizer Inc said on Friday it would apply for emergency use in the United States of its Covid-19 vaccine candidate being developed along with Germany’s BioNTech SE as soon as a safety milestone is achieved in the third week of November.2. Bharat Biotech, which is developing an indigenous vaccine in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is conducting its second phase trial, the results of which are expected soon.3. The results of phase three of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine could be available by November-end or early December, the Niti Aayog announced on Tuesday.4. India is expected to have a Covid-19 vaccine in a few months and the country should be in the process of delivering it to people in the next six months, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday.5. The government has started making logistical arrangements for procurement, storage and distribution to ensure the uninterrupted delivery of a vaccine, when one becomes available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-bharat-biotech-astrazeneca-latest-covid-19-vaccine-developments/story-QL88WlQeYF8h9ftSoAyDCI.html
16-10-2020||India||Torrential rains continue to wreak havoc in Karnataka, CM B S Yediyurappa chairs meeting to review situation||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa held a review meeting on Thursday with officials of districts affected by incessant rains and floods that have wreaked havoc in the state. The meeting was held throught video conferencing and was attended by district collectors, Superintendent of Police and chief executive officers of districts that have been ravaged by the relentless rains.The flood situation in Karnataka remains grim with several low-lying areas submerging due to the heavy rains and release of water from dams in the state. The chief minister said the Centre was informed about the dire situation in Karnataka. “The Centre is aware of the prevailing situation. I have just now spoken to the (Union) Home Minister who has assured us of every assistance,” he said, as quoted by PTI.An overflowing river Bhima severely hit Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts with several villages facing flood-like situations. The water also destroyed standing crops. North Karnataka saw the worst as this is the third time the region has been hit by floods in a span of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/torrential-rains-continue-to-wreak-havoc-in-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-chairs-meeting-to-review-situation/story-ErnOzshKv868eEiApl3vZL.html
16-10-2020||India||Centre asks RBI to deduct Rs 1417 cr from Jharkhand funds against dues, Soren fumes||The central government has directed the RBI to auto deduct Rs 1417.50 crore from the account of Jharkhand government maintained by the top bank, as the first instalment against its power discoms outstanding dues to Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), a central public sector power generator.In a communication on October 8, the central power department directed the RBI to invoke the tripartite agreement (TPA)---signed between the Centre, the Jharkhand government and the RBI on April 27, 2017 regarding payment security mechanism---and realise a part of the outstanding Rs 5608.32 crore as on August 13, 2020, said officials aware of the development.The Centre has argued that the time period indicated in the notice period to the state government has already expired and its response regarding payment of outstanding dues owed by the JBVNL to DVC is not convincing. JBVNL or the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited is the state’s largest power distribution company.“Accordingly, in terms of provisions of clause 7.3 of the TPA, I consider this a fit case for invoking TPA and accordingly request you to take further action to debit an amount of Rs 1417.50 crore in the month of October, 2020 from the account of state government being maintained by the RBI and credit it into the account of Ministry of Power, Government of India for onward transfer into the account of the DVC,” power department’s letter to the RBI reads. The Union power ministry had on September 11 written to the state government, putting it on notice of 15 days for payment of the outstanding dues to the DVC. The state government in its reply on September 25 had questioned the outstanding dues amount being claimed by the Centre. In its reply to the Union power ministry, the state energy secretary had argued, quoting minutes of previous meetings, that the JBVNL owes only Rs 3919.04 crores to the DVC, state government officials said.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi’s dig at govt over IMF’s India projectionsThe state government further argued that DVC is also required to pay Rs 360.36 crore to the state government for conducting mining activity at the Bermo mines. The state government also pointed out that it has already applied for Rs 1,841 crore from the consolidated fund of Atmanirbhar Bharat to pay off the dues.Reacting to the development, chief minister Hemant Soren expressed “deep anguish and disappointment at the blatant and continuous attempt by the Centre to impose fiscal penalties on Jharkhand”. “It’s a veiled conspiracy by the Centre to provoke and trap the state government to increase its borrowing from markets and other instruments in these times of economic instability and fiscal difficulties being faced by the state. BJP’s previous Raghubar Das government through the TPA signed in 2017 laid the foundation stone towards destroying the basic edifice of cooperative federalism,” Soren said. Also Read: 5 arrested for alleged gang rape of 14-year-old girl in Jharkhand’s Gumla districtHe also asked if the Centre’s reluctance to pay states their long-standing GST compensation citing the economic impact of Covid-19 pandemic was defendable when it was resorting to auto deduction of thousands of crores from state funds kept with RBI.Finance minister Rameshwar Oron said earlier this week that the GST dues owed to Jharkhand have risen to around Rs 3300 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-rbi-to-deduct-rs-1417-cr-from-jharkhand-funds-against-dues-soren-fumes/story-W0ZpyrIoGlFSdqoObvNxEP.html
16-10-2020||India||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad tests positive for Covid-19, goes into home quarantine||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Azad confirmed on Twitter that he has contracted the viral disease and also requested people who came in contact with him in the last few days to follow Covid-19 safety protocol.I have tested positive for COVID-19. I am in home quarantine. Those who came in contact with me in last few days may kindly follow the protocol.Azad is among the 20 star campaigners of the party for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections.The 71-year-old Congress leader is the fourth senior party member to have tested positive for Covid-19. Earlier senior Congress leaders Ahmed Patel, Motilal Vora and Abhishek Singhvi had tested positive for Covid-19.While Singhvi – who had confirmed that he was largely asymptomatic – has recovered, other leaders are still under treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-ghulam-nabi-azad-tests-positive-for-covid-19-goes-into-home-quarantine/story-Gy2C8xI8LGrrgqfMOg35qI.html
16-10-2020||India||Govt will soon take decision on minimum age of marriage for girls: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the government will soon take a decision on revising the minimum age of marriage for girls after it receives a report from the committee set up for this. The Prime Minister said the girls’ gross enrolment ratio in education has turned higher than that of boys for the first time in the country because of several efforts taken by the government in the last six years.Modi also highlighted that the government has constructed 11 crore toilets across the country under the Swachh Bharat Mission , and is also providing sanitary pads at Re 1 to poor women. “Because of these efforts, for the first time, the gross enrolment ratio of girls in education is more than that of boys,” he remarked Modi was addressing a video conference for releasing a commemorative coin of Rs 75 denomination on the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO).“There is an important deliberation going on to decide what should be the ideal age of marriage for daughters,” Modi said.The Prime Minister said he has been receiving letters from women from across the country, asking about the report of the committee and when the government will take a decision on it. “I want to assure them, the government will soon take its decision after the submission of the report,” Modi said. In his Independence Day speech, the Prime Minister had earlier announced that government was deliberating on what should be the minimum age of marriage for women and has set up a committee to look into the same. Currently, the minimum age of marriage is 18 years for women and 21 for men..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-soon-take-decision-on-minimum-age-of-marriage-for-girls-pm-modi/story-v6Ml5Bd2tkJTCZ3zTjGuII.html
16-10-2020||India||Odisha couple charred to death from stove fire while making tea||A middle-aged couple from western Odisha district of Jharsuguda was charred to death on Friday morning, when the 40-year-old wife’s clothes caught fire while she was lighting a coal-fired stove inside their house.Police officials in Jharsuguda said 40-years-old Geeta Das of Rampur village under Brajrajnagar police station area was lighting up the stove for making tea when her saree accidentally caught fire. Though she pushed the stove away in an attempt to save herself, the fire had engulfed her body by then.Jharsuguda SP Rahul PR said Geeta’s husband Giribara (47) went to rescue her and was badly burnt too. The couple died on the spot. Later, the fire spread further, turning several household items to ashes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-couple-charred-to-death-from-stove-fire-while-making-tea/story-w5HOaMf0ppcg6vt1f1OivM.html
16-10-2020||India||MSP, government procurement important part of country’s food security: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the government is committed to procure of agri crops at Minimum Support Price (MSP) as it is an important part of the country’s food security. Efforts are being made to improve mandi infrastructure so that MSP buying continues in a scientific way, he said, adding that recent agri reforms reflect India’s commitment to global food security. “MSP and government procurement are an important part of the country’s food security. It is important that it continues to function with better facilities and in a scientific way. We are committed towards this,” Modi said after releasing a commemorative coin of Rs 75 denomination on the 75th anniversary of Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). Noting that wholesale mandis or Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) have their own identity and strength, Modi said these mandis were in place for years in the country and their infrastructure is being improved. He said about Rs 2,500 crore investment was made in the last six years to boost mandi infrastructure. Even IT infrastructure is being built to connect mandis with electronic National Agriculture Market (eNAM). “The recent three big agri reforms are major steps towards expanding agriculture and increasing farmers’ income,” he said, adding that the reforms in the Essential Commodities (EC) Act will make mandis more competitive, enhance farmers’ income and address the problem of food wastage. Further, Modi said that earlier farmers did not have access to mandis and were forced to sell their produce to middlemen. “Now, the market will reach the doors of small farmers and ensure higher prices. They (farmers) will be free from middlemen and consumers will also benefit,” he said. The recent law on contract farming will also benefit farmers by protecting them from price volatility as they can enter into a contract to sell their produce at a pre-determined price with private entities prior to sowing. Farmers’ interests are protected if there is any breach of contract, he added. Lauding farmers’ initiatives during the Covid-19 pandemic that has helped the country fight malnutrition, Modi said farmers have broken the previous record in foodgrains production this time. Similarly, the government has broken past records in procurement of wheat, rice and pulses. “Farmers, agri scientists, anganwadis’ asha workers have played an important role in our efforts to address malnutrition. Even during the corona crisis, we are fighting malnutrition due to their efforts,” he said. In the last seven to eight months, the government distributed free ration worth Rs 1.5 lakh crore to 80 crore people although there is less discussion about it at the global level. “Free ration given in India is higher than the population of Europe and the US,” Modi said. He also mentioned that the government has implemented ration card portability scheme ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ in 28 states and union territories. Prior to 2014, the food law was rolled out in only 11 states. To address malnutrition, the government is promoting crops with high nutrition. Millets like ragi, jowar, bajra are being promoted. Modi, who released 17 new bio-fortified varieties of eight crops on the occasion of World Food day on Friday, said these varieties are being made available to farmers across the country and will help boost production of high-nutrition crops. Prior to 2014, only one variety used to reach farmers but now 70 varieties are reaching farmers, he said. According to him the acceptance of India’s proposal by FAO to declare 2023 as International Year of Millets will not only promote high-nutrition food and its availability but also benefit rain-fed small farmers in the country. The UN agency FAO has seen India’s fight against malnutrition closely. Earlier, efforts were made in silos but now multidimensional approach is being adopted to address malnutrition issue in India, he added. Modi also recalled the contribution of Indian civil service officer Binay Ranjan Sen who started the World Food Programme when he was Director General of FAO during 1956-1967 and that programme has won the Nobel Peace Prize 2020. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Women and Child Development Smriti Irani, Ministers of State for Agriculture and senior FAO officials were present in the virtual event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msp-government-procurement-important-part-of-country-s-food-security-pm-modi/story-kH94smo1mjnZQcmhtQYALO.html
16-10-2020||India||PM Modi to hold a dozen campaign rallies in poll-bound Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold 12 campaign rallies in poll-bound Bihar, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) election in-charge for the state Devendra Fadnavis announced on Friday, where his party is looking to retain power in alliance with chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal(United) and others.“PM Modi will hold 12 election rallies in Bihar. He will be in Sasaram, Gaya and Bhagalpur on October 23. On October 28, the PM will hold rallies in Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna. On November 1, he will be in Chhapra, East Champaran and Samastipur. On Nov 3, he will be in West Champaran, Saharsa and Araria,” Devendra Fadnavis said according to ANI.Sasaram and Gaya will head to polls during the first phase of the Bihar assembly elections, which will take place October 28.His next stop will be on the day of the first phase of elections when he will hold rallies in Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna. Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga will vote on the third phase of elections on November 7 and Darbhanga (Rural) will vote on the second phase of elections on November 3.In his third round of campaigning, PM Modi will head to Samastipur, East Champaran and Chhapra. He will hold election rallies in these three places on November 1 which is two days before the second phase of the elections. Samastipur will head to vote on the final phase of the elections on November 7.PM Modi will visit West Champaran, Saharsa and Araria in his final round of campaigning on November 3. Saharsa and Araria will also head to polls on the final phase of the elections.The JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar has already held six poll rallies since Wednesday and he is scheduled to hold six more on Friday. RJD leader Tejashwi Singh has also kicked off his campaigning on Friday. He is scheduled to hold public meetings in Kahalgaon, Bhabua, Kaimur and six other places.The results of the Bihar polls will be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-a-dozen-campaign-rallies-in-poll-bound-bihar/story-usPLRaS769bfhVdqY2sFSI.html
16-10-2020||India||Ballia shooting unfortunate but...: BJP MLA Surendra Singh defends accused||Uttar Pradesh BJP MLA Surendra Singh on Friday said the firing incident in Reoti area which killed a 46-year-old man on Thursday was unfortunate but it was an act of self-defence. “If he hadn’t fired, then dozens of his relatives would’ve been killed. Wrongdoers should be punished under law. What happened shouldn’t have happened but police should also act against other group which attacked women with sticks, iron rods,” the MLA from Bairia Assembly said. Surendra Singh is known for his controversial remarks. After Hathras gang-rape, the BJP MLA said incidents like these can be stopped with help of good values. All parents should teach their daughters good values.On Thursday, Jaiprakash alias Gama was killed when Dhirendra Pratap Singh, district unit president of the BJP ex-servicemen cell, opened fire at a meeting convened for the allocation of two fair price shops in Ballia district.In a statement, the UP government said chief minister Adityanath has taken cognizance of the Ballia incident and directed that the SDM, CO and the police personnel on the spot be suspended immediately and the strictest action be taken against the accused. The role of the officers would be investigated and, if they were found responsible (for the incident), criminal proceedings would be initiated, the statement added.“He had no other option. It was a do-or-die situation for him,” Sing said, admitting that the accused is his close associate. “How can I deny that he is my close associate? Not only mine, he is a close associate of BJP as his family votes for us and he worked for us in polls. Everyone who votes for us is a close associate. But I decry the incident and the administration’s one-sided probe,” he said. “Nobody is looking at the pain of six women who have been injured in the incident. Dhirendra Singh fired in self-defence,” the BJP MLA added. He said six people from Dhirendra Pratap Singh’s group were injured in the incident and one of them was hospitalised in Varanasi but nobody was listening to them.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ballia-shooting-unfortunate-but-bjp-mla-surendra-singh-defends-accused/story-2SWAyO94QVxaFL4vb6YdjL.html
16-10-2020||India||Heavy rainfall likely in parts of Tamil Nadu tomorrow: IMD||Heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over Salem, Tiruvannamalai, Dharmapuri and Tirupattur districts of Tamil Nadu on Saturday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to an official statement, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the east-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining the Andaman Sea on October 19 and will become more marked during the subsequent 24 hours over the central Bay of Bengal and is likely to move in the west-northwest direction towards Andhra coast.IMD also said that the cyclonic circulation associated with the well-marked low-pressure area over the East-central Arabian Sea off north Maharashtra coast persists and now seen between 1.5 and 2.1 km above mean sea level.Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 Kmph is likely to prevail over east-central Bay and adjoining Andaman sea.High waves in the range of 2.2 - 3.2 meters are forecasted during till 11:30 pm on Friday along the coast of Southern Tamil Nadu from Kolachal to Dhanushkodi.Fishermen are advised not to venture into these areas during the period mentioned period, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-parts-of-tamil-nadu-tomorrow-imd/story-Qhd3Uy7IpmxnMqExmfk0aL.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Blood-coloured’ clothes found at Hathras rape accused’s house, kin say it’s red paint||Investigating the case of alleged gang rape and murder of Hathras woman, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) claimed to have recovered clothes stained in ‘blood colour’ from the house of one of the four accused, Luv Kush Sikarwar. However, Sikarwar’s family has refuted the claims.They claimed that Ravi Sikarwar, the elder brother of the accused, works as a painter in a factory and thus his clothes had red stains and it was not ‘blood stain’ as perhaps suspected by the agency.“Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) stayed for two and half hours and kept on searching material in our house. They found clothes with red colour on it and took that along,” said Lalit Sikarwar, the younger brother of Luv Kush Sikarwar.“In fact these clothes are of my elder brother Ravi Sikarwar who works in a paint factory and thus it had red stains on it. They were not blood stains as understood by the CBI team which took it along,” said Lalit in a videographed message.Also Read: ‘We want to be safe’: Hathras rape victim’s family wants to be shifted to DelhiThe CBI team is in the village for the past four days and has interacted with the victim’s father and brothers. They had also taken one of the victim’s brothers to the crime scene. The mother and aunt of the victim had also gone to the millet field, the crime spot, in the outskirts of village Boolgarhi of Hathras. The CBI team had visited the houses of all the four accused on Thursday and had extensively interrogated their family members.Also Read: Barabanki Dalit girl was raped before murder, reveals post-mortemMeanwhile, the special investigation team (SIT) has claimed to have completed its investigation in the gang rape case. The three-member SIT, constituted by UP government, had begun its investigation on September 30 and taken statements of members of victim’s family, family of the accused and other villagers.Initially, the SIT was allocated a week’s time to complete investigation, but it was later extended by ten days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-coloured-clothes-found-at-hathras-rape-accused-s-house-kin-say-it-s-red-paint/story-O249RTlrC59y0KrUEkMDrM.html
16-10-2020||India||Delhi next on NCB radar to launch Mumbai-style crackdown on drugs||The Narcotics Control Bureau, which traced back the drug trail that emerged during investigations into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, and arrested nearly 20 people in Mumbai will next turn its focus on rampant drug abuse in the national capital Delhi too and other metros, a senior official of the country’s lead drug enforcement agency said.The official did not elaborate if the agency already has a lead. “ We will focus on Delhi too,” he said, suggesting that the NCB was looking at a Mumbai-style operation that would go up the value chain right to the cartels that supply drugs to Mumbai.Officials investigating the Mumbai case haad started with information about purchase of drugs by one person and then expanded the probe that has netted nearly 20 people including actor Rhea Chakraborty and could singe several Bollywood A-listers and politicians as investigations proceed.Such an operation also brings in an element of uncertainty for drug consumers who may not be detected when they make the purchase, but much later.Delhi, according to a nationwide survey on drug consumption released by the government in 2019, was among the small group of states - Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh were the others - that contributed more than half of the country’s 77 lakh problem opioid users.This survey also revealed how huge India’s drug problem was. According to this survey, a senior NCB official said, 2.1% of the country’s population used opioids, thrice the global average of 0.7% and four times Asia’s 0.46%.The NCB estimates that if only 20 lakh of the 77 lakh people who use opioids are dependents who consume a minimum of 0.5 gram of heroin everyday, the average daily consumption of heroin in the country comes to 1000 kgs per day. This means there is a demand for a minimum 360 tonnes of retail quality or 36 tonnes of wholesale (relatively pure) quality of heroin per year. The international value of this requirement of the wholesale quality of heroin comes to Rs 1,44,000 crore.In contrast to this huge requirement, law enforcement agencies were able to seize only 2.4 tonnes of heroin in 2019, the year the nationwide study was published.Officials said they were working to dismantle the international supply chains used by drug traffickers and had started sharing and receiving real-time information from drug enforcement agencies in the United States, Canada, Australia, Russia, the United Kingdom and South Africa to jointly push back against the drug culture. And scoring some successes too.India’s geographic location does complicate the effort. India is sandwiched between Golden Crescent on the northwestern frontier, and Golden Triangle on the northeastern frontier. There are indications that in addition to Afghanistan, parts of Pakistan near the Afghan border, are also used by the Pakistani drug traffickers to convert Afghan opium into heroin. Myanmar throws another challenge with its heroin and methamphetamine production and porous borders, the NCB official said. India’s eastern neighbour is the second largest opium producer with 33,000 hectares of land under cultivation in Shan and Kachin provinces, which share a border with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-next-on-ncb-radar-to-launch-mumbai-style-crackdown-on-drugs/story-6uXKmV6YOq1kkWttG3w5CI.html
16-10-2020||India||Supreme Court constitutes one-member committee to monitor farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh causing air pollution in Delhi-NCR||The Supreme Court on Friday constituted a one-member committee headed by one of its former judges, Justice Madan B Lokur, to carry out physical surveillance on farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh causing air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) and submit a report after the Dussehra vacation.The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde ordered that all authorities in Delhi and Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority will report to Justice Lokur Committee. He added that corps such as National Cadet Corps, Bharat Scouts and Guides and National Service Scheme can be deployed for the Lokur Committee to carry out the surveillance of the fields where stubble burning is likely to take place. These mobile teams will inform about such farm fires based on which the authorities will take action. The order came on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by two young environmental activists who demanded that immediate steps be taken to stop the stubble burning. They claimed that despite the court monitoring, states were not acting enough to curb this menace. Also Read: How India can eliminate the burning of crop waste | OpinionSenior advocate Vikas Singh, who represented the two activists, said farm fires had increased by five times this year and an immediate order will be needed to arrest this problem which could lead to an unmanageable situation when the court reopens. He made the suggestion to appoint Justice Lokur for the purpose. The court heard the states of Punjab and Haryana and recorded in its order that adequate steps have been taken but preventive steps need to be put in place amid the rising pollution in Delhi and NCR. “We are concerned that citizens of Delhi and NCR should breathe good, clean air,” said the bench, also comprising Justice AS Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian. The top court has asked state chief secretaries to provide all assistance to the Lokur committee and arrange for infrastructure, transportation and security of the panel and the mobile teams.The committee will also have the mandate to suggest additional means and methods for preventing the burning of stubble. After the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for UP and Haryana said that the states were not put to notice on the proposal to form Justice Lokur Committee and requested the court to continue monitoring by EPCA. The bench, however, refused to change its order and deprecated the practice of mentioning out of turn. Mehta informed the bench that he couldn’t log in when the case was taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-constitutes-one-member-committee-to-monitor-farm-fires-in-punjab-haryana-and-uttar-pradesh-causing-air-pollution-in-delhi-ncr/story-lvFdI0ZSp4w0F6LvxQ0iCK.html
16-10-2020||India||India gained decade of life expectancy since 1990: Lancet study||India has gained more than a decade of life expectancy since 1990, but there are wide inequalities between states, according to a new study which assessed more than 286 causes of death and 369 diseases and injuries in more than 200 countries and territories across the world. The study, published in the Lancet journal, noted that life expectancy in India has risen from 59.6 years in 1990 to 70.8 years in 2019, ranging from 77.3 years in Kerala to 66.9 years in Uttar Pradesh. However, the researchers, including Srinivas Goli from the Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar, said the increase in ‘healthy life expectancy’ in India has not been as dramatic as the growth of life expectancy since “people are living more years with illness and disability. According to the international team of scientists, the current global crisis of chronic diseases and failure of public health to stem the rise in highly preventable risk factors such as high blood pressure, tobacco use, and air pollution have left populations vulnerable to acute health emergencies such as COVID-19. “The main improvement we see in almost every country, including in India, is a decline in infectious diseases and more rise in chronic diseases,” study co-author Ali Mokdad from the University of Washington in the US told PTI. “In India maternal mortality used to be very high, but now it is coming down. Cardiovascular diseases used to be number five, and now it is number one, and cancer rates are increasing,” Mokdad, Professor of Global Health at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME), said. While many parts of the world have also controlled infectious diseases through immunisation and better medical care, he said some countries still struggle to manage these epidemics. “The interaction of COVID-19 with the continued global rise in chronic illness and related risk factors, including obesity, high blood sugar, and outdoor air pollution, over the past 30 years has created a perfect storm, fuelling COVID-19 deaths,” the scientists noted in a statement. In the South Asia region, they said non-communicable diseases (NCDs) now contribute to more than half of the years lost due to ill-health, disability or early death, which was dominated by infectious, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional diseases 30 years ago. Citing an example, the researchers said 58 per cent of the total disease burden in India is now due to non-communicable diseases, up from 29 per cent in 1990, while premature deaths due to NCDs have more than doubled from 22 to 50 per cent. The study found that the largest contributors to increasing health loss in India over the last 30 years were NCDs like ischaemic heart disease, COPD, diabetes, stroke, and a group of musculoskeletal disorders. In 2019, the research noted that the top five risk factors for death in India were air pollution (contributing to an estimated 1.67 million deaths), high blood pressure (1.47 million), tobacco use (1.23 million), poor diet (1.18 million), and high blood sugar (1.12 million). The scientists said several of the risk factors and NCDs highlighted by the study, including obesity and diabetes are associated with increased risk of serious illness and death from COVID-19. They cautioned that urgent action is needed to address the synergistic epidemic of chronic diseases, social inequalities, and COVID-19, referring to the interaction of several epidemics that exacerbate the disease burden in populations who are already burdened. “Most of these risk factors are preventable and treatable, and tackling them will bring huge social and economic benefits,” said study lead author Christopher Murray, Director of the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington in the US. “We are failing to change unhealthy behaviours, particularly those related to diet quality, caloric intake, and physical activity, in part due to inadequate policy attention and funding for public health and behavioural research,” Murray said. Since 1990, the researchers said India has made substantial gains in health, but added that child and maternal malnutrition is still the number-one risk factor for illness and death in India, contributing to more than a fifth of the total disease burden in several states in northern India like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. According to the scientists, high blood pressure is the third leading risk factor after air pollution, responsible for 10-20 per cent of all health loss in eight states in India, primarily in the south. The researchers stressed that there is overdue recognition of the importance of social and economic development to overall health all over the world. “Given the overwhelming impact of social and economic development on health progress, doubling down on policies and strategies that stimulate economic growth, expand access to schooling, and improve the status of women, should be our collective priority,” Murray said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gained-decade-of-life-expectancy-since-1990-lancet-study/story-MXZ7A3zx84V2znQrO5uUFL.html
16-10-2020||India||Protecting vulnerable communities during the pandemic: FAO’s key focus on World Food Day 2020||‘Grow, Nourish, Sustain. Together. Our actions are our future’ is the Food and Agriculture Organization’s (FAO) global call for solidarity to mark the World Food Day 2020. Celebrated every year on October 16, World Food Day is an essential reminder of the significance and also the struggles faced by the communities that feed the world. Formed in 1945, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, had a daunting task in hand - to constantly monitor agricultural problems in member countries and also report on critical food shortages and famines. Multiple programmes and measures were initiated by the FAO in an effort to restore agriculture and food production to pre-war levels. One such measure was the decision to observe World Food Day on October 16, as agreed in the 20th session of the FAO in 1979. It was also to be observed in honour of the founding of FAO in 1945.2020 was supposed to be the year that marked the beginning of a decade termed popularly by the United Nations as the ‘Decade of Action’ to achieve the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).‘Zero Hunger’ and ‘Good health and well-being’ are the second and third SDGs respectively. However, the ongoing pandemic situation has only aggravated many food shortage problems and has put vulnerable communities in even more danger. Qu Dongyu, the present Director General of the FAO, recently wrote to the Down To Earth magazine, that even before the pandemic, 700 million people across the globe were found to be undernourished. Damage to the economy of countries, across the world, could potentially expose another 130 million people to this problem. He also called the present crisis as one ‘on a scale not seen since the end of World War II.’In its celebrations this year, the FAO has called for global solidarity to support vulnerable communities in times of the pandemic. It has also defined the actions for countries/governments, private sectors and individuals in its action call to end world hunger.As part of celebrations in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi released a Rs 75 coin to commemorate the World Food Day 2020 and also to mark the 75th anniversary of the FAO. 17 biofortified varieties of eight crops were also announced during the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protecting-vulnerable-communities-during-the-pandemic-fao-s-key-focus-on-world-food-day-2020/story-QBfsUcQreGjb8jRIVb27YN.html
16-10-2020||India||On FAO’s 75th anniversary, PM Modi releases commemorative coin of Rs 75||To mark the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi released a commemorative coin of Rs 75 denomination, as a testament to India’s long-standing relationship with the global body. The Prime Minister also dedicated to the nation 17 recently developed biofortified varieties of eight crops.The Prime Minister talked about India’s commitment to ensuring the Food Security Act translated into practice during the coronavirus pandemic, emphasising on the importance of Minimum Support Price(MSP) and government purchase for ensuring food security. “Once farmers of India become strong and their incomes increase, the mission against malnutrition will also garner strength,” added the Prime Minister.Congratulating FAO for reaching a monumental milestone, the PM said, “Increasing coordination between India and FAO will provide speed to our fight against malnutrition”.FAO’s India representative Tomio Shichiri, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, women and child development minister Smriti Irani, minister of state for woman and child development Debasree Chaudhuri were present during the occasion. The event was also witnessed by anganwadis, Krishi Vigyan Kendras, organic and horticulture missions across the country. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had pointed to India’s association with FAO in a statement earlier. “India has had a historic association with FAO. Indian Civil Service Officer Dr. Binay Ranjan Sen was the Director General of FAO during 1956-1967. The World Food Programme, which has won the Nobel Peace Prize 2020, was established during his time. India’s proposals for the International Year of Pulses in 2016 and the International Year of Millets 2023 have also been endorsed by FAO,” PMO had said in the statement.“India’s vision aligns with international efforts to fight malnutrition, undernutrition, and hunger. This event reinforces the government’s commitment to agriculture and nutrition, which has been accorded the highest priority,” the PMO had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-fao-s-75th-anniversary-pm-modi-releases-commemorative-coin-of-rs-75/story-dv5aOMQwd2mhhEL7CtfHfN.html
16-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi talks India’s movement against malnutrition and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On FAO’s 75th anniversary, PM Modi talks India’s movement against malnutritionPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released a commemorative coin of Rs 75 to mark the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), which he said had seen India’s fight against malnutrition from close quarters. Read moreTejashwi Yadav kicks-off campaign trail; says CM Nitish Kumar is ‘tired’Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Friday began his campaign for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections by calling chief minister Nitish Kumar ‘tired’. Yadav will address rallies in Kahalgaon, Bhabua, Kaimur and six other places on Friday. Read moreFirst rally of Pakistan oppn parties against Imran Khan govt today to kick off protest movementAll is set for Pakistan’s opposition coalition to hold their first public meeting on Friday evening to kick off a series of agitations aimed at forcing out the government of Prime Minister Imran Khan. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Had they lost, who among Gayle, Pooran or Rahul would’ve taken the blame?’ Sehwag highlights mistake in KXIP’s chase against RCBThe Kings XI Punjab’s win over Royal Challengers Bangalore saw a thrilling end to the game as it took a six off the final ball from Nicholas Pooran to finish the match. While KXIP won the match eventually to bag much-needed 2 points, they, once again, saw the game slipping out of their hands from a comfortable position. Read moreAudi Q2 SUV launched in India, live updates: HighlightsAudi Q2 SUV has been officially launched in India today at a starting price of ₹34.99 lakh (ex showroom) and with the German luxury car maker targeting a wider set of customer base with its smallest product in the Q family. Read moreHarsh Goenka shares tips on how to maintain good relationships, they’re something to abide byBusiness tycoon Harsh Goenka has quite the fan following on Twitter. Every now and then, he shares posts which create a buzz among people. From witty to inspirational, the tweets are varied. His post, shared a day back, is no different. Read more‘Stop blame game and act’: 9-year old activist protests against Delhi pollution9-year-old climate and environment activist Licypriya Kangujam protested against the bad air quality and pollution in Delhi and called on politicians to stop blaming each other and start acting. She was protesting at the Vijay Chowk area of the national capital. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-talks-india-s-movement-against-malnutrition-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Ed2FTv2A297eFmWPvP5pqL.html
16-10-2020||India||Supreme Court dismisses plea seeking imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a plea seeking imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra. The petition, which was filed by three Delhi residents, sought President’s rule in the state and dismissal of Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government.Rejecting the plea, Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told the petitioners, “You can ask the President.” The court disapproved the petitioners for singling out Maharashtra alone. “You know how big Maharashtra is?” the CJI asked them while dismissing the plea.The plea, filed by advocates Rishab Jain and Gautam Sharma and social worker Vikram Gahlot, alleged deterioration in the law and order situation in Maharashtra. They mentioned Bollywood actor’s Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the row over the demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow, and the attack on former Indian Navy officer Madan Lal Sharma to support their plea.“On the contrary, when the state machinery allows itself to be used as a band of persons out to throw law to the winds and take to oppressive activities at the instance of the ruling dispensation which shows and establishes a failure of the constitutional machinery and require imposing of President’s rule in the state,” petitioners said in their plea.The petitioners had also said if not the whole state, at least Mumbai and its neighbouring districts should be controlled by armed forces. “Declare a state of emergency Maharashtra, and in any case in the city of Mumbai and neighbouring districts as a grave threat to the security of citizens residing there has arisen due to direct conduct of the present government, and bring it under the rule of armed forces to assist the civil administration,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-seeking-imposition-of-president-s-rule-in-maharashtra/story-I5Fkk8ke1sAA666HIzKRXO.html
16-10-2020||India||Congress claims Vivek Oberoi-Sandip Ssingh angle to drugs case, demands NCB probe||Maharashtra Congress has again questioned the ongoing Bollywood drugs abuse probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and reiterated its demand for a probe into producer Sandip Ssingh’s alleged links with the drug racket. The renewed demand comes close on the heels of a search conducted by Bengaluru police at actor Vivek Oberoi’s house in Mumbai on Thursday.In a series of tweets on Friday morning, Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant reiterated suggestions that the Central investigating agencies could be deliberately shielding Oberoi and Sandip Ssingh, who had together produced a biopic on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “I had demanded with NCB to investigate the BJP Drug connection in Bollywood. In my questions to NCB I had specifically mentioned the name of Aditya Alva found in Sandalwood drug racket who is brother in law of Vivek Oberoi who is partner of Sandeep Ssingh. But NCB didn’t pay heed,” he tweeted on Friday morning. He further alleged that the Gujarat government run by the BJP may have favoured the duo. “But now Bengaluru police hv raided house of Vivek Oberoi who is not only co-producer of Narendra Modi Biopic but also played role of Modi ji. Several Qns still unanswered as to why only this company was chosen for signing an MOU by Guj govt,” another of his tweets read.Also Read: Vivek Oberoi’s wife Priyanka Alva served notice in connection with Sandalwood drugs caseSawant wanted to know why complaints against Sandeep Ssingh were being overlooked.“Not only us, BJP leader Subramaniam Swamy had tweeted demanding Ssingh’s probe and why he frequently visits Dubai. NCB has been summoning Bollywood actors, but the demand for the probe of Ssingh is overlooked,” Sawant said and asked why even Kangana Ranaut was not called for questioning by the Central agency. Sawant is meeting Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh this afternoon to request him to demand that the NCB looks into these allegations.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta asks his fans to stay unitedBJP has however rubbished the claims and dared Sawant to produce the evidence at an appropriate forum.“He is free to produce the evidence, if any, to the investigating agency or to the courts. BJP never shields any wrongdoer and the search at Oberoi’s house is an example of the same. PM Narendra Modi’s integrity or sincerity cannot be contested. The allegations by Congress leaders are malicious and born out of frustrations,” said BJP spokesperson Madhu Chavan. Sandip Ssingh has yet not responded to the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-claims-vivek-oberoi-sandip-ssingh-angle-to-drugs-case-demands-ncb-probe/story-8Vkfsj18ct9HlxoyZCQzjI.html
16-10-2020||India||On FAO’s 75th anniversary, PM Modi talks India’s movement against malnutrition||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released a commemorative coin of Rs 75 to mark the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), which he said had seen India’s fight against malnutrition from close quarters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi releases a commemorative coin of Rs 75 to mark the 75th anniversary of the Food and Agriculture Organization pic.twitter.com/E6a2WUYYa4PM Modi began his address by congratulating all those working to remove malnutrition, around the world. “In India, our farmers, agricultural scientists, Anganwadi and ASHA workers are leading the movement against malnutrition,” he said.However, he said, lack of education, lack of information, non-availability of pure water, absence of hygiene were among reasons India did not get the results it expected from its fight against malnutrition. He said when he got an opportunity to serve the country in 2014, he moved ahead with an integrated and holistic approach. “We are taking an important step in our fight against malnutrition as we are now encouraging the production of crops which are rich in nutritional substances like protein, iron, zinc etc,” he said.On the issue of starvation and malnutrition during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the Prime Minister said India has been providing free ration to 800 million poor people in the last eight months.PM Modi also dedicated to the nation 17 recently-developed bio-fortified varieties of eight crops on World Food Day, which is being observed on Friday. “Before 2014, only one biofortified variety of crops was available. However, today, farmers are getting 70 biofortified varieties of various crops,” he said.Talking about the recently introduced farm laws, which have triggered protests by farmers and opposition parties, he said these laws are an ‘important step’ in improving the country’s agricultural sector and increasing farmers’ income.“The empowerment of India’s farmers will further strengthen the country’s fight against malnutrition. I’m confident that the increasing coordination between India and FAO will give further impetus to this mission,” PM Modi said as he concluded his address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-fao-s-75th-anniversary-pm-modi-talks-india-s-movement-against-malnutrition/story-IV5xfrGSe4UUCQ9VAylC8O.html
16-10-2020||India||‘We want to be safe’: Hathras rape victim’s family wants to be shifted to Delhi||The family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, who was allegedly raped in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras last month, wants to be shifted to Delhi to ensure their “safety” and asked the state government to help them in moving from their village, the victim’s brother said according to news agency ANI on Friday. They also want the probe into the woman’s gangrape and murder to be handled in Delhi. “The family wants the case to be shifted to Delhi, we also want to shift there. The government should help us in this regard, we are dependent on them. We just want to be safe wherever we are,” the brother was quoted as saying by ANI.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is currently probing the case and has so far questioned the relatives of the victim as well as those of the four accused, who belong to the Thakur community. Earlier in the day, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the Uttar Pradesh government said it has completed its probe and will soon submit the report to the government, according to ANI. The agency continued its investigation even after the rape and murder case was handed over to CBI on chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s recommendation and a notification by the Centre. Also Read: Supreme Court reserves order on plea for court-monitored probe in Hathras caseThe Dalit woman was cremated in the dead of the night on September 30 by the UP police a day after her death in a Delhi hospital. Her family has alleged that the cremation was carried out without their consent and they were locked inside their house when they tried to protest. The incident has sparked outrage across the country and several political leaders have visited the victim’s family and assured them of support in getting justice for their daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-want-to-be-safe-hathras-rape-victim-s-family-wants-to-be-shifted-to-delhi/story-H4zOQAa7kLAuSj83DBjAhP.html
16-10-2020||India||Indian Army vice-chief to visit US ahead of 2+2 dialogue||Days ahead of the planned 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defence ministers of India and the US, the Indian Army’s vice-chief is set to visit the Hawaii-based Indo-Pacific Command to boost military cooperation between the two sides. Lt Gen SK Saini, the vice-chief of the army staff, will visit the US during October 17-20, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The 2+2 dialogue is expected to be held in New Delhi during October 26-27, with secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper set to visit India for the talks. “The vice-chief of the Indian Army will visit the US Army Pacific Command (USARPRAC), the army component of the Indo-Pacific Command, and extensively exchange ideas with the American military leadership,” said one of the people cited above. Also Read: Charting the future of India-US ties | Opinion“The vice-chief will also witness training and equipment capabilities of the US Army. The aim of the visit is to enhance military cooperation between the two armies,” the person said. Saini will also visit the Indo-Pacific Command headquarters in Hawaii, where different aspects of military cooperation and “furthering military-to-military engagement, including procurements from the US, training in niche domains, joint exercises and capability-building” will be discussed, the person said. The visit is expected to enhance the operational and strategic collaboration between the two armies. The people described this collaboration as robust, pointing out that India is going ahead with participation in two joint exercises with the US despite restrictions related to the Covid-19 pandemic. These exercises are Yudh Abhyas, set for February 2021, and Vajra Prahar, set for March next year. Cooperation for ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific that is in line with a rules-based order is expected to be a focus area for both the vice-chief’s visit and the 2+2 ministerial dialogue, the people said. The Indo-Pacific Command is the US military’s largest unified commands which covers an area of over 260 million sq km. Its name was changed from the Pacific Command to Indo-Pacific Command in 2018 to reflect the greater emphasis on South Asia, and especially India, in protecting American strategic interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-vice-chief-to-visit-us-ahead-of-2-2-dialogue/story-0nfFxkA8vCg1ppQpJobuaI.html
16-10-2020||India||Top Hindu body upset with Uddhav govt, also has advice for Udit Raj||The apex decision making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country— Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP)— has expressed strong resentment over the continued closure of mutts and temples in Maharashtra despite Centre’s Covid-19 Unlock 5.0 guidelines released further relaxing the restrictions on commencement of religious activities.The parishad also condemned a tweet by Congress leader Udit Raj, which questioned the expenditure of Rs 4,200 crore in organising Kumbh mela-2019 in Prayagraj. “It is a matter of grave concern that saints and priests have to agitate for opening of the mutts and temples in Maharashtra. After being opened in UP, the mutts and temples are following the corona guidelines completely and so will the venues located in Maharashtra,” said ABAP chief Mahant Narendra Giri. Giri further asked: “If Maharashtra CM is not opening the temples, who is he insulting? Is he insulting the saint community and the priests or is he insulting Hindu gods and goddesses and the Sanatan dharma?” Giri added that Maharashtra CM’s father, late Bal Thackeray, being a Hindu leader, always respected the saints but the government of Maharashtra seemed to be on the wrong path of arrogance. “Instead of treading the path of his father, it seems Uddhav has forgotten family values, respect towards saints, ignoring Sanatan Dharma just to gain political mileage,” said Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj. Also Read: Uddhav Thackeray warns against attempts to ‘finish off’ Bollywood“Why have bars and liquor shops been opened in Maharashtra amid the Covid-19 threat if that is the reason for keeping temples and shrines closed? It is quite ironic that places of worship are deemed prone to the spread of Covid-19, while beaches, bars, restaurants, malls, hotels, cineplexes are deemed safe. Temple management committees and civic bodies can ensure adhering to social distancing norms, wearing of face masks, sanitiser at religious places too,” said Kothari Mahant Jasvinder Singh of Shri Panchayati Akhada Nirmal, Kankhal. Saints also suggested that measures such as registration of other state/district pilgrims, e-passes/tokens, usage of technology for access control, not allowing prasadam to be served, not allowing touching of deities’ idols, bells, donation boxes, and darshan from a certain distance can be adhered to as in Char Dham shrines of Shri Badrinath, Shri Kedarnath, Gangotri, Yamunotri in Garhwal division of Uttarakhand. Also Read: Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi over Maharashtra guv’s letter to ThackerayThe issue of alleged encroachment of temples in Kashi and Mathura also came up for discussion in parishad’s informal meeting at Mathura on Thursday.“It pains us to see that our temples are encroached in Kashi and Mathura and we will undertake all steps that are permissible under the Constitution to free the temple premises as was done in the case of Ayodhya,” Giri said. Giri also lashed out at Congress leader Udit Raj for questioning state spending on organising Kumbh-2019. Udit Raj’s tweet was in reaction to Assam education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s statement that it was not the job of a government to run institutions that teach religious scriptures.(With inputs from Sandeep Rawat)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-hindu-body-upset-with-uddhav-govt-also-has-advice-for-udit-raj/story-oNd99rLXwavl4Bq8qZO6HI.html
16-10-2020||India||Bihar minister Kapil Deo Kamat is 2nd Covid-19 casualty in Nitish cabinet||Bihar minister Kapil Deo Kamat of the Janata Dal-United (JD-U) died at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences in the wee hours of Friday due to coronavirus. He is the second minister from Nitish Kumar’s cabinet to succumb to Covid-19 this week.70-years-old Kamat was admitted to AIIMS, Patna on October 1 and had been on ventilator support for the last one week. He passed away at 1.50am on Friday, said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna. “He was suffering from chronic renal failure. The minister’s condition began to deteriorate a week back, when he was put on inotropic drugs to maintain blood pressure. He was on hemodialysis alternate days,” said Dr Kumar. Click here for the full coverage of Bihar assembly elections 2020Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar and several other leaders mourned Kamat’s demise. Earlier this week, minister of the backward classes and extremely backward class welfare department, BJP’s Vinod Singh, died after suffering a brain haemorrhage in Delhi, days after recovering from Covid-19 infection. Earlier, Bihar BJP MLC Sunil Kumar Singh, 69, died of the Covid pandemic at AIIMS-Patna in July. Also Read: Luv Sinha, Shatrughan Sinha’s son, in Congress’ final list for Bihar pollsKamat stepped into active politics in 1980 when he campaigned for Congress candidate Mahendra Narayan Jha in the Babubarhi assembly seat in Madhubani district before they fell apart. He unsuccessfully contested the 1985 assembly elections from Babubarhi as an independent candidate before dabbling with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and eventually joining the JD(U). Also Read: Self-reliance, farmers to figure in BJP’s Bihar manifesto: Party officialHe contested the October 2005 legislative assembly elections as a JD(U) candidate from Babubarhi seat and won. He contested again in 2010 from the same constituency but lost to Uma Kant Yadav of the RJD. In 2015 assembly elections, he won from the Babubarhi seat and was appointed the minister of Panchayati Raj department. As many as 972 fatalities have been reported in the state from over 2 lakh Covid-19 cases reported till Thursday. With 1,88,802 people having recovered, the recovery rate from the disease stood at 94.01% in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-minister-kapil-deo-kamat-is-2nd-covid-19-casualty-in-nitish-cabinet/story-qGt3rY56uNoKH2PuFseAxI.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Even Pak, Afghanistan handled Covid-19 better’: Rahul Gandhi’s dig at govt over IMF’s India projections||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government over the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) projection of India’s gross domestic product (GDP) during this fiscal year amid the coronavirus disease. Gandhi’s taunt featured neighbouring countries like Pakistan and Afghanistan, a day after he had picked Bangladesh’s example to launch the jibe.Referring to IMF’s estimates on Tuesday, Gandhi termed it the BJP government’s “solid achievement.” “Another solid achievement by the BJP government. Even Pakistan and Afghanistan handled Covid better than India,” the former Congress president tweeted and shared a graph with IMF’s projections for several countries.While Pakistan and Afghanistan are expected to experience a dip of 0.40% and 5% in their GDP growth this fiscal, India’s GDP is likely to shrink by 10.3%, the biggest slump of any major emerging nation and the worst since Independence. This points to a downwards revision from the IMF’s previous prediction in June when it said output would decline 4.5% while in April it had said the economy would expect a growth of 1.9%.However, the government had downplayed IMF projections, saying the per capita GDP has increased from Rs 83,091 in 2014-15 to Rs 1,08,620 in 2019-20, which points to an increase of 30.7%, according to news agency PTI.On Wednesday too, Gandhi had slammed the government. “Solid achievement of 6 years of BJP’s hate-filled cultural nationalism: Bangladesh set to overtake India,” he had tweeted.The claim was countered by the government, which said India’s GDP is 11 times that of Bangladesh in 2019.The IMF expects India to grow 8.8% next year. The international body has also warned that the global economy’s recovery is tentative and uneven and “marked by significant uncertainty” as the coronavirus disease caseload continues to increase across several nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-pak-afghanistan-handled-covid-19-better-rahul-gandhi-s-dig-at-govt-over-imf-s-india-projections/story-LAgLwsR4QZszNP9F9miAqO.html
16-10-2020||India||Govt bans import of air conditioners with refrigerants||The government on Thursday banned imports of air conditioners with refrigerants with a view to promote domestic manufacturing and cut imports of non essential items. “Import policy of air conditioners with refrigerants ...is amended from free to prohibited,” directorate general of foreign trade said in a notification. The government is taking steps to promote domestic manufacturing and reduce import bill of non-essential goods. In June, the government imposed curbs on imports of certain new pneumatic tyres used in motor cars, busses, lorries and motorcycles. PTI RR SHW SHW||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-import-of-air-conditioners-with-refrigerants/story-IhjVUVelGQpWtam1QXTduJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Hypertension, diabetes two main comorbities in most Covid-19 fatalities in Mumbai||Covid-19 cases with hypertension and diabetes have a higher mortality risk, as seen among cases in Mumbai. Nearly 55% of those who died of Covid-19 in Mumbai were found to have these two comorbidities, as per BMC. Comorbidity is the presence of one or more additional health conditions that coexist with a primary condition.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “The two comorbidities (hypertension and diabetes) comprise 55% of the total Covid deaths. People with existing comorbidites, if they develop Covid symptoms, they should get into institutional quarantine as early as possible. Early detections and treatment have been found to be crucial in reducing the fatality chances among Covid patients.”Also read: India’s Covid-19 tally rises to 7.37 million with 63,371 new cases; recoveries at 6.4 millionThere have been 9, 469 deaths due to Covid in the city. More than 70% of the patients that succumbed to Covid were found to have comorbidities, a senior civic official confirmed. The case fatality rate (CFR) of Mumbai is 4.1% which is much higher than the national and state CFR which is at 1.53% and 2.64%. Case fatality rate is the proportion of people succumbing to a disease out of the total cases.Experts say that Mumbaikars are more vulnerable to Covid-19. Shashank Joshi, member of state task force, said, “Often, these two comorbidities co-exist in Covid-19 patients. More than 30% of the city’s total population has hypertension and nearly 15% is diabetic. The two comorbidities make Mumbaikars more vulnerable to the disease. Citizens need to keep a check on their sugar levels and blood pressure.”Apart from these comorbidities, another two such pre-existing conditions that are found in Covid-19 cases are heart ailments and tuberculosis. Civic officials said that while these may not pose a higher mortality risk, they could have an adverse effect on Covid-19 patients if not treated in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hypertension-diabetes-two-main-comorbities-in-most-covid-19-fatalities-in-mumbai/story-UjtZxYS7Umqcty0CDph2qN.html
16-10-2020||India||Pakistan opens heavy fire along LoC in Poonch||Pakistan on Friday morning opened heavy fire on Indian positions and forward villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in Mankote sector of Poonch district, prompting India to retaliate in equal measure.Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said, at about 0515 hours (5.15 am) , Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and then switching over to mortar shelling along the LoC in Mankote sector.Indian Army retaliated befittingly, he added.There were no casualties reported by the Indian side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-opens-heavy-fire-along-loc-in-poonch/story-ExeiuDZ5uKYqrBfeAZCReL.html
16-10-2020||India||Prasar Bharti ends ad hoc arrangement with PTI, UNI; to call for fresh bids from news agencies||Public broadcaster Prasar Bharati on Thursday decided to end its present subscription with news agency Press Trust of India (PTI) and United News of India (UNI), and push for fresh contracts.According to a person aware of the developments, the formal contract between Prasar Bharati and PTI had come to an end in 2006, after which payments and service continued in an ad hoc manner.The board of the Prasar Bharati, which runs All India Radio and Doordarshan, had sought a fresh contract with PTI; however, in its absence, the previous arrangement continued.Also Read: Centre to ramp up AIR reach including in border areas“In a meeting on Thursday, it was decided that fresh contracts would be signed with news agencies. PTI and UNI can also participate in these bids... Prasar Bharati has now decided to call for fresh proposals for a digital subscription to English text and related multimedia services from all domestic news agencies,” said the person cited above.Significantly, Prasar Bharati had expressed displeasure over PTI’s coverage with regard to the news agency’s interview of Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong following the Galwan clash.The pending formal contract has been an issue between Prasar Bharati and PTI in the past as well, and Prasar Bharati had reduced the amount that it used to pay the news agency.“It has been decided not to spend public money on an ad hoc basis. A contract is needed to justify expenditure, especially keeping in mind the social media needs of current platforms,” said the person cited above. The subscription for PTI was about Rs 9 crore per year which was later reduced by Prasar Bharati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharti-ends-ad-hoc-arrangement-with-pti-uni-to-call-for-fresh-bids-from-news-agencies/story-Ml0bjxML220kYbNYI5Z4LK.html
16-10-2020||India||SC gives right to reside to wives in shared house not owned by husband||The Supreme Court has allowed women fighting domestic violence cases the right to reside in the ‘shared household’ even if her husband had no legal right to the house and the same was owned by the father-in-law or mother-in-law.A three-judge bench headed by justice Ashok Bhushan passed the landmark ruling while considering the petition of a septuagenarian couple from Delhi who filed a civil suit to dispossess their daughter-in-law even as the proceedings initiated by her under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, was ongoing.The couple told the court that they wished to stay peacefully and could not tolerate the frequent fights between their son and daughter-in-law even as their divorce proceedings were pending. The father-in-law, SC Ahuja, obtained a decree from a Delhi trial court on April 8, 2019, dispossessing his daughter-in-law from the house as he claimed sole ownership of the property purchased in 1983, long before his son’s marriage in 1993.The wife challenged the decree before the Delhi high court on the ground that the house was her “shared property” and under the domestic violence act, she had a right to reside at the same. She claimed that the property was acquired through joint family funds. By a judgment passed on December 18, 2019, the wife got the decree set aside as the HC sent the matter back to the trial court for fresh consideration. The HC said that the trial court could not be oblivious to the pending proceedings initiated by the wife under the 2005 act.The Supreme Court had to decide whether Section 2(s) of the domestic violence act that defines “shared property”, includes property not belonging to the husband. According to the definition in the provision, “a shared household means a household where the person aggrieved lives or at any stage has lived in a domestic relationship either singly or along with the respondent.”Also Read: Hathras case: Supreme Court reserves order on plea for court-monitored probeThe bench, also comprising justices RS Reddy and MR Shah said, “The definition of shared household given in Section 2(s) cannot be read to mean that shared household can only be that household which is household of the joint family, of which husband is a member or in which husband of the aggrieved person has a share.” To this extent, they held the HC decision to be right.In stating so, the court reversed the law held by a previous decision of the Supreme Court in December 2006 in SR Batra v Taruna Batra where on similar facts, a two-judge bench refused permission to the wife to continue staying in her husband’s house as it was owned by her mother-in-law. This was later followed by several HCs. The 3-judge bench held this part of the ruling wrong in law as it did not give full meaning to the 2005 act.The bench was of the view that the 2005 act was meant to extend effective protection for victims of domestic violence and should be so interpreted.Also Read: Supreme Court notice to govt on PIL to regulate online streamingThe court noted how domestic violence in this country is rampant yet underreported. “Several women encounter violence in some form or the other almost every day, however, it is the least reported form of cruel behaviour. A woman resigns her fate to the never ending cycle of enduring violence and discrimination as a daughter, a sister, a wife, a mother, a partner or a single woman in her lifetime.” The bench noted how cases of domestic violence carry a social stigma against the wife as women are expected to be subservient. “This set of circumstances has ensured that a majority of women preferred to suffer in silence, not out of choice but out of compulsion,” the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-right-to-reside-to-wives-in-shared-house-not-owned-by-husband/story-YPi9TuBFXz9awEoG4grtTK.html
16-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally rises to 7.37 million with 63,371 new cases; recoveries at 6.4 million||With 63,371 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 895 related deaths in the past 24 hours, India’s tally went up to 7,370,468, rising by more than 100,000 since the beginning of this month, according to the Union health ministry on Friday.India has been reporting around 66,000 new Covid-19 cases daily since October 12 and even witnessed 55,342 infections on October 13, official data shows. Deaths have also been fewer with 816 succumbing to the viral disease on October 12 and 680 fatalities on Thursday. The number of deaths have been sustained below the 1,000 mark since the last 17 days.The health ministry said on Friday that the country continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population due to the coronavirus disease compared to other countries across the world. It also said that at least 22 states and Union territories have lower deaths per million population than the national average, which is currently at 80. “Some States/UTs are performing better and reporting much lower deaths/million population than the national average,” the ministry posted on Twitter.There are 804,528 active cases of the coronavirus disease and the death toll in the country, which is the second worst-hit in the world, has gone up to 112,161, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. There have been 6,453,779 recoveries so far with 70,338 people cured of the respiratory disease in the last 24 hours. This has taken the national recovery rate to 87.56%.Also read | Remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine did not cut hospital stay or mortality in Covid-19 patients: WHO“India is reporting a progressively high increase in the recoveries and a persistent decline in the percentage of active cases. As a result, the doubling time of the infection has sharply improved. It is now almost 73 days (72.8 days). This indicates a substantial fall in the daily New Cases and the consequent increase in time taken to double the Total Cases,” the health ministry said on Thursday.It added that India has come a long way from “registering a doubling rate of 25.5 days in mid-August to now registering a doubling rate of nearly 73 days.” This, it said, was because of “collaborative action by States/UTs under the Centre’s strategy of comprehensive and high countrywide testing, prompt and effective surveillance and tracking, quick hospitalization and effective adherence of the Standard Treatment Protocol issued by the Union Government.” This is also the combined outcome of the “selfless service and dedication” of doctors, paramedics, frontline workers and all other frontline workers, it added.Also read | Low risk of Covid-19 infection on planes if masks worn: US militaryThe ministry had also said on Thursday that 10 states and Union territories account for 79% of the new recovered cases. Maharashtra has contributed more than 19,000 to the single-day recoveries followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000 recoveries, it said. “Presently the active cases comprise 11.12% of the total positive cases of the country standing at 8,12,390. They have been below the 9-lakh mark for a week now,” it added.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayOf the 67,708 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, 77% were from 10 states and Union territories as Maharashtra reported the highest number with more than 10,000 cases followed by Karnataka with more than 9,000 cases. The ministry said that of the 680 fatalities, nearly 80% are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. More than 23% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra with 158 deaths.India has the world’s second-highest tally of the coronavirus disease after the United States, where the figure is nearing 8 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-rises-to-7-37-million-with-63-371-new-cases-recoveries-at-6-4-million/story-1jpOz542mHOBySNgjnMQsN.html
16-10-2020||India||‘I always go for chana masala, naan’: Prez Tsai Ing-wen says Taiwan lucky to have Indian restaurants||Taiwan president Tsai Ing-wen has spoken about her fondness for Indian food, saying the east Asian country was lucky to be home to many Indian restaurants and that the local people “love them.”Ing-wen took to Twitter to say that she loves to eat chana masala and naan and that tea reminds of her visits to India. “#Taiwan is lucky to be home to many Indian restaurants, & Taiwanese people love them. I always go for chana masala and naan, while #chai always takes me back to my travels in #India, and memories of a vibrant, diverse & colourful country. What are your favourite Indian dishes?” she wrote on the microblogging website.Along with the tweet, she shared a picture of a delectable platter of rice, naan, a colourful salad and several dishes, including the Taiwanese president’s favourite chana masala, and a cup of tea on the side.  #Taiwan is lucky to be home to many Indian restaurants, & Taiwanese people love them. I always go for chana masala and naan, while #chai always takes me back to my travels in #India, and memories of a vibrant, diverse & colourful country. What are your favourite Indian dishes? pic.twitter.com/IJbf5yZFLYForeign leaders’ love for Indian food is not too uncommon. In May, Australian prime minister Scott Morrison made the popular Indian snack samosa at home during the lockdown across countries due to the coronavirus pandemic and tagged his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi in a tweet sharing the pictures.“Sunday ScoMosas with mango chutney, all made from scratch - including the chutney! A pity my meeting with @narendramodi this week is by videolink. They’re vegetarian, I would have liked to share them with him,” Morrison had posted on Twitter.Modi also replied to him saying, the samosas looked delicious and that he hoped to enjoy the snack together after the pandemic. “Connected by the Indian Ocean, united by the Indian Samosa! Looks delicious, PM @ScottMorrisonMP! Once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19, we will enjoy the Samosas together. Looking forward to our video meet on the 4th,” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-always-go-for-chana-masala-naan-prez-tsai-ing-wen-says-taiwan-lucky-to-have-indian-restaurants/story-NpS0HhUwPVoGSeXM8ra61I.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Ayurveda for Covid’ is this year’s Ayurveda Day theme||The potential role of Ayurveda in the management of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be the focus of this year’s Ayurveda Day, which will be observed on November 13.The practice to observe the Ayurveda Day, which falls on Dhanwantri Jayanti, was started by the Union Ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Sidda and Homoeopathy) in 2016. Dhanwantri is the god of medicine, according to Hindu mythology.“The objective is to focus on the strengths of Ayurveda and its unique treatment principles, to work towards reducing the burden of disease and related mortality. It also aims to tap into the potential of Ayurveda to contribute towards National Health Policy and National Health programmes, and to promote its principles of healing in society,” said the Ayush ministry in a statement.Also read: Health minister releases Covid-19 management protocol based on Ayurveda, YogaThis year’s special focus will be on the concerns related to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and how Ayurveda can help build immunity.A webinar on the theme -- Ayurveda for Covid-19 pandemic -- will also be organised on the occasion.“The Ayurveda Day is an occasion of virtual information dissemination about the various initiatives of the Ayurveda discipline to mitigate Covid-19 effects. About 1.5 lakh participants from all over the world are expected to attend the webinar…” said the ministry.ALSO READ:Is Covid-19 stress delaying your periods? Here’s how Ayurveda can helpState and Union Territory governments are also separately organising events such as webinars, radio talk, quiz programmes and health camps on the occasion. The ministry will also be engaging with other stakeholders such as Ayurveda colleges, Ayurveda drug manufacturing associations, Ayurveda practitioners’ association etc. in a bid to spread the message far and wide.“Ayurveda, the original healthcare tradition of humanity, is not just a medical system, but a manifestation of our symbiotic relationship with nature. It is a well-documented system of healthcare, where the prevention of disease and promotion of health are given due consideration,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayurveda-for-covid-is-this-year-s-ayurveda-day-theme/story-rehmHwTKH8ZKlOfy50R3EL.html
16-10-2020||India||Monsoon unlikely to withdraw in Oct as intense low-pressure systems continue to form||Squally winds and rain are expected along the Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts for the next two or three days as the well-marked low-pressure area which was over Konkan region has moved over the Arabian Sea.It is likely to intensify further with energy from the ocean into a depression over the east central and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea off the Maharashtra-south Gujarat coasts in the next 24 hours. The wind speed is likely to be 45 to 55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph on Friday evening along the Maharashtra and Gujarat coasts.The depression is likely to further intensify as it moves gradually west-northwestwards. The current low-pressure system had initially formed over the west central Bay of Bengal on October 11. It had crossed the north Andhra Pradesh coast and made landfall over north Andhra Pradesh, following which it moved west north-westwards and weakened into a depression the same day. The system had caused extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, etc. It caused massive urban flooding in Hyderabad; at least 30 people died in Telangana.Also Read: Delhi’s rising air pollution may have an invisible Covid linkIndia Meteorological Department, in its weekly weather report, also said there was low to moderate probability of another low-pressure area forming over the east central Arabian Sea by October 19 which may bring more rain to the eastern region. Large parts of northwest India will start experiencing normal to below normal temperatures in from October 23 to 29.The weekly report also said that monsoon is unlikely to completely withdraw until October 29 because south-westerly monsoon winds are strong, and east and northeast India is expected to receive rain during that week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-unlikely-to-withdraw-in-october-as-intense-low-pressure-systems-continue-to-form/story-m8rUFyptQ0cK2ygMJPkcGO.html
16-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: After marginal improvement Delhi’s AQI slips back into ‘poor’ category and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi’s AQI improves marginally; slips back into ‘poor’ categoryThe national capital’s air quality index (AQI) showed some improvement on Friday morning after recording a spate of very poor air quality days earlier this week. Read more here. India has one of lowest Covid-19 deaths per million population globally: GovtIndia continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) compared to other countries across the world, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. Read more here. Hathras fallout: Yogi orders women help desk in each UP police stationUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered setting up of women help desk in every police station of the state, while reiterating that the state government was committed to safety, security and honour of women. Read more here. Sex workers in Kolkata to receive dry ration on World Food DayNoting that more than 10,000 sex workers of Sonagachi, one of the largest red light areas in Asia, are finding it difficult to make ends meet. The women, with no other source of income, are struggling to survive the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more here. Redditor shares picture of polished car. Can you spot it at first glance?If you have been around the Internet for long, chances are you have seen the illusion or puzzle posts which keep people busy. There’s a high possibility that the post will leave you intrigued and amused, all at the same time. Read more here. Aditya Narayan dismisses reports that he’s ‘bankrupt’, says he was touched when industry friends offered financial helpAditya said that the reports were exaggerated. “I was shocked when so many people started calling me after the report. I must, however, admit that I was also touched because a lot of friends in the industry offered help. That goes to show that they genuinely care for me.” Read more here. IPL 2020, RCB vs KXIP: Gayle, Rahul shine as KXIP beat RCB by 8 wicketsChris Gayle returned for Kings XI Punjab as they beat Royal Challengers Bangalore by 8 wickets in Sharjah. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-after-marginal-improvement-delhi-s-aqi-slips-back-into-poor-category-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4DCMnuJ0uMSgLyerblQUPJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Delhi’s rising air pollution may have an invisible Covid link||Environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said that 95% of Delhi’s present air pollution was because of local sources, triggering a debate on whether the deterioration in air quality could be an indirect consequence of Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic has resulted in reduction in use of public transport, leading to more use of personal vehicles in the national capital, like elsewhere in the country. More vehicles on road mean more emissions and with poor dispersal, it leads to higher ambient air pollution levels. This was evident on Thursday with air pollution in Delhi and its neighbouring towns -- Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurugram -- being in the very poor category. According to the data provided by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, the Metro ridership in the past fortnight has been 78% of the number of people who took the public transport during the same period last year. Even though the ridership is rising, Metro spokesperson said it would take some months before the passenger level reaches pre-Covid level. Similarly, the Delhi Transport Corporation, another major public transport mode, has recorded a dip in daily ridership of passengers. Transport minister Kailash Gehlot had said last week that there was about 54% dip in ridership due to Covid-19 restrictions which allows filling only half of the seats. Even as people are working from homes, traffic on Delhi roads is rising. Data from Google’s community mobility trends shows traffic on Delhi roads was just 30% less than that of the pre-Covid period baseline of January 3 to February 6, this year. In August, this dip was 67% and in April, 80%. As only limited public transport was available, Delhi witnessed a spike in purchase of vehicles after Covid unlock was implemented from June 8. According to Society for Automobile Manufacturing (SIAM), Delhi has seen an increase of about 10.7% in sale of new passenger vehicle -- cars and two-wheelers -- from the same period last year. The overall vehicle sale increase in August in India was 14.6%. SIAM is yet to release auto sale data for September. “The pandemic outbreak has changed people’s preferences and we believe they will opt for personal mobility solutions rather than shared mobility,” co-founder and CEO of CarDekho Amit Jain said. A scientist at Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, who was not willing to be quoted, said more vehicles on road is one main reasons for bad air quality in and around Delhi. Most of the pollution load is coming from within and around 70 kms of Delhi, he said. “Yes, the higher number of vehicles on roads contribute to air pollution but very low wind speed, which causes localised heat islanding, is the main cause for air being foul,” the scientist, who has earlier done pollution source appropriation study for Delhi, said. He said industrial emissions, dust and biomass burning are the other contributors. Javadekar on Thursday had said that 95% air pollution in Delhi happens because of dust, construction and biomass burning. He said stubble burning this year has contributed only 4-5% to Delhi’s pollution load. Environment ministry said the share of stubble burning in capital’s pollution load varies on daily basis. In 2019, stubble burning contribution to Delhi’s pollution load was more than 15% only for six days between October 8 and December 9. And, only on one day it was more than 40% in this period, the ministry said, after Raghav Chadha of Aam Aadmi Party claimed that Central had last year claimed that the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s pollution was 44%. Anil Sood, a scientist at Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana, who monitors stubble burning through satellite mapping in the state, said that the farm fire incidents recorded between September 21 and October, 2020, were three times more than those in 2019. About 2,900 farm fire incidents were reported this year as compared to 755 in 2019. He attributed the increase in farm fires to early harvest of paddy this year because of the dry weather in September unlike 2019 when monsoon rains were prevalent till October 12 in northern India, leading to delay in harvest. Sood expected stubble burning to finish by October-end. However, the IIT scientist predicted said there would be some respite in the next three to four days because of improvement in wind speed. The pollution levels will rise again in the latter part of October and would remain high till Diwali , that falls on November 11, he said. Anumita Roy Choudhary of Centre for Science and Environment said the impact of Covid-19 on air pollution management has thrown up new challenges for air pollution management. “We cannot intensify public transport as Covid-19 restrictions would remain. We may need to reinforce work from home option to prevent unnecessary travel to cope with winter pollution,” she said. (With inputs from Vijdan Mohammad Kawoosa in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-rising-air-pollution-may-have-an-invisible-covid-link/story-rkaPqSV1kzA0neKp0dW83K.html
16-10-2020||India||Hathras fallout: Yogi orders women help desk in each UP police station||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered setting up of women help desk in every police station of the state, while reiterating that the state government was committed to safety, security and honour of women.Following the chief minister’s directive, the UP government decided to set up women help desks from October 17, coinciding with the launch of Mission Shakti campaign to empower women and sensitise citizenry towards security of women and girls.Women police personnel will be deployed at these help desks to register complaints of women and assist them.Chairing a Covid-19 and Unlock 5 review meeting, the chief minister said Mission Shakti campaign would be launched on ‘Sharadiya Navratri’ beginning on October 17 and will continue till the ‘Basantik Navratri’ (in April 2021), spanning a period of about six months.Women and girls would be educated about self-defence techniques during the campaign, he said. He also said all the district magistrates should effectively implement and monitor Mission Shakti.Also Read: Hathras case: Supreme Court reserves order on plea for court-monitored probeYogi has also directed top police officials to personally visit the spot of crime against women and children, reported in the state, and ensure a time bound investigation. The series of steps announced for better prevention of crime against women follow a national outrage against state police’s handling of Hathras gang rape case. A slew of programmes on women’s safety and empowerment are to be organised at gram panchayats, schools, colleges and government offices apart from other places.Also Read: Chinmayanand case: Police file perjury charges against womanAs many as 23 departments, including those of basic education, secondary education, higher education, MSME apart from government and non-government agencies will be participating in these programmes. Private cab operators will also be sensitised on the need for safety of women.The state government had earlier set up pink booths and made arrangements to drop single women safely home at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-fallout-yogi-orders-women-help-desk-in-each-up-police-station/story-6wECH2uraJOjLh5EJFmq1M.html
16-10-2020||India||Income Tax department raids 38 sites linked to advocate||The Income Tax department on Wednesday raided 38 locations in Delhi and Haryana in connection with a case of ‘unaccounted cash transactions’ involving advocate Manoj Kumar Singh, who specializes in commercial arbitration and alternate dispute resolution. According to a statement issued by the department, Singh allegedly received substantial amounts in cash from his clients to settle their disputes. The department recovered Rs 3.5 crore cash, incriminating documents pertaining to unaccounted cash transactions and investments made by him over several years, during its searches. Ten lockers have also been placed under restraint by the department. Substantial digital data reflecting unaccounted transactions of the assessee (Singh) and his associates, who are financers and builders, has also been recovered, a statement issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said. Investigations have revealed that in one particular case, Singh received “Rs 117 crore from a client in cash, whereas he had shown only Rs 21 crore in his records, which was received through cheque.” “In another case, he received more than Rs 100 crore in cash from an infrastructure and engineering company for its arbitration proceedings with a public sector company,” the CBDT said. It added that the unaccounted cash has been invested in the purchase of residential and commercial properties, and in taking over of trusts engaged in running of schools. “Evidences recovered indicate investment of more than Rs 100 crore in cash in several properties in posh areas in the last two years. The assessee (Singh) and his associates have also purchased several schools and properties, for which also more than Rs 100 crore was paid in cash. He has also taken accommodation entries worth several crores,” CBDT said. According to the website of his law firm, Singh represents clients in cross border financial disputes and investment disputes. Singh was not immediately available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-tax-department-raids-38-sites-linked-to-advocate/story-CA4ZbDt8V0DVkVQ9LQrAZL.html
16-10-2020||India||CBI, US authorities crack down on fraud scheme targeting American senior citizens||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the US Justice Department have cracked down on a technical support fraud scheme allegedly masterminded by an American citizen working with call centres in several Indian cities over the past decade. Michael Brian Cotter (59) of Glendale, California, allegedly worked with India-based accomplices on the scheme that is believed to have defrauded hundreds of elderly American citizens, the US Justice Department said in a statement. The CBI moved in parallel with the US justice department filing a complaint in a court in Florida. The Indian agency filed a criminal case against five companies and conducted raids last month on businesses and individuals in Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon and Jaipur that were allegedly involved in the scheme, the statement said. Also Read: China sees red as US names officer for Tibet affairsCoordinated search operations were conducted at offices of these companies and residences of the directors of the entities. “According to the CBI, incriminating digital evidence related to the scheme was collected and seized during the searches,” the statement added. The US Justice Department described the operation as the first parallel action by the US and Indian governments against defrauding of elderly American citizens. The statement cited CBI officials as saying that the agency would continue its close collaboration with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and promote cooperation with US law enforcement agencies on cybercrime and cybersecurity. CBI has been working to identify and dismantle networks of transnational cyber fraud operated out of India, the officials said. In response to the complaint filed in the US, a federal court issued a temporary restraining order that directed Cotter and five companies to stop engaging in the technical support fraud scheme. The complaint was filed by the civil division’s consumer protection branch and the US attorney’s office for the southern district of Florida and the action was coordinated by the Transnational Elder Fraud Strike Force established last year to combat foreign fraud schemes targeting American senior citizens. Also Read: US elections 2020: Donald Trump says Joe Biden will face ‘soft’ questions in dueling town hallAccording to the complaint, those engaged in the scheme contacted US consumers via internet pop-up messages that falsely appeared to be security alerts from Microsoft or another reputed company. These messages fraudulently claimed the consumer’s computer was infected by a virus, and then purported to run a scan that “falsely confirmed the presence of a virus and malware”. The consumers were provided a toll-free number to call for assistance and were connected to India-based call centres allegedly participating in the fraud. Call centre employees asked the victims to give them remote access to computers and said they had detected viruses or malware. Then, the employees falsely diagnosed non-existent problems and allegedly asked the victims to pay hundreds of dollars for unnecessary services and software. Cotter allegedly facilitated the scheme through several companies, including Singapore-registered Global Digital Concierge Pte Ltd, formerly known as Tech Live Connect Pte Ltd, Nevada-registered companies Sensei Ventures Incorporated and NE Labs Inc, New York-registered Kevisoft LLC, and UK-registered Kevisoft UK Ltd. The restraining order issued by the court dismantled the US-based infrastructure, including websites and payment processing relationships. The complaint alleged that, since at least 2011, Cotter worked with co-conspirators in India to operate the scheme, including registering website domains, setting up shell companies, and entering into relationships with banks and payment processors to facilitate collection of funds from the victims. Individual victims allegedly paid hundreds to thousands of dollars for unnecessary technical support services. The scheme was brought to the Transnational Elder Fraud Strike Force’s attention by Microsoft. Acting assistant attorney general Jeffrey Bossert Clark said: “The department of justice sincerely appreciates CBI’s efforts to disrupt and prosecute technical support fraud, government imposter fraud, and all other schemes directed at the American public.” “The FBI works with its local, state, federal and international partners to combat technical fraud schemes,” said Charles Spencer, assistant director of the international operations division, FBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-us-authorities-crack-down-on-fraud-scheme-targeting-american-senior-citizens/story-Hycyl3YFHhihhYIrZpIY8N.html
16-10-2020||India||India has one of lowest Covid-19 deaths per million population globally: Govt||India continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) compared to other countries across the world, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday.At least 22 states and Union territories have lower deaths per million population than the national average that is currently pegged at 80, the ministry added. “Some States/UTs are performing better and reporting much lower deaths/million population than the national average,” it tweeted.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here According to government data, Mizoram has reported no fatalities due to the viral disease, the lowest per million population deaths were reported by Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli (3), followed by Bihar (8), Nagaland (10) and Arunachal Pradesh (18). The most number of deaths (per million population) in the country were reported from Tripura (77), Uttarakhand (71), West Bengal (58) and Haryana (57).  #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCoronaIndia continues to have one of the lowest deaths per million population globally (presently pegged at 80).Some States/UTs are performing better and reporting much lower deaths/million population than the national average. pic.twitter.com/3ejtqZwvZ6The ministry credited the improved infrastructure for enabling promising results. “Enhanced medical infrastructure, strengthened critical care capacities of ICU doctors, adherence to Standard Treatment Protocol, and tireless efforts of doctors, paramedics & various #COVID19 warriors have collectively resulted in these outcomes,” it said in another tweet.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage As on Thursday, the toll from the disease stood at 111,266 which puts the case fatality rate at 1.52%. The caseload in the country has surpassed 7.3 million with 812,390 active cases, while more than 6.3 million people have recovered from the infection in home isolation or Covid-19 designated hospitals.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said that a vaccine against the deadly disease is expected in a few months and its distribution will begin in the next six months. He reiterated the need to follow social distancing protocols, wash hands regularly and wear face masks and added this “potent social vaccine can stop the disease and it also forms the foundation of the Jan Andolan against Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-one-of-lowest-covid-19-deaths-per-million-population-globally-govt/story-NN8EfgC5FZlHtTWWIa6sZM.html
16-10-2020||India||Balwinder Singh’s family to protest outside Mamata Banerjee’s office||Arrested Sikh man Balwinder Singh’s wife Karamjit Kaur and son Harshveer Singh will stage a sit-in demonstration on Saturday outside Nabanna, the secretariat building of the West Bengal government, to seek his release. Singh was arrested for carrying a pistol at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) agitation in Howrah on October 8. The incident made headlines as Singh’s turban fell off when he was jostling with the police. While videos of the incident went viral, the state police accused him of carrying a firearm, the licence for which they claimed, was not valid in West Bengal.The Howrah district police said on Thursday night that Singh’s licence was valid only in Rajouri, Jammu and Kashmir, where it was issued. “As per the national database of arms licences, ministry of home affairs, govt. of India; the arms licence of Sh Balwindar Singh is valid only in Rajouri distt of J&K. He was arrested for being part of an unlawful assembly with a weapon. Please do not get carried away by fabricated social media posts. A thorough investigation is going on to unearth the truth,” tweeted the Howrah district police.“I want to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee. I have appealed several times but there has been no response. My son and I will start a dharna outside her office at 11 am on Saturday. I appeal to all Sikh Sangats (associations or groups) to stand by their sister. I want to see my husband released,” Kaur said in Punjabi in a video message on Thursday evening. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh has said that Singh works for a private security agency and he was deployed to provide security to one of the BJP’s youth wing leaders. “Even my security personnel carried guns on that day,” Ghosh, who is a Lok Sabha member from Midnapore, said on Wednesday. Also Read: Bengal Guv Dhankhar trolled after tweeting state govt orderOn Thursday, members of Kolkata’s Sikh community staged a silent demonstration at Sant Kutiya Gurudwara, Bhawanipur, demanding justice for Balwinder Singh. They put up posters with Singh’s photo. “Police defiled Balwinder Singh’s turban and dragged him by his hair. This kind of behaviour is entirely unacceptable with an ex-army man who was just doing his duty,” the community members said in a statement. They also wrote a letter to the chief minister. Former Indian cricketer Harbhajan Singh, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh are among some prominent members of the Sikh community who have condemned the alleged incident of defiling. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who is a Shiromani Akali Dal leader, has challenged the allegation that the arms licence is not valid in West Bengal. “We will file a petition at the Calcutta high court on Friday. I am getting calls from newspapers and radio stations the Sikh community runs in several countries, including Canada,” said Sirsa. Also Read: 2 Trinamool leaders appear before Bengal CID in BJP leader’s murder probeAfter the incident, the West Bengal Police said Singh’s turban was not pulled off intentionally. “The concerned person was carrying firearms in yesterday’s protest. The Pagri had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued, without any attempt to do so by our officer (visible in the video attached). It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community,” The West Bengal Police tweeted around 10 pm last Friday, attaching a video of the incident. “West Bengal Police respects all religions. The officer specifically asked him to put his Pagri back before the arrest. The attached photo has been clicked right before he was escorted to the Police station. We remain committed to our duty to uphold law and order in the state,” said a second tweet. Balwinder Singh’s wife and son met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at the Raj Bhawan on Wednesday and sought his help. Dhankhar later said in a tweet that Singh is a victim of human rights violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balwinder-singh-s-family-to-protest-outside-mamata-banerjee-s-office/story-eKwAC1n8Xvm1QoT7Am80jK.html
16-10-2020||India||Grand alliance candidate Aaftab Alam arrested during nomination||Bihar Police on Thursday arrested Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) candidate Aaftab Alam while he was filing his nomination for assembly election 2020 saying police have a non-bailable warrant against him.Aaftab Alam is CPI-ML candidate, contesting elections from Aurai constituency in Muzaffarpur District of the state.When asked about the arrest, Alam said, “I have been arrested for staging a peaceful protest against the murder of Deepak Rai. This is a vendetta and a political conspiracy.”Meanwhile, Muzzafarpur city Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajesh Kumar confirmed the arrest and said that a non-bailable warrant has been issued against him.“Aaftab Alam has a non bailable warrant against him. He came here for his nomination and his arrest took place. He will be presented in court,” Kumar said.Elections for the 243-member Bihar Assembly will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 and the counting of votes will take place on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grand-alliance-candidate-aaftab-alam-arrested-during-nomination/story-89wzQlkeMyvULNuZXQX0rL.html
16-10-2020||India||10 accused in Kerala gold smuggling case get bail||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Thursday granted bail to 10 accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, even as leaders of opposition parties sought chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation after the agency said the accused were suspected to have links with underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. The NIA arrested 30 people in connection with the seizure of 30kg of gold by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate in a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment marked to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5.The accused moved court, arguing that smuggling comes under economic offences, and challenged the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) invoked against them, saying there was no terror angle in the case. The accused said that were in custody for over three months. Also Read| Kerala gold smuggling accused have links with Dawood Ibrahim’s gang: NIANIA countered the claim saying some of the accused in the case have links with anti-national forces. They visited Tanzania several times, where Dawood Ibrahim has an extensive network, the agency told the court, opposing the bail pleas on Wednesday.The court, however, argued that UAPA cannot be invoked against all accused and some of them were eligible for bail, having completed 90 days in jail. Granting bail to the 10 accused with stringent conditions, the court directed them to execute a bond of Rs 10 lakh each with two solvent sureties each for the same amount. They were also ordered to surrender their passports, not to leave the state without the court’s permission, and not make any attempt to contact any of the prosecution witnesses.Meanwhile, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan sought chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s resignation over NIA observations that some accused had links to Dawood Ibrahim. “We want the CM to resign as everything happened right under his nose. His secretary was helping some of the accused. The main accused even said she visited the CM’s official residence several times. When his office is under investigation how can he continue in his office?” he asked.Kerala BJP chief K Surendran accused the government of shielding the smugglers and demanded that the chief minister resign as he has “lost moral rights to continue.” The Congress’s Ramesh Chennithala called the news shocking and said it was the biggest crime that has happened in the state. He, too, accused the Vijayan government of “supporting” the accused. “Unfortunately, the state government was supporting the culprits. NIA will unearth details of this crime,” he told ANI.In a related development, the Kerala high court on Thursday restrained the Enforcement Directorate, probing the money trail in the case, from arresting suspended IAS officer and former principal secretary to the CM, M Sivasankar, till October 23.The court asked the ED to file its report on his anticipatory bail plea, which came up for hearing on Thursday.Adjourning the matter to October 23, the court directed the central agency not to arrest Sivasankar till then.Sivasankar who is facing probe in connection with the case, had moved the court on Wednesday seeking anticipatory bail.The ED said it has not taken a decision on arresting him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-get-bail/story-MLbVVPPuu1bI2SCu3DzzJK.html
16-10-2020||India||Six J&K parties form alliance for restoration of Article 370||Six of Kashmir’s biggest political parties came together on Thursday to form an alliance to peacefully seek the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status and fight for the rights of the people in the restive region. Leaders of the National Conference (NC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) , Peoples Conference (PC), Communist Party of India Marxist (CPI-M), Peoples Movement (PM) and Awami National Conference (ANC) met at the residence of former chief minister Farooq Abdullah for about two hours before announcing the coalition. Abdullah said that the leaders decided to name it “People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration”, which will push for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s constitutional position before August 5, 2019, when the region’s special status was revoked and it was split into two union territories. “We shall struggle for restoration of what was snatched from Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh. Ours is a constitutional battle, we want the government of India to return to the people of the state the rights they held before August 5, 2019,” said Abdullah.Also Read| ‘Black day, black decision’: Mehbooba Mufti tweets message after her releaseHe was flanked on one side by his son and former CM Omar Abdullah, and his one-time arch rival and former CM Mehbooba Mufti on the other.The meeting came two days after Mufti, who was the erstwhile state’s last chief minister, was released from detention that began in the early hours of August 5, 2019. The Abdullahs, who were released in March, held a previous meeting on August 4 with other mainstream political leaders at their residence on Gupkar road, from where the political declaration derives its name. Abdullah said the time had come for the resolution of the Kashmir issue. “We feel that the political issue of the state has to be resolved as quickly as possible and that can only be resolved through dialogue with peaceful means and with all the stakeholders who are involved in the problem of J&K,” he said.Thursday’s meeting was the first major political event involving all major players in Kashmir since almost all of the Valley’s political leadership was detained hours before the region’s special status was revoked in 2019. After Mufti, only a handful of leaders remain in detention. Other than the Abdullahs and Mufti, the meeting was attended by Sajad Lone chairman of PC, Muzaffar Shah, vice president of ANC and MY Tarigami, leader of CPI(M). President of the Jammu and Kashmir Congress, GA Mir, was expected to attend but could not, owing to health issues. The Congress was a part of the earlier August 4 Gupkar declaration. “All the signatories to the Gupkar Declaration have given a formal name to the grouping: People’s Alliance. The alliance will constitutionally fight for the restoration of the August 4 position of J&K,” PDP spokesperson Najmu Saqib tweeted.Abdullah said the leaders congratulated Mufti on her release. “It was a totally illegal, unjustified and unconstitutional detention. And already those who are still in the prison, we have demanded that they must be released immediately,” he said.The NC president added that they would meet again because Thursday’s event was done on short notice. “At the same time we are also going to meet people from the other regions of the state so that we can have a broader discussion on the issues to be put before the people of the state as well as before the government of India,” he said.Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released on March 13 and March 24, respectively. Both of them called on Mufti on Wednesday to invite her for the talks to take forward the Gupkar Declaration. The Gupkar Declaration was a joint effort of NC, PDP, the J&K Congress, PC, ANC and the CPI (M) to fight for the restoration of special status of the erstwhile state. The declaration was drafted on August 4, 2020 -- a day before the one-year anniversary of the effective scrapping of Article 370, which accorded special status to the region. At that time, the parties had issued a joint statement vowing to defend the “identity, autonomy and special status of Jammu & Kashmir against all attacks and onslaughts whatsoever”. Though Mufti was in detention, she had approved the participation of PDP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-j-k-parties-form-alliance-for-restoration-of-article-370/story-plzh7jFzFmoSX6f6MfuKkO.html
16-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Supreme Court reserves order on plea for court-monitored probe||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved orders on a petition seeking court-monitored investigation into the Hathras gang rape and murder and suggested the Allahabad high court supervise the investigation into the crime that occurred roughly a month ago and has roiled India since.The top court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by activist Satyama Dubey and others, along with several interventions. The 19-year-old Dalit victim’s family asked the court to shift the trial to Delhi after completion of investigation. Their lawyer Seema Kushwaha further demanded the Central Bureau of Investigation, which took over the probe on October 10, be asked to submit periodic status reports to the apex court.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who was representing the state government, informed the court that the state had accepted the demand for a court-monitored probe and had no objections to periodic reports being filed. The bench interrupted him and said when the matter was last heard on October 6, all lawyers consented to transfer the matter to the Allahabad high court.Also Read: CBI team questions kin of 4 accused in Hathras gang-rape case“We are here as an ultimate supervisory authority. Let the Allahabad high court supervise investigation. Ultimately, we are here for any decision,” said the bench, headed by Chief Justice SA Bobe and comprising of justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Senior advocate Indira Jaising, who was representing interventions by women’s groups, did not yield to the suggestion. She pointed out the victim’s family had already requested the trial to be moved to Delhi, so the jurisdictional court could either be the Delhi high court or the Supreme Court. Thursday’s hearing was crowded by other activists, women’s groups, Dalit organizations, upper caste groups, and the accused. The situation was such that the three-judge bench observed, “We have had enough of this. We do not need assistance of the whole world.”Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing on behalf of one of the accused, Ramu alias Ramkumar, rued the fact that the investigation had become a media spectacle, affecting his right to a fair trial. Jaising objected to the accused being heard. The bench asked Luthra to approach the concerned court in UP with his request.Mehta wondered how persons who were total “strangers” to the case could take part in the hearing when the state, the victim and the investigating agency were present. Senior advocate Harish Salve, who appeared for the UP director general of police (DGP), said, “Any order that the court may pass on providing of security to the witnesses, it should not reflect badly on the state police’s performance.”One of the applications was by activist Teesta Setalvad who sought an inquiry not just into the incident but into the forced cremation of the victim. Objecting to Setalvad’s application, Mehta said, “Teesta Setalvad has nothing to do with this case. Nobody should collect money in the name of the victim. This application is not in good taste.”Also Read| 3-layer security given to Hathras victim’s kin: UP govt to SCThe bench concluded the hearing saying, “We do not need any further complication. Judgment reserved.”On Thursday, CBI officials questioned the family members of the four accused in the Hathras gang rape case on Thursday. Investigators visited the village of the 19-year-old Dalit victim, who died in a Delhi hospital on September 29, a fortnight after she was gang raped and brutalised in Hathras.Police threw a cordon of security around the homes of the four accused, identified as Sandeep Singh, Ravi, Ramu and Luvkush Sikarwar, who are all lodged in Aligarh jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-supreme-court-reserves-order-on-plea-for-court-monitored-probe/story-txm6U5U090Vd4cryVkXLNM.html
16-10-2020||India||Imran Khan window dresses Pak record on terror, gets groups to change tactics||A detailed intelligence assessment whose contents have been accessed with Hindustan Times shows that all is not quiet on India’s western (and north-western) fronts with Pakistan based terror groups trying to re-energize groups from the days of the Afghan jihad, create new fronts, and figure out new ways of targeting India.It also shows that the terror groups are especially targeting the Sialkot-Shakargarh and Bhimber-Samahni sectors, with the Pakistani establishment supporting them with drone drops of weapons across the border, and boosting signals of mobile towers along the Line of Control to facilitate communication.Pakistan-based terror groups have changed tactics by shifting the military (askari) training camps to the Af-Pak region, with their existing camps having been turned into religious indoctrination centres, adds the assessment – which, coming ahead of the crucial Paris Plenary of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), suggests that Pakistan is trying to window dress its adherence to the anti-terror-financing strictures of the body. FATF’s meeting on Oct 21-23 will decide whether Pakistan remains in the “Grey List” due to inaction on part of Imran Khan government on proscribed terror groups and in curbing money laundering activities or be removed from it on the basis of facile action taken to escape the economic guillotine. The grey list (referred to as jurisdictions under increased monitoring by FATF) comprises countries whose systems aren’t strong enough to prevent money laundering or terror financing, but which have promised to work on addressing these issues.Also Read: India pummels Imran Khan’s adviser for fictional claim, then a parting shotAccording to the assessment, prepared by India’s national security planners, the change in strategy on part of the Pak-based groups, particularly the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) to shift terror training to camps around the Durand Line could also be aimed at operating in collusion with Afghanistan based Taliban and Haqqani Network (HN) groups following the signing of the US-Taliban-Afghan peace accord. The leader of HN is proscribed terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is also the deputy leader of Taliban with control over Nangarhar and a strong presence in Kabul. He has a $5 million bounty on his head.Other intelligence reports that corroborate this, suggest that while the Muridke- based LeT has been asked by the Pakistani deep state to maintain a low profile ahead of the Paris meeting, there has been no let-up in the terror activities of the Bahawalpur-based JeM with India being the primary target. The JeM has been infiltrating its cadre into Jammu and Kashmir on the one hand while planning joint terror strikes with its fellow Deobandi-ideologue, the Taliban in Afghanistan.“The JeM has intensified its focus on Sialkot-Shakargarh and Bhimber-Samani sectors in Jammu in order to rachet up violence in the union territory,” said a senior counter-terrorism official who asked not to be named. The Sailkot-Shakargarh sector is a so-called chicken-neck area, and it, as well as the Bhimber-Samani sector are strategically important from the perspective of Indian defence. Not surprisingly, both routinely witness cross-border firing. While the LeT is now being handled by 26/11 main accused Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi and Hafiz Saeed’s son Talha, JeM is a full-fledged Masoor Azhar family enterprise with his brother Mufti Rauf Asghar acting on behalf of the ailing Azhar, and other siblings including Maulana Ammar and Azhar Ibrahim working in tandem.Apart from the two main terror outfits, the Pakistani deep state, upset with the international community for ignoring the August 5, 2019 abrogation of article 370 by the Modi government, is trying to re-energize groups active during the days of the Afghan jihad, and also create new fronts, which will also help it spin a narrative of home grown terrorism in the valley.According to the intelligence assessment, the task of resurrecting the Harkat-ul-Mujahideen has been given to a serving colonel of Pakistan military intelligence with support from HUM chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman Khalil with the objective of shifting the focus from Afghanistan to J&K. Khalil currently resides in outskirts of Islamabad and runs a chain of madrassas known as Jamia Khalid bin-Al-Waleed in Pakistan. He has an umbilical jihadi chord with the Taliban and HN from the 1990s. In this context, Occupied Kashmir resident Maulana Mohammed Sajjad Shahid Kashmiri has been appointed the head of Tehreek-e-Millat-e-Islamiya (TMI), the Jammu and Kashmir chapter of the revived HuM.Also Read: India roasts Imran Khan adviser’s claim of New Delhi’s outreach to PakIntelligence inputs suggest that Pakistani deep state is also trying to revive the 313 brigade, a 2008 splinter group from Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami (HUJI), which is much closer to Al Qaida than any Kashmiri terror group. Founded by Illyas Kashmiri, the handler of both Daniel Pearl murderer Omar Sheikh and 26/11 conspirator David Headley, the 313 brigade is currently being used by former LeT operatives Huzaifa Bhai, Obaid-ur-Rehmani Barlas Kashmiri and Sumama Bhai to recruit cadre in the valley through cyber platforms. The group is also promoting Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind (AGuH) after the elimination of Zakir Musa and Hamid Lehari by Indian security forces last year. Illyas Kashmiri was killed in a US drone strike in 2011.Over the past two years , J&K has witnessed a spurt of new terror outfits such as “The Resistance Front”, TMI, AGuH and J&K Ghaznavi Force, all created to propagate the Pakistani narrative that terrorism in the union territory is indigenous and home grown. According to Indian counter terror experts, these outfits have been created out of LeT, HuM, HuJI members who underwent terror training in Pakistan but were not active on account of having been arrested, exposed or released after serving jail sentences in India.In order to facilitate infiltration as well as provide secure communications to terrorists, Rawalpindi GHQ has resorted to aligning mobile communication towers along the Line of Control (LoC) to ensure the signal spills into Indian territory. Not only this, the signal strengths of two radio base stations at Pandu and Thub in Occupied Kashmir have been enhanced so as to reach audiences from Buglanaar up north and Samba down south across the LoC.Also Read: Pakistan PM’s adviser says India has sent a message with ‘desire for conversation’The Rawalpindi-based promoters of Pak terror groups are now exploring new technology to not only transport arms, explosives and ammunition through Chinese made drones from across the LoC but also the use of explosive-laden drones to carry out attacks on Indian targets. It is for this reason that India recently tested anti-drone technology on the LoC and international border. The country is also working on an indigenous laser based anti-drone system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imran-khan-window-dresses-pak-record-on-terror-gets-groups-to-change-tactics/story-FZMcF0vMuPobXmLPx6vppL.html
16-10-2020||India||UP Dalit teen’s body found with limbs tied, kin allege rape||Body of a 17-year-old Dalit girl with limbs tied was found in a paddy field in a village in Barabanki, nearly 40 km from Lucknow, late on Wednesday night. Initial probe suggests that she had been strangulated, police said on Thursday. Barabanki officiating SP, RS Gautam, said the incident occurred in Tipri village under Satrikh police station limits. “The girl was missing since she left home to cut the paddy crop. Later, her body was found lying in the field when family members reached there, searching for her on Wednesday night,” he said. Gautam said the girl apparently had been choked with her shirt, and her clothes were torn and the case initially appeared to be of murder. Family members told media persons that the girl’s body was found in semi-naked condition and they suspect sexual assault before murder. The police and administration did not share the post-mortem report and have sought opinion from doctors, who carried out the post-mortem examination, over possibility of any sexual assault. Meanwhile, two suspects were picked up for interrogation and further probe is on. A police team was camping in the village to ensure peace, said Ram Surat Sonker, CO, Barabanki Sadar. Earlier, an FIR under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 for murder had been registered against unidentified people and further sections will be added, as per the investigation findings, said a senior police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-dalit-teen-s-body-found-with-limbs-tied-kin-allege-rape/story-4jMd7ku4rTErhMohAcR9tO.html
16-10-2020||India||India rejects China’s stance on border infra and Ladakh||India on Thursday called on China to work for complete disengagement at friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), while rejecting Beijing’s contention that infrastructure development and troop deployments by New Delhi were the root causes of tensions at the border. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, participating in the Bloomberg India Economic Forum online, made it clear that New Delhi wasn’t to blame for the standoff in the Ladakh sector that has entered its sixth month. Acknowledging the gravity of the situation, he pointed out India and China had built their relationship and expanded cooperation over the past 30 years “predicated on peace and tranquillity along the border”. “If that underlying peace and tranquillity is disturbed, if the agreements which the two sides signed are not honoured, then clearly that is the primary cause of the disruption,” Jaishankar said. He added: “If you disturb the foundation of this relationship, you cannot be impervious to the fact that it will have consequences...that problem...was not created on our side.” China’s foreign ministry had on Monday cited India’s infrastructure development and troop deployments as the root causes of tensions. It also said India should refrain from actions that could escalate the situation. The external affairs ministry also dismissed China’s stance on not recognising Arunachal Pradesh state and the Union Territory of Ladakh, saying both regions are an integral part of India and Beijing has no locus standi to comment on such internal matters. Also Read: In rebuttal to China claim over Ladakh, Arunachal, India drops a clear warningThe remarks by external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava reflected the stalemate in efforts to end the Ladakh standoff, and the lack of progress in disengagement of troops at friction points after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. Srivastava said India was creating infrastructure that improved the lives of its people. “The government gives careful and specific attention to improvement of infrastructure for the development of border areas in order to facilitate economic development of these areas, as also to meet India’s strategic and security requirements,” he said.Peace and tranquillity can be restored by “scrupulously observing all relevant agreements” on border management, he added. Responding to China’s contention that it doesn’t recognise Arunachal Pradesh and the Union Territory of Ladakh, Srivastava said both regions are an integral and inalienable part of India. “China has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters. We hope that countries will not comment on India’s internal matters, as much as they expect the same of others,” he said. Also Read: A long, fragile winter in Ladakh | HT EditorialSrivastava described troop disengagement as a complex process requiring redeployments by each side towards their regular posts along the LAC, and indicated there would be more talks to take this process forward. “To achieve this, the two sides will maintain the current momentum of communications based on the guidance of our leadership to not turn differences into disputes and work towards a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement in all the friction areas along the LAC and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas,” he said. Jaishankar also told the Bloomberg India Economic Forum that the talks between military commanders and diplomats were a “work in progress”. He said: “What is going on is something confidential between us and the Chinese and we will wait to see how this plays out.” A key issue was whether a rising China and a rising India could find equilibrium, and the situation on border is an expression of “the inability to meet that challenge”, he said. Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash described the situation on the LAC as a battle of wits, with both sides waiting to see who would blink first. “The Chinese are playing chicken, since they staged a misadventure with the expectation of quickly fulfilling the objective of grabbing some land but were surprised by the Indian response,” he said. “They have hit the pause button after they realised it wasn’t going to be an easy ride. It is a battle of nerves as the Chinese have upped the psychological warfare. They are also watching other developments, such as the outcome of the US election,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-china-s-stance-on-border-infra-and-ladakh/story-jwYGE66N8xdUWPsKWdIlfL.html
16-10-2020||India||Indian Air Force team in France reviews Rafale project||An Indian Air Force team, led by a two-star officer, is currently in France to review the progress of the Rafale project even as the second batch of fighters is set to reach their home base in Ambala in the next few weeks, officials familiar with the developments said on Thursday. The team, headed by assistant chief of air staff (projects), reached France earlier this week for a scheduled review of the project, the officials said. Five Rafale jets of the 36 ordered by the IAF reached the Ambala airbase on July 29 after a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi, although a formal induction ceremony took place later on September 10. The officials said next batch of three or four Rafale jets is expected to arrive in the next few weeks (the date is being finalised) and will further boost the IAF’s capability to rapidly deploy the advanced jets amid tensions with neighbouring China and Pakistan. The IAF is expecting three or four Rafale jets to be delivered every two months, with all the planes likely to join the air force’s combat fleet by the year-end. The Rafale fighters—the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997—have significantly enhanced the offensive capabilities of the IAF. The IAF is operating the Rafale fighter jets in the Ladakh theatre where the military is on high alert to deal with any provocation by China even as military and diplomatic talks have failed to reduce friction in the sensitive Ladakh theatre. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria recently said the integration of Rafale fighter jets brought in a platform armed with advanced weapons, sensors and technologies that gave the IAF an operational and technological edge. “Combined with upgraded operational capabilities of our current fighter fleet, it gives us the ability to shoot first and strike deep and hard, even in contested airspace,” the IAF chief said. The jets were ordered from France in September 2016 under a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore. India-specific enhancements on the Rafales include a helmet-mounted sight, radar warning receivers, flight data recorders with storage for 10 hours of data, infrared search and track systems, jammers, cold engine start capability to operate from high-altitude bases and towed decoys to ward off incoming missiles. The twin-engine jet is capable of carrying out a variety of missions —ground and sea attack, air defence and air superiority, reconnaissance and nuclear strike deterrence. It can carry almost 10 tonnes of weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-air-force-team-in-france-reviews-rafale-project/story-43OlvD4ZXFfL5BYkLli6aL.html
16-10-2020||India||Amid TRP ‘scam’, ratings for news channels halted for now||Television viewership monitoring agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on Thursday said it will not publish weekly data for news channels for 8-12 weeks as it seeks to review and improve the current standards of measuring and reporting data.The exercise will be carried out for all niche genres to improve statistical robustness and impede any attempt to infiltrate the panel homes.Ratings for Hindi, regional and English news, and business news channels will be stopped, with immediate effect.The move comes after Mumbai Police unearthed a television rating points (TRP) scam, in which Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, and Box Cinema were accused of manipulating viewership data by bribing homes where measurement metres were installed. The scandal may hit the business of news channels, which are under the scanner for rumour mongering and spewing hate, specifically in the coverage of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.BARC will, however, continue to release weekly audience estimates for the genre by state and language. It is, however, not clear, how the process will be tweaked to ensure better data standard. “Given the most recent developments, the BARC board was of the opinion that a pause was necessitated to enable the industry and BARC to work closely to review its already stringent protocols and further augment them to enable the industry to focus on collaborating for growth and well-natured competitiveness,” said Punit Goenka, chairman of the BARC India board.The news channels have been in the eye of a storm with even the courts asking the government to crack the whip and ensure they follow the programming code. Consequently, the ministry of information and broadcasting issued an advisory to all private satellite television channels asking them to broadcast content strictly adhering to programme and advertising codes, which may not contain “anything obscene, defamatory, deliberate, false and suggestive innuendos and half truths”.The move on pausing ratings comes right in the middle of the festive season when channels expect spike in advertising. However, buyers at media agencies say that most broadcasters do advance deals so advertising may see only marginal impact.“Unlike general entertainment channels, where ratings play a crucial role in deciding the ad spot costs, advertisers choose news channels looking at time spent and share of the market as well. TRP data has a small role to play. This decision will not have an immediate impact as the entire month of November has already been booked in terms of media buying,” said a media buyer requesting anonymity.Yet another senior executive at a media agency said that pause in ratings may not be a good sign. “While not all ad buying decisions are solely based on TRP data... Diwali is one month away and marketers have already chalked out their media plans and bought ad spots. If they decide to pull out, there could be a 10-15% drop in advertising on news channels but majority of them will continue with their plan,” the executive said.The News Broadcasters Association, meanwhile, said BARC’s decision is an important step in the right direction to help overhaul its systems and restore the credibility of the information it collects. “Recent revelations have brought disrepute to the measurement agency and by extension the broadcast news media. The current atmosphere of toxicity, abuse, and fake news is no longer tenable and NBA believes a bold step of putting ratings of news genre on hold will help improve the content,” said NBA president Rajat Sharma.Human intervention in the collection and processing of viewership data must be totally eliminated to safeguard the integrity of the data, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-trp-scam-ratings-for-news-channels-halted-for-now/story-F1Ou1MgDHV0ZmDC2cTMH3H.html
16-10-2020||India||Met department predicts intense cyclones, colder winter this year||This year could see frequent and more intense cyclones over the Bay of Bengal during October-November and a relatively higher frequency of cold waves during winter season, India Meteorological Department chief M Mohapatra has said.“We associate La Nina years with a higher frequency of intense cyclones over Bay of Bengal and colder winters. But many other factors influence the winter. A forecast will be issued in November for the winter months. But if we consider only the impact of La Nina then that is definitely linked to colder winters,” Mohapatra said in response to a query during a webinar organised by National Disaster Management Authority. La Nina conditions have already set in, he said.IMD in its El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) bulletin for October said currently, weak La Niña conditions are prevailing over equatorial Pacific and sea surface temperatures (SSTs) are below normal over central and eastern equatorial Pacific. El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.The latest forecast indicates cooling of SSTs will most likely continue and weak La Niña conditions are likely to turn into moderate La Niña conditions during coming months and sustain till early part of the next year. No cyclone has developed this October yet. But the depression over north interior Karnataka and adjoining areas of Maharashtra that moved west-northwestwards has weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over south Maharashtra. It is likely to move further west-northwestwards and emerge into eastcentral Arabian Sea off the Maharashtra coast by October 16.It is then very likely to intensify into a depression again during subsequent 24 hours over eastcentral and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea off Maharashtra – south Gujarat coasts, move gradually west-northwestwards and intensify further. Monsoon withdrawal from northwest India will resume only after these weather systems subside and rain stops.“Due to La Nina the atmospheric circulation patterns change. There are more western disturbances which bring snow and rain to northern India and cold air from the north infiltrates other parts of northwest India also. This is why La Nina is associated with cold winters. Similarly, the frequency of cyclone formation increases but slightly to the north from its normal position. So you may see more cyclones forming near Odisha, West Bengal, Bangladesh and they have a higher chance of recurving as opposed to cyclones forming near Tamil Nadu or south Andhra Pradesh coasts during non-La Nina years. We are expecting moderate La Nina till the end of the year,” said DS Pai, climate expert and scientist at IMD Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/met-department-predicts-intense-cyclones-colder-winter-this-year/story-95So622pIEnus0b03mokaP.html
16-10-2020||India||Bengal Guv Dhankhar trolled after tweeting state govt order. Because...||Governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Thursday afternoon tweeted a 2019 West Bengal government order, but a Twitter user has alleged that the governor was sent the message by some ‘RSS Sudhir’ as seen in the tweet that the user claims is now deleted. By evening, the trolling on social media had picked up. Samik Ray Choudhury, the Twitter user, replied to Dhankhar by attaching the same image with that name. On the governor’s Twitter timeline, the exact tweet is there, minus the mention of the alleged name, which Choudhary claims has been cropped and reposted. Samik Ray Choudhury tweeted, “This is the original tweet u made about 10 mins back... U pasted the msg forwarded to u by some RSS Sudhir... Now u cropped the msg and reposting... Who is RSS Sudhir??? How is he related to u??? How come his number is there in ur mobile???” In his tweet, the governor, posting the government order, lamented the law and order situation in the state. “Internal Security environment @MamataOfficial alarming with ‘al-Qaeda’ finding WB safe haven and free run for illegal bomb making. All this even after appointing retd IPS Surajit Kar Purkayastha as State Security Advisor and Rina Mitra, as Principal Advisor, Internal Security,” tweeted Dhankhar. “Why not be transparent with performance of these super bosses @WBPolice and enforce accountability @MamataOfficial. Why delay sharing with Governor their duties and performance ! Why all this with law & order getting beyond cliff hanging !” he said in the second tweet.  Internal Security environment @MamataOfficial alarming with ‘al-Qaeda’ finding WB safe haven and free run for illegal bomb making.All this even after appointing retd IPS Surajit Kar Purkayastha as State Security Advisor and Rina Mitra, as Principal Advisor, Internal Security." pic.twitter.com/OWgciR01JtState education minister Partha Chatterjee and Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar joined the attack against the governor, writing tweets against Dhankhar and attached the image Samik Ray Choudhury had shared. Their tweets were shared on the official twitter handle of the Trinamool. Partha Chatterjee tweeted, “As a governor of any Indian state, one is expected to be a detached figure, not intimately connected with the local politics of the state. And then we have @jdhankhar1 ji, who, under @BJP4India’s thumb, directly takes orders from the RSS!”  As a governor of any Indian state, one is expected to be a detached figure, not intimately connected with the local politics of the state. And then we have @jdhankhar1 ji, who, under @BJP4India’s thumb, directly takes orders from the RSS! pic.twitter.com/bDb4EWVb64HT waited till 11 pm. Dhankhar neither removed his tweet nor did he reply to the trolls. HT saw the image Samik Ray Choudhury shared but could not verify its authenticity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-guv-dhankhar-trolled-after-tweeting-bengal-govt-order-because/story-cjZyMXbbs3OVCULt3E0HEK.html
16-10-2020||India||Delhi: Blame game erupts as bad air worsens||Top ministers of the Union and the Delhi governments traded blame on Thursday as the city’s air quality slipped into the “very poor” category, a stark replay of how the crisis has unfolded in recent years when close to 30 million people are exposed to hazardous levels of pollution in the run-up to the winter. Delhi’s average air quality index (AQI) for the 24 hours till 4pm on Thursday was at 312, according to government data, a level not seen since February. Air quality was similar in Gurugram (311), and slightly worse in Noida (321) and Ghaziabad (322). One of two monitoring stations in Greater Noida recorded an AQI of 400, which is on the cusp of the “severe” category – the highest of the five-point scale for air pollution.Thursday’s spat, which later also included comments from Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, began with Union minister of environment, forest and climate change, Prakash Javadekar, saying that only 4% of Delhi’s air pollution is due to farm fires in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana. Also Read: ‘What did Delhi people do in last 15 days?’ Delhi versus Centre on pollution“Stubble burning is contributing to only 4% load now, 96% of the load (pollution load of Delhi) is from local factors such as biomass burning, unpaved roads, dust, construction and demolition waste. CPCB teams will monitor these local factors and submit reports to concerned authorities immediately,” he said.The stand, however, was criticised by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Staying in denial will not help. If stubble burning causes only 4% pollution, why has pollution suddenly increased over the last fortnight? Air was clean before that. It’s the same story every year. There’s no massive jump in any local source of pollution in Delhi in last few days to cause this spike,” Kejriwal said.The CM added: “Let’s accept that stubble burning causes huge pollution every year in north India during this time. And let’s all get together to find a solution sincerely. Blame game and politics hasn’t helped anyone. People are suffering. I’m extremely worried that pollution will play havoc coupled with Covid-19.”Javadekar responded to these with tweets of his own: “My statement today on air pollution in Delhi has been misinterpreted by a section of the media. Let me clarify, the figures of 4% share of stubble burning in AQI in Delhi pertained to this week. It varies from 4 to 40% during peak stubble burning.”  The environment ministry, too, tweeted out the clarification. “At the same time let us not be in denial that there are several local factors -- vehicular pollution, non-agricultural biomass burning, dust, geographical and meteorological -- that are primarily responsible for high air pollution during winters in Delhi,” Javadekar said later. The exchange did not stop there. Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai accused the central government of meting out “partial” treatment towards Delhi. He said the BJP was acting as a “mouthpiece” for other states where polluting activities such as stubble burning were ongoing, and diesel generator sets and polluting thermal power plants were continuing to operate without any checks. “The Grap (winter segment of the Graded Response Action Plan) was to be implemented from today (Thursday) and Delhi was the first state to have taken out an order to strictly comply with the diesel genset ban. However, the Haryana government has been writing letters asking for exemptions. The governments of neighbouring states have also asked for an extension of deadlines for thermal power plants to install air pollution control equipment. Why should they be given any extensions?” he said. Later in Chandigarh, the Punjab CM said: “In fact, it is Kejriwal who is in denial”. “The fact is that there is absolutely not data to support the claims of the Delhi chief minister,” he added.Also Read: Gopal Rai asks CPCB, Epca to shut down 11 thermal power plants around DelhiSimilar exchanges took place last year. On November 1, Javadekar accused Kejriwal of “politicising pollution” after the Delhi CM criticised the Centre for not doing enough on reducing farm fires. Kejriwal had then asked students in Delhi schools to write to chief ministers in Haryana and Punjab to crack down on crop residue burning.Farm fires have been a persistent source of winter pollution for the National Capital Region and large parts of north India. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana set fire to paddy stubble left behind after harvesting, a practice that helps them to turn their fields around for sowing winter crops quickly and economically.“Only 50% of harvesting is complete till now. Harvesting and clearing the fields will take another 10 to 15 days. The use of straw management machinery is not very successful because all farmers cannot afford it and some stubble still remains which has to be cleared manually. The government should accept the Supreme Court’s suggestion and pay ₹100 per quintal to all farmers and then act on farmers who still burn stubble,” said Dharmendra Kumar, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union. Last year, there were 55,210 fire points in Punjab and in 2018 there were 50,590 fire points in the state. Since mid-September this year, according to data from American space agency National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa), there have been 5,733 incidents of fire observed in Punjab and Haryana. This number is more than double the 2,761 seen in the same period last year and 1,937 observed in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blame-game-erupts-as-bad-air-worsens/story-XMdAcgz6nBRwxpl72zytfP.html
16-10-2020||India||Centre softens stand, to borrow for states||The Union finance ministry on Thursday said that the ₹1.1 lakh crore estimated shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess will be borrowed by the central government and “passed on to the states as a back-to-back loan”, allying concern of states that they would have to pay higher interest rates if they approach the market individually.The Centre’s move, detailed in a statement from the finance ministry, is likely to put to rest, for now, the controversy over the compensation cess shortfall that had caused a major split in the GST Council, with no consensus being reached after three meetings. It also keeps the concept of fiscal federalism, the core of GST, alive.The finance ministry statement added that the borrowing would “not have any impact on the fiscal deficit of the Government of India” and “be reflected as capital receipts of the state government as part of the financing of the respective fiscal deficits”. As a result, this borrowing doesn’t go into what is called general government borrowings (the debt of the Centre and the states). “It appears that the loan is treated as capital receipts of the state governments, which will have some positive impact on state finances, but we need to see the fine print,” said the finance minister of one of the dissenting states, requesting anonymity. The minister said it is prudent for the Union government to borrow the entire amount to get a better rate, but there are other concerns – the Centre should have borrowed the entire shortfall (₹2.35 lakh crore) and repay from the compensation cess fund as the financial position of most of the states are precarious.Also Read: Tamil Nadu, Delhi pick borrowing option to meet GST deficitKerala finance minister Thomas Isaac welcomed the Centre’s move and asked for consensus on other matters. “I welcome the new announcement that Centre will borrow through special window and provide back to back loans to states in lieu of Compensation. But there is one issue yet to be resolved — how much of compensation is to be deferred 2023? Negotiate this point and reach a consensus,” he said in a tweet. “Provide full compensation payment of ₹ 2.3 lakh crore this year itself. Since under the new arrangement additional borrowing does not affect the fiscal deficit of the Centre, why should it hesitate to borrow ₹1.7 lakh crore instead of the present offer of ₹1.1 lakh crore?,” he added. “Right from the beginning, Dr Mitra (finance minister of West Bengal Amit Mitra) was insisting that the Government of India should borrow the basic loan from a single window of RBI rather than 31 states/UT approaching the market, which would have been chaotic,” a senior official in West Bengal government said requesting anonymity. Kerala and West Bengal were among the seven states that were yet to agree to Option 1 of the finance ministry’s proposal that suggested the states borrow this amount from the Reserve Bank of India through a special window. On August 27, the finance ministry presented two options at a meeting of the GST Council. The Centre had given states the choice of borrowing ₹97,000 crore (the shortfall resulting from GST implementation issues) without having to pay principal or interest or the entire ₹2.35 lakh crore revenue deficit from the indirect tax (including that arising from the Covid-19 pandemic) projected for this fiscal year. The ₹97,000 crore amount was subsequently raised to ₹1.1 lakh crore on October 5. The states objected, and said the borrowing would have to be done by the Centre. At a subsequent meeting, the amount in Option 1 was raised to ₹1.1 lakh crore. While 10 states originally opposed the plan, this number came down to seven by Wednesday. Still, there was talk of legal recourse, especially by Kerala’s finance minister. The GST Council is a federal body, chaired by the Union finance minister, and whose members include the finance ministers of the state. This is the body that decides tax rates and other issues related to GST. Until the recent controversy, all its decisions had been arrived on the basis of a consensus. Economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said that the Union finance ministry has implemented the decision taken by the members of the GST Council. “This move will not have any impact on the fiscal deficit of the Government of India,” he said. Interestingly, the borrowing has been structured in such a way as to not increase the Centre’s deficit. “The loan to be borrowed by the central government would be passed on to the states as back-to-back loans and, hence, would not have any impact on the central government’s fiscal deficit. This would still stand as the liability of the states,” Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consulting firm DVS Advisors LLP, said. “The dissenting states wanted the central government to absorb the liability without passing it on to states. The Centre has stuck to its ground and borrowing in its name is only for operational convenience, and it should not be construed as the Centre yielding to the states,” he added. The finance ministry’s statement said it is also likely that states that get the benefit from the “special window are likely to borrow a lesser amount from the additional borrowing of 2% of their GSDP” that has been allowed under the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) relief package.“Businesses would hope that the spirit of cooperative federalism demonstrated by the GST Council in the past four years continues as they now have to navigate a difficult post-pandemic terrain. It is also necessary that there is clarity on the period for which the compensation cess would be extended and whether it would be in the same terms,” said MS Mani, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-softens-stand-to-borrow-for-states/story-Z51PP4vaMfcnYEsx63fq9O.html
16-10-2020||India||Earthquake of 3.5 magnitude hits Bishnupur in Manipur||An earthquake of 3.5 magnitude hit Manipur’s Bishnupur on Wednesday at 9.05 pm, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) said.The earthquake hit 17 kilometers west of Bishnupur at a depth of 36 kilometers, the NCS said. No casualties have been reported. An earthquake of magnitude 5.3 hit state’s Tamenglong district last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-3-5-magnitude-hits-bishnupur-in-manipur/story-bWFM7JtIHon0LrYj6Cu2ZI.html
16-10-2020||India||Cop accused in Assam police job recruitment scam arrested||A senior police officer who is believed to have played a key role in the Assam Police job recruitment scam was arrested on Thursday. Kumar Sanjit Krisha, who was serving as the superintendent of police (SP) of Karimganj district till his transfer on Sunday, was arrested by the criminal investigation department (CID). “Kumar Sanjit Krishna has been arrested by CID today (Thursday) evening in connection with CID PS case no 21/2020. He would be produced in competent court tomorrow (Friday),” said a brief statement issued by Assam Police. Krishna, who was transferred as SP of foreigners’ regional registration office (FRRO) in Barpeta district, is the younger brother of Assam’s current chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna. Police officials were questioning Krishna and few of his close associates since Monday, but he suddenly disappeared from his official residence of Tuesday night only to resurface on Thursday. The written exam to select 597 sub-inspectors to Assam Police was cancelled on September 20 after the question paper got leaked. The exam will now be held on November 22. P Police officials had conducted searches at Krishna’s residences in Guwahati and Silchar on Wednesday and are reported to have unearthed several incriminating documents. The police officer is reported to have clicked photos of the question paper prior to the exam and gave them to other accused in the scam. On Tuesday, chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna had written on social media that the law would take its course and his name should not be dragged in as his brother “is a mature, independent individual in a different profession”. Till date, the police have arrested over 50 persons in connection with the case including a retired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer PK Dutta and a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Diban Deka (who has since been expelled from the party). Dutta and Deka are suspected to have fleeced many candidates for the SI post by assuring them jobs in lieu of cash. Deka is alleged to have procured the question paper ahead of the written test. Police investigation has revealed that a day ahead of the test on September 20, many candidates had taken a mock exam in a Guwahati hotel. Nearly 70 of these candidates were staying at one of the five hotels Dutta owns in Guwahati. Police have recovered nearly Rs 6 cr rupees, allegedly collected from candidates for the SI post by the accused, after conducting raids at several places in the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-accused-in-assam-police-job-recruitment-scam-arrested/story-Mlmeyr9Mdvcvj5cr6Fx0oN.html
16-10-2020||India||IT panel takes up TRP issue, says it’s ‘easily manipulated’||Parliament’s panel on information technology on Thursday took up media ethics and flagged that Television Rating Points (TRPs) are “easily manipulated” amid allegations of a scam involving certain news channels. Press Council of India (PCI) chairman Justice CK Prasad, information and broadcasting ministry secretary Amit Khare and other senior officials briefed the panel on the issue amid a controversy that certain news channels have manipulated the TRPs. The panel led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor unanimously agreed that the TRP is not a robust method to measure viewership. “It is not in tune with current technologies,” said a person familiar with the matter. Over 10 members including Bharatiya Janata Party’s Syed Zafar Islam and Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore and the Congress’s Karti Chidambaram attended the meeting. People familiar with the matter added that the information and broadcasting ministry was in agreement with the points made by members of the panel. Also Read: Amid TRP ‘scam’, ratings for news channels halted for now“Due to converging technologies, it is difficult to have a regulatory framework.There is no uniformity of content and this required,”  said the person mentioned above.To specific questions, officials told the panel members that the current system to ascertain TRP is “not very scientific and accurate”, people familiar with the matter told news agency PTI.The members had a productive discussion about the need for policy changes in terms of regulation of media, including having a consolidated media council, instead of the PCI. The use of artificial intelligence tools was also discussed, this person added. “This not to blame anyone. The environment is rapidly changing and even BARC has decided not to publish weekly data for news channels for a period of time,” said this person aware of the matter . Also Read: Blame the regulatory system, not BARC | AnalysisThe person added that the issue was not about censorship, but that regulatory oversight is required and there is a need to amend existing laws to make that happen. “The ministry is working on alternatives and the members will put forth their suggestions regarding the same in Parliament,” this person added. Mumbai Police recently arrested at least five people over an alleged TRP scam. The police are also questioning executives of the Arnab Goswami-led Republic Media Group with regard to the case. Republic Media Group has denied any wrongdoing. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-panel-takes-up-trp-issue-says-it-s-easily-manipulated/story-Y1dFx1E6byx06SFDTG4hjM.html
16-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Guidelines out for cultural functions||The ministry of culture released detailed guidelines on Thursday for conduct of cultural programmes, performing arts and allowed theatres to function at 50% capacity with a ceiling of 200 people to curb the spread of coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19). A Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) is to be followed by the management of theatres and performance spaces, as well as the entertainment/creative agencies, artists and crew or any other persons who hire the auditoria or any other open/closed performance spaces.“It is advisable for all external artists and crew members, including those engaged in providing lighting, sound, make-up, costume etc. to present a valid Covid negative test result to relevant authorities at the host institution. The test should have been conducted within 7 days prior to the event. Management/creative agency may provide a mobile testing unit at the venue if feasible,” the ministry said in the guidelines. Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt has also advised to keep use of props to the minimal and avoid procurement of any new equipment than already designated in the premises. Production houses must ensure that minimum crew visits the premises, the ministry said.The stage has to be thoroughly sanitised before and after each use. Sets and properties in theatrical productions are also to be kept to minimum with few changes, to avoid movement and crowding on stage. “Artists must ensure sanitisation of their own equipment such as musical instruments before entering the venue and also before the performances,” the ministry said. “Digital no-contact transactions shall be the preferred mode for issue/verification/payments for tickets. All cultural institutions are encouraged to open purchase of tickets online for their events. Contact details of all customers should be taken at the time of booking of tickets, to facilitate contact tracing.” Frequent sanitisation of the entire premises, common facilities, and all points that come into human contact shall be ensured. “Measures for the safety of sanitisation staff such as adequate provisions for rational use of gloves, boots, masks, personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, etc. shall be undertaken,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guidelines-out-for-cultural-functions/story-GeSzdrDHUM8MCpsnWaIlLL.html
16-10-2020||India||Centre plans to enrol 250 million migrants through its portal||The Union government’s proposed portal for migrants and other workers from the unorganised sector will enrol at least 250 million labourers in next few years and facilitate a single window for their social welfare, according to a top government official. The first-of-its-kind portal will be linked to various ongoing programmes, such as the medical care scheme Ayushman Bharat, or the subsidised ration scheme Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, and workers will be register directly through their through mobile phones, newly appointed Union labour secretary Apurva Chandra said.The government also plans to start the first official survey on migration of the Indian workforce, covering both seasonal and long term migration. The portal and the survey may help the government better understand migration patterns, and track movements of welfare-seekers, Chandra said, adding that data on migrants will be collected through various modes. Also Read: MGNREGS to expand further; for second time this year“The workers themselves can register through aadhar. Various authorities can also help in this purpose,” he said. The labour ministry is planning two more surveys on domestic workers and professionals. The plight of migrant workers, desperate to return home in the middle of the lockdown, sparked criticism of the Union government’s handling of the Covid crisis. The labour ministry, lacking any independent headcount of migrant workers, failed to furnish specific data in Parliament on how many workers lost their jobs and how many died while returning home. The ministry said that 10.4 million migrant workers returned home during lockdown, but experts suggested that this was merely the passenger data from Shramik special trains, and did not take into account workers who tried to return by bus, trucks, and other means. According to news reports, several workers and their family members died while trying to walk back or travel in overloaded trucks. Various estimates suggest that India has more than 400 million unorganised workers, and Parliament’s Standing Committee on labour recently suggested expanding the definition of migrant workers for their exposure to social security. Also Read: Aadhaar-‘plus’ on anvil for migrant workforce“It’s good that the government has accepted our suggestion to register unorganized sector workers. If they have set the initial target to enrol 25 crore workers, it means they would primarily target the construction sector as most unorganised and migrant workers belong to that sector,” the labour panel’s head Bhartruhari Mahtab said. Chandra also backed the recently enacted labour codes. “There will be a definite increase in fixed-term employment. Many industries had told us that they are keen to employ people during rush seasons or they wanted students in part-time work during their recess. Now, all these avenues will open,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-plans-to-enrol-250mn-migrants-through-its-portal/story-1fhPrCxHcNbeNXSmx0idrL.html
16-10-2020||India||News channels painted Bollywood as criminals: Plea||A plea filed by 34 top Bollywood production houses and four industry bodies against two English television news channels and its journalists alleges that the latter painted the entire film industry as criminals and made them synonymous with drug abuse in the public imagination.The 1,069-page petition was filed in the Delhi high court on Monday and was accessed by HT on Thursday. It said the impact of the “wrongs of the defendants” was felt prominently in the Capital and therefore the legal action was initiated in the Delhi high court. “They [the channels] are targeting specific individuals with the malicious intention of damaging their reputation in the eyes of the public, invading the private lives of various persons in the industry and dragging their personal lives into the public domain, and trying to show it in a completely false light across the board,” the petition said. “By their words, actions and publications the defendants are adversely impacting the right to a fair trial in these cases where several persons from Bollywood may be called as witnesses and some may even be prosecuted as accused,” it added.Also Read: Sandip Ssingh seeks Rs 200 cr compensation as he files defamation case against news channelAmong the petitioners were houses owned by actors Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Salman Khan, Akshay Kumar, Farhan Akhtar, Ajay Devgn, Anil Kapoor, Karan Johar, Rohit Shetty, Vinod Chopra, and Ashutosh Gowarikar -- also asked for the channels to be barred from conducting a “media trial”.The Film & Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), Cine & TV Artistes’ Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Yash Raj Films, and Reliance Big Entertainment, were among the other petitioners.The petitioners sought directions against Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and consulting editor Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now, its editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar, and group editor Navika Kumar, as well as social media platforms. Kumar and Shivshankar had on Monday said they did nothing wrong. “Cases against journalists of Times Now that have only sought justice for those who are wronged are a bad precedent...,” Shivshankar had tweeted.“If fighting for justice invites court cases, bring it on.. Let truth prevail,” Navika Kumar had tweeted on Monday.The document said a perusal of various articles online reflected that the defendants were publishing and circulating false, disparaging and malicious allegations against the Bollywood actors. Also Read: Top film houses move High Court against 2 channels“The words used, remarks made, as well as the essence of the assertions and allegations made by the defendants against the plaintiff, include without limitation…. “cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood”, “your consumption is the reason that Pakistan is carrying out narcoterrorism operations enabling asymmetric warfare on our country”, “the open secret in Bollywood of money that comes from the underworld to finance movies, you’ve seen stars all through the 80s and 90s and these stars going to Dubai, dancing in parties held by Dawood Ibrahim, heard of stars being booked for collaborating with the Underwood and going to jail, you’ve heard of supari killing being ordered by the underworld against other competitors of a certain group of people.” etc. The petition said that various articles, videos and broadcasts made it evident that the defendants were “deliberately inciting anger and hatred in the general public for persons associated with Bollywood which can endanger their safety as several of them are well known and easily identified and may be subjected to violent reactions in public places”. It also said that the actions of the channels and their anchors and reporters were “systematically destroying the goodwill that many personalities in the industry have spent years building and would tantamount to wanton and illegal destruction of the most valuable asset of the business”. The plea said that the privacy of persons associated with Bollywood was being infringed every day as private “facts” about lives of Bollywood personalities were being dragged into the public and their private communications -- including WhatsApp messages -- were being illegally accessed and published in the public domain without authorisation. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channels-painted-bollywood-as-criminals-plea/story-L0SbOe30JGNPyu5hGvh9EP.html
16-10-2020||India||Torrential rains in Telangana leave 50 dead; flood situation in Karnataka worsens||In one of the worst spells of downpour spanning over a few days in this city and other parts of Telangana, 50 people died while the government pegged the losses from the deluge at an estimated Rs 5,000 crore.With relief works underway, the city and other affected parts started limping towards normalcy.A total of 50 people, including 11 from Hyderabad, died in rain-related incidents in the state.Chief Minister K Chandrasekar Rao urged the Centre to release Rs 1,350 crore immediately towards relief work and wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this connection.The flood situation in neighbouring Karnataka worsened on Thursday with several areas in the northern parts of the state inundated due to torrential rains and release of water from major dams.In Telangana, officials said that for the first time after 1916, such a big spell of rain was recorded under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, leading to several localities being submerged.Chief Minister Rao, who reviewed the situation, directed the officials to take up relief measures on a war footing.Immediate financial assistance of Rs five crore would be provided to the GHMC to carry out relief works, an official release quoted him as saying.He also announced a compensation of Rs five lakh each to the families of the deceased. New houses would be built for those whose homes were completely destroyed, while financial assistance would be given to those whose houses suffered partial damage.Draining out stagnant water and restoration of power supply should be done on a war-footing, he said.Rao observed that a closer look at the flood situation in Hyderabad shows that residential colonies built within the Full Tank Level (FTL) of tank faced flooding.Adequate measures should have been taken while constructing apartments so as to ensure that water does not stagnate in the cellars.He directed that henceforth while giving building approvals to apartments, there should be a regulation that measures should be put in place to prevent water stagnation in the cellars.Officials said 20,540 houses in 144 colonies at 72 places in Hyderabad were inundated. As many as 35,000 families were affected.The government opened 72 centres in Hyderabad to shelter affected people. Daily mealswereserved to 1.10 lakh people.Though water started receding from many inundated parts of the city, some localities continued to remain under water and the government machinery stepped up efforts to pump out water.The heavy rains, officials said damaged crops on 7.35 lakh acres in the state and estimated Rs 2,000 crore loss to the sector.In Hyderabad, the body of a postman, who allegedly fell in swirling rainwater on Tuesday, was fished out in a lake on Thursday, police said.Efforts were on to trace six members of a family who were among nine people washed away on Wednesday at Bandlaguda, after they fell in floodwaters, police said.State Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao, son of the Chief Minister, visited different rain-affected areas in the city, including Nallakunta, Musheerabad and Amberpet and assured the victims that the state government would provide immediate assistance. In Karnataka, Yadgir, Raichur, Ballari, Bidar, Vijayapura ,Bagalkote, Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Gadag, Koppal, Haveri and Dharwad were the worst affected due to floods.According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre, the floodgates of all the major dams have been opened resulting in water gushing into villages and formation of islands at different places.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said he will hold a review meeting on Friday with administrations of districts that have been ravaged by torrential rain and floods, and necessary funds were being released for taking up the relief work.Due to rising inflow in Bhima river, villages that come in the river basin have been affected by floods.As a precautionary measure people in danger are being shifted to relief camps, he said.For the safety of people, NDRF teams- 2 each in Kalaburagi and Yadgir and one in Raichur- deployed by the Centre have been functioning.Steps are being taken to deploy two additional NDRF teams - one each for Kalaburagi and Yadgir, he said.Two helicopters are also being sent to Bidar airport to be used for the safety of people whenever required, the CM added.The rainfall that is reported to be heaviest since 1992 has affected most parts of north Karnataka, especially Kalyana Karnataka region.According to official data a total of 54 relief camps are operational in seven districts where 7,776 people, who have been displaced are taking shelter.While agriculture crops in 1,04,418.82 hectares have been lost, the horticulture crop loss is estimated to be in 3,481.93 hectares, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/torrential-rains-in-telangana-leave-50-dead-flood-situation-in-karnataka-worsens/story-jsAlnFUHrb4Yqh40y3crcK.html
16-10-2020||India||Harvesting not over, farm fires likely to peak next week||The number of farm fires spotted in Punjab and Haryana are higher this year for the kharif season till October 15, with 3,517 incidents compared to 1,217 for the same period last year and 773 points in 2018, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data. Since harvesting of Kharif crops is still not complete, crop fires are likely to peak next week.Last year, there were 55,210 fire points in Punjab and in 2018 there were 50,590 fire points in Punjab. There were 616 fire points in Punjab and 87 fire points in Haryana on Wednesday alone, the IMD data shows.“Only 50% of harvesting is complete till now. Harvesting and clearing the fields will take another 10 to 15 days. The use of straw management machinery is not very successful because all farmers cannot afford it and some stubble still remains which has to be cleared manually. The government should accept the Supreme Court’s suggestion and pay Rs 100 per quintal to all farmers and then act on farmers who still burn stubble,” said Dharmendra Kumar, spokesperson, Bharatiya Kisan Union.While the air quality early warning system of ministry of earth sciences said that stubble fires led to 6% of the total PM2.5 pollution in Delhi, scientists said it could change very rapidly, depending on meteorological factors and the number of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana.On Thursday, till 9 am winds were calm which meant dispersion of pollutants was not possible. After 9 am winds were northwesterly but contribution from stubble burning was around 6%.Scientists said the impact of stubble fires on Delhi’s pollution levels is dynamic and hence it is impossible to zero in on their total contribution. The combination of adverse meteorology, stubble fires and high local emissions create the conditions for a severe spike in air pollution every October.“We apportion the contribution from stubble burning every day. Now it’s 6%, but it will peak when the fire points also increase in the coming days. The rest of the 94% contribution is from various local factors,” said a senior scientist from IMD’s air quality management division.  Sagnik Dey, associate professor, IIT Delhi, explained that the impact of stubble burning on air pollution depends a lot depend on the meteorological factors.“Meteorology is the main factor—wind direction is north westerly, the boundary layer is stable or winds are calm, temperature also drops. These factors increase the pollution load significantly, nearly doubling it. There is not much change in the share of emissions in September and October. In addition, if there is another source like stubble burning obviously pollution levels can spike but the impact is not linear,” Dey said. “Though no studies have been conducted on how much emissions need to reduce during adverse meteorological conditions to bring air quality to acceptable levels, my estimate is that emissions need to halve not just in Delhi but in the Delhi airshed which includes 13 to 14 districts in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh,” he added.Also Read| ‘What did Delhi people do in last 15 days?’ Delhi versus Centre on pollutionA war of words began between the Centre and the Delhi government on Thursday after Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said stubble burning is contributing to only 4% of the total pollution load in Delhi. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal countered that staying in denial will not help. “If stubble burning causes only 4% pollution then why has pollution suddenly increased last fortnight?,” he said.The environment ministry soon after clarified that the contribution from stubble burning is 4% only now and that it can change depending on various factors..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harvesting-not-over-farm-fires-likely-to-peak-next-week/story-O4lHBWtQzia6Z96z3zJwHM.html
16-10-2020||India||In rebuttal to China claim over Ladakh, Arunachal, India drops a clear warning||India on Thursday told off Beijing for its repeated complaints about infrastructure projects on the Indian side of the border with a clear warning, asserting that China should not comment on India’s internal matters just as it expects other countries to steer clear of its internal affairs.New Delhi’s harsher-than-usual message comes days after the Chinese foreign ministry linked infrastructure development on the Indian side to the five-month long stand-off in East Ladakh. China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian had pointed to the infrastructure development along the border this week and gone ahead to describe the infra push along with military deployment as “the root cause for the tensions between the two sides”.“The union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been, are, and would remain an integral part of India,,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told reporters on Thursday.Also Watch | Amid tension, India responds to China’s ‘Ladakh infra development’ comment “Our position on Arunachal Pradesh has also been made clear several times. Arunachal Pradesh is an integral and inalienable part of India. This fact has also been clearly conveyed to the Chinese side on several occasions, including at the highest level,” the spokesperson said.India reminded China that it had “no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters” and sent a clear message that New Delhi may not always act with restraint on speaking about China’s internal affairs.Also Read: Pushback to Xi Jinping to reflect in US approach to ‘One China’ policy | Analysis“We hope that countries will not comment on India’s internal matters, as much as they expect the same of others,” Srivastava said.India’s sharp retort came hours after the Donald Trump administration appointed a senior official to oversee Tibetan issues, a move that is seen in line with the United States’ new approach to expand the scope of its running feud with China to call into question the ‘One China’ policy that President Xi Jinping holds dear.The US administration’s decision to appoint Robert Destro as the new Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues is significant because the post had been left vacant for the last four years.Also Read: India demolishes China’s new excuse for Ladakh stand-off in 3 pointsAccording to the state department, Destro will primarily be responsible for advancing dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai Lama and protecting the identity of Tibetans. China’s authority over Tibet has been an irritant in US-China relations. In July, the Trump administration had imposed travel restrictions on Chinese officials “substantially involved” in restricting access to Tibet.In discussions with other India, Japan and Australia as part of the four-nation Quadrilateral security dialogue, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo had signalled that the US could harden its stance on China and even call into question Beijing’s ‘One China’ mantra..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rebuts-china-on-claim-over-arunachal-ladakh-with-a-clear-warning/story-KmvC0fDvM0zYv63NJmvI6M.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Stalker hacks 20-year-old to death at her home in Andhra’: Police||A 20-year-old engineering student was allegedly hacked to death by her stalker for spurning his overtures in Vijayawada city in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district on Thursday morning, the police said. The stalker later stabbed himself repeatedly and is battling for his life in Government General Hospital in Guntur. This is the second such incident in Vijayawada this week. On Monday, a 24-year-old woman working as a nurse in Covid Care Centre was set on fire by her stalker for allegedly refusing to continue their relationship. He also succumbed to his burns later at the hospital as the woman had pulled him in while he set her ablaze.In the latest incident, Vijayawada city police commissioner B Sreenivasulu said the accused had been stalking the woman for several days stating that he had been in love with her. However, the woman rejected his advances and threatened to complain to the police. On Thursday morning, the stalker went to her house at Christhu Rajapuram area and slit her throat. “When the woman started screaming, he immediately stabbed himself in the stomach, neck and wrist. As the other family members rushed to her room, she was lying in a pool of blood, while the stalker was lying on the floor,” the police commissioner said. The family members rushed the woman to ESI hospital from where she was referred to a private hospital. However, she died even before reaching the hospital. The police who reached her house moved accused to Guntur government hospital, where his condition is said to be critical. The police, however, recorded his statement and are investigating the case. State women’s commission chairperson V Padma visited the bereaved family members of the girl and consoled them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalker-hacks-20-year-old-to-death-at-her-home-in-andhra-police/story-SgCaGBtI7O83iCyDiBBlaM.html
16-10-2020||India||More cyclones, relatively colder winter likely in India this year||This year could see frequent and more intense cyclones over Bay of Bengal during October-November and a relatively higher frequency of cold waves during winter season, India Meteorological Department (IMD) chief, M Mohapatra said.La Nina conditions have set in. “We associate La Niña years with a higher frequency of intense cyclones over Bay of Bengal and colder winters. But many other factors influence the winter. A forecast will be issued in November for the winter months. But if we consider only the impact of La Niña then that is definitely linked to colder winters,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.IMD in its El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) bulletin for October said that currently, weak La Niña conditions are prevailing over equatorial Pacific and sea surface temperatures (SSTs) are below normal over central and eastern equatorial Pacific. The latest forecast indicates cooling of SSTs will most likely continue and weak La Niña conditions will likely turn into moderate La Niña conditions during the coming months and sustain till early next year. No cyclone has developed this October yet. But the depression over north interior Karnataka and adjoining areas of Maharashtra moved west-northwestwards and weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over south Madhya Maharashtra. But after merging with the Arabian Sea, it is likely to intensify once again with energy from the ocean.Also Read: Extremely heavy rain warning for parts of west coast todayIt is very likely to move west-northwestwards and over eastcentral Arabian Sea off the Maharashtra coast around October 16 morning. It is then very likely to intensify into a depression again during the next 24 hours over eastcentral and adjoining northeast Arabian Sea off Maharashtra–south Gujarat coasts, move gradually west-northwestwards and intensify further. Monsoon withdrawal from northwest India will resume only after these weather systems subside and rain stops.El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.Several studies have shown that La Nina conditions enhances the chances of extreme tropical cyclones in the Bay of Bengal during the post-monsoon season said Roxy Mathew Koll, a climate scientist at Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune. ‘La Nina conditions modulate the ocean-atmospheric conditions in the Bay (enhancing the low-level vorticity and convection) and make it favourable for cyclone activity,” Koll added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-cyclones-relatively-colder-winter-likely-in-india-this-year/story-XYBPsYbCS6S6aCa3qFvw7I.html
16-10-2020||India||Centre must not see J&K parties as anti-national, says Chidambaram, welcomes People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration||A day after the mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir came together to form People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration for the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state J&K, Congress leader P Chidambaram welcomed the alliance. The Centre must not see the political parties of J&K as secessionist or anti-national, the senior Congress leader said in a series of tweets on Friday. “The coming together of mainstream regional parties of J&K to fight a constitutional battle to restore the rights of the people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh is a development that must be welcomed by all the people of India,” Chidambaram tweeted. “The Congress also resolutely stands for restoration of the status and rights of the people of J&K. The arbitrary and unconstitutional decisions of the Modi government of August 5, 2019 must be rescinded,” he added.National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah on Thursday announced the alliance which will strive for the constitutional position in respect of Jammu and Kashmir as it existed before August 5 last year. The National Conference, the Peoples Democratic Party, the Peoples Conference, the Awami National Conference and the CPI (M) are part of this new formation. It is not the coming together of the National Conference and the PDP — the two families that held sway over the erstwhile state, PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti said. “Gupkar Declaration is an amalgamation of NC, PDP, PC, CPI(M), ANC & JKPM jointly striving to restore the rights & dignity of people of J&K The greatest disservice would be reducing it to PDP/NC or two political families,” Mehbooba tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-must-not-see-j-k-parties-as-anti-national-says-chidambaram-welcomes-people-s-alliance-for-gupkar-declaration/story-MTREgVWUyvREmzoR7FR8kN.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Form self-regulatory bodies’: I&B ministry to digital platforms||The Information and Broadcasting ministry on Friday urged digital media platforms to form a regulatory body on the lines of those formed for the electronic and print media.The ministry, in a statement, said that following the decision of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) allowing 26% FDI under government approval route on ‘Uploading/Streaming of Current Affairs and News through Digital Media’, it will be considering in the near future to extend benefits, presently available to traditional media (print and TV), to digital entities also.These include Press Information Bureau (PIB) accreditation for reporters, cameramen, videographers, enabling them with better first-hand information and access, including participation in official press conferences and such other interactions.Persons with PIB accreditation can also avail CGHS benefits and concession rail fare as per extant procedure.Another benefit offered was eligibility for digital advertisements through the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC).The ministry also said that similar to self-regulating bodies in print and electronic media, entities in digital media can form self-regulating bodies for furthering their interests and interaction with the government.Presently, the Press Council of India looks at regulatory issues related to print while the News Broadcasters Standards Authority (NBSA) looks at the regulatory aspects related to the electronic media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/form-self-regulatory-bodies-i-b-ministry-to-digital-platforms/story-my8VIEGRRoRnL3ghTsYVzN.html
16-10-2020||India||Civil aviation ministry, DGCA grant conditional exemption to NCRTC for using drones||The Civil Aviation Ministry and DGCA have granted a conditional exemption to National Capital Region Transport Corporation to use drones in carrying out GIS mapping for Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System, an official release said on Friday.The conditions include securing necessary clearances from the local administration, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Home Affairs, Indian Air Force and Airport Authority of India, prior to operation of remotely piloted aircraft system (RPAS), the Civil Aviation Ministry said in the release.The exemption will remain valid till December 31 or until the full operationalisation of the Digital Sky Platform, whichever is earlier, it said.The Corporation has the mandate to implement the RRTS project across the National Capital Region, ensuring a balanced and sustainable urban development through better connectivity and access.The Civil Aviation Ministry and Directorate General of Civil Aviation have granted a conditional exemption to NCRTC for the deployment of RPAS for data acquisition for mapping and implementation of web-based geographical information system (GIS) platform for Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS), the release said. “This (conditional exemption) will help them in effective aerial surveillance and project planning. The granting of these approvals is in line with the civil aviation ministry objective of promoting the use of drones for mass benefit,” Amber Dubey, Joint Secretary, Civil Aviation Ministry, said.According to the release, the corporation will only operate the RPAS which have been voluntarily disclosed to the central government and issued with a valid Drone Acknowledgement Number (DAN).The other conditions include submission of a comprehensive brief on the scope of operations and the copy of SOP to Flight Standards Directorate (FSD), DGCA, the release said.Operations of the drones will be carried out only after the vetting/ approval of SOP, it added.Also, the corporation should have an adequate level of insurance to cover any damage to a third party resulting from an accident/ incident occurred during the operation of RPAS and will have to ensure that hazardous material or variable payload are not carried on using the RPA under any circumstances, the release noted.National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) will ensure safety, security and privacy of public, property, operator, among others, and in case of any eventuality, the DGCA will not be held responsible, the ministry said.It also said that the RPA will not be operated in the vicinity of the airport as per the provisions of the CAR. If operated near the airport, approval from AAI shall be taken in advance regarding time and area of operations of RPAS, as per the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-aviation-ministry-dgca-grant-conditional-exemption-to-ncrtc-for-using-drones/story-xlN9OdBKVZPOisdH7IurKK.html
16-10-2020||India||Tibetan administration head meets Trump’s point man on Tibet||The head of the Tibetan administration in exile, Lobsang Sangay, has met with Robert Destro, the newly appointed US special coordinator for Tibetan issues, a move that is widely anticipated to rile China. Sangay is “sikyong” or president of the Dharamshala-based Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), which said in a statement that he had discussed the India-China border standoff at his meeting with Destro in Washington on Thursday. The statement said Sangay urged Destro to press the Chinese government to have a dialogue with the envoys of the Dalai Lama based on the “Middle Way Approach”. The statement added Sangay “also elucidated the ongoing Indo-Tibet border clashes”, without giving details. Sangay posted photos of the meeting with Destro on his social media accounts. “Great honor to meet with the Special Coordinator on Tibetan Issues @DRL_AS. This is the first time a Sikyong (President) of the Central Tibetan Administration was formally invited inside the State Department,” he tweeted. Sangay was among the first persons whom Destro met following his appointment to the special position on Tibet by the Trump administration on Wednesday. Announcing the appointment, secretary of state Mike Pompeo said Destro will address the “dire human rights situation the people of Tibet face” and serve as the US administration’s conduit to the Tibetan diaspora. Destro has said he will engage Tibetans and America’s partners around the world to promote human rights and freedoms for Tibet. “The US is concerned by the lack of meaningful autonomy for Tibetans and the CCP’s [Chinese Communist Party’s] ongoing crackdown on Tibetan Buddhists,” he tweeted. China has for long described the Dalai Lama and the CTA as part of a “separatist” movement, and opposed meetings between Tibetan leaders and representatives of the Indian and foreign governments. The Chinese foreign ministry described Destro’s appointment as a move designed to “interfere in China’s internal affairs and destabilise Tibet”. Outlining his priorities in a tweet, Destro referred to the “deteriorating human rights situation and lack of religious freedom in Tibetan areas” and said the US will continue to seek dialogue between China and the Dalai Lama. The CTA’s statement said Sangay was the first CTA president to be formally invited to the US state department for meetings, marking a “momentous progress” in the Tibet-US relations. Though CTA began seeking meetings with the state department soon after Sangay assumed office in September 2011, it “took nine long years for the US state department to realise the strategic importance of having the CTA president have formal meetings...similar to leaders of independent countries”, the statement said. During 2011-18, Sangay informally met state department officials but these events “were kept undisclosed and photographs were not allowed”, the statement added. “Today’s unprecedented meeting further strengthens the narrative that the Central Tibetan Administration will be treated akin to other governments by the US state department, and it is yet another significant win for Tibetans and allies,” Sangay was quoted as saying in the statement. Sangay also invited Destro to visit the CTA in Dharamsala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tibetan-administration-head-meets-trump-s-point-man-on-tibet/story-WI3RTkUnTxGbrwA9Q6a38J.html
16-10-2020||India||India and Chile hopes to firm up bilateral investment protection deal||India and Chile on Friday agreed to add new momentum in their cooperation in a wide-range of areas including trade, defence, energy, agriculture, mining and science and technology. A comprehensive review of the bilateral cooperation was carried out at a virtual meeting of the India-Chile Joint Commission which was co-chaired by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chilean counterpart Allamand Zavala. Official sources said both sides are also looking at firming up a bilateral investment protection treaty. In 2017, India had expanded its preferential trade agreement with Chile that resulted in boosting of bilateral trade ties. At present, Chile is the fifth largest trading partner of India in the Latin America and the Caribbean region. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), in a statement, said both sides discussed the future trajectory of their wide-ranging engagements in the meeting. “They agreed to add new momentum to the relations of the two countries in the fields of trade and commerce, agriculture, health and social security, defence, space, science and technology, energy, mining, culture and education, disaster management and cooperation in Antarctica amongst others,” the MEA said. It said India welcomed Chile’s decision to designate India as a priority country in its foreign policy, adding the country will also be opening its Consulate General in Mumbai. Chile has control of a large part of Antarctica and has a very large maritime boundary, having the distinction of being the longest country in the world. The sources said that in addition to discussions on the bilateral investment protection treaty, the two sides also deliberated on further expansion of the preferential trade agreement. They said there was a discussion on export of generic medicines from India to Chile and that an MoU on it is in the final stages. In the meeting, the two sides exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual interest, especially in the context of the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. “The external affairs minister underlined the prime minister’s vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ for enhancing resilience through self-reliance and human-centric globalisation as the basis for India’s economic revival,” the MEA said. It said Jaishankar invited Chile to take advantage of India’s new economic capacities and growing market. “Based on their convergence of views on many global and regional issues, both sides agreed to coordinate closely at the multilateral fora,” the MEA said. It was the first meeting held under the framework of India-Chile Joint Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-chile-hopes-to-firm-up-bilateral-investment-protection-deal/story-RX0I0a1du1Ut5PQMov4H1K.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Give him water,’ Jawans applaud as terrorist in J&K surrenders. His father touches feet of soldiers||The Indian army on Friday released a video of a an anti-terror operation in Jammu and Kashmir where a terrorist can be seen surrendering before the security forces. “Jahangir, we are requesting you to drop your weapons and surrender. We have cordoned off the place where you are hiding. I assure nothing will happen to you,” the Army personnel can be heard saying to the terrorist thrice. One SPO went missing with two AK-47 on 13 Oct 20. Same day, Jahangir Ah Bhat (31 yr old shopkeeper) from Chadoora had gone missing too. Today, he was apprehended with one AK rifle.#Kashmir https://t.co/D2p2WmHqal pic.twitter.com/44YdqxGTSe“Surrender for the sake of God, for the sake of your family,” the soldier said. As soon as the terrorist, identified as Jahangir Bhat, started movement, the soldiers in the operation can be heard saying among themselves, “nobody will fire”.“Is there anybody else? Is there any weapon? Come this side,” soldiers can be heard saying as the terrorist comes out from his hideout wearing just trousers. “Give him water. Please maintain some distance. Please be quiet. Leave your jersey. Nothing will happen to you. You have done a great job,” the soldiers calm Jahangir as he walks towards the security forces and then sits in front of them.In another video, the security forces can be seen interacting with Jahangir’s father who touched their feet for saving his son.“Tell your son he has done a great job. His all past mistakes will be forgotten. But don’t let him go with the terrorists again,” a security personnel told the father.Jahangir Bhat, a 31-year-old shopkeeper went missing on October 13 from Chadoora. His family was trying to trace him. On Friday, he was apprehended with one AK rifle, the Army has said.On Friday morning, a fierce gunfight broke out between the security forces and terrorists in Chadoora, following which mobile internet service was suspended in Budgam. After the joint operation, internet service was restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-him-water-jawans-applaud-as-terrorist-in-j-k-surrenders-his-father-touches-feet-of-soldiers/story-CgUTpZ9hmzWxQ8pn9B5gON.html
16-10-2020||India||Shaurya chakra awardee killed months after security withdrawn||Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu who fought terrorism in Punjab was shot dead by two unknown assailants in Tarn Taran district on Friday, months after the government withdrew his security cover. The motorcycle-borne men pumped four bullets into 62-year-old Sandhu when he was at his office adjoining his home at Bhikhiwind in the district and escaped, police said. He was taken to the hospital where doctors declared him “brought dead”. Sandhu had fought against terrorism in the state for years, facing scores of terror attacks during the height of Khalistani militancy. Singh’s security cover was withdrawn by the state government a year ago on the recommendation of Tarn Taran police, his brother Ranjit said, adding their entire family had remained on the hit list of terrorists. Sandhu’s wife Jagdish Kaur said it was the “handiwork of terrorists”, maintaining that their family did not have any personal enmity with anyone. “The family always fought against terrorists. As many as 62 attacks were made on my family by terrorists. We made numerous requests with DGP Dinkar Gupta for the security cover but all in vain,” she said. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoled Sandhu’s death and set up a special investigation team headed by Ferozpur deputy inspector general to probe the killing. The chief minister said the SIT will probe the killing, taking all possibilities into account. The guilty will not be spared, he added. Sandhu was killed by two unknown assailants at around 7 am, said Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, adding the victim died on the spot. A CCTV footage from the area shows that two unknown assailants arrived at Sandu’s house, one of them entered the premises and fired at him from a point blank range. The details of the vehicle and its registration number are being ascertained, the DGP said the DGP in a statement. An SIT has already been formed to nab the accused, he said. Giving details of the SIT, the DGP said in addition to Ferozepur Range DIG Hardial Maan, the team comprises Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman Nimbale and Bhikhiwind Deputy Superintendent of Police Rajbir Singh. A case under relevant sections including 302 (murder) of the IPC and the Arms Act has been registered, he added. The Tarn Taran braveheart also featured in some documentaries. Inspired by Sandhu and his family, many people followed him and defended themselves from terror attacks. The Union government awarded him Shaurya Chakra in 1993. “Balwinder Singh Sandhu and his brother Ranjit Singh Sandhu are opposed to the activities of terrorists. They were on the hit lists of terrorists. The terrorists so far have made 16 attempts to wipe out the Sandhu’s family within in about 11 months,” the citation for the gallantry award said. “The terrorists attacked them in groups of 10 to 200, but every time Sandhu brothers with the help of their brave wives Jagdish Kaur Sandhu and Balraj Kaur Sandhu have successfully foiled the attempts of militants to kill them,” it said. Militants had attacked the family on January 31, 1990 for the first time. The family had faced the deadliest attack on September 30, 1990 when around 200 terrorists surrounded their house from all sides and attacked them continuously for five hours with deadly weapons including rocket launchers. In this well-planned attack by terrorists, the approach road of the house was blocked by spreading underground mines so that no help from police could reach them, the citation said. Undaunted, Sandhu brothers and their wives fought terrorists with pistols and sten-guns provided by the government. The resistance shown by Sandhu brothers and their family members forced the terrorists to retreat, it said. All these persons have displayed courage and bravery of a high order in facing the attack of the terrorists and failing their repeated murderous attempts, it further says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shaurya-chakra-awardee-killed-months-after-security-withdrawn/story-WSUlzPRtBEHGUlHFKkf0NN.html
16-10-2020||India||Internet services suspended in Rajasthan district ahead of Gujjar Mahapanchayat on October 17||Ahead of Gujjar Mahapanchayat to be held on October 17 at Rajasthan’s Ada Pilupura in Bharatpur district, internet services and other social media services will remain suspended from October 16 midnight to October 17 midnight in Bayana, Weir, Bhusawar and Rupwas of Bharatpur district.Last month, Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla had threatened to revive the quota agitation in a month’s time if the central government did not offer constitutional protection to 5% reservation given to five more backward classes (MBCs) including Gujjars in Rajasthan by including the relevant legislation in the ninth schedule of the Constitution.Reports said the Mahapanchayat was initially scheduled to be held at Maksudanpura Devnarayan Temple in Malarna Dungar area, but later the venue was changed to Bharatpura which saw a massive agitation in which police had to open fire, after a cop was lynched. About 15 people were killed. In February 2019, the Rajasthan assembly amended the Rajasthan Backward Classes Act, 2017 to extend the reservation given to four more backward classes including the Gujjars to 5%, from the previous 1% provisioned by Vasundhra Raje government of the BJP. However, the Supreme Court had ruled in 2007 that laws placed under the ninth schedule after the Kesavananda Bharati judgement in April 1973 are open to judicial scrutiny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-services-suspended-in-rajasthan-district-ahead-of-gujjar-mahapanchayat-on-october-17/story-e47SwriX9TmZ01N6EFrx7J.html
16-10-2020||India||‘Up your service or...’: Odisha’s new bill to define norms for hospitality industry||Odisha government is in the process of bringing a new bill that would not just make registration of hotels, travel agents and tour operators, homestay operators and roadside dhabas mandatory, but also haul them up in case their service is not up to the mark.The bill titled ‘Odisha Tourism Trade (Regulation and Facilitation) Bill, 2020’ - a copy of which is available with HT - is now in the drafting stage and has been sent to some departments for their review before it is tabled in the winter session of the Assembly next month.As per the bill, hotels with a minimum of seven rooms, convention centres, restaurants, bars, dhabas with a seating capacity of more than 50 guests, cruise ships, cruise boats, houseboats, tourist boats with seating capacity of more than 10 passengers, roadside motels, PG accommodations, wayside amenities centres would have to compulsorily register as service providers. Even recreational facilities, such as golf courses, arts & crafts village, museums, aquaria, amusement parks, water parks and theme parks, would have to register as service providers with the government as per the proposed bill.Also read: Women allowed to travel in Mumbai local trains from tomorrowTo ensure that the service providers stick to an acceptable level of service to visiting tourists, the bill says that the state government would declare standards and norms and in the event of non-compliance of the same, they would be liable for a penalty in the form of fine and temporary suspension of operations for a minimum period of one month. If the service provider fails to bring up the service standard, they could be blacklisted and may face prosecution under the Indian Penal Code (IPC).As per the draft bill, all service providers have to register themselves with the government within 60 days of the framing of the rules under the new Act. The service providers would be penalised if they are found fraudulently marketing or selling a product or service which is proven to be bogus or unverified, charging a price or tariff higher than that displayed and/or declared, charging remuneration higher than that fixed or failure in displaying prices/tariff, failure in giving cash memo/credit memo.Refusal to accept cashless payment for services, use of misleading names and logos - for homestay, hotel, motel, houseboat, museum - even when requisite features of such places are missing or showing incorrect star rating of a hotel or showing names or abbreviations and logos similar to reputed ones shall also attract a penalty. They would also be penalised if they refuse admission/entry to a tourist on grounds of gender, caste, religion, nationality or ethnicity.To keep beggars and touts out of tourist places, the bill has prohibited their entry in or around any tourist area and anyone found engaging in touting or begging would be produced before the judicial magistrate for prosecution. The bill also has a provision of tourist police at tourist spots who would keep touts and beggars out. The tourist police would comprise specially trained personnel from Odisha state police or other suitably trained personnel of the state government.The department of tourism would function as the single window facilitator for all tourism and hospitality projects helping all service providers obtain statutory and non-statutory licences, no-objection certificate and necessary authorisations.Odisha tourism minister Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi refused to comment on the draft bill, saying it would not be fair to speak about it till it is tabled in the Assembly. Hotel and Restaurants Association of Odisha president JK Mohanty also refused to comment saying he is yet to see the draft of the bill.Over the last few years, Odisha has been betting big on tourism to pump up its economy through a series of campaigns and festivals. In December last year, it organised eastern India’s first ‘Glamping’ festival or Glamorous Camping on the Marine Drive-Eco Retreat on a kilometre-long beach between Puri and Konark. It drew high-end tourists to the state by putting 50 luxurious tents on the beach with provision of bedrooms, luxury toilets, private dining area, spa, air-conditioners, televisions as well as non-alcoholic minibars for the tourists. Last month, the tourism department launched ‘Odisha by Road’ campaign to let tourists explore the state’s tourist circuit through its roads as people were less likely to travel by air or train during the pandemic.More than 1.5 million domestic tourists visited Odisha during the years 2018-19 while the number of overseas tourists stood at 114,000, registering growth of 8.75 percent and 10.4 percent respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-your-service-or-odisha-s-new-bill-to-define-norms-for-hospitality-industry/story-eUb3Qc4DrOqjQgH68DAfhK.html
16-10-2020||India||Plea in SC to gag judges from making ‘extraneous’ comments in rape cases||The Supreme Court on Friday sought to know from Attorney General KK Venugopal whether a gag order can be issued against all high courts and other trial courts from commenting anything that trivialises the incident or harms the woman’s dignity while dealing with sexual assault cases.The need for this was felt after a petition was moved by a group of nine women lawyers who objected to crass comments made by judges across the country in their order while dealing with bail of an accused in a sexual harassment case.The immediate trigger for filing the petition was an order passed by an Indore Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court on July 30 this year. In the order, the judge allowed bail to a man accused of sexually harassing his neighbor by forcibly entering her house where she stayed with her family. As a bail condition, the court asked him to request the woman to tie a rakhi on Raksha Bandhan and promise to protect her dignity in future.“This is an extraordinary order which is totally against the principles of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The judge is aiming at reconciliation when the accused in sexual crimes need to be severely dealt with,” said senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, representing the application of advocate Aparna Bhatt and eight others.The application listed out instances where similar utterances were passed by various High Court judges and trial courts too. “We are not concerned with the bail granted in the present case but what worries us is a growing phenomenon where extraneous conditions/observations are being made in many cases related to women, which tend to trivialise the offences committed. Violence against women and more particularly sexual violence against women are extremely serious offences and need to be treated stringently by the courts.”Among the highlighted cases was an order passed by the Karnataka High Court on June 22 this year when the judge went on to question the character of the woman who complained that a man had raped her in the office after she had few drinks with him. The order was later modified after widespread protests.On September 2, the Madhya Pradesh High Court allowed bail to an alleged rapist in order to marry the victim. The group of lawyers in their application said, “In many cases, these conditions are actually in the nature of compromise, which dilute or completely obliterate the heinousness of the crime against the dignity of a woman. These observations also have an impact on the trial and in many cases on account of such observations, the accused get the benefit of acquittal or imposition of lesser sentence.”The bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and BR Gavai said, “Since you have asked for a general order for all courts, we will issue notice to the Attorney General for consideration of this position.”The petition spotlighted the top court’s extraordinary powers under Article 142.Using Article 142, it can direct all courts to “refrain from passing observations and imposing conditions in rape and sexual assault cases that trivialise the trauma undergone by survivors and which violate their human dignity.”The courts, according to the petition, must not adopt a soft approach towards the crime or the accused and employ appropriate language that does not compromise the victim’s dignity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-to-gag-judges-from-making-extraneous-comments-in-rape-cases/story-uG0TriDByJ42aha4MG7CsJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Jharkhand rejects Centre’s loan offer in lieu of GST compensation||The Jharkhand government on Friday rejected the loan offer of the Centre in lieu of the GST compensation, a day after the union finance ministry announced that the Rs 1.1 lakh crore estimated shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation cess will be borrowed by the central government and “passed on to the states as a back-to-back loan”.Speaking to reporters after the state cabinet meeting here, chief minister Hemant Soren said he would write and speak to the Prime Minister over the issue, even as he hit out at the Centre for asking the RBI to deduct the outstanding dues of the central power generator Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) directly from the state’s consolidated fund.“This is the first instance in my knowledge that the Centre has invoked such a rule to directly deduct money from the Consolidated Fund of a state. Our condition financially is grim due to the pandemic and the Centre knows about it. This act is an attack on the federal structure,” Soren said.“Yesterday the Union finance minister wrote to us and also called up to consider the loan offer. This is a strange situation. On one hand they are deducting our funds (Rs 1417 crore in reference to DVC payment by RBI) and on other they are pressuring us to accept loan (back to back loan provision by Centre laid out by Finance Ministry for GST compensation cess dues). Things won’t work this way. The cabinet today has decided to outrightly reject the loan offer,” the CM added.As per the state government, the Centre currently owes around Rs 3300 crore as GST dues to the Jharkhand government. The chief minister underlined that he would speak to the Prime Minister over these issues, besides writing to him officially.“We will be deliberating on the next possible steps in the best interest of the state. We need to understand in detail what could be potential fiscal implications of this proposal on our state coffers which is facing severe onslaught both from pandemic and of non-clearance of multiple dues, central share dues, GST dues etc by Centre, including the unilateral decision to deduct Rs 1417 crore from the state govt’s account with the RBI,” the CM said in a separate statement. Earlier this month, the Centre directed the RBI to auto deduct Rs 1417.50 crore in October, 2020 from the account of Jharkhand government maintained by the top bank as the first instalment for settling the outstanding dues of the state government’s power discom JBVNL to the DVC.While the state government has questioned the total outstanding amount claimed by the DVC, the chief minister said it’s baffling why the Centre did not deduct the money during the previous BJP regime. He also warned of a ‘people’s surge’ against such moves of the Centre.“This entire due being claimed by the DVC accumulated during the five years of Raghubar Das government. There was zero debt when we left the government in 2014. We are also paying regularly to DVC now. This tripartite agreement was also signed by the Raghubar Das government. I wonder why the money was not deducted when they were in power. This is an attempt to target a non-BJP government in the state,” said Soren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-rejects-centre-s-loan-offer-in-lieu-of-gst-compensation/story-yqPo7e7tn8XE8UBIBLBqaI.html
16-10-2020||India||Next two and half months are going to be crucial, says Harsh Vardhan on Covid-19||Union health minister on Friday said the next two and half months are going to be crucial in India’s fight against Covid-19 because of the festival season and winter. The minister was chairing a meeting with the heads of autonomous institutions under the department of Science and Technology and CSIR to review the Covid-19 preparations. “We are now entering into the 10th month of our fight against COVID-19. It was on January 8 when we had our first meeting of the expert group. Since then, the journey has been relentless. But today, we can proudly say that we have created significant infrastructure for our fight against coronavirus,” the minister said. Also Read: India’s Covid-19 tally rises to 7.37 million with 63,371 new cases; recoveries at 6.4 millionUnless a vaccine comes — which the minister said will happen soon as one vaccine candidate is at stage 3 trial and the other two are at stage two — social vaccines of precautionary measures need to be followed, the minister said. On Friday, India’s tally went up to 7,370,468 with 63,371 fresh cases recorded in the last 24 hours. However, India’s recovery rate is the highest in the world and the fatality is among the lowest, the health ministry has said. The minister has earlier warned of a spike in the number of cases during winter. “SARS Cov 2 is a respiratory virus and the transmission of respiratory viruses is known to increase during the colder weather. Respiratory viruses thrive better in cold weather and low humidity conditions. There is another fact that needs to be kept in mind. During winter, there is a tendency of overcrowding in residential dwellings which may increase transmission... So in Indian context, it would not be wrong to assume that the winter season may see an increase in the number of cases,” Harsh Vardhan had said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-two-and-half-months-are-going-to-be-crucial-says-harsh-vardhan-on-covid-19/story-I5Zk1vWb6Ha3dDt7LLWFTN.html
16-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: S Jaishankar says presence of Chinese troops at LAC a critical security challenge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chinese troops at LAC critical security challenge, says S JaishankarThe presence of a large number of Chinese troops in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) presents a critical security challenge to India and has disturbed the relationship built by the two sides over 30 years, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Read more‘I’m Modi’s Hanuman, will tear open my chest and show if needed’: Chirag PaswanLok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Friday showered praises on the prime minister and said that he does not need to use PM Modi’s photos for his party’s campaign in the upcoming Assembly elections in Bihar as ‘his prime minister resides in his heart’. Read moreUser data of more than 900,000 leaked from IRCTC last year, resurfaces on dark webA set of user data belonging to more than 900,000 users has been spotted on the dark web by a dark web risk monitoring firm called Cyble. Cyble noted that they came across a post where a user had allegedly claimed that user of data of close to one million people had been leaked sometime in 2019 and shared that data on the DarkWeb community on October 13. Read moreTaish trailer breakdown: Bejoy Nambiar, Pulkit Samrat, Jim Sarbh, Kriti Kharbanda, Sanjeeda Shaikh explain their slick thrillerThe makers of upcoming Zee5 original web series/feature film, Taish, revealed its first trailer on Thursday. Directed by Bejoy Nambiar of Shaitaan and Wazir fame, the thriller stars Harshvardhan Rane, Pulkit Samrat, Jim Sarbh, Kriti Kharbanda and Sanjeeda Shaikh. Read moreIPL 2020: Eoin Morgan reveals what Dinesh Karthik told him while handing over KKR captaincyNewly-appointed Kolkata Knight Riders captain Eoin Morgan revealed how Dinesh Karthik came up to him and the KKR management to inform them about his wish to step aside from the leadership role on the eve of their IPL 2020 match against defending champions Mumbai Indians in Abu Dhabi. Read moreElon Musk calls this image ‘table in tension’. Check it out to see whyElon Musk often tweets about and on science-related subjects. This notion is illustrated best by a comment the CEO of SpaceX left on this post by a Twitter account named @UniverCurious. The share is intriguing, and netizens’ comments left under the post convey the same. Read moreHow Pakistan is hoodwinking FATF and the world on terror fundingThe Imran Khan government has been trying hard to get off the FATF ‘grey list’. Pakistan had tried to impress the meeting of the Asia pacific Joint Group last month by boasting of the arrest and conviction of a select group of terrorist leaders. However, a careful examination of Pakistan’s claims show that it is only depending on its old trick of hoodwinking the world with a sham crackdown on terror groups. Hindustan Times’ executive editor Shishir Gupta decodes the Imran Khan government’s false claims and explains why it is time for the FATF to blacklist Pakistan. Watch In Focus with Hindustan Times senior editor Aditi Prasad for all the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-s-jaishankar-says-presence-of-chinese-troops-at-lac-a-critical-security-challenge-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YjKGgT6yHhCPdSyXGZ1OsJ.html
16-10-2020||India||Foreign secy Harsh Shringla expected to visit Maldives in November||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla is expected to visit the Maldives in November as part of an outreach to India’s key neighbours, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity on Friday. The visit will follow his recent trips to Bangladesh and Myanmar, and the Maldives will be only the third foreign destination for Shringla amid Covid-19-related travel restrictions. This reflects the importance attached by India to its ties with the Indian Ocean archipelago, the people said. In recent months, India has unveiled a slew of measures to assist in the recovery of the Maldives from the economic impact of the pandemic and to bolster defence and security cooperation. The visit is currently in the planning stage and a date is expected to be finalised soon, the people said. The Maldives is usually among the foreign countries that every foreign secretary visits soon after assuming office, but Shringla, who took over in January, had to curtail his travel plans due to the pandemic. Last month, India provided a soft loan of $250 million to the Maldives as budgetary support to mitigate the economic impact of the pandemic, the latest in a string of support measures. The financial aid was first announced during a virtual meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Maldivian counterpart Abdulla Shahid on August 13. At the meeting, India had also unveiled a $500-million package to help the Maldives build a connectivity project linking its capital Male with three islands. The Maldives and India launched a cargo ferry service connecting Tuticorin and Cochin ports with Male in September with the aim of cutting costs and time taken to transport goods between the two countries. India also provided a Dornier maritime surveillance aircraft to the Maldives National Defence Force (MDNF) in September. The aircraft is expected to boost efforts to keep a closer eye on the movement of Chinese vessels in regional waters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secy-harsh-shringla-expected-to-visit-maldives-in-november/story-G4xIJRWjKcmd5trjVkaVnJ.html
16-10-2020||India||PM Modi speaks to Uddhav over Maharashtra flood, assures Centre’s support||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about the flood situation in the state and assured Centre’s support in the ongoing rescue and relief work.“Spoke to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray regarding the situation arising due to flooding and heavy rain in parts of the state. My thoughts and prayers are with those sisters and brothers affected. Reiterated Centre’s support in the ongoing rescue and relief work,” PM Modi said.Heavy rains and floods have claimed at least 47 lives in Maharashtra’s Pune, Aurangabad and Konkan divisions in the last three days while crops on lakhs of hectares were damaged extensively, officials said on Friday.About 28 persons have died in rain-related incidents in western Maharashtra which comes under Pune division, 16 in central Maharashtra’s Aurangabad division and three in coastal Konkan, they said.Over 2,300 houses were damaged in heavy rains and floods in Western Maharashtra where more than 21,000 people were moved to safer places, as per the Pune Divisional Commissioner’s office.Crops such as sugarcane, soybean, vegetables, rice, pomegranate and cotton, spread over 57,000 hectares in Pune, Solapur, Satara and Sangli districts, have suffered damage.The death toll was 16 in Aurangabad division and three in Konkan division.“Thirteen tehsils in Aurangabad division had heavy rainfall, that is, more than 65 mm in 24 hours, which caused flooding and damaged houses as well as crops over 4,99,648 hectares,” an official said.In Konkan division, 326 houses were damaged in Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri districts while five cattle died.Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts have reported one death each in rain-related incidents.Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said farmers, mostly in Pune division, have suffered huge crop damage and he would “ask the Union government to provide some compensations to farmers who have lost their livelihood”.Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar reviewed the flood situation in western Maharashtra and asked the administration to prepare ‘panchnama’ (inspection report) of damaged crops, houses and other properties immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-uddhav-over-maharashtra-flood-assures-centre-s-support/story-0HrTjyl3Tl3NTFy53sAHLN.html
16-10-2020||India||Chinese troops at LAC critical security challenge, says S Jaishankar||The presence of a large number of Chinese troops in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) presents a critical security challenge to India and has disturbed the relationship built by the two sides over 30 years, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Participating in a discussion on global challenges confronting India along with former Australian premier Kevin Rudd for Asia Society, Jaishankar expressed surprise at the nearly six-month border standoff, especially since it followed the efforts by India and China to improve their ties through two informal summits. “It has obviously had a very deep public impact and a very major political impact and it has left the relationship profoundly disturbed,” he said, referring to the large numbers of Chinese forces deployed at friction points on the LAC and the “tragic” clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 that killed 20 Indian soldiers. “I haven’t got a reasonable explanation...from them [Chinese] on this matter,” he said, adding that the concentration of Chinese troops at the disputed border represented a “critical security challenge”. The informal summits between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping at Wuhan in 2018 and at Mamallapuram in 2019 provided an opportunity to the two leaders to spend time and directly talk to each other “about their concerns” without any bureaucratic filters, Jaishankar said. At the second summit held a year ago, a lot of the discussions centred round “the future, our prospects [and] issues between us” and “how do we work out our own relationship”, he added. “What happened this year was a very sharp departure...over the course of a relationship over 30 years,” he said, noting that the two sides “painstakingly” built their ties since former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi’s visit to Beijing in 1988 despite India’s concerns on trade issues and China’s relationship with Pakistan. The basis for building this relationship “has been peace and tranquillity along the LAC” and multiple agreements created the framework for this by limiting military forces in border areas and setting the stage for border management, he said. The events of this year marked a “departure from these agreements”, he added. In response to a question from Rudd, Jaishankar made it clear that India’s approach towards Pakistan hinged on Islamabad stopping the use of terrorism as a policy. “[India is] still dealing with the perennial issues – terrorism from Pakistan continues, and terrorism remains publicly acknowledged by their government as a policy that they are justifying,” he said. “It makes it very hard to conduct normal relations with them.” Pakistan doesn’t “do normal trade with India”, didn’t give the country Most Favoured Nation (MFN)-status and has blocked connectivity with Afghanistan, he said, adding: “Until we address that problem, this challenge of how do you have a normal relationship with this very unique neighbour is a very troubling issue for our foreign policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-troops-at-lac-critical-security-challenge-s-jaishankar/story-kVouq48LGAp4rQUrXU6GMK.html
16-10-2020||India||Hackers attack Haldiram’s servers, demand Rs 7.5 lakh||Unidentified hackers attacked the servers of Noida-based Haldiram’s Snacks private limited with ransomware, stealing sensitive data and demanding a ransom of Rs 7.5 lakh to release the information. A case was registered at Noida Sector 58 police station on Wednesday.The incident occurred on the intervening night of July 12 and 13 when issues were reported with the company server which later turned out to be ransomware attacks.According to the complaint filed by the company’s deputy general manager (DGM), IT, technicians were called in after the corporate office located in Noida’s sector 62 was alerted about the problem.“It was found that the company’s data was being diverted through the cyber attack following which the server connection with other branches was cut off. However, by then, substantial data had already been stolen. By 3 am, the ransomware had spread via the corporate network. A complaint was then raised with a cyber security company but all sensitive data had already been encrypted by the by then,” said DGM, Aziz Khan, in his complaint to Noida cyber cell.Also read: ‘I’m Modi’s Hanuman, will tear open my chest and show if needed’ - Chirag PaswanOfficials said that the data stolen included financial and employee information, data on payroll, retail sales, purchases, inventory of the company.“This was a pre-planned conspiracy and the hackers not only stole the data but also tried to extort money in exchange for returning it. They left a message on the servers about the ransomware attack and proposed decrypting and returning the data for a ransom of Rs 7.5 lakh,” said the complainant.Company officials also said that the data theft can lead to losses and has already disrupted the company’s daily functioning. The hackers also deleted the backups from the servers, spelling more trouble for the company. Officials have provided IP addresses, of servers from where the ransomware appeared to have originated, to the police. Aziz did not comment on the situation.Based on his complaint, a case was registered with the Noida Sector 58 police station under sections 420 (cheating), 384 (extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act.A senior police official said that before approaching Noida police, the company had the case investigated on their own and once the complaint was filed, the cyber cell was conducting the probe in the matter.“The server IDs provided by the company are proxy servers and the hackers were long gone from those addresses. No issues have been reported yet which might indicate that the misuse of data. Work is being done to track the hackers and identify them,” said the official.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 1, said that an investigation is still underway.“We have registered the FIR and cyber cell officials are looking into the case,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hackers-attack-haldiram-s-servers-in-noida-demand-rs-7-5-lakh/story-0HlGSst3ab8j2qKn2F1Z8L.html
16-10-2020||Editorials||In Kashmir, time for political dialogue | HT Editorial||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K)’s former chief ministers Farooq and Omar Abdullah, and the just-released former CM, Mehbooba Mufti have come together to form the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. Given the rapid pace at which events have unfolded in J&K over the past year, it is easy to forget that the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have been arch-rivals for over two decades. The Abdullahs saw the PDP as a force propped by the Centre to undercut them, while the Muftis blamed the NC’s compromises with New Delhi as responsible for Kashmir’s fate.But both the NC and the PDP, now, recognise that their political survival is itself at stake. Mainstream Kashmiri parties stood against Pakistan-sponsored terror, but always sought, in principle, a degree of autonomy within India. The effective nullification of Article 370 has put an end to these political aspirations. They have found themselves blamed for having surrendered to Delhi on the Kashmiri street, while Delhi’s establishment sees them as untrustworthy. Both parties now recognise that it is only by putting up a joint front that they can extract a renegotiation of Kashmir’s status within India. And while they cannot give up their demand for the restoration of Article 370, a more realistic goal is asking for statehood.This unity between Kashmir’s democrats actually is a positive development, for it allows the Centre to reach a comprehensive accommodation with all of them. Otherwise, it would be easy for one Kashmiri faction to accuse the other of “selling out”. Delhi should start a sincere dialogue to restore normalcy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-kashmir-time-for-political-dialogue-ht-editorial/story-UPxQrqLhoKcovwwRooH0AK.html
