24-10-2020||News||How to improve learning outcomes||The recent National Sample Survey Office (75th Round) data and the learning outcomes study of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (National Achievement Survey, 2017) show that India’s children are not learning at the primary stage, and as they move to higher levels, they are struggling to cope with the curriculum. This means that children who complete eight, 10 or 12 years of schooling are not equipped with the requisite knowledge and skills — be it formal skills (reading and writing), cognitive skills, technological skills or higher-order thinking skills.The National Achievement Survey (NAS) also reveals a decline in learning levels as children move up the ladder. This, among other reasons, could explain the high drop-out rate at the secondary level, and higher at the higher secondary level. The 2017 NAS shows that a Class 3 student can correctly answer 66% of learning outcomes assessed; this drops to about 39% by the time the child reaches Class 10.The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 rightly focuses on the learning challenge in the classrooms. However, in order to attain universal foundational literacy and numeracy, which the NEP proposes, we have to work simultaneously on three fronts: Change the structure of the curriculum and assessment so that it moves away from rote-learning; work with primary teachers intensively to enhance their capacities and pedagogic practices; and make sure there are no dysfunctional, single-teacher/ two-teacher/ teacher-less schools in the country.Now that the first stage recommended by NEP of five years foundational learning goes up to Class 2 (three years pre-primary and two years primary), the government can seriously consider consolidating small upper primary schools into one viable school at a cluster level. Then a student will not need to travel long distances if she can attend Class 3-12 in one cluster school. There is enough qualitative evidence to show that composite secondary schools retain more children. When children have to shift schools — especially girls — the problem of transport and the safety of transport/cycling acquires a momentum of its own — pushing more children out of the school system. The next challenge is upgrading/merging schools to make each school resource-rich in library/laboratories/sports/vocational education; and ensure there is a teacher for every class and every subject. The most challenging task would be to ensure teachers believe that every child can learn, and teach children at the right level. This may sound simple, but my work with government schools and teachers has convinced me that this will not be easy to achieve. Teachers need greater autonomy inside the classroom and they should not be tied down to curriculum-related time-tables. At the same time, they need to unlearn rote-learning practices and teach every child to understand and internalise basic concepts in mathematics and reading with comprehension. What a teacher believes in influences her attitude towards students, the pedagogy, and how she manages time to reach out to every child. A teacher’s prejudices, biases and attitudes can be a barrier to learning. If a teacher believes that some children cannot learn, she is most likely to ignore them and focus on others. If a teacher believes that girls cannot learn mathematics, she will communicate it to the students, and girl students may feel afraid to ask questions. . To improve the learning levels, India has to ensure that the education system focuses on what and how much our children are learning, and how we can support, encourage, and facilitate new teaching methods.Vimala Ramachandran is an educational researcher and retired professor of teacher management, National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration The views expressed are personalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-to-improve-learning-outcomes/story-npqmzMCW9niNgiBxnfJ92H.html
24-10-2020||News||In Bihar, the importance of being Nitish Kumar||Bihar never fails to surprise. Given the intensity of anti-incumbency against Nitish Kumar, his electoral fortune in the ensuing election should have nosedived. However, he remains the most preferred choice as the next chief minister (CM). This outlier phenomenon demands a focus into the prevailing political psychology of the voters in the state. Further, given the numerical preponderance of the backward castes in Bihar, a quick look into the internal dynamics within caste groups may also be relevant.Since the 1950s, Bihar witnessed two diametrically opposed strands of backward caste assertion, the feudal and the egalitarian. Feudal backwardism revealed the psychology of the dominant backward castes such as Yadavs, the majority of whom aspired to dislodge the deeply-entrenched but numerically-weaker upper castes and emerge as the new political elite. Their political agency was radical and transformative as long as the upper castes were the reference. The moment the reference changed to the lower backward castes and Dalits, they revealed a conservative face. The vanguard of this strand was BP Mandal, a big Yadav landlord. On the other hand, there was an egalitarian quest of backward caste assertion within the Lohiaite framework. Their aim was not merely to replace the hold of the upper castes by subalterns, but rather to erase the very feudal outlook that social groups in power tend to acquire. This thread was led by Karpoori Thakur, a committed socialist who rose from an extremely humble background. He belonged to numerically insignificant Nai (barber) caste.This was not merely a clash of the political aspirations of the two leaders to assume the mantle of backward caste discourse, but rather, it signified the struggle as to which strand of backwardism, the feudal or the egalitarian, would prevail. They represented two contrasting subaltern aspirations within the democratic framework. One couldn’t have prevailed without vanquishing the other.Hence, the saga of sabotage by feudal strand against the egalitarian ones is long: From BP Mandal collaborating with the Congress and dislodging the first non-Congress government in 1968 (when Karpoori Thakur was the deputy CM) to his diatribe in 1978 against Thakur who, as Bihar’s CM, dared to implement the backward castes reservation by dividing it internally. Within the 20% quota, 12% was earmarked for the extremely backward classes (EBCs) while better-off backward castes got 8%. Further, Mandal, as the chairman of the second Backward Caste Commission, ensured that this internal differentiation, popularly known as Karpoori model in Bihar, signifying the aspirations of weaker subalterns, was effectively denied. In the aftermath of the death of BP Mandal and Karpoori Thakur, the mantle of backward caste aspiration passed on to two leaders at different intervals in the 1990s. Lalu Prasad decided to inherit Mandal’s legacy. He replaced the Karpoori model with the Mandal model, wherein 60% of share in reservation, exclusively reserved for lower Other Backward Classes (OBCs)/EBCs, was abolished, despite vehement protest from the EBC leadership in the state. That, in turn, compelled the EBC leadership to approach the high court and launch a popular agitation, leading to the withdrawal of the government circular and restoration of the Karpoori model.On the other hand, Nitish Kumar meticulously attempted to inherit the legacy of Karpoori Thakur, both in opposition and as CM by earmarking special policy provisions for the EBCs and the Mahadalits. EBCs such as Mallahs, Nais, Kalwars, Kewats, Binds, and Tantis supported Nitish Kumar because there was a dominant perception that the Rashtriya Janata Dal leadership catered to the empowerment of only the Yadav community.Since the 1990 assembly election in Bihar, Yadavs claimed a disproportionately large share of power in Janata Dal (JD) and then the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD). They got 100 tickets out of 227 seats that the JD contested in 1990. Important contracts, liquor licences, casual and semi-permanent government jobs, chairmanships of boards and corporations began falling into hands Lalu Prasad chose, and they were invariably Yadavs. Yadavs were also preferred in the ministry, the party, the bureaucracy, business, local self-government and various committees. As has been extensively reported, they were cornering the largest chunks in recruitments to the lower bureaucracy within or outside the OBC quota.The 1995 Bihar assembly election was a setback for the EBCs. Despite constituting around 28-30 % of the population, EBC MLAs made up less than 5% of the Bihar assembly. This lopsided representation between Yadavs and other OBC groups revealed anti-EBC approach of the RJD. This intra-backward representational discrepancy, coupled with the arrogance displayed by dominant Yadavs in the public sphere where the EBCs and Dalits found themselves to be at the receiving end, remains the most abiding memory among the weaker subalterns who support Nitish Kumar. Of all the mainstream parties, the RJD, until 2019 Lok Sabha election, has been giving least representation to the EBCs. A sudden change of course will not change the deeply ingrained perception among the vulnerable castes. In this backdrop, the prevailing psychology of the vulnerable castes matters as they are as wary of the dominance of upper castes as of the dominant OBC castes such as Yadavs. Hence, when it comes to state elections, both the BJP and the RJD, without Nitish Kumar, are perceived by the majority of EBCs and Mahadalits to be the parties which cater primarily to the interest of the dominant castes. And that explains the indispensability of Nitish Kumar.Sajjan Kumar is a political analyst associated with Peoples Pulse The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-bihar-the-importance-of-being-nitish-kumar/story-L9PKYIYnykA7FWPEPrVpsN.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Messy affair: Strike to continue as talks between Chandigarh MC, unions fail||Talks between the Chandigarh municipal corporation and protesting sanitation workers and door-to-door garbage collectors failed, affecting cleanliness across the City Beautiful on Saturday.Garbage collectors, who went on strike on Saturday, sat on a dharna outside the MC office in Sector 17. Members of the Safai Karamchari Union, who had started their indefinite strike on Friday, were also present there. The protesters finally met MC commissioner Kamal Kishore Yadav, but the talks bore no fruit.While sanitation workers are up in arms against wearing GPS-enabled smart watches that will keep a check on their location during work hours, the household garbage collectors are opposing the MC’s plan to take over door-to-door lifting of waste.After the talks, Yadav said: “On their opposition to smart watches, I told them that these decisions have been taken by the MC General House, and it is not in my power to roll them back. We are trying to reason with the protesters and hope to resolve the issue soon.”Om Prakash Saini, who is the chairman of the Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors Society, said: “As the commissioner himself said he can’t fulfil our demands, we will continue to protest till we get heard by the House. We have asked a few councillors to raise this issue as an urgent House agenda.”Krishan Kumar Chadha, president of the Safai Karamchari Union, said: “If our demands aren’t met, we are prepared to stay on strike for as long as it is needed.”While the protesters will again sit on dharna outside the MC office on Monday, garbage collection will completely stop from Sunday, said Saini, adding that the situation will only worsen after Dussehra.Heaps of garbage along roadsThe garbage collecters’ strike on Saturday drew a mixed response on Saturday. While residents in areas such as Sectors 21, 33, 34, 37, 38 and 45 reported that garbage collectors had not turned up, those in Sectors 32, 40, 48, 49 and 61 reported normal services. However, sanitation workers remained absent, leading to heaps of garbage on roads, streets as well as markets.Baljinder Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), who lives in Sector 21, said residents have already started throwing their garbage in open spaces. Kuljinder Sra, general secretary, Sector 33B RWA, said: “The ground next to Tender Heart School has been turned into a dump. Such a sight and stench are most unwelcome around the festive season.”Hitesh Puri, chairman of Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), said: “Residents have had enough of the MC’s inability to deal with the issue. We will hold a meeting on November 1, and are ready to boycott the MC, if needed.”Deputy mayor Jagtar Singh Jagga said: “The MC is committed to resolve the issue as soon as possible. With the danger of diseases such as malaria and dengue lurking, garbage collection cannot be allowed to remain affected. We hope to work out an amicable solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/messy-affair-strike-to-continue-as-talks-between-chandigarh-mc-unions-fail/story-LFfxJgfVE3Qv8k9vwrcq3J.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Khaki shame: Cops come to blows in Chandigarh’s Sector 26||Out to catch “suspicious elements” moving in the city, teams of the crime branch and Sector-26 police station came to blows in Chandigarh on Friday night, leaving two cops injured and the department red-faced. The incident reported in Sector 26 comes at a time Chandigarh Police are already drawing flak for a spate of shooting incidents and gang violence this month. Even as the incident left an inspector of the crime branch with a hairline fracture in the nose and an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the area police station with fractured leg and arm, senior officials on Saturday tried to pass it off as an incident of “manhandling” due to “miscommunication” . The incident has in fact once again brought to the fore a long-standing tussle and “credit war” between the crime branch and police stations in Chandigarh.“The facts are not clear. It was an argument. They manhandled each other, as a result of which two of them fell and sustained injuries,” said a senior police official, who visited the spot on receiving information about the two police teams coming to blows. The official, who did not wish to be named, said: “There was some misunderstanding as the crime branch team was in civil clothes. So far, no official complaint has been filed by anyone.”Meanwhile, Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, said: “We are getting the facts verified. A report has been sought on the entire incident. Action will be taken if anyone is found guilty.” Call from nightclub led to brawl According to sources in the department, it all started with two separate calls made from Eskobar in Sector 9, one to the crime branch and other to the police station, alleging threats being made by some patrons. Police were informed that the accused were travelling in a Hyundai i20 with Amritsar registration number and had gone to Sector 26. Eskobar is the same nightclub where a Tik Tok content creator was injured in firing on the night of October 11. Swinging into action, the Sector-26 police station team spotted the car parked outside a discotheque in the area and even apprehended its occupants. As they were being taken to the police station, the crime branch personnel in civvies reached the spot and tried to take the suspects in their custody, leading to a heated exchange of words between the two teams. According to sources, inspector Satinder Singh of the crime branch placed a barricade to stop the police vehicle taking away the suspects, but the driver dodged it. Not giving up, the crime branch officials allegedly intercepted the vehicle after a short distance. It was then that the two teams came to blows, said officials privy to the development.Looking at the commotion, ASI Ramesh Hodd of the Sector-26 police station, who was manning a naka close by, intervened. Both Singh and Hodd were injured and left with torn uniform in the melee, said sources. The two were taken to the police station after the intervention of senior officials, and their medical examination was conducted. It later turned out that the suspects detained had refused to pay their bill on being denied hookah at Eskobar. They had left in a huff after an argument with the staff. Police let them off after questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khaki-shame-cops-come-to-blows-in-chandigarh-s-sector-26/story-79PpXBb8E2rGIz2wpgq8fK.html
24-10-2020||City||No international flight from Chandigarh this winter||Due to the ongoing pandemic, Chandigarh International Airport has not listed any international flight in its winter schedule that will come into force on Sunday (October 25) and last till March 27 next year. Flights to Dubai and Sharjah, which were operating before the lockdown, have also been left out.Dashing the hopes of travel buffs, tour operators and industrialists, there is no new destination added on the domestic circuit as well. In fact, the number of domestic flights has been reduced from 36 to 29 in the schedule. The summer schedule released in March this year had added some new destinations in the domestic circuit. The winter schedule has nothing exciting to offer, except changes in some flight timings.In April last year, round-the-clock operations had begun at the airport, allowing landing of bigger aircraft, including Airbus 330 and and Boeing 787-800 (Dreamliner). However, even after 18 months, no big aircraft is in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-international-flight-from-chandigarh-this-winter/story-lIqRFGDJxIPyX2pujLbedO.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Witerati: Who moved my chilli cheese!||While the European Parliament was preoccupied proclaiming the verdict that vegetarian fast foods can flaunt suffixes such as Sausages or Steak, desi foodies have been busy scripting pandemic’s ‘Non-Vegan Meats the Navratri Vegan” narrative.Though William Shakespeare might be tossing in his grave at the meaty twist to his “What’s in a Name” adage, the long and short of EU’s veg ‘Footlong’ debate is -- there ain’t anything semantically incorrect in calling non-meat food a “veggie burger” or ‘veg sausage”.Alas, coinciding with the Navratri season, the jollifications by European parliamentarians might’ve been hard to digest by India Fasting, especially with Swedish EU lawmaker Jytte Guteland erupting into epicurean elation, “I’m going to celebrate with a vegan burger!”Come #Navratri and #DurgaPujo season, and the symbolic desi Aloo Tikki Burger versus Chicken Mac Maharaja battle gets amplified to assume epic proportions. Who better than our Lollitas, Lamba jis, Lally jis & Co to drive this culinary collision narrative.We’ll meat againPicture Navratri in the #NewNormal. Non-vegetarian lovers Lamba jis and Lally jis face two options as their culinary adventures are curtailed, lock steak and falafel. Option One, Lamba ji & Co are overnight expected to exhibit “withdrawal symptoms”. That is, withdrawal from bingeing on Burgers & Co boasting meaty ‘content’, and pretending to be ‘content’ with Chilli Paneer, Chilla & Co.Option Two, if the taste buds of Lamba ji & Co are not programmed to survive such “withdrawal symptoms”, they are expected to transport their taste buds on a tour to outside eateries to cater to chicken cravings. Poor Lamba ji, Lally Ji & Co soon suffer ‘withdrawal symptoms” not of one but two kinds – they cannot “meat, plus they cannot “meet”.Blame it on social distancing strictures and dine out’s curtailed commentary, Navratri in pandemic season is seeing Lamba ji & Co scripting not the India Wining ‘n’ Dining narrative, but an India Whining narrative.They brave out the first few days of Lollitas’ Navratri fasting, but half way through, their ‘withdrawal symptoms’ see them withdrawing not just from meat, but even from Google Meet. Lamba ji & Co potter about like a Devdas pining for Paro, oops, for Pulao (keema pulao).Taking pity on this poor gastronomically devastated version of Devdas, Lollita suggests that Lamba ji indulge his chicken cravings outside. Come Kake Da Hotel or Singh’s Chicken, and Lamba ji and Lollita can be seen sticking it out, inside their car. Lamba ji straddles the driver’s seat, while Lollita, for a change, takes “backseat’.Blame it on ‘social distancing’ strictures of two kinds. One, the social distancing with the world outside. Two, the social distancing inside, between Navratri’s vegan and non-vegan.Their conversation runs thus: “Oye, it’s after ages seeing such hot legs,” Lambaji gushes to his guy gang all agog on Zoom.Lollita looks flabbergasted as she tucks into her takeaway Navratra thali in the backseat. She half chokes on her kuttu ki roti, until she sees him flailing shapely calves into the Zoom grid – KFC’s chicken legs. Lamba ji continues caterwauling like a Cat who has hitherto had to make do with cheese ‘n’ chips and is suddenly let loose among the pigeons.“Oye yaar, how I’ve been missing Reshmi!” Lamba ji is unstoppable in his pent-up prattle.“Reshmi? OMG, has he been having a juicy online affair in Lockdown?” Lollita disquietedly digs into Arbi Dry.“Oye yaar, nothing to match Reshmi!” Lamba ji looks askance at the “kebab mein haddi” plonked on the backseat while chomping and chirruping his boom on Zoom. “God knows when at home one can ‘meat’?”Lollita chokes over her bland dessert of Saboodana Kheer, “Meet?”The curious case of My Big Fat Leek Pudding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/witerati-who-moved-my-chilli-cheese/story-XhUepOnmXqNtwsPWabUj8M.html
24-10-2020||City||Tricity buzz: HT Chandigarh reporters’ tracker on all those making, of faking, news||Chandigarh cop turns snake catcher, winning hearts Living up to the Chandigarh Police motto, We care for you, constable Krishan Triyala turned snake-catcher for residents the other day. After spotting a black snake, panicky residents of Darshani Bagh in Manimajra called up the police for help. Posted at the beat box, constable Krishan was prompt to turn up with his team. When residents told him that the snake is hiding in the bushes near a pipe, the cop did not waste a second in catching the snake and carefully put it in a gunny bag, much to the respite of residents. After boycotting MC House meet, BJP members go incommunicado There was an eerie silence in the Chandigarh BJP rank and file last Tuesday after 18 of the 20 party councillors boycotted the general House meeting. The meeting was scheduled for 2pm. But when only one BJP councillor turned up by 2.30pm, mayor Raj Bala Malik adjourned the meeting. Generally a call away and always keen to respond to media queries, the BJP councillors didn’t respond to calls nor to messages as mediapersons started calling them up, looking for conclusive answers. The party’s Chandigarh chief, Arun Sood, too was incommunicado. It was only late in the evening that murmurs of the party issuing a press statement started doing the rounds. Finally, the press note landed at 8pm after which BJP councillors started calling back. Heartbroken, owner announces Rs 20,000 reward for dachshund Sukhjinder Kaur, a resident of Sector 68, Mohali, has announced a reward of Rs 20,000 for anybody finding her dachshund, Dudo, who was snatched by two motorcyclists while she was walking him on October 18. The heartbroken owner has put up posters around town and shared the word on social media. She has even appealed to the snatchers to return her pet and take the reward. Though police have registered the case, there is still no sign of the dog despite the incident being captured on CCTV camera. Ramlila gets new script after audience pre-empts dialogues The Navyug Ramlila and Dussehra Committee, Sector 7, Chandigarh, was one of the few stage performances since the start of the Navratras. Director Pardeep Kumar said that people had been watching the performance for years so much so that now they have memorised the dialogues. “The audience was stealing the thunder of our actors, pre-emptively speaking the dialogue before the character could. I had to rewrite the script last year so that this would stop,” he said. This year, the number of visitors has dropped drastically as compared to previous years, but Kumar is satisfied with his troupe’s performance. Break from Covid testing in markets during festive season Amid the festival season and growing rush in the markets, the Chandigarh health department is not in favour of deploying Covid-19 mobile testing teams in the city’s shopping areas. Senior officials say it will lead to chaos in the markets even if one person tests positive among hundreds. “Arranging resources is not an issue but we need to keep in mind such decisions do backfire. It will do more harm than good. Anybody can walk in to get tested at sampling centres across the city,” a senior official said. Pandemic delays PU’s budget preparation The preparation of the revised budget for 2020-21 is getting delayed this year. The second meeting of budget estimates committee is yet to be held. Last year, the meeting of board of finance (BoF) was held in August, however this time, the BoF has not met yet to finalise the budget. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Rajanbir Singh, Amanjeet Singh and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tricity-buzz-ht-chandigarh-reporters-tracker-on-all-those-making-of-faking-news/story-T7mGy5DlTifOjlFZgAuuYM.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Union education ministry seeks action DU V-C over his ‘way of functioning’||The Union education ministry on Saturday sought action against DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi over his way of functioning, said varsity officials in the know of the matter. The ministry has also written to the Delhi University (DU) asking that “strict action” be taken against PC Jha for writing to the ministry posing as registrar of DU, even though he was removed from the post.The high-voltage drama has been unfolding at Delhi University since Tuesday with two factions of the university supporting two registrars, two pro-vice chancellors, and two directors of South Campus.On Friday, Jha had written to the ministry saying Tyagi’s decision to appoint him as registrar was in compliance with the DU Act.An official from the ministry, requesting anonymity, said, “There have been concerns about the functioning of the university. The role of the vice-chancellor needs to be looked at. The ministry has written to the President’s Office seeking an inquiry into these aspects.” President Ram Nath Kovind, as the visitor of central institutions, may order a probe and effect the removal of a top varsity functionary, given sufficient reasons.In a letter addressed to Vikas Gupta, the registrar appointed by pro-vice-chancellor PC Joshi, education ministry deputy secretary Birendra Kumar Singh said, “This ministry is in receipt of a letter dated 23.10.2020 received from one Shri PC Jha claiming to be the Registrar of the University. It is requested to ascertain who this person is and if he turns out to be an employee of Delhi University, then strict action as per the Delhi University Act,1922, and statutes and ordinances made thereunder may be taken.”When contacted, Gupta confirmed receiving a letter from the ministry and said, “We have informed the ministry that action will be taken as per the administrative rules and regulations. Jha’s entry to the viceregal lodge has been restricted for now.” The viceregal lodge houses the office of the DU vice-chancellor as well as those of executive officials of the varsity, including the registrar and pro-vice-chancellor.Jha also released a statement, saying he and Geeta Bhatt were not allowed to enter viceregal lodge premises on Saturday around 1.30pm. “There has been an illegal occupation of the viceregal lodge and it has been informed to the police,” Jha said.XXXX DELHI POLICE QUOTE AWAITED XXXXThe offices of the registrar and pro-VC, which had been remained locked for two days, were unlocked by Gupta and Joshi late Friday. “I have been appointed as the registrar following due process and my appointment was acknowledged by the ministry as well. So, I have to be in the office for the normal functioning of the University,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/union-education-ministry-seeks-action-du-v-c-over-his-way-of-functioning/story-hDypje58lSWEvkqxphsdUI.html
24-10-2020||City||Three policemen assaulted in Mumbai in 24 hours||Three policemen were assaulted in Mumbai in a day while performing their duties. The first incident took place on Friday around 12.30pm near Cotton Exchange at LT Marg, where a 54-year-old constable was assaulted by two people. According to LT Marg police, constable Eknath Karde, who is attached with Kalbadevi traffic division, stopped a biker for not wearing helmet. “The bike rider and the woman riding pillion started arguing with Kharde. Soon a crowd gathered at the spot. According to one of the men in the crowd, the constable abused the woman, following which she hit the constable,” an officer from LT Marg police station said. “A video was recorded by a passerby in which the woman is seen grabbing the constable’s collar and slapping him. Later, a woman constable came to the spot to stop the pillion rider,” said the officer. Following the incident, the police booked both the accused, identified as Mohsin Khan, 26, and Sadvika Tiwari, 30, under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested them. In the second incident, 32-year-old police constable Amar Khatle, attached with the state reserve police force (SRPF), was assaulted by a man who was consuming liquor at Powai lake, near NTPC junction. The police later arrested the accused – 23-year-old Amit Rawat –under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 85 (1) of the Maharashtra Prohibition Act. Senior inspector Vijay Dalvi from Powai police station said, “Rawat was drinking alcohol near the lake. Khatle, who was deployed there to keep a check on antisocial elements, saw the man and asked him to leave the place. Rawat got angry and began assaulting and abusing Khatle in an inebriated state. Khatle later called other police personnel for help, following which the accused was arrested.” The third incident took place at Mazagaon circle, Byculla, around 12am where a 31-year-old constable, Pratap Patil, attached with Byculla police station, was assaulted by two men who were in inebriated state. Dinesh Kadam, senior inspector from Byculla police station, said,” While the constable was patrolling, he saw the two men arguing with a hotel staff to open the hotel as they were hungry. The constable asked the two men to leave the spot but they assaulted him.” Patil contacted his team and asked for additional reinforcement. After a while, a team of police came and arrested the accused, identified as Pandharinath Dhuri, 35, a resident of Naigaon and Manish Gurav, 27, a Nallasopara resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-policemen-assaulted-in-mumbai-in-24-hours/story-5Ap4kfR29WciJ7ZAHkYz0N.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||3 arrested in Amritsar church firing case||Three persons were arrested on Saturday in connection with firing in a church at Sri Guru Ram Das Nagar locality of Amritsar city. Prince Atwal (35) of Gilwali Gate in the city was killed while his younger brother Manoj Kumar was injured in the firing on Friday. Those arrested are Randeep Gill and his younger brother Balram Gill of Gilwali Gate in Amritsar, and Suraj Kumar of Goindwal Sahib in Tarn Taran district. The police also recovered a .32 bore revolver, a .12 bore double barrel rifle and 33 rounds besides three mobile phones and a Toyota Innova car from them.The police said it has come to the fore that Prince had links with Bobby Malhotra, a notorious gangster who is lodged in the Amritsar central jail. Prince had a quarrel with Randeep and Balram over a minor dispute a few days ago, it is learnt. “The two parties met in the church to strike a compromise. After committing the crime, the accused fled towards Hoshiarpur district. Our team nabbed them with the help of Hoshiarpur police,” said the police in a press release.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against seven persons, including four unidentified, at the C-Division police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-arrested-in-amritsar-church-firing-case/story-XyYrvh4MYXWDFSXLfO7NyK.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Classes 9-12: Regular teaching in Chandigarh govt schools from Nov 2||Regular teaching will begin for Classes 9 to 12 in government schools of Chandigarh from November 2.“The proposal has been approved and the education department has prepared standard operating procedures (SOPs) with detailed instructions for schools,” said director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar on Saturday. Classroom teaching was suspended amid Covid pandemic earlier this year. Under the Centre’s Unlock guidelines, students of Classes 9 to 12 returned to schools last month, but only for academic consultations on voluntary basis. Even as proper classroom teaching will resume next month, attendance won’t be compulsory. Students will also need to submit the consent of their parents. Meanwhile, online classes will continue for those who wish to study from home.Brar said on an average 1,500 students are attending government schools per day. Department officials said if the move sees a good response, reopening schools for lower classes will also be considered. However, private institutes in the city maintain that parents are not interested in sending their children to school. HS Mamik, president, Independent School Association, said only about 15% parents are in favour. The association has 75 schools as members. SOPs within a weekAlthough the SOPs are to be issued in the coming week, sources said they are likely to be on the lines of those in place for academic consultations. In each classroom, a maximum of 15 students are allowed, and the number can be decreased for smaller classrooms. In case all students can’t be accommodated at once, the school has to operate in two shifts. However, while 50% staff was being called to school earlier, it is now likely that all teaching and non-teaching employees will have to attend work.Meanwhile, the education department has appointed seven officials to revisit schools in their clusters in order to ensure a smooth transition from remedial to regular classes. The visits will be made in the last week of October and first week of November. They will check whether the staff attendance is as per the roster, and whether the guidelines for cleanliness and social distancing are being followed. They will also ask for suggestions from principals and staff regarding reopening schools, and will submit a daily report to the coordinator in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/classes-9-12-regular-teaching-in-chandigarh-govt-schools-from-nov-2/story-zDuOhkHpuZuwZAt7DgGBhN.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Covid vaccine should be free for every Indian citizen, says Kejriwal at flyovers’ inauguration||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Saturday that citizens across the country should be given the Covid-19 vaccine for free, as it is right of every citizen to get them. His comments came two days after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) promised free Covid-19 vaccine to the people of Bihar, in its election manifesto for the state assembly elections, which will be held in three phases starting October 28 and the results declared on November 10.The BJP’s poll promise had kicked up a storm, with opposing political parties accusing the BJP of seeking to make “political gains” from a pandemic and health experts cautioning that “politics should not be linked with immunisation”.On Saturday, after inaugurating the two flyovers at Seelampur and Shastri Park, when asked by media persons about the BJP’s poll promise, Kejriwal said, “The whole country should get Covid-19 vaccines for free. It is the right of the entire country. All the people are troubled by the coronavirus. So, the vaccine should be free for the entire country.” Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while releasing her party’s 11-point manifesto in Patna on Thursday, had said that as soon as a Covid-19 vaccine is available, every person in Bihar would get it for free. “This is the first promise mentioned in our poll manifesto,” she said.The BJP later clarified that the vaccine would be delivered to all citizens and it was up to state government to decide whether to disburse it for free, after receiving it at a nominal cost from the Union government. Free vaccine promises also found an echo in the United States presidential elections with Democrat party candidate Joe Biden Friday saying that if elected president, he would make Covid vaccine free for all Americans.“Once we have a safe and effective vaccine, it has to be free to everyone -- whether or not you’re insured,” Biden said while laying out his pandemic response plan, just 11 days before the US presidential election. President Donald Trump has also stressed that a vaccine -- which he claimed would be ready in the coming weeks -- should be free to all.Opposition parties in India and public health experts have questioned the BJP’s poll promise and said politics should not be linked with immunisation. But on Thursday, Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami assured the people of his state that the vaccines would be given to them for free. Hours later, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also made a similar promise to his state citizens.FLYOVERS OPENEDMeanwhile, the much-awaited flyovers at Seelampur and Shastri Park were thrown open to the public on Saturday bringing major relief to those living in east and north-east Delhi and also those who regularly commute through these areas from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad. Kejriwal inaugurated both flyovers and said it will cut travel time from Shahdara in east Delhi and the UP border to Kashmere Gate ISBT by at least 10 minutes as the stretch is now a signal-free corridor. The Shastri Park flyover consists of six lanes and is 700 metres long, while the Seelampur flyover had two lanes and is 1,200 metres long. Together, they will ease the commute of around 1.5 lakh motorists, who travel daily via the Dharampura crossing towards Shahdara. “The tender sanctioned for this project was Rs 303 crore, but such is the honesty with of the Aam Adam Party (AAP) government that our engineers saved Rs 53 crore. We have built these flyovers at a cost of Rs 250 crore without compromising on construction quality. We do not indulge in bribes or take money from officials or engineers. It is with this money (of the people) that we save that we are able to provide free water, electricity, healthcare, medicines and quality education to our citizens,” Kejriwal said during the inauguration. Public works department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain took an indirect jibe at the BJP-ruled municipal corporations by comparing their infrastructure projects with the Delhi government’s.“Today, two flyovers have been inaugurated by the CM that were completed by not just saving ₹53 crore but also in a record 11 months against the target of 18 months, excluding the nine months of construction ban under the Supreme Court mandated Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) and the Covid-induced lockdown,” he said. “At the same time, look at the Azad market flyover constructed by the MCD. It took the MCD 10 years to build the flyover which is shorter than the ones we are inaugurating today. And it cost them Rs 700-800 crore. The CM has also envisioned a children’s park under the flyover, and very soon, that vision too will be transformed into reality,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-vaccine-should-be-free-for-every-indian-citizen-says-kejriwal-at-flyovers-inauguration/story-ZdNvhlVdpLQVkwGzJMJJTK.html
24-10-2020||Gurugram||Health department begins work on preparing for Covid-19 vaccine storage and distribution||For the effective delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine, the state health department has initiated the process of collecting the data on the manpower required for the distribution, while strengthening its cold-chain facilities for its possible refrigeration.Rajiv Arora, additional chief secretary, health department, said that activity has started as per the directions of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. “Districts have been directed to collect manpower data required for the distribution, along with the vaccine delivery systems. The state is getting ready for the time when the vaccine is available. It will be biggest vaccination exercise of all times. The department has been working overtime,” said Arora.Centre has already directed the states to make robust plan for vaccine storage and distribution. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in the first week of October said that approximately 20-25 crore people are likely to be covered under Covid-19 vaccination by July 2021. They are expected to utilise over 500 million vaccine doses for Covid-19. In this process, the district health department has initiated the process of collating the data.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “The department has started the data collection of health care workers in the district. It includes workers in both government and private facilities. Meetings are being conducted with the private facilities to share the strength of their workforce. The exercise is extensive. It can be estimated that there are more than 40,000 health care workers in the district.”Studies shows that vaccine could reach the market by next year as the clinical trials of the vaccine by the Serum Institute of India, Zydus Cadila and Bharat Biotech are in their advanced stages. The Serum Institute of India, along with University of Oxford and UK’s AstraZeneca, is conducting Phase 3 trials of Covidshield vaccine on 1,600 patients in India. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has received approval of Phase 3 trials on humans. Even the Russian Sputnik V vaccine will be tested in India on 100 volunteers.Since the vaccine might require proper cold facilities for refrigeration at a particular temperature, the state has started working on cold chain facilities, said Arora. Temperature data loggers, a digital device for accurate monitoring temperatures at cold chain points for vaccines are being installed. There are 38 cold chain points in the district, where temperature loggers are to be installed by November 1. In Haryana, 661 cold chain points are functional in 22 districts. In all the cold chain points, temperature loggers will have to be installed by November 12. As reported by HT on October 20, vaccines are exposed to different temperatures in the cold chain supply, which has to be prevented. These are supplied from the medical depots to primary and community health centres. In this process, temperature at which a particular vaccine has to be kept varies between two to eight degree Celsius.Covid-19 numbersCovid-19 cases in Gurugram on Saturday crossed the 27,000-mark. With 398 new cases confirmed in a single day, the total count of people infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus reached 27,249. This week, for the last four consecutive days, the district has been reporting more than 300 cases every day. Each day the numbers are increasing, with daily test positivity rate almost 11-12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-begins-work-on-preparing-for-covid-19-vaccine-storage-and-distribution/story-p0rpasfo84XS7CFSEojACM.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal, Sisodia meet students who cleared NEET, JEE||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and education minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday met students of the government schools, who have cleared NEET and JEE examinations this year and applauded their achievements. Around 569 students from Delhi government schools qualified NEET this year and 443 cleared JEE Mains. According to a statement issued by the government, Kejriwal and Sisodia congratulated the students and their parents. “our contribution to the service of the nation must not stop. This is a long journey and many people have worked hard to reach this stage. Our dream is ‘Shikshit Rashtra, Samarth Rashtra.’ We will only be able to strengthen our nation through a strong education system, and not big democratic institutions and buildings in Delhi. I would also like to request you all to guide your juniors, take responsibility for at least 10 children from families just like you, and explain to them the significance of NEET-JEE. When you become a doctor or an engineer, please work with all honesty and dedication,” Sisodia said.Kejriwal praised the students for their achievements since many of them did not take coaching for the medical and engineering entrance exams. “ This is a general perception, that no one can clear NEET-JEE exams without coaching, I took coaching, my son and my daughter took coaching, but the students sitting here clearing the exams without coaching is commendable. Every child sitting here is a diamond, equipped with so much raw intelligence. This is not the end, this is a single inning and you have to go a long way,” he said.The chief minister requested the Delhi education department to start providing coaching to NEET-JEE aspirants. “I also want to request the education department to start providing coaching to the aspirants so that more and more school students qualify for the exams and the existing students also perform well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-sisodia-meet-students-who-cleared-neet-jee/story-vqQkzlsORULdlJ6CxlfehN.html
24-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Dussehra celebrations will be a low-key affair this year||Dussehra will be a low-key affair this year on Sunday with no Ravana effigy — the mythical symbol of evil — to be burnt at public grounds, including the Gaushala ground, which is one of the most popular venues for the celebration of the event. This year, the district administration has not given permission for any large-scale gathering in the city and the ceremony is likely to be performed digitally at several places. Residents have also said that they would be celebrating indoors. Raj Saini, media coordinator of Shri Durga Ram Leela committee, Jacobpura — which is responsible for organising Ram Leela and Dussehra celebrations at the Gaushala ground — said this year, they did not get the necessary permission from the district administration due to which they have planned to organise the symbolic slaying of Ravana’s effigy digitally. “This is happening for the first time in the last 25 years that we are not organising a fair and a proper dahan ceremony due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. We have set up a screen of 16 x 12 feet at the ground and people can watch it, maintaining social distancing” he said. Saini added that they are making arrangements to broadcast the event live through social media platforms and local cable operators so that the people can be a part of the celebration. Amarjit Bakshi, chairman and managing director, Central Park Resorts on Sohna Road said they are looking to celebrate the festival in a more sustainable and safe manner. “We have planned to showcase a digital Ravan Dahan for our residents at Central Park Resorts. We want our Central Parkers to enjoy the tradition. We are also offering a host of social-distancing compliant activities for everybody to enjoy the celebrations,” he said. As per the guidelines issued by Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, last week, people have been advised not to socialise this festival season. “We have cancelled all celebrations and suitable regulations have been put in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Social gatherings are not allowed for the safety for people. Also, we have informed all the organisers to ensure that no Ravana dahan is organised across the city. People can enjoy at their respective homes following protocols of social distancing,” he saidResidents of various residential areas of the city have planned to celebrate the festival in a safe manner. Shilpa Jindal Gupta, a resident of Sector 30, said they are performing a small Ramayana skit at home with her children playing the roles of Sita, Ram and Hanuman and their neighbours as spectators. Another resident Kanika Bharara, a resident of DLF Phase- 3, said that the entire focus this year has been mostly to bond with family and to celebrate from the safe confines of the home. “Children have made paper Ravana and will burn the effigy on the terrace,” she said. Mona Gujral, a resident of Monsoon Breeze in Sector 78, said they are celebrating Dussehra at home. “We have invited a few friends at home and have planned a small-scale celebration in the park. We are reciting dohas from Ramayan and are having customary jalebis and chole bhature for dinner,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-dussehra-celebrations-will-be-a-low-key-affair-this-year/story-169sHcd0TlVsUDy19qWthO.html
24-10-2020||Gurugram||Domestic help held for stealing jewellery worth ₹8 lakh from resident of Sector 43||The police on Friday night arrested a 35-year-old woman for allegedly stealing gold and diamond jewellery worth ₹8 lakh from her employer’s house in Sector 43 in March this year.According to the police, they had received a complaint from a resident of Sector 43, who alleged that his daughter-in-law’s diamond and gold ornaments had gone missing from her dressing table drawer. A case of theft was registered at Sushant Lok police station on March 27, said the police.The complainant had told the police that the ornaments were last seen kept in a drawer on March 10 and when the daughter-in-law checked again on March 27, they were not there. The domestic help had allegedly stopped coming to their house after March 10, which was the day when Holi was celebrated. On Friday, a team from Sushant Lok police station arrested the domestic help, Bharti Mandal, from the slum areas of Saraswati Kunj and allegedly recovered the stolen items from her possession. The police said they received a tip-off from one of the informers that Mandal had tried to sell the diamond ornaments but the shopkeeper had asked her for the bill. She was sharing the pictures of the stolen jewellery with several people that were shared by the informer with the police. During questioning, it was revealed that Bharti Mandal worked in apartments for short periods, allegedly stole money and ornaments and then left work. She was allegedly involved in more than 10 house thefts from Gurugram from areas such as Sushant Lok, South City 1 and 2, Sector 43, Golf Course Road and Sector 45. Sangwan said she has been jailed twice in the past and was lodged in Bhondsi jail for seven months. A local court remanded her in jail custody for 14 days. The police are investigating if Mandal had accomplices in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/domestic-help-held-for-stealing-jewellery-worth-8-lakh-from-resident-of-sector-43/story-tCvSP49uEd4ba0lNoE6RsM.html
24-10-2020||Gurugram||NHAI takes samples from 24 spots of Hero Honda Chowk flyover||To examine the structural health of Hero Honda Chowk flyover, which has suffered damages at least twice since it became operational three years ago, a team of National Highways Authority of India(NHAI) took concrete samples from several spots on the bridge on Saturday. As per NHAI officials, these samples will be tested at a private laboratory in Delhi and will be checked for strength and quality of material to ensure there is no further damage to the structure, said officials. The Jaipur-Delhi side of carriageway of the flyover suffered damage on May 8 last year after chunks of concrete fell from the bridge, causing a hole on the surface of the road. The NHAI had formed a committee to look into the damage that suggested remedial measures. Those were implemented during the repair work, said officials. Earlier on April 23, 2018, the same carriageway had suffered a damage after a huge chunk of concrete fell from the bridge, leaving a 15cm-deep and 250 sq cm-wide hole. “A team from a a private laboratory in Delhi took concrete samples from 24 spots. These samples would be tested for strength and quality. The purpose of this testing is to check for health of the structure and to ensure that there is no future damage to the flyover,” said a senior NHAI official, who is not authorised to speak to the media. The 1.4km-long flyover was constructed at the cost of ₹197 crore and was inaugurated in July 2017.When asked about the matter, Vikas Mittal, senior manager, NHAI, said that this exercise was done to check the safety of the structure. “These samples will be tested and reports analysed,” he said. The highways authority officials said that they had expected to complete this work in two days and had sought permission from the traffic police for the same period. However, the work completed on Saturday itself, thereby doing away with the need to divert traffic on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nhai-takes-samples-from-24-spots-of-hero-honda-chowk-flyover/story-RsXMzpTTRx01W5uZgOsUQK.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||12 deaths, 483 fresh Covid cases in state||ChandigarhPunjab on Saturday 12 more Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 4,107. The state also witnessed 483 fresh cases, pushing the tally to 1,30,640, according a bulletin released by the state government. Amritsar topped the chart with five deaths, followed by two each in Mohali and Patiala, and one each in Pathankot and Tarn Taran.Ludhiana reported 77 cases, Mohali 51, Bathinda 47, Jalandhar 39 and Patiala 30, according to the bulletin.There are 4,277 active Covid-19 cases in the state, the bulletin said, adding that 521 coronavirus patients were discharged, taking the number of those recovered to 1,22,256.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-deaths-483-fresh-covid-cases-in-state/story-vh0HQQjLmTqIGVnem9LalM.html
24-10-2020||City||Mullanpur man attacked, SUV snatched in Pinjore||A Mohali man’s SUV was snatched after he was attacked with a rod in broad daylight at Surajpur in Pinjore, police said on Saturday.While the vehicle was later recovered from Maheshpur area in Panchkula district, the attacker, who has been identified by the victim, is yet to be arrested.The incident took place on Friday afternoon, though the case was registered late at night at the Pinjore police station under Section 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 379B (snatching and use of force) of the Indian Penal Code.Complainant Iqbal Khan, 40, who is a resident of Mullanpur in Mohali district, said he had gone to Surajpur in his Toyota Innova to collect some money from a woman.While he was returning home around 3pm, a biker waylaid him near the Amravati Enclave cut on the highway.The man, who Khan identified as Surender Gautam, allegedly attacked him with a rod on the head and other parts of the body. As people started gathering there, the man allegedly snatched his wallet and keys and fled in the SUV.Khan was taken to the civil hospital in Sector 6, from where he was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh.Inspector Naveen Kumar said the SUV has been recovered, and Surender Gautam of Pinjore has been booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mullanpur-man-attacked-suv-snatched-in-pinjore/story-vbxrm4cpKluJrqXBZvXDoK.html
24-10-2020||Gurugram||Focus on dust control, Haryana pollution board tells NCR districts||Amid the rising air pollution levels, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has asked all the deputy commissioners of NCR districts in the state to focus on dust containment in their respective districts.On Saturday, Gurugram’s air quality remained in the ‘very poor’ category for the second consecutive day, with an air quality index (AQI) of 325, as per the data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). On Friday, the city had recorded an AQI of 334 (‘very poor’) owing to increased PM2.5 level in the air.The HSPCB’s move comes after the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) warned of further deterioration in air quality for the next two days. In all likelihood, the situation is likely to prevail for the next two days as per the predictions made by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which Epca shared with the state pollution board. On October 23, Jai Bhagwan, senior scientist at HSPCB, issued a letter to all the deputy commissioners of national capital region (NCR) districts of Haryana, asking them to take precautionary measures. “Epca issued a red alert on further worsening of air quality based on the IMD forecast. So, districts have been asked to control dust pollution, and vehicular and industrial pollution. We have asked them to take strict precautionary measures under Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to at least prevent air quality from getting into ‘severe’ category’,” said Bhagwan.According to him, in Gurugram, dust is a major contributor of air pollution. “Dust pollution is due to excessive construction activity in the city. Constriction material lies uncovered, and construction and demolition (C&D) waste is dumped along roadside. Therefore, we have directed the district to increase water sprinkling in dust prone areas and usage of anti-smog guns at the construction sites,” said Bhagwan. As reported by HT on October 22, a CPCB-led task force appointed to check air pollution in NCR region found shortcomings in dust control measures of Gurugram. According to the task force, Udyog Vihar (phase 1 and 5), and sectors 14 and 18 are major hot spots of dust pollution. To tackle the situation, regional officers of the pollution board are directed to conduct night patrolling in industrial areas.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, said that six teams have been constituted for night patrolling in the city. “Three teams each will conduct patrolling in north and south parts of the city. Other land-owning agencies have also been informed about it.” Shakti Singh, nodal officer for Grap implementation in Gurugram, said, “Since October 15, agencies are imposing more than Rs 1 lakh as fine every day on activities causing dust pollution. More than Rs 7 lakh has been collected from offenders as penalties.”Even Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Saturday directed teams for strict enforcement of pollution control measures. In its order, Vinay Pratap Singh, MCG commissioner, said that buildings can be sealed in case of violation at the construction site. Also, water and sewer disconnection can be done in case of violation by households, and commercial, institutional or industrial units. Despite repeated attempts, Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri could not be contacted for comment. Low wind speed causing pollutionExperts attributed the reasons for poor air quality to slower winds making it difficult for particulate matter – PM2.5 and PM10 – to dissipate. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said that accumulation of pollutants due to low wind speed has led to very poor air quality in the region. “It will continue till October 27 when the wind speed can improve to over 15 kmph, which currently has been blowing at 6kmph. These are easterly winds from Punjab and Haryana region, along with north-westerly and northern winds. Besides, pollutants due to stubble burning coming through easterly winds, particulate matter emitted through vehicles, industries and dust are equally getting accumulated in the Delhi-NCR region,” said Srivastava.“During the night, the wind speed is comparatively less compared to the daytime. Therefore, the dispersal of pollutants is restricted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/focus-on-dust-control-haryana-pollution-board-tells-ncr-districts/story-h0vQzzHZ0YNHMqhGIhSxGI.html
24-10-2020||Gurugram||Cops ask Sector 57 RWA to install CCTV cameras||Concerned about the rising incidence of chain-snatching and house-breaking by organised criminal gangs, the Sector 56 police has advised the residents’ welfare association(RWA) Sector 57 to install closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras for crime prevention and better management of law and order. The move was felt to be necessary after a 67-year-old retired professor of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) was brutally attacked at her residence in Sector 57 on Thursday afternoon by an unidentified man posing as a courier delivery person, said the police. As per police officials, they could not get any lead on the suspect as all the three CCTV cameras in the area were defunct. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that police patrolling has been strengthened in the area and motorbike patrolling has been increased. Sector 56 police officers have been instructed to advice the members of the local RWA to install CCTV cameras for better management of law and order. The presence of CCTV cameras also acts as a deterrent against crimes, he added. A team of police and residents took a round of the area after the incident on Thursday and identified at least 18 such spots where CCTV cameras were required to be installed. The police said high-definition (HD) CCTV cameras are required on the street. The CCTV cameras along with the control room set-up will cost nearly ₹3 lakh and the RWA will have to foot the bill. Joginder Singh, a former RWA president, said that they had earlier also planned to install cameras but the necessary funds could be raised. “We will again approach all the residents and request them to contribute money for their safety,” he said. Rao added that CCTV cameras installed at a gap of 500 metres would help to keep a tab on unidentified and suspected persons. Rao said he has asked all station house officers(SHOs) to organise public interaction with RWAs in various parts of the city, and include senior citizens in the meetings. Such meetings were held on Saturday in Palam Vihar, Sector 5 and Sohna Road, wherein the police officers stressed on the need of installing CCTV cameras. Attar Singh Ruhil, vice president of RWA, said that they have requested the developer, Ansal Buildwell, to contribute and help them in securing their lanes. The cameras are required in the vulnerable spots from where the maximum number of cases of snatching and thefts have been reported. “Once the cameras are installed it will help in curbing crime and making residents feel more safe, he said. Ajay Pandita, vice president, Ansal Buildwell Limited said that they have already installed CCTV cameras in certain locations in the area and are ready to support police and RWA members. “We have intensified security in the area and asked security guards to alert police in case they find anything suspicious in the area. We will increase the guards so that all lanes can be covered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-ask-sector-57-rwa-to-install-cctv-cameras/story-Vw27n9kpZ7izNLi0RfsxmN.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER prepares blueprint for first sero survey in Chandigarh||Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has prepared an initial blueprint for conducting the first sero survey in Chandigarh. The proposal prepared by experts at the community health department and the school of public health specifies a sample size of 900 and classified sectors based on population density. The city will be divided into 30 clusters with each cluster containing a population of 50,000.The duration of the study will be a month. Those below the age of 18 years of persons having fever, cough, running nose or breathlessness, besides anyone who is not willing to participate or give consent, will be excluded from the survey.The role of PGIMER will be of protocol preparation, training and mentorship, quality assurance, ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) tests, functional ELISA machine in the public health laboratory, data compilation and report presentation, and submission of the final report. But there will be no other financial liability on the institute besides these.Health dept to provide human resourcesMeanwhile, the UT health department will deploy human resources with one team per cluster, which will have one medical officer, one laboratory technician and one ANM, LHV or any other staff of this level and one supervisor per five clusters. UT will also provide logistics, transport, and communication support.The proposal states that at the current stage of the spread of the disease which has entered into the community transmission phase, research is not only focused on the development of treatment and preventive (vaccine) strategies, but huge efforts are also being made to estimate the exposure of population by conducting seroprevalence studies.“Due to a high proportion of asymptomatic or mild infections, data restricted to laboratory-confirmed cases do not capture the true extent of the spread or burden of the virus in a population. Therefore, serological detection of specific antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 can better estimate the true number of infections,” the proposal states.Dr AK Agarwal, who has prepared the proposal on the behalf of the institute, said the UT administration has to take a call on how to go about it. “We are ready with the plans. We did the same in the state of Haryana as well. Whenever the administration wants us to take it forward, we are ready.”UT health secretary could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-prepares-blueprint-for-first-sero-survey-in-chandigarh/story-DNf5C03PJIXOpsBVOX99zN.html
24-10-2020||Noida||G Noida: Man arrested for duping people on pretext of arranging loans||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly duping people of lakhs of rupees on the pretext of facilitating bank loans for them. The police have recovered a stolen motorcycle, five mobile phones, ₹52,000 in cash, seven debit cards, one laptop, and four stamps from his possession. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Ashok Kumar of Mathura, was arrested in the Knowledge Park area of Greater Noida. Kumar allegedly cheated nearly 200 people of about ₹10 lakh in the past four months, the police said. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the suspect was wanted in five criminal cases registered in Greater Noida. “On Saturday, police received information about suspect’s movement near Kaushalya roundabout in Knowledge Park. A team was deployed at the spot. The suspect reached the spot on a motorcycle. The police team stopped him for checking and he failed to produce the registration certificate of the vehicle,” he said. It was found that Kumar was using a stolen motorcycle, the police said, adding that the team scanned his bag and found five stolen mobile phones, seven debit cards, one laptop and other stolen items from his possession. During interrogation, the suspect told the police that he used to get customers’ mobile phone numbers and other details through online mediums. “He used to call the person and pretend as a bank representative to facilitate loans. Once the customer was convinced, he used to get identity cards and photos on WhatsApp. The customers were then trapped to pay service charge, processing fee, etc. Once the money was transferred, the suspect used to block the customer’s number,” Pandey said. To gain customers’ confidence, the suspect used to print fake documents with stamps and sent them to customers. During interrogation, Kumar revealed that an accomplice Maju Chauhan worked with him in this loan racket. “A case has been registered against Kumar under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and Section 66 of IT Act. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. We have launched a search to arrest Chauhan,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/g-noida-man-arrested-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-arranging-loans/story-NWLgR7CuIdjXN5X7eHV2PK.html
24-10-2020||Noida||Man booked for sexually harassing woman in Noida||Noida: The police have registered a case against a 32-year-old man for allegedly sexually harassing a woman in Sector 9. The suspect, a resident of Sector 29, is at large, the police said. The woman, in the FIR registered on October 23, said that she was going to market on October 14 to buy some goods when the suspect approached her near her flat’s stairs and used abusive words. “He stared at me and abused me verbally. I got scared and raised an alarm, after which the suspect fled the spot,” she said. The victim then approached Sector 20 police station and filed a complaint. The police said that the woman and the suspect are separately married and they are known to each other. RK Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station, said that the woman approached the police on Friday. “Based on the complaint, we have registered a case against the suspect under sections 354-A (sexual harassment) and 354-C (voyeurism) of IPC. A police team conducted search at the suspect’s residence, but found him absconding. The suspect will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-booked-for-sexually-harassing-woman-in-noida/story-vl68pWJZnyeeEc5lHtvT0J.html
24-10-2020||Noida||10 fodder houses gutted in Dankaur||Greater Noida: A massive fire gutted around 10 fodder houses -- small shed-like structures for storing food for livestock -- at Thasrana village in Dankaur on Saturday morning, the police said. Locals spotted the incident and informed the police at 7am. A large quantity of fodder and dung cakes were kept in the temporary houses which went into flames, the police said. “There were about 10 fodder houses in the field. We do not know how the fire took place, but it swiftly spread around the spot and the fodder houses were gutted,” said Nitin Kumar, a resident of Thasrana village. Anil Kumar Pandey, SHO, Dankaur police station, said that a police team reached the spot and called a fire tender. “The fire was doused in half-an-hour. There was no injury to any person in the incident. Police have not received any complaint in this regard,” he said. The police said that the exact reason of incident is not known. “We have been informing people not to burn stubble and other materials since the air quality is poor in Noida and Greater Noida. We will take action if we find role of any person in the incident,” the SHO said. On October 19, the Dankaur police had booked a farmer for burning stubble in his field. The complainant, Mohit Sharma who is the lekhpal (local revenue officer), said that the farmer had harvested crops and then burnt the stubble in the same field. Last Saturday, the Jewar police had also registered a case against three farmers for allegedly burning crop stubble in their fields. In his police complaint, Vipin Kumar, a lekhpal, said that he was conducting an inspection when he found incidents of stubble burning at three different locations in Jewar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/10-fodder-houses-gutted-in-dankaur/story-BeSMxOpWNArun7sq53ojKM.html
24-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: After ‘mass conversion’ row, admin sets up camp to address residents’ grievances||Ghaziabad: Following the “mass conversion” row, the district administration on Friday set up a camp at the Valmiki Basti in Ghaziabad’s Karhera to address residents’ grievances and to offer opportunities. The residents, however, opposed the camp, alleging that people from nearby areas took advantage and submitted applications. Following this, district officials said they formed a six-member committee, comprising locals as well as a councillor, tasked to submit names of people who wish to apply for different government schemes.The residents had claimed that on October 14, at least 236 Dalit residents of the Valmiki Basti had converted to Buddhism to protest the gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old girl from Hathras, which had gained national attention. They had also raised local issues.After discussions with district officials, the administration had set up a camp in the locality for residents to apply for ration cards, pension schemes and even loans and jobs.“At least six people came to apply for ration-cards, four for housing and one applied for pension. However, locals protested, saying that people from nearby colonies had arrived instead to apply. They said that they will prepare a list and submit names of residents who wish to apply. So, we formed a six-member team comprising locals and a local councillor for submission of names,” said DP Singh, sub divisional magistrate (SDM).However, no names came through till Saturday afternoon, said officials. “Besides, agencies were directed to install a hand pump, repair water pipelines and take up other minor works, which residents had put forward. We also assured that those who apply will get loans under the PM Mudra Yojna to start work, and some of them will also be sent to the municipal corporation for contractual jobs,” the SDM added.Pawan Valmiki, a resident of Valmiki Basti, who had claimed that he had converted to Buddhism and was instrumental in organising the said conversion event on October 14, did not respond to repeated calls over the issue. An HT team visited his house also for his comments over the issue but he preferred not to respond. On October 22, however, Pawan had told HT that some politicians who were “politicising” the issue of conversion and levying baseless allegations over the residents of Valmiki Basti. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey on Saturday also did not respond to calls for his comments over the issue.The alleged conversion had come to light on October 21 and a day later, Montu Chandel Valmiki, a local resident of the nearby Pappu Colony, had given a police complaint in relation to the matter. Based on this complaint, the Ghaziabad police had registered an FIR against unidentified persons under IPC sections 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) and 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill, etc). “Regarding the conversion, the related certificates mention no names, date, addresses or serial numbers and anyone’s name can be written on them. It seems that it is a criminal conspiracy intended to promote violence and hatred..,” the complainant alleged in the FIR. The district administration had also claimed that no conversion took place, a claim which the locals said was not true. A report of an inquiry conducted by an additional district magistrate also stated similar findings as given by the complainant in his police complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-after-mass-conversion-row-admin-sets-up-camp-to-address-residents-grievances/story-Pw5dcJFDVVsFHkTSLirYLK.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Tricity Covid update: Two more succumb in Chandigarh, one in Mohali||Covid-19 claimed two more lives in Chandigarh, while 57 people tested positive and 78 were discharged on Friday. Those dead have been identified as two men, aged 57 and 78, from Sectors 25 and 48, respectively. The toll stands at 216. Of 13,977 people tested positive so far, 13,087 have been discharged while 674 remain hospitalised or in home isolation.Mohali district reported one death and 49 fresh cases, while 60 patients were discharged. The total number of cases has reached 12,024, of which 525 remain active. While 11,267 patients have been cured, 232 have succumbed to the virus. Panchkula district reported no casualty on Saturday, though 34 people tested positive.Those infected include two health workers. The district has reported 6,971 positive cases so far, including 141 of health workers.Only 190 cases are active, as 6,672 patients have been cured and 109 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tricity-covid-update-two-more-succumb-in-chandigarh-one-in-mohali/story-T51CEnked3hm4acPlkXMbL.html
24-10-2020||Noida||Noida Authority installs anti-smog guns at its project sites||Noida: At least 13 anti-smoke guns have been installed at different under-construction projects of the Noida Authority to check pollution, said officials, as the air quality index (AQI) refuses to budge from the ‘very poor’ category. The Authority has also reiterated to private developers to adhere to the graded response action plan (Grap) guidelines during construction.On Saturday, Noida and Greater Noida saw AQI levels at 347 and 358, respectively.Avinash Tripathy, officer on special duty (OSD) of the Authority, said teams have been working to ensure enforcement as per Grap guidelines. “The teams conduct inspections and fine violators at sites if construction materials are found to be lying uncovered. About 75 tankers have been engaged to sprinkle water on a total of 100 km of road length every day. Our teams are also washing a total of 60 km of road length at night every day to check pollution. The total of 242 km road length in Noida is swept mechanically daily,” he said.He said that the Authority has made a total of 235 km of road length dust free zones by developing grass and shrubs on the footpath. “We will soon place interlocking tiles on footpaths and areas which are still uncovered,” he said.The anti-smog gun comprises a cannon which sprays atomised water up to a height of 50 metre into the air, which traps particulate dust in water bubbles and helps them settle to the ground. Tripathy added that one anti-smoke gun has been installed at the construction & demolition (C&D) waste processing plant in Noida’s Sector 80. The plant, built at a cost of ₹22.5 crore, began operations on October 5. The Hyderabad-based Ramky Enviro Engineers runs the plant. The project, stretching across a five-acre area, recycles up to 300 tons per day of construction and demolition waste. The plant envisages the collection, transportation, processing, and management of C&D waste.“They collect 250-300 tonne construction waste per day and recycle it to make gravel. The recycled materials can be used in construction and for making bricks and tiles. The waste is collected from different places and processed here properly. Six vehicles are engaged in bringing C&D waste materials while four other vehicles are in reserve,” Tripathy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-installs-anti-smog-guns-at-its-project-sites/story-hKY4x8cYX41zuJSasSmn1J.html
24-10-2020||Noida||10 days of Grap: Noida, Ghaziabad record higher pollution levels than last year’s||Ghaziabad/Noida: Even as the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to curb air pollution has come into force on October 15 in the national capital region, Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida continue to reel under the high levels of pollution. The three cities have also witnessed higher average levels of air pollution in the first 10 days of Grap, as compared to the corresponding period last year. On Saturday, the air quality of Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida remained in the ‘very poor’ category with the air quality index (AQI) recorded at 356, 347 and 358, respectively, as per the data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).From October 15 to 24 this year, air quality in both Noida and Greater Noida was in the ‘very poor’ category for a total of five days. Meanwhile, from October 15 to 24 last year, Noida suffered ‘very poor’ category AQI for only two days and Greater Noida for only three days, an analysis of CPCB data shows. Ghaziabad, however, during the same period this year, had recorded ‘very poor’ category AQI on four days while it had three such days from October 15 to 24 last year. As per the CPCB figures, the average AQI values during the period this year for Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida were 289, 287 and 304, respectively. The corresponding figures for the same period last year were 279, 260, and 260, respectively, the data shows. “It has been observed that by the end of October every year, AQI value starts deteriorating. This can happen due to increase in vehicles on roads during festival season or instances of stubble burning, besides other local factors. So, we are keeping a close watch on industrial units, construction sites, garbage/stubble burning, etc,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Ghaziabad. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. “We are taking up awareness and enforcement measures to keep pollution levels in check while the meteorological conditions have also resulted in deterioration in AQI. We have 19 construction sites which were to conduct self-audit or install CCTV cameras or both. They have submitted their reports and we have initiated the physical verification activity,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UPPCB, Noida. “Out of 20 air polluting industrial units, 10 have already shifted to CNG/PNG. For those on CNG/PNG, we have asked them for undertaking that they will use only the gas fuel. The other air polluting units have been asked to furnish undertaking and install CCTV cameras,” he added. UPPCB had recently asked the bigger construction sites, 20,000 square metres and above, to conduct self-audit and also to install CCTV cameras whose control will remain with the pollution board for monitoring of air pollution. The air polluting units which use coal or wood as fuel were asked by UPPCB to install CCTVs facing their chimneys. Meanwhile, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Saturday said that the scenario (‘very poor’ air quality) will be “short lived.” “This is mainly because the extremely calm local surface winds which were prevailing yesterday are likely to increase slightly and may further pick-up by October 26. Slow improvement in the current condition is expected by October 26 leading to a middle range of ‘very Poor’. It said that SAFAR-synergised stubble fire counts stood at 1,292 on October 23. “The boundary layers wind direction is westerly and wind speed is low. Hence, pollutant transport towards the Delhi region will remain low. The SAFAR model estimate of stubble burning share in PM2.5 is 9% for today,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/10-days-of-grap-noida-ghaziabad-record-higher-pollution-levels-than-last-year-s/story-fBCGPP5TS7SJJadBoNbiTM.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh estate department to auction properties by year end||In line with the UT administration’s emphasis on monetising assets in the wake of Covid-induced revenue shortfall, the UT estate office is planning to auction off residential and commercial properties by the end of the year.The department had conducted its last auction in November 2019; all residential properties on offer were sold, but there were no takers for commercial and industrial plots.“We have started preparing a list and have zeroed down on 10 residential properties. Last year’s commercial and industrial plots will also be put on offer, in addition to new plots,” said a senior UT official, wishing not to be named. Around 15 to 20 commercial and industrial plots are expected to be put on auction.Keeping in mind the real estate market scenario and the economic slowdown, the estate office is being cautious with any sharp increase in last year’s reserve and auction prices. “The final list and reserve prices of the properties will be decided after the approval of the UT administration. Though last year the residential properties had received a tremendous response, this year, the market situation is totally different and reserve prices will be set with this in mind,” the official added.Last year, the estate department had generated a revenue of nearly ₹44 crore from the auction of 11 residential properties, whose total reserve price was around ₹27 crore. All of these properties were freehold—a 1,014-square yard (about 2 kanal) plot in Sector 33 had fetched ₹15.3 crore against a reserve price of ₹7.53 crore; a built-up house on 4-marla plot in Sector 32A had gone for ₹1.68 crore against a reserve price of ₹1 crore. The remaining plots, priced between ₹1.25 crore and ₹7.53 crore, were in sectors 33, 35, 37, 38, and 40.Commercial properties, however, couldn’t fetch even a single buyer as all of them were leasehold properties. The estate office department had then requested the administration to consider converting them to freehold.Meanwhile, the Chandigarh Housing Board is also planning to offer more than 200 residential and commercial properties for auction by December-end. CHB had failed to find any taker for its properties last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-estate-department-to-auction-properties-by-year-end/story-7hzxEgQYPmf1h1aAoBIuxI.html
24-10-2020||City||26,000 visit Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula, Kali Mata temple in Kalka on Durga Ashtami||On the occasion of Ashtami, over 26,000 devotees visited Mata Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula and Kali Mata temple in Kalka, and donated over ₹14.13 lakh in cash.The count of devotees was nearly double of what the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board was expecting during Ashwin Navratras.On Friday– the seventh day of the Navratras—over 21,000 devotees visited the temple; on Saturday, the number was again over 20,000.As per the information shared by the Board, on Saturday ₹10.99 lakh donations were received at Mansa Devi temple and ₹3.71 lakh at Kali Mata temple.This festive season, so far over 1.2 lakh devotees have visited the Mansa Devi temple and over 25,000, the Kali Mata temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-000-visit-mansa-devi-temple-in-panchkula-kali-mata-temple-in-kalka-on-durga-ashtami/story-pSSOwTxpG4vSymP3AH1n2K.html
24-10-2020||Gurugram||MCG to install GPS trackers, cameras on water sprinklers and road-sweeping machines||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to install GPS tackers and cameras to track and monitor the movement of water sprinklers and road-sweeping machines across the city. This is meant to ensure compliance with the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures to counter air pollution in the city, said the civic body officials on Saturday.Officials privy to the matter said that they have been receiving complaints that workers were only watering or cleaning 100-200 metres of a particular stretch of a road and leaving the rest of it as is. Therefore, in order to overcome this problem, MCG officials have decided to install GPS on all water sprinkler machines and cameras on all road-sweeping machines.There are 51 water sprinklers and 10 road-sweeping machines in the city, all of which are managed by the MCG. These have been put to use at the stretches with a high volume of traffic, dust-accumulation since October 15 as part of the measures.As per MCG officials, they have come across instances, where workers simply clicked a picture of them sprinkling water or using a road-sweeping machine at a particular stretch as evidence of the work being done.“With rising pollution levels in the city, we are taking all measures to curb environmental violations as well as initiate remedial measures, such as the sprinkling of water and cleaning of stretches with a high volume of traffic and dust accumulation. We have found these remedial measures to be effective in reducing localised air pollution levels. As such, to ensure that they continue to be properly implemented we have decided to install GPS trackers and cameras on these machines,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, the process of fitting cameras and GPS machines will start from next month onwards.Around 10 road-sweeping machines were procured by MCG earlier this year from the Haryana government. Prior to that the civic body had outsourced mechanical cleaning of roads to a Delhi-based contractor. The MCG also has 51 water sprinklers, of which 42 were launched on October 15 — the day when Grap measures came into effect. According to a senior MCG official privy to the matter, the civic body gauges the effectiveness of its remedial measures from studying and analysing the data collected by the MCG’s air lab in Sector 42.MCG’s air lab opened on October 15 and tracks the hourly data of air-quality via 24 monitors installed across different parts of the city.“Depending on the level of air pollution in a particular area, we accordingly allocate our resources. For example, in areas where pollution levels are high, we increase mechanised road-sweeping and sprinkling of stretches with water. We also study this data on a periodic basis, to check if pollution levels have increased or decreased due to our remedial measures,” said the official.Citing an example of analysing data of the air lab, MCG officials said that the biggest drop in the air quality index (AQI) in the city was at Teri Gram where the AQI fell from 298 to 190 between October 18 to October 22. Similarly, at Sector 14 the AQI rose from 116 on October 18 to 354 on October 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-install-gps-trackers-cameras-on-water-sprinklers-and-road-sweeping-machines/story-JaGZwJwHJ7ctUoA627tr8K.html
24-10-2020||City||No Covid death in Ludhiana for the second time in a week||For the second time in the past three days, Ludhiana reported no death due to Covid-19 on Saturday. The district’s death toll currently stands at 827. October has recorded 86 deaths so far, compared to 330 in September and 323 in August, indicating a drop in the daily death rate. In the last seven days, nine people succumbed to the virus, a considerable decline from September when nine and above used to be the daily average.Even in the first week of October, 47 deaths were reported, while the number came down to 21 the next week, and further to 16 in the week ending on October 21.Meanwhile, as many as 77 Ludhiana residents tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the case tally to 19,967. With 18,879 recoveries, only 258 cases remain active. Also, 48 people were asked to observe home quarantine on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-covid-death-in-ludhiana-for-the-second-time-in-a-week/story-HKI7HD9GJtoXVqBByEQ3RJ.html
24-10-2020||City||Organising committees in Ludhiana gear up for ‘low-key’ Ravana Dahan||Even as Dussehra is expected to remain a low-key affair this year, various organising committees in the city are geared up for ‘Ravana Dahan’ on Sunday.To avoid large gatherings, barricading is being done at some Dahan venues in the city. The members of some of these committees said that because installation of Ravana effigies can attract unnecessary crowd, the activity will be done no earlier than Sunday afternoon.Member of Shri Ram Lila Committee in Daresi, Kamal Bassi said, “Preparations have been done and only two gates of the Daresi ground would be opened for the entry of VIPs and committee members. General public would not be allowed into the ground. Also, seating arrangement has been done as per social distancing norms. The ‘Dola Yatra’ of Lord Rama will also be carried out in the old city areas in the afternoon and volunteers would be deployed to restrict the gatherings on the occasion.”Ravana Dahan is expected to take place in different areas of the city, including Daresi, Upkar Nagar, Dhandra, Sector 32, Rajguru Nagar and Aggar Nagar among others.This year, several Dussehra committees decided against organising the traditional celebrations citing the contagion risk involved.President of Upkar Nagar Dussehra committee, Channi Gill said that Ravana Dahan is going to be a low-key event this year as per the instructions issued by the administration due to the ongoing pandemic. “As managing the gathering is an uphill task, we have decided that the effigy of Ravana would be erected an hour before performing Dahan,” said Gill.Some organisers have booked venues with boundaries to avoid huge gathering.Shiv Bhola Dussehra Ramleela Committee president Varinder Kapoor said, “We used to organise Ravana Dahan at GLADA ground on Chandigarh Road, but this year the event will be held at a plot in Sector 32 area to avoid gathering. To be able to manage the crowd, we decided to shift the event to a site with a boundary.”Daresi ground effigy tallest in cityEven as the height of Ravana effigies has been reduced this year, the 30-ft effigy being erected at Daresi ground will be the tallest in the city (within the MC limits). Across the district, the 45-feet effigy being installed in Jagraon, around 41.2km from the city, will be the tallest. The Dussehra committee organising Ravana Dahan in Daresi has reduced the height of the effigy from over 90 feet to 30 feet this year.Live telecast of Ravana DehanAs the general public is not allowed to gather at Ravana Dahan sites, the committee organising Ravana Dehan in Daresi has decided to telecast the effigy burning live through local cable operators.PPCB fixes timing for bursting crackersComplying with the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has fixed the timings to burst crackers on Dussehra from 5pm to 8pm. Action would be taken against the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/organising-committees-in-ludhiana-gear-up-for-low-key-ravana-dahan/story-dj3NuVpxI5VhWQwDnQ7ArI.html
24-10-2020||City||HT Chandigarh Our Take: City’s waste management system has to be fixed||Chandigarh is currently facing a crisis as waste collectors have struck work because of the municipal corporation (MC) not agreeing to their demands. What’s not helping is that the agitation comes at a time when the garbage management system is in a mess – the major reason why the city performed poorly in the Swachh Survekshan (cleanliness rankings).Though it bettered its ranking in this year’s Survekshan at 16 from 20 last year, Chandigarh couldn’t break into the top 10 ranks of cleanest cities as the MC authorities struggle to streamline the waste collection system. The garbage collectors’ strike should be resolved quickly. As they are opposing MC’s plans to introduce special collection vehicles that will render them jobless, plans should be drawn up to rehire some of them by teaching them driving skills to operate the vehicles and others to manage the waste.They should also be allowed to collect user charges directly from households and sell recyclable material and retain profits instead of sharing a percentage with the civic body. The changes have to be quick. The experiment with the waste segregation plant at Dadumajra has so far been a fiasco, with the municipal corporation this year taking over from Jaypee.One also has to see how the Solid Waste Management Vehicle Tracking and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) facility will work. Can enough revenues be generated by the user fee that MC is planning for door-to-door collection of garbage, with charges likely to be added to water bills or property tax bills?A panel set up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the MC corporation for complete implementation of the segregation of waste collected from door to door by October 31. Will that be done on time? Crisis callHow can Chandigarh’s waste collection system be fixed?The city has been performing poorly in Swachh Survekshan rankings and the garbage collectors’ strike is one part of the problem. How can things be fixed? Send your responses and photograph to chandigarh@hindustantimes.com by October 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ht-chandigarh-our-take-city-s-waste-management-system-has-to-be-fixed/story-Rg5kjMRDqK45MeFNSE9EJN.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Random Forays: Mental health should be a focus area||As long as our lives progress without too many hiccups along the winding pathways that, because we’re living on this earth, naturally present themselves before us, we ignore certain things. But when these impediments or obstacles or dangerous foes accost us front on, we tend to carry out research about them and we tend to take them mightily seriously.Two individuals who are members of families very close to my own fell prey to mental illnesses in years gone by. These days they are stable, comfortable and calm. But there have been times when they have suffered excruciatingly, because the mind would not let them be at peace, and their families have suffered with them. Mental illness is a real and potent foe which is not only rearing its head in present times, but has been presenting dangerous or at least uncomfortable life situations to millions around the world.Mental illness refers to a wide range of mental health conditions — disorders that affect moods, thinking and behaviour. Examples of mental illness include depression, anxiety disorders, schizophrenia and addictive behaviour. Many people suffer from lows, moodiness, sullenness and anxiety these days, though not all of them feel or exhibit such behaviour at regular intervals. Mental health, on the other hand, is a term usually used to refer to a feeling of psychological and emotional wellbeing.As mentioned in this column and by several writers in recent months particularly, depression and anxiety have exacerbated during the pandemic period. These could be temporary conditions which do not require medical treatment or monitoring, or they could be more severe conditions, which do.When I speak to experts on the subject, they tell me that large numbers of people in the world are prone to mental health problems during their lives. In fact, the World Health Organisation (WHO) states that one in four people will be affected by some form of mental disorder at some point in their lives.Given this scenario and considering the fact that about 7.50% of India’s population is estimated to be suffering from mental health disorders, as per WHO numbers, a lot more needs to be done a lot more needs to be done than what’s happening at present. The worrisome fact is that there are said to be less than 5000 qualified mental health professionals in the entire country to tackle the problem.Athma Shakti Vidyalaya, Bengaluru, is an example of a pioneering approach to combating the problem of mental illness through psychotherapy. The National Institute of Mental Health and Neuroscience, has also done some remarkable work in the treatment of patients from across India. But there are too few hospitals, both in the private and government realms, in each state of the country, to effectively tackle the problem. Government hospitals, barring major institutions like the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, or the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, do not really have the bandwidth and facilities to provide high quality treatment to patients, and are often found badly wanting. In Chandigarh, one is personally aware of the efforts of Dr BS Chavan, who has made some pioneering attempts to rehabilitate patients who are trying to bounce back from mental illnesses, and societies like Prayatan, Parivartan as well as Umeed have been set up with this aim. The efforts of Col Ajay Mehndiratta (retd) who has been a crusader for the cause of the mentally ill must also be mentioned. He has won several legal and moral battles in a life dedicated to uplifting the status of mental health care in India. Promila Chandramohan, founder and principal of the Society for the Rehabilitation of the Mentally Challenge, and her dedicated team are also doing wonders to provide expert care to children suffering from cerebral palsy, autism and Down’s syndrome.On delving deeper into the matter, one finds, however, that not enough is being done by India as a nation to alleviate the suffering of the mentally ill. Several new hospitals and shelter homes are needed by millions of patients. The number of doctors is also abysmally low.As a nation, we must do more to care for those whom life has not treated well. Their pain should be our pain. Only then will we truly act.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/random-forays-mental-health-should-be-a-focus-area/story-ZIXwW4XQ2M9OpENQkba6uK.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Pyaasa revisited on Sahir Ludhianvi’s death anniversary in his Centenary year||“Aah! Sahir Ludhianvi,’’ said banners at various spots in Ludhiana and these had been painted by his old friend Painter Bawrie, who once roamed the streets of the city with Sahir in the first flush of their youth. Those white cloth banners with beautiful calligraphy of Urdu letters in black fluttering in the gentle October breeze come to my mind after 40 years. Those days, as a young writer journeying through art and literary journalism, I had visited Ludhiana to bring out a special page in the newspaper, dedicated to the poet who took the name of his city as his own in his phenomenal journey from poetry to film songs, a few days after his passing away. Since then one has often gone back to the work and life of Sahir Ludhianvi (March 8,1921 – October 21, 1980) in appreciation of his immense talent. With time, the poetry of Sahir, that raised a voice against war, loss, communal strife and social inequities, has become even more relevant.In celebration of his centenary year and the growing interest in the theme of his writings, one chose to revisit the film that put a stamp on his creativity. One is, of course, referring to Guru Dutt’s Pyaasa. This 1957 film is not just considered Dutt’s best, it can even proudly stand on its own against the internationally acclaimed cinema of Satyajit Ray, of course made in the genre shaped by Mumbai cinema. Pyaasa was inspired by the poetry of Sahir and Dutt wove around it the theme of social injustice and the poignant though unspoken love of the poet and the prostitute, which rises above the prejudices of the class-torn social order. In an interview to Henri Micciollo, a French critic who had viewed Guru Dutt’s Pyaasa, Satyajit Ray praised the director’s “remarkable sense of rhythm and fluidity of camera,” which he attributed to his years spent with Uday Shankar. Among French viewers Pyaasa is still acknowledged as a classic.Acclaimed as the best romantic film of all times, Pyaasa brought to large audiences across the country the poetry of Sahir in all its glory, set to the lilting music of SD Burman. Writing on this film which was to mark the end of the Sahir-Burman magic, Akshay Manwani, the biographer of The People’s Poet, writes: “Sahir Ludhianvi, his lyrical contribution apart, remains central to the theme. The film is replete with references to Sahir and his life even if they happen unwittingly. For example, in the film’s second scene, when the publisher refuses to publish Vijay’s poems saying that poetry should be about beauty and romance instead of hunger and unemployment, the parallel to Sahir’s own brand of poetry is all too familiar.”However, it was the genius of Guru Dutt as a film-maker that he was able to combine social struggle and romance in such an immortal metaphor which gives one goosebumps six decades after the film was made. Pyaasa was indeed a major coming together of major talents of the past century with Guru Dutt as actor-director, Waheeda Rehman, Dutt’s muse, as the prostitute Gulabo, the intense poetry of Sahir and the haunting voice of Geeta Dutt.Sadly, Sahir and Burman fell apart because the former wanted him to acknowledge his role as a lyricist which the latter would not yield to. They, however, continued to touch magical heights even after their rift as music director and lyricist, respectively, but there will never be a Pyaasa again!The romantic triangle of the film with Dutt, Waheeda and Mala Sinha had a parallel spillover from reel to real life with one woman and two men. The woman of course was the inimitable poet of Punjabi Amrita Pritam and the men, her first love Sahir Ludhianvi, and her lasting love, the artist Imroz. Interestingly, Imroz was appointed to make the publicity posters for the film which he did by including complete poems of Sahir with the still of the lovers Guru Dutt and Waheeda Rehman, which was as popular as the film.By the time the film was released, Imroz had come into Amrita’s life and there was a little story about the premier of the film that once Imroz recounted to me. “I was given two tickets for the premier show in Delhi besides the payment I had got for the artwork for the film. I went to Amrita and told her that I had got the tickets for the premier and would like her to accompany me. She, however, said that Sahir had already asked her to accompany him,” said Imroz. I remained silent for a few seconds and then asked him, “Did this trouble you?” He was quick to reply, “Not at all. She had known Sahir before she got to know me so it was all right and then he had asked her to accompany him before I did. I also went to the premiere and saw the film by myself and they saw it sitting side by side. That was all,” he replied with a smile.Coming back to Sahir Ludhianvi’s Ludhiana and the friend of his youth, Painter Bawarie, whom I met 40 years ago, I remember him talking about Chakley (Brothels), the famous poem by Sahir, included in his first poetry collection, Talkhian. It was later to become the famous song in Pyaasa: Yeh kooche yeh neelamghar dilkashi ke (These streets, these auction houses of allurement ). “I was so struck by this poem, written when he (Ludhianvi) was still in his teens and his courage in calling the fallen woman of the streets by the names of Havva, Yashodha and Zulekha, the sacred women of three major religions of the country!” Well, that was the spirit of Sahir and Pyaasa put together!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roundabout-pyaasa-revisited-on-sahir-ludhianvi-s-death-anniversary-in-his-centenary-year/story-FEWENODi45YrA50EDLOtUK.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Robber of shikar booty||Let us meet an unusual bird, one that would not beat a hasty retreat when the marshes and jheels would resound with the gunfire of shikaris (hunters) targeting migratory ducks and geese. A raptor adapted superbly for ferreting out prey sheltering in reeds and aquatic vegetation mats, the Western Marsh harrier would make haste for the site of gunfire because the canny avian hunter knew it could steal a dead duck or a wounded one by investing least energy! Ornithologists of such impeccable peerage as the late Dr Salim Ali and Rishad Naoroji have in their books recorded this novel aspect of the harrier’s foraging behaviour from an era when shikar was an elite field sport. “It (harrier) is notorious for its habit of making off with wildfowl — sometimes as large and heavy as itself — falling to a sportsman’s gun with the utmost audacity, regardless of his shouts and gesticulations,” wrote Dr Ali. Naoroji adds to this fascinating vignette of natural history by stating that the harrier appears to “even associate gunshot sounds with an easy meal”. The harrier, a migratory bird that winters in the region’s wetlands such as the Sukhna lake and Motemajra, steals prey from not only shikaris but also avian predators. Naoroji writes that a harrier was observed making off with a morsel after snatching it from a Greater Spotted eagle. Herons also face the prospect of harriers stealing or pirating the prey they have killed. However, in Nature a balance is often struck and so is the case with the ‘harrier thief’. Larger raptors like the Aquila and Pallas’s eagles or the formidable Black-necked stork can make off with the prey hunted by a harrier, thus saving themselves hard work in the field. This is akin to a tiger grabbing a leopard’s hard kill and the smaller big cat scooting off without a murmur of outrage. Here, poetic justice emerges as a sub-plot of Nature’s typically unjust ways, which are premised on the amorality of ‘might is right’.When not filching kills, the harrier’s typical hunting behaviour is to “sail leisurely a few metres above the reed beds on motionless wings, occasionally boosted by a few heavy flaps, jinking in its flight from time to time and dropping into the reeds to seize its prey,” as Dr. Ali put it. A harrier can get rather nasty, too! A captured waterfowl can be deliberately drowned by the harrier to subdue resistance before the prey is defeathered for a feast.A harrier is equipped with special features such as long, slender, unfeathered legs for reaching prey through thick grass, reed beds or tangled undergrowth. “The harrier’s facial disc containing large ear openings is bordered by an owl-like ruff of stiff feathers which probably enhances hearing by focusing on rustling of prey such as mice and small birds concealed in grass,” wrote Naoroji. With a penchant for identifying weak, straggler, wounded or laggard birds in a flock, the harrier ensures good returns on precious energies expended while hunting. Just as it is alert to food prospects left in gunfire’s wake, Naoroji observed harriers flying in the aftermath of hunting sorties by the Pallas’s Fish eagle to spot any weak bird flushed and exposed by the marauding eagle’s terror.An exhilarating photographic record of a harrier’s successful hunt skimming over dense aquatic vegetation is showcased in this column. It was the result of hours of painstaking field vigils by Vishesh Kamboj, a ‘birds in action’ photographer and who is by profession the additional chief judicial magistrate, Gurdaspur. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-robber-of-shikar-booty/story-JOoDfFV5JE2Iw4UDKrPMhP.html
24-10-2020||City||Irked Panchkula residents write to MC chief on stray cattle menace||With stray cattle menace continuing to cause traffic hassles in the city, members of the Citizens’ Welfare Association have written to the Panchkula administrator-cum-municipal commissioner to voice their disappointment.The civic body has already missed multiple deadlines to make good on its promise of turning the city cattle-free. In September 2018, the Haryana government had vowed to end the menace in all districts by January 26, 2019. However, a few days before the deadline, the authorities sought an extension.After missing at least three deadlines, the Panchkula municipal and administrative authorities, while setting the New Year Goals, said they will be attainting the cattle-free status in 2020. However, only two months are left before the year draws to a close but the civic body has not even been able to make the Sukhdharshanpur village gaushala operational. This project was proposed in 2018. Citizens’ Welfare Association president SK Nayar said, “People in the adjoining villages such as Budhanpur, Abheypur, Haripur, Madanpur, Majri and Saketri are into dairy farming. Most of them let their cattle loose. These cattle venture into the city and disturb the traffic, often causing fatal accidents.” He added that the city has seen at least three such deaths in the recent past.Nayar demanded heavy penalty on diary owners who let their cattle wander on the city roads. “The MC has neither inaugurated the gaushala at Sudarshanpur village nor the dog pound. These projects should be MC’s top priority so that residents get some respite,” Nayar said in the letter.Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta had earlier told HT that the gaushala and dog pound will be made operational by November 22. He said that this gaushala was the MC’s project, but later, a trust came forward to take the responsibility of its completion. “So, this problem of stray cattle will be solved. Its capacity is 1,200 to 1,400, but initially, around 500 cattle will be taken in,” he said. Gupta further added, “We are aware that dairy owners let their cattle loose on Panchkula roads. So, I have told the authorities to take strict action against such people.”A dog hostel for 250 dogs is also coming up in the city, besides a kennel for 1200 dogs, at the cost of Rs 4.5 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/irked-panchkula-residents-write-to-mc-chief-on-stray-cattle-menace/story-puWoA5JHyxlp6Xmks0s3SI.html
24-10-2020||City||Online counselling: Over 440 get admission in 11 PG courses at SCD Govt College, Ludhiana||SCD Government College on Saturday conducted online counselling for its 11 postgraduate courses and more than 440 got admission against the total 700 seats.As many as 1,456 candidates had applied for the master’s degree programmes.The college authorities have formed committees to conduct the counselling and document verification of students.All 40 seats each in Master of Commerce and Master of Commerce in business innovation were filled in three hours on Saturday. For MCom, the cut-off in general category was 86.37%, under which 21 students got admission. In the Other Backward Class (OBC) category, the cut-off was 83.29% and four students got admission. In the Scheduled Caste (SC) category, for which the cut-off was 72.81%, messages have been sent to 10 students to deposit the fee, the college authorities said.As many as 21 students got admission in MCom (business innovation) course under the general category for which the cut-off was 78.95%. Cut-off for OBC and SC categories were 78.08% and 63.755%, respectively, and 14 students were enrolled.In MA Hindi course, 29 candidates got admission. Total 45 students had applied online against 60 seats. The cut-off in the general category was 52.08%. In MA Punjabi, 39 students have been asked to deposit the fee. Over 79 students had registered online against 60 seats of the course. The cut-off in general category stood at 59.08%. In MSc physics and MSc chemistry, 36 seats and 41 seats have been filled respectively against 60 seats in each course. The cut-off in general category in physics course was 75.3% and 27 students got admission. In MSc chemistry, 25 students got admission in the general category with 75.6% cut-off.College principal Dharam Singh Sandhu said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, we have conducted the counselling online. Committee members have checked all the documents submitted by the students online. Courses such as Master of Commerce are always in demand and we have received overwhelming response from candidates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/online-counselling-over-440-get-admission-in-11-pg-courses-at-scd-govt-college-ludhiana/story-ze3r7Hjt9PoJNOp2Zc3FUM.html
24-10-2020||City||Ludhiana Sutlej Club elections: Close call as Latti Bawa wins cultural secretary seat by 27 votes||After five executive committee members, including the vice-president and general secretary, were chosen unanimously, the elections for the remaining six posts of the Sutlej Club executive committee were held on Saturday.The results were announced in the evening. A neck and neck race for the post of cultural secretary resulted in Rattandeep Singh aka Latti Bawa defeating Harkesh Mittal by a close margin of 27 votes.Gurmeet Singh Kairon beat Sachin Gupta by 339 votes (highest margin overall) to become the joint secretary of the coveted club, while KPS Walia won against Singh Navla with 162 more votes for the post of finance secretary.Maninder Singh Bedi, who was in the fray for the mess secretary position, outdid Sanjeev Gupta by 167 votes.Out of the three members contesting for two executive member posts, Subodh Batish (442 votes) and Dr Arun Dhawan (303 votes) got elected. The third contestant, Balwinder Singh managed to garner 185 votes, the lowest among the three candidates.Soon after the results were announced, celebrations began in and outside the club.The members who were elected unanimously earlier are Jatinder Marwaha as vice-president, Sanjeev Dhanda as general secretary, Sachin Kapoor as bar secretary, Anil Goel as sports secretary, and Ginni Bawa Moudgill as executive member (reserved seat for women).Low turnout this yearLess number of votes were polled this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The club comprises around 3,200 members, but only 976 cast their votes in the executive committee elections this year. An average of 1,800 votes had been polled in the previous years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-sutlej-club-elections-close-call-as-latti-bawa-wins-cultural-secretary-seat-by-27-votes/story-pv0maG2VSF3pfXIPkyJFeL.html
24-10-2020||City||Covid cloud casts a shadow on Dussehra celebrations in Mohali||With Covid playing the demon and spreading its tentacles far and wide, Mohali is keeping its Dussehra celebrations low-key this time. The city, which is otherwise known to celebrate the festival with great pomp and show, will burn only small effigies at the Phase 8 ground.Covid effigy to be burnt In keeping with its tradition, Mohali will be burning four effigies this time too. Apart from the effigies of Ravana, Kumbhkarana and Meghnad, the committee burns the effigy of one social evil that needs to be ended—this time it’s Covid-19. “The whole world has been brought to its knees by the coronavirus. So we have decided to burn its effigy and pray for the safety of everyone,” said Mohali Dussehra committee president Madhu Bhushan.The effigies have been prepared but will be erected only at the time of prayer. Bhushan said, “It will be a small gathering of the executive committee members. This is for the first time that the celebrations are so subdued. Even during the insurgency period and the 1984 riots, Dussehra festivities did not suffer. All rituals were carried out in view of the sentiments attached to the festival. Back then the celebrations were carried out at the 3B2 market.” “But this time, crowd management is major challenge. How can you ensure social distancing when people are celebrating? To avoid the virus spread, we have decided against going big on the festival,” he added. Meanwhile Mohali sub-divisional magistrate Jagdeep Sehgal said that no committee has come forward to seek permission for functions this time. “We have issued instructions to the police to remain vigilant and not allow any gatherings,” said Sehgal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-cloud-casts-a-shadow-on-dussehra-celebrations-in-mohali/story-pILmzMh8OZHArp1Xg7mbTI.html
24-10-2020||City||Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project to commence within a month: Punjab CM||Launching the second phase of the Urban Environment Improvement Programme virtually on Saturday, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced that the Rs 650-crore project to rejuvenate Buddha Nullah willcommence at ground level within a month.Further, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who launched the programme at the local level at Bachat Bhawan (mini-secretariat), said projects worth Rs 2,500 crores were being taken up in the city.Screens were installed at 62 locations in the city to live telecast the event for residents. MLAs Sanjay Talwar, Surinder Dawar, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, among others, also attended the virtual ceremony at Bachat Bhawan. MLA Rakesh Pandey gave the event a miss.Ashu said Rs 11,000 crore had been allocated for taking up different development works in all 167 urban local bodies in the state, of which around Rs 2,000 crore will be allocated for Ludhiana projects. Already projects worth Rs 2,500 crore, including Sidhwan Canal Waterfront Development Project, smart schools, solar system on rooftops of government buildings, etc., are underway or at tender stage. The main purpose of the Urban Environment Improvement Programme is to establish and upgrade sewerage treatment plants, 24x7 supply of potable water, installation of LED lights and disposal of solid waste in a scientific manner in every urban area of the state.Ashu said the rejuvenated Sarabha Nagar market will be dedicated to residents before Diwali. A modern slaughterhouse had already been established and a project worth Rs 17.85 crore to cover the Ganda Nullah drain from Shingar Cinema to Transport Nagar was also underway, he added.Congress making hollow announcements to win assembly polls: SADThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), however, took a dig at the government stating that it had failed to complete the projects announced by Captain Amarinder Singh in the past and the state government was now trying to get the credit for works being done under the central government schemes.SAD district president, Ranjit Singh Dhillon said, “The municipal corporation is struggling to pay salaries to its staff and no development has been done by Congress in the past. The state government is making hollow announcements just to woo the public to win the next assembly elections. Many projects, which have been inaugurated multiple times by Congress leaders, are still not completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buddha-nullah-rejuvenation-project-to-commence-within-a-month-punjab-cm/story-Fo0Qq7PGKC6Nd6rP7OeBkN.html
24-10-2020||City||Practice test on Dussehra: For students’ sake, Punjab SCERT to keep online link open till Monday||After students expressed concern over their online practice test falling on Dussehra (Sunday), State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), Punjab, has decided to keep the web link for the exam active till Monday, so that all pupils are able to appear for the same.To help students of classes 6 to 10 perform well in the Punjab Achievement Survey scheduled next month, the SCERT had started its test series across the state from last Sunday. These mock exams are being conducted via Google Forms and comprise five questions each from six subjects — English, Hindi, Punjabi, social studies, science and mathematics.However, pupils of government and aided schools in the district were left in a fix after the state education department decided to conduct the online practice test on Dussehra.School principals stated that they had been receiving frantic calls from the teachers that students were not willing to appear in the practice test on Sunday as they would be busy celebrating the festival. The teachers had then sent requests to the higher authorities to conduct the test on Monday instead of Sunday.A government school principal not wishing to be named said, “We have around 350 students studying in classes 6 to 10 and only a few agreed to take the online test on Dussehra. This became a concern for the subject teachers and even after trying to convince the students, positive response could not be garnered.”Keeping in view that the students wished to enjoy and celebrate the festival with family, the SCERT authorities decided to keep the online link open till 11pm on Monday.Confirming the details, SCERT assistant director Shalinder Singh said, “The online link will be open for two days (Sunday 11am to Monday 11pm) and students of classes 6 to 10 can appear in the practice test anytime in the given period.”A government school teacher requesting anonymity said, “While deciding the schedule to conduct the practice tests, the authorities must ensure that the dates not clash with any festival. For online classes too, we are not receiving much response from students due to Navratri. I am in-charge of 76 Class 9 students. When I informed them about the practice test on Sunday, 50% of them said they won’t participate as it is Dussehra, while the rest didn’t reply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/practice-test-on-dussehra-for-students-sake-punjab-scert-to-keep-online-link-open-till-monday/story-xRxBmlZUmHZeonFwjWLZfI.html
24-10-2020||City||Nearly 1,000 personnel to be on Dussehra security duty in Ludhiana||Though large gatherings are already banned in the city due to the coronavirus outbreak, the police have chalked out a special security plan for Dussehra celebrations. Around 1,000 police personnel will be on security duty in city on Sunday.The police authorities have given permission to burn Ravana effigies at eight places in the city, including Daresi Ground, Upkar Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Vardhman Chowk, Partap Chowk, Haibowal, Giaspura and Chandigarh Road.Checkpoints will be established at all major crossroads of the city and security personnel will be present at all venues where the organisers would be burning Ravana effigies, officials said.The event organisers have been told to restrict the gathering to 200 persons. They have also been asked to depute volunteers to maintain social distancing and ensure that all attendees wear masks.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said the organisers have been asked to thermally screen and sanitise the guests before allowing their entry at the Dussehra fair venues. The police have already held a meeting with the fair organisers and briefed them about the protocol to be strictly followed.Strict action would be taken against those found without masks and violating social distancing norms during the festivities, police officials said.The police have given permission to eight committees to conduct Dussehra celebrations in the city. Last year, the festival was celebrated at 80 places across Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nearly-1-000-personnel-to-be-on-dussehra-security-duty-in-ludhiana/story-1JKg6xwAGDpljS1SJCJdKJ.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||J&K’s recovery rate crosses 90%||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded six deaths and 577 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union Territory to 91,329. The recovery rate in the UT crossed 90% for the first time after 733 patients recovered. Officials said 364 people had tested positive in Kashmir and 213 in Jammu. Three fatalities each were reported in Kashmir and Jammu divisions, taking the death toll to 1,430. So far, 955 deaths have been reported in Kashmir and 475 in Jammu. The number recovered patients has reached 82,219 in Jammu and Kashmir with 311 people recovering in Kashmir and 399 in Jammu. Now, there are 7,680 active cases in the UT. The recovery rate has continuously improved over the past one month. So far, in October, 25,295 patients have recovered against 16,259 fresh infections. There has also been a corresponding decrease in the average number of daily cases. Against an average of 1,245 daily cases in September, October recorded an average of 677 Covid cases. There have been an average 10 deaths in October against 16 in September. In Jammu division, the highest number of cases were recorded in Jammu district at 116, followed by 33 in Doda.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 130 more people tested positive, followed by Budgam at 50.Srinagar tops the case tally with 18,531 cases and 344 deaths followed by Jammu district with 16,792 cases and 248 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-s-recovery-rate-crosses-90/story-n5kFwdU8VjoC7m6MYkRaIN.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||HP logs five deaths, 173 fresh infections||Himachal on Saturday recorded 173 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 20,213. The death toll mounted to 285 as five more patients succumbed to the contagion. Three fatalities have been reported in Shimla and one each in Hamirpur and Kangra. Of the new cases, 58 were reported in Mandi, 32 in Kullu, 22 in Shimla, 16 in Solan, nine in Kangra, eight in Hamirpur, seven each in Sirmaur and Lahaul-Spiti, six in Una, five in Bilaspur and three in Chamba. There are 2,605 active cases in the state. As many as 17,296 people have been cured so far. Solan remains the worst-hit district with 3,529 cases followed by Kangra where 2,859 people have been detected positive till date. Mandi is on the third sport with 2,666 cases. Sirmaur has 2,215 cases, Shimla 2,172, Una 1,503, Kullu, 1,235, Bilaspur 1,186, Hamirpur 1,171, Chamba 1,093, Lahaul-Spiti 312 and Kinnaur 272 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-logs-five-deaths-173-fresh-infections/story-bH6tNnsBOyKdAojxGpG9ZJ.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Singer Bishamber Shambi succumbs to Covid||City based singer Bishamber Shambi (72) succumbed to Covid at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. He was cremated at the Sector 28 crematorium.Shambi, who is survived by his wife Kamaljeet , son Shanjeet and daughter Amanjeet, was from Sangrur, but spent his life in Chandigarh as an airline executive.He was a close friend of the renowned poet Shiv Kumar Batalvi and specialised in singing his compositions.Friends and literary figures Deepak Manmohan Singh and Govardhan Gabbi described Shambi’s death as a big loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/singer-bishamber-shambi-succumbs-to-covid/story-vjXYezJCmmKKCUg9WhoErJ.html
24-10-2020||City||Lohgrah resident arrested for posing as OSD to Punjab CM||A 24-year-old Lohgarh resident was arrested for allegedly making phone calls to a Zirakpur municipal official and asking him to stop development works in the area while posing as an officer on special duty (OSD) to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh.The accused has been identified as Akash Birla, 24. Zirakpur MC’s executive officer Sandeep Tiwari, in his complaint, said that on October 8, he got a call on his mobile from a man who identified himself as the OSD to Punjab CM. The caller asked Tiwari to stop all development works immediately and seek his clearance before carrying out any work. Tiwari found something amiss and immediately filed a police complaint. Zirakpur station house officer (SHO) Rajpal Singh said the accused runs a company in Zirakpur that provides internet services. “He is associated with a few councillors and had called the official to stall development works for political gains ahead of the civic body elections,” said the SHO. HT could not verify the claim independently.A case under Sections 419 (cheating by impersonation) and 186 (obstructing public servant in the discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lohgrah-resident-arrested-for-posing-as-osd-to-punjab-cm/story-BwJWRTZoZRjvsj9DqhinmJ.html
24-10-2020||City||BSP workers raise anti-PM slogans as BJP pays tributes to Ambedkar in Ludhiana||High drama was witnessed at Jalandhar bypass chowk as workers of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) started raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were paying tributes to the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar on Saturday.All this happened in the presence of the police who later intervened in the matter to avoid a scuffle between workers of the two parties.BJP district president, Pushpinder Singal said that BJP leaders had gone to Jalandhar bypass chowk to protest against the incident wherein Congress workers attacked a BJP leader near the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar in Nawanshahr two days back. “However, the BSP workers reached the spot and started creating a nuisance. The BSP leaders made derogatory remarks against PM Narendra Modi to provoke the BJP workers. The police had to intervene in the matter to avoid a scuffle.”BSP leader Pargan Bilga said, “We staged a protest against the BJP as on one hand, they are moving against the Constitution framed by Dr BR Ambedkar, and on the other hand they are paying tributes to his statue for gaining political mileage and to torpedo farmers’ agitation.”Station House Officer (SHO), Salem Tabri police station, inspector Gopal Krishan said that neither of the party has submitted any complaint with the police department and no FIR has been lodged in the case.The BSP workers flouted Covid norms as many were seen without masks and did not maintain social distancing during the protest.LIP workers protest against BJPMembers of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) also staged a protest against the BJP near the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar installed at Jalandhar bypass on Saturday.LIP chief spokesperson, Gagandeep Singh Kainth said that BJP is trying to torpedo the farmers’ agitation in the state and divide the SC community and farmers by creating controversy in the name of Dr BR Ambedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bsp-workers-raise-anti-pm-slogans-as-bjp-pays-tributes-to-ambedkar-in-ludhiana/story-bb8Gi8MWQcfkZh3hvlZwpI.html
24-10-2020||City||Punjab Roadways workers burn effigies of PM, CM to mark Dussehra||Demanding regularisation of contractual employees and revocation of three farm laws, the employees of Punjab Roadways under the banner of Contractual Employees Sangharsh Morcha staged a protest against the Centre and state governments at Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Inter-State Bus Terminal on Saturday.Protesters burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Montek Singh Ahluwalia depicting them as Ravana, Meghnath and Kumbhakaran to mark the occasion of Dussehra.The employees rued that the government has been ignoring their long-pending demands and ‘anti-people’ laws are being enforced including the three farm laws and Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 among others. Also, the government is pitching for privatisation of the public transport system and the services of the outsourced staff are being terminated rather than regularising them, the protesters said.District president of Punbus employees union, Shamsher Singh said that on one hand, the state government is making an announcement to provide 1 lakh government jobs to people of the state, and on the other hand the services of outsourced employees are being terminated. The contractual and outsourced staff has also been kept out of the purview of the Welfare Act 2020 by the state government, he said. “We have burnt the effigies of PM, CM Captain Amarinder Singh and Ahluwalia to mark Dussehra as they have failed to work for the interests of the public and employees,” said Singh.General secretary, Praveen Kumar said that the Union government is also floating ‘anti-people’ and ‘anti-farmers’ policies and they should roll back the three farm bills and Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Kumar said that the protests will continue until their demands are met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-roadways-workers-burn-effigies-of-pm-cm-to-mark-dussehra/story-d2Vw2D2TUXPLNcRhRSjLSN.html
24-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Owners of dyeing units warned against polluting MC sewer system||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has issued a final warning to owners of dyeing units to stop bypassing untreated water in the sewer lines of the municipal corporation. Owners of the units have been directed to remove such connections by November 6, or their units will be sealed. The authorities have been receiving complaints against the same and few units were also caught dumping untreated waste in the sewer lines during the inspections conducted by PPCB recently. As per the public notice issued by the PPCB on Saturday for the dyeing and water-polluting industry, the authorities have stated that inspections were conducted in different parts of the state and it was found that untreated water is being discharged into the sewer lines. The untreated water gets into the Buddha Nullah and adds to its pollution.The PPCB officials said that there are over 250 dyeing units and around 100 other water-polluting units in the city. It has been found that many violators have made temporary and permanent arrangements to bypass the untreated water in the sewer lines rather than treating it in the effluent treatment plant (ETP), which is mandatory for every unit. PPCB member secretary, Krunesh Garg said, “Recently, inspections were conducted in the city and penalties were also issued to few industries for dumping untreated waste in the MC sewer lines. Now, a final warning has been issued to owners to declare the illegal bypass connections and snap those immediately or their units will be sealed if any anomalies are found during the inspection. A drive will be launched after November 6.” Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar has been accusing owners of dyeing units of dumping untreated in the sewer lines for a long time. Talwar said that the practice not only pollutes the Buddha Nullah but also chokes the MC sewer lines as excess waste is being dumped by the dyeing units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-owners-of-dyeing-units-warned-against-polluting-mc-sewer-system/story-Llfh353jVVUBnMvyHCUM2J.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 2 more deaths, 57 new cases reported in Chandigarh||The death of two more persons due to coronavirus pushed the toll to 216 in Chandigarh while 57 new cases took the infection tally to 13,977 on Saturday.There are 674 active cases in the city as of now, as per a medical bulletin.It said that a total of 78 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 13,087.A total of 1,00,797 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 86,213 tested negative while reports of 116 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-2-more-deaths-57-new-cases-reported-in-chandigarh/story-nac3UdzrIJnjZP6grE0cKN.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||In viral video, Mumbai woman trashes traffic cop when stopped for not wearing helmet, arrested||A woman and another person were arrested on Saturday by the police for allegedly thrashing and misbehaving with a traffic police constable in Kalbadevi area of south Mumbai. The woman has claimed that the police personnel had abused her.Earlier, a video had gone viral on social media showing the woman beating up the traffic police personnel, who had stopped her for riding pillion without a helmet. The woman, dressed in blue, is seen in a heated argument with the personnel.As the video started making rounds on the internet, it garnered sharp reactions from people, some also pointing out how the woman is seen not wearing a mask, which is a government rule as a precautionary measure against Covid-19.The incident, which took place Friday afternoon at Kalbadevi’s Cotton Exchange Naka in Mumbai, also grabbed Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut’s attention, who tweeted the video demanding immediate action against the woman, saying it is a “matter of Mumbai Police’s honour”.  या बाईवर तात्काळ कारवाई करायलाच हवी. मुंबई पोलिसांच्या सन्मानाचा विषय आहे..Take Action..@AnilDeshmukhNCP @vishwasnp @PoliceMumbai100 https://t.co/aRfTOVzQDiSharing the video on Twitter, the leader wrote in Marathi: “This woman must be dealt with immediately. It is a matter of honour for Mumbai Police. Take action.”According to officials, the woman was riding pillion without a helmet on a two-wheeler and so was stopped by the traffic police officer, a PTI report said. Soon after, a heated argument took place regarding the challan. The episode was recorded on mobile phones by bystanders, which later found its way on the internet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-viral-video-mumbai-woman-trashes-traffic-cop-when-stopped-for-not-wearing-helmet-arrested/story-VQQopAGS6uSgnGUpURYMRL.html
24-10-2020||City||Two held for snatching bag from schoolteacher in Ludhiana||Police on Friday arrested two snatchers and recovered a mobile phone and scooter from their possession.With their arrest, police claim to have solved a September 3 snatching where the duo had targeted two women commuting on a scooter.The accused have been identified as Ravinder Singh, alias Raja, of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Shimlapuri, and Manjot Singh, alias Neela, of Azad Nagar.“They were arrested from Itta Wala Road in Dugri following a tip-off. They were recceing the area to execute another snatching,” said inspector Surinder Chopra, SHO, Dugri police station.The SHO added that during questioning, the accused confessed to snatching a bag containing cash, mobile phone and some documents near Flower Chowk on September 3. The mobile phone has been recovered.He said the bag and phone belonged to Anita Parmar, a teacher at a private school, who along with her colleague, Pooja, was on her way to work on a scooter when the snatchers struck. As the accused snatched the bag, the women had fallen on the road and Anita had suffered a fractured leg. A case under Sections 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered in this regard back then.The inspector said both accused were drug addicts and executed crime to meet their daily dose of drugs. They are already facing trial in two cases each and have executed snatchings in Dugri, Model Town, Shimlapuri and Dholewal areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-snatching-bag-from-schoolteacher/story-jwq4WGtV38Es7DuLLVWVQM.html
24-10-2020||Election:||Janata Dal Rashtrawadi Party candidate dies after being shot in Bihar, 2 arrested||Janta Dal Rashtrawadi Party’s candidate Narayan Singh, who was shot at in Hathsar village of Sheohar district in Bihar, succumbed to his injuries, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. According to ANI, two people have been arrested in connection with the shooting.Singh was attacked by people who posed as his supporters, police said. He was shot at when he and his supporters were campaigning for the upcoming polls. Singh and his supporters were taken to a hospital where the politician later died due to his injuries, ANI reported.“Two people have been arrested while they were trying to escape and an investigation is going on... Around five to six people were involved in the firing,” sub-divisional police officer Rakesh Kumar told ANI.Bihar Assembly polls would be held in three phases - October 28, November 3 and November 7, and vote counting will be on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-janata-dal-rashtrawadi-party-candidate-shot-at-in-sheohar-district-1-held/story-lUiuTcr77RBLu0DyF9WLAJ.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Metro track laying work between PCMC and Dapodi almost complete||Pune metro work which was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is now back on track as the Reach one track laying between PCMC and Dapodi is almost complete while the Reach two section between Vanaz and Garware is also making good progress, said Maha-Metro officials on Saturday. Hemant Sonawane, general manager of Maha-Metro, which is constructing the Pune metro, said, “The track laying process of Reach one of Pune metro is almost complete for the section between PCMC and Dapodi while Reach two section between Vanaz and Garware is making great progress. The station work is pending now, however, no new deadline has been set as of now.” The Reach one or north-south line section of Pune metro includes 14 stations between PCMC and Swargate. Dapodi is the sixth station from PCMC which would be the first station for Reach one. Reach one has seen more progress as compared to Reach two which had faced resistance from residents during the land acquisition progress. Reach two or the east-west section has 16 stations with Vanaz being the first and Ramwadi being the last station. Garware is the fifth station and the track laying work is going on. Pune metro has also seen progress in the underground section between Swargate and Agriculture college which has about five stations. The Swargate end of the metro work is going on where excavation work is underway through the New Austrian Tunneling Method (NATM) towards the northern side of the station and also rock anchoring work, blasting and excavation are in progress for multimodal transport Hub and other areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/metro-track-laying-work-between-pcmc-and-dapodi-almost-complete/story-TXOj6FJiwwBjo3IGYkMRCI.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 808 fresh Covid cases, 14 deaths in 24 hours||Pune district on Saturday reported 808 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and 14 deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the state health department. The district has reported 3.29 lakh Covid-19 cases till date, of which 2.97 lakh have recovered, 6,597 have been declared dead and 24,956 are active cases. Pune city reported 336 new Covid-19 cases taking the total count to 1,70,206 and six deaths took the death toll to 3,873. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 167 new Covid-19 cases taking the final count to 83,488 and three deaths took the death toll to 1,184. Pune rural reported 305 new Covid-19 cases taking the final count to 75,511 and five deaths took the death toll to 1,538, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 10,004 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 14.55 lakh in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 88.78 per cent. Also, 6,417 fresh Covid-19 cases in the state were reported on Saturday taking the total to over 16.38 lakh. In addition, 137 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 43,660. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.63%. Of the 8,548,036 laboratory samples, 1,638,961 have been tested positive (19.17%) for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection until Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-808-fresh-covid-cases-14-deaths-in-24-hours/story-d4aUtSO9BdwbIutX1njDFL.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Bars, restaurants can now stay open till 11:30pm||Restaurants and bars in Pune have been allowed to operate till 11:30pm starting from Sunday, a move that will take eateries back to pre-Covid status. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) chief Vikram Kumar on Saturday issued an order extending timings for bars and restaurants from the current deadline of 10pm to 11:30pm following a demand from eateries. Hindustan Times in its October 22 edition had reported about PMC commissioner likely to extend the timings after restaurant owners had approached the civic chief demanding an extension. Hotel association representatives claimed that their business time is mainly in the evening, but due to 10pm restriction, they have not been able to do enough business.Kumar said, “The decision has been taken given that the bars and restaurant operators need to run the business with 50 per cent capacity and maintain enough social distance between customers between two tables.” The city restaurant owners welcomed the civic chief’s decision. Arvind Shinde, a hotelier, said, “We welcome the decision. Restaurants and bars have been running at fifty percent capacity and this move will help bring in more customers.”Earlier, Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers’ Association in their letter has stated “in these dire times of financial crises it would be helpful to allow dine-in timings up to 11:30 pm daily. The current take away/parcel businesses constitute only a small percentage of the business, also dine-in operation limited till 10pm has deferred customers from walking into restaurants as they will be forced to leave at 10pm”. The letter also states that many will remain unemployed if the current 10pm deadline is continued and also gave references of Navi Mumbai Municipal corporation, Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation and Thane Municipal Corporation have extended the dine-in operations till 11:30pm. However, even as restaurants and bars have been allowed to restart their business, many eateries have not resumed dine-in business. Some of them have in fact permanently closed. Of the 8,500 restaurants associated with Pune hoteliers’ association, in Pune city only 2,500 have resumed their services. Other restaurants have not started have or closed down during the lockdown due to business becoming not feasible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bars-restaurants-can-now-stay-open-till-11-30pm/story-TxJaYkND1qD3RjBp9NGAJL.html
24-10-2020||City||Baroda bypoll: Dalits, backward classes at forefront of LSP chief’s campaign||Loktantra Suraksha party (LSP) chief Raj Kumar Saini has been focusing on backward classes and Dalits during his campaign for the Baroda bypoll, which will take place on November 3.Escorted by over 10 private bouncers and a policeman, Saini visited a community centre in the narrow streets of Gadhwal village on Saturday, where mostly women and children were waiting for him. Saini said he has been fighting against strong politicians for the rights of backward classes and Dalits. “This is a straight and an open challenge to former chief ministers OP Chautala, Hooda and incumbent CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Why have they neglected this section of the society. We are not born to take 5kg ration per family in a month. The only way before you (female voters) is to elect your brother, who will fight for your rights in the assembly. Our share of population is above 60% and in job proportion it is minimal,” he said.Making a direct attack on the BJP and Congress, he said both parties are contesting a fixed match and he will defeat them with a good margin. “The BJP candidate had accused me of contesting the election by taking money from other parties. No one can buy Raj Kumar Saini. I shifted my base from Naraingarh to Kurukshetra, then Gohana and now Baroda because political parties consider Dalits and backwards only as a vote bank,” he added.Meanwhile, two men and four women students have been performing at Saini’s closed door meetings seeking equal rights for backward and Dalit students. The LSP chief said he has given part-time employment to college students amid pandemic whereas the other parties are stopping them from getting a government job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-dalits-backward-classes-at-forefront-of-lsp-chief-s-campaign/story-RfMxf5MAkxGUbJ9XCi8gjM.html
24-10-2020||City||Baroda bypoll: Farm laws take centre stage in Opposition’s campaign, BJP’s focus on national issues||The opposition leaders in Haryana have been highlighting the impact of recently enacted agriculture laws on farmers in the state and elsewhere during the campaign for the Baroda bypoll, slated for November 3. On the other hand, the ruling BJP has been focusing on national issues as well as achievements of their candidate Yogeshwar Dutt.While canvassing in Baroda on Saturday, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda, who is face of the Congress in the election campaign, said the Union government had brought the three laws without the assent of farmers. “The BJP-JJP government is looting farmers in the mandis. The rate of almost every crop was increased two to three times and paddy was sold at ₹4,000 to ₹6,000 per quintal during Congress regime. Loans of ₹2,200 crore and ₹ 850 crore of interest were also waived off. Now, voters of the Baroda constituency will give a referendum to these three laws,” Hooda said.However, INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala said the people of Baroda got benefited during their regime as his father OP Chautala, who was then CM, had inaugurated a sugar mill in the constituency. “It was Chautala sahab, who started encouraging sportspersons by giving them a job and cash prizes. This government has betrayed all sections of society. I have never seen such a poor performance by a government on all fronts. The chief minister and his deputy are refraining from campaigning here due to protests by farmers. I think they will not come to Baroda,” he said.While addressing people at Bhainswan Khurd village, BJP state chief OP Dhankar said Hooda was responsible for less development in the constituency. “Prime minister Narendra Modi has increased respect for every Indian abroad by teaching a lesson to Pakistan. We have been giving jobs without any ‘parchi’ and Kharchi (slip and money)’. Yogeshwar is a wrestler and he has no caste. I urge you to elect a person, who had represented our nation at the international-level,” Dhankar said.Meanwhile, majority of the agrarian community in the constituency is talking about the farm laws, paddy procurement, canal water and rise in prices of diesel and fertilisers. Agriculture has always been a crucial poll issue in Baroda, which is a rural seat having 54 villages.Anil Narwal, a resident of Kathura village, said, “Farmers are angry with the government due to the farm laws and especially the way police resorted to lathicharge on them at Pipli in Kurukshetra. Later, the act was defended by the chief minister too. Everyone knows that the BJP-JJP government will continue in the state but their joint candidate’s win from Baroda will be a loss to the farmers.”Sitting next to him at the bus stand, Sahil Kumar of Bhanderi village, said he had sown paddy on five acres of land and suffered a loss of ₹80,000 as compared to last year. “I earned ₹2.20 lakh from the paddy crop and this time I got only ₹1.40 lakh. The BJP government had promised to purchase our crop at the minimum support price in the mandis but the commission agents are purchasing it at ₹150 less per quintal due to moisture. Now, the government has enacted these farm laws which will destroy our livelihood. Our canals remain parched and we get water once in twenty days. The prices of diesel and fertilisers are rising but the government is increasing the MSP at minimal rate,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-farm-laws-take-centre-stage-in-opposition-s-campaign-bjp-s-focus-on-national-issues/story-jSFJEa1lnAiRSmPgrg3QHO.html
24-10-2020||City||Harassed by woman, her parents, 23-year-old Ludhiana man hangs himself||A woman and her parents were booked after a 23-year-old man, whom they had been harassing, hanged himself at his house in EWS Colony on Saturday morningThe deceased left behind a suicide note accusing the trio of driving him to suicide.The accused have been identified as Khushi, her father Rajan Pathak and mother, who remains unidentified, all residents of Puneet Nagar, Tibba Road.In his complaint to the police, the deceased’s father stated that Khushi had been forcing his son to marry her, and after he turned her down, she started threatening him of implicating him in a fake case.A few days ago, Khushi fled from her house, following which her parents accused his son of abducting her. But she returned home after some days and again started pushing his son to marry her, which pushed him into depression. On Saturday morning, he locked himself up in his room and hanged himself from the ceiling fan while he was alone at home.On returning home, the complainant was shocked to find his son hanging from the ceiling fan. He immediately sounded the police.ASI Sukhdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said a suicide note was found wherein the youth had accused the woman and her parents of harassing her.Therefore, they have been booked under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/harassed-by-woman-her-parents-23-year-old-ludhiana-man-hangs-himself/story-lpOc2SgVXu6RMijwKoAPCM.html
24-10-2020||City||Ranjit Singh murder case: CBI court issues notice to Dera head, another accused to appear via video conferencing||A special CBI court has issued notice to Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and another accused Krishan Lal to appear in the Ranjit Singh murder case via video conferencing on the next date of hearing i.e November 5, if physical hearings are not resumed till this date.The case is in the final stage of arguments. Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Gurmeet Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native village Khanpur Kolian in Kurukshetra after he ‘raised his voice’ against the dera head. It was mentioned that the accused and their counsel are not present during the hearings due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The special public prosecutor pointed out that arguments on behalf of the prosecution have already been addressed and thereafter defence has begun its arguments. During the course, an application under Section 311 of the CrPC was moved and thereafter a defence witness was also examined. Now, part arguments of the defence remain to be addressed.He submitted in the court that the matter be put for further proceedings through video conference, if physical hearings are not resumed till the date.Jagdeep Singh, special judge, CBI mentioned in the order: “Keeping in view the stage of the matter and other attending circumstances, let notices be issued to the accused and their counsel to explore the possibility of conducting further proceedings through video conferencing, if physical hearing of the matters does not get fully functional by the adjourned date.”It added: “Concerned superintendents, District Jail, Sunaria (Rohtak) and Central Jail, Ambala are directed to ensure presence of accused Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and Krishan Lal on the adjourned date.”During the hearing, the court was also informed about the death of one of the accused Inder Sain in the first week of October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranjit-singh-murder-case-cbi-court-issues-notice-to-dera-head-another-accused-to-appear-via-video-conferencing/story-7C7NhS8uscK2XrKyHlzmaL.html
24-10-2020||City||Demonetised ₹1,000 notes submitted to RBI found fake, case registered||The Reserve Bank of India has complained to the police regarding Punjab and Sind Bank, Ludhiana, depositing fake demonetised notes worth Rs 60,000.An assistant general manager (AGM) of RBI had brought the matter to the notice of Jaipur police, who after lodging a zero FIR, forwarded the case to Ludhiana for further proceedings.The Division Number 8 police here have registered a case against unidentified accused and initiated investigation.In his complaint, RBI’s AGM Om Parkash Kaviya had stated that banks had submitted demonetised currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denominations to RBI between April 2017 and March 2018 after collecting these from people.During checking at the RBI press in Nashik, Maharashtra, as many as 60 notes of Rs 1,000 denomination, sent by Punjab and Sind Bank, Kailash Chowk, Ludhiana, were found fake.Besides filing a police complaint, RBI has imposed a fine on the bank for not scanning the notes while exchanging these following demonetisation.Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO, Division Number 8 police station, said a case under Section 489-A (counterfeiting currency-notes or bank-notes) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/demonetised-1-000-notes-submitted-to-rbi-found-fake-case-registered/story-lHz5tzJ7lVquwBl1UboYSN.html
24-10-2020||City||Insurance firm employee loses new car to carjackers in Samrala||Carjackers made off with a Samrala resident’s brand new Hyundai Aura after threatening him at gunpoint near his residence at an apartment complex on Friday night. The victim, Jatinder Sharma, 39, of MG Complex, Khanna Road, Samrala, told the police that he was parking his car, which he had bought just five days ago, in the parking space of his apartment complex. He had got the car’s number plate fixed earlier in the afternoon.Suddenly, two men flashed a gun at him and demanded his car keys.Fearing for his life, Sharma complied and gave his keys to the robbers, who drove off in his car towards Samrala Chowk. On being informed, the Samrala police reached the spot and initiated investigation.The victim, who works at SBI Life Insurance in Samrala, said he normally parked his car at the army canteen, but had changed the location as farmers had stored their crops in the canteen’s compound. Inspector Kuljit Singh, station house officer (SHO), Samrala police station, said they had lodged an FIR under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code and launched a manhunt to nab the accused.NO LET-UP IN CAR SNATCHINGSSeptember 14: Late night driving lessons cost a 28-year-old man his new car as five men waylaid him and his friend and robbed them of the vehicle after beating them up September 4: Three men robbed a couple of their vehicle at gunpoint near Baddowal.August 21: A Ferozepur-based trader lost his SUV to armed robbers hours after it was purchased in Mullanpur Dakha August 14: The Model Town police booked four people, including two women, for robbing a trader of his Honda City car and Rs 40,000 in cash. The women, who were known to the victim, had called him to Dugri Road on the pretext of introducing him to buyers for his car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/insurance-firm-employee-loses-new-car-to-carjackers-in-samrala/story-Np61rPIA0OlCTrEfhEVtTP.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Playback singer Shankar Mahadevan to join govt’s anti-dengue campaign as it enters its 8th week||The Delhi government’s anti-dengue campaign will see celebrities — such as noted playback singer Shankar Mahadevan — lending their support as it enters into its eight week, the chief minister’s office said on Saturday. The initiative, known as the ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute Anti-Dengue campaign’ was launched on September 6 with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inspecting his residence for stagnant water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. This was followed by all MLAs in the first week and then doctors and healthcare workers in the subsequent weeks doing the same to carry the campaign forward. “Celebrities will be roped in, who through their social media messages will be encouraging the citizens of Delhi to follow the dengue prevention guidelines,” the government said in a statement. Last week, shopkeepers were urged to inspect their shops and surroundings for stagnant water every Sunday for 10 minutes, and drain it to prevent the breeding of dengue mosquitoes. “Inspecting the surrounding market areas and their shops will keep shopkeepers as well as their customers safe from dengue,” the government had then said. Last year, the RWAs played a huge role in the campaign and the Delhi chief minister had addressed all the RWAs at Talkatora Stadium where he launched the 5-point action plan for the RWAs to combat dengue. In 2019,the first year the campaign was launched in the city, Delhi had witnessed only 2,036 cases of the disease with two deaths. Delhi’s worst year was in 2015 when the city witnessed 15,867 cases of the disease with 60 deaths.A special helpline — 011-22300012 — has also been launched by the Delhi government for the general public if they require assistance in combating the disease. Residents can also WhatsApp on 8595920530. Taking to social media in the third week of the anti-Dengue campaign, CM Kejriwal had tweeted, “Delhi will defeat dengue again, and for this, today, on the third Sunday of the campaign at 10 AM, I checked my house and replaced the stagnant water. You must also check your house every Sunday and ask your 10 friends/relatives to do the same. #10Hafte10Baje10Minute Har Ravivar Dengue Par Vaar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/playback-singer-shankar-mahadevan-to-join-govt-s-anti-dengue-campaign-as-it-enters-its-8th-week/story-Bj2jj3OeeCCqSl6LVanl7I.html
24-10-2020||City||In Ludhiana’s Jagraon, a Covid effigy on Dussehra, to trounce the pandemic||Along with a 45-foot-tall Ravana effigy, expected to be among the tallest in the district this year, Shri Vaishno Dramatic Club, Jagraon, will also burn an effigy of Covid-19 on Sunday. Traditionally, three effigies – those of Ravana, his brother Kumbhkarna and son Meghnad – are burnt on Dussehra. At Agwar Dala area, Jagraon, these will be accompanied by an effigy of Covid-19 with the hope of defeating the pandemic.“The world is facing a crisis due the pandemic and we believe Lord Rama will help kill the ‘coronavirus demon’ like he killed demon king Ravana. Permissions have already been taken from the administration to burn four effigies in Jagraon,” said club president and former councillor Ravinder Kumar Sabharwal.He said while the Ravana effigy will be 45-foot-tall, the other three will measure 15 feet. Normally, Ravana’s effigy here used to be over 80 feet tall, but the height has been reduced due to the coronavirus outbreak. Still, at 45 feet, the effigy in Jagraon is expected to be the tallest as the Shri Ram Lila Committee (Daresi), which used to erect over 90-foot-tall Ravana every year, has reduced its height to 30 feet this year. The height of the effigy being erected in Upkar Nagar has also been reduced from 65 to 15 feet. Club’s vice-president Sajan Malhotra said, “Ramlila was organised by the club for the past seven days with the administration’s approval. A ‘shobha yatra’ will be organised on Sunday. We have arranged 5,000 face masks and volunteers will ensure social distancing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-jagraon-a-covid-effigy-on-dussehra-to-trounce-the-pandemic/story-BtHDAHqnMPHZiE7iDr1LiO.html
24-10-2020||Election:||On Ram Vilas Paswan’s political soil, Nitish refrains from speaking anything against Chirag||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday addressed a poll rally in LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan’s native Alauli assembly seat but refrained from speaking anything either against the party or its president Chirag Paswan who has been attacking him regularly. After dissociating his party from the ruling NDA in Bihar, Chirag has been hitting out at the chief minister almost on a daily basis in his election meetings as well as in the social media, but Kumar has chosen not to react to him. Kumar maintained the same approach and avoided making any reference either about Chirag or his party at his rally in Alauli during the day. Alauli reserved seat includes Paswan’s birth place Saharbbani village in the Khagaria district. Ram Vilas Paswan had started his political innings by winning from Alauli constituency on Samyukta Socialist Party (SSY) in 1969. His younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras, presently Lok Sabha member from the family pocket borough Hajipur, kept contact with the Alauli constituency for many years winning from there seven times in the past. In 2015 Paras had lost to Chandan Kumar of the RJD. In the present polls, the constiuency is witnessing three-cornered contest between the JD(U), RJD and the LJP. Kumar’s party has fielded Sadhna Sada, RJD has given ticket to Rambriksha Sada while Chirag’s LJP has put Ramchandra Sada on the seat that will go to vote in the second phase on November 3. While Kumar highlighted development work done in the area and also launched a scathing attack on the RJD in his address, he abjured talking anything on the LJP. Taking a swipe at his bete noire Lalu Prasad’s party, Kumar said “those who neglected education, health and roads construction and spent time in encouragig ‘jungle raj’ are today talking about development...its nothing but a joke.” They spent long time in power before the NDA took over the reins of the state in 2005 end, but “utilised it only for serving interest of the family.” “We ended ‘jungle raj’ and established rule of law,” Kumar said and cited National Crime Record Bureau latest report that puts Bihar on the 23rd position in terms of crime to drive home the point. He ieterated all this in his speech at Teghra in Begusarai too. The public meeting at Teghra saw some people speaking against the state government on which Kumar rebuked them and said he knew they have been sent by the rivals for political gains. Taking a veiled dig at the opposition chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, Kumar said “we want everybody to study but a few persons want to get everything without education.” Tejashwi is a class 9th dropout. “Some people who do not even have knowledge of alphabets or experience are talking of providing jobs to others...this is laughable,” he said deriding thw RJD’s promise of creating 10 lakh government jobs in the state if voted to power. Kumar, who has been declared as the NDA CM face, listed achievements of his successive governments in the last 15 years and promised to further speed up the development wrok if voted back to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/on-ram-vilas-paswan-s-political-soil-nitish-refrains-from-speaking-anything-against-chirag/story-VAAsB095BcN8MFClNQHmJM.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Mayor assures citizens of appointing pvt agency to CFC||Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol, on Friday, assured the city’s residents that the appointment of a private agency to the staff citizen facilitation centres (CFC), for the issuance of birth and death certificates, will be taken up on priority. “The process of appointment of the private agency will lead to additional manpower being deployed at the CFCs and reduce the burden on existing staff, making it easier for applicants. The issue will taken up on priority in the larger interests of citizens,” he said. Punekars seeking birth, and death, certificates currently have to visit a civic headquarters office in Mangalwar peth. Large crowds can be seen at the office every day, as there is not enough manpower to issue the certificates in keeping with the demand. The Pune municipal corporation had earlier initiated 37 citizen facilitation centres across the city, where the certificates can be issued from. However, a paucity of staff at these centres has been further affected by the contract of the private agency, assigned to supply manpower to the centres, not being renewed in February. Then came the lockdown, and a new agency has not been appointed till date. “I want sent back thrice from the Kasba peth office, as there was no staff to handle my case. I need the birth certificate for my cousin. This behaviour is unacceptable and I am planning to take legal action against the PMC,” said Pournima Mane, a resident of Kasba peth. Rajiv Gaikwad, a social worker who has been monitoring the situation, said, “The PMC issued a tender seeking appointment of a private agency, but there was no response,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mayor-assures-citizens-of-appointing-pvt-agency-to-cfc/story-Vs0aK7DSBuzu8X0rPYgD4N.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal to enlist drones to check illegal mining||Himachal police is planning to use drones to check illegal mining in the state said director general of police Sanjay Kundu on Saturday. The DGP was addressing a press conference here after presiding over a meeting to review crime, and law and order in the northern range, which includes Kangra, Una and Chamba. “I have directed superintendents of police (SPs) of all three districts to request the deputy commissioners concerned to approve funding for the project from the mining reserve. The drones will be equipped with IP-enabled cameras capable of automatic number plate recognition,” said Kundu. Since mining falls within the purview of the department of industries, the Himachal Police have written to the additional chief secretary (industries) seeking ₹2.5 crore for the purchase of drones and for setting up integrated command centres.“The chief minister had announced that 10 integrated mining check posts will be setup in border areas of Himachal to check illegal mining. We are awaiting a notification from the department of industries in this regard,” he said.“The three SPs have also been directed to implement Intelligent Traffic Management Systems (ITMS) and acquire funds from district authorities for the same,” he said.The 1989-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer said the Himachal police is making efforts to enhance its technological capabilities. “We have already signed an MoU with the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi, for developing technical solutions for crime mapping and accident management. Around 1,200 people die in approximately 4,000 road accidents in Himachal every year and the fatality rate in the hill-state is around 10% higher than the national average of 8%,” Kundu said. The state police also intend to increase the number of CCTV cameras in the state from 19,000 to 68,000. “This will cover almost the entire state and help check crime,” he said, adding that two MoUs were in pipeline with the National Law University, Shimla, and Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Sirmaur, to enhance the police department’s legal capabilities and human resource development.He said the law and order situation in the state was satisfactory. “Ever since we introduced Register Number 26 or the ‘register of sexual offenders’ there has been a decline in such crimes,” he said, adding that Register Number 27 or the ‘register of suicides’ will be introduced next year and a ‘register of unidentified bodies’ will be introduced subsequently.“We have also proposed that the state government set up cyber crime police stations in each district,” he said.The state police chief said the Centre had accepted the proposal to secure the international border (IB) along Himachal and work was underway on improving road infrastructure and communication networks in the areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-to-enlist-drones-to-check-illegal-mining/story-5S60cVFrm82zd6sfWLedbK.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal pitches for free Covid-19 vaccine throughout India||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Covid-19 vaccine should be made available throughout the country for free, saying all the people were troubled by the coronavirus.A debate has started on whether the Covid-19 vaccine, which is yet to materialise, should be made available to people for free, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) promising free doses of the vaccine in its manifesto for the Bihar polls.“The whole country should get free Covid-19 vaccine. It is a right of the entire country. All the people are troubled by the coronavirus, so the vaccine should be free for the country,” Kejriwal told reporters after inaugurating two flyovers in northeast Delhi.The coronavirus vaccine, once available, will be distributed under a special Covid-19 immunisation programme with the Centre procuring the doses directly and making it available for priority groups, official sources have said.According to them, the Centre will procure the vaccine directly to make it available to the priority groups for free through the existing network of states and districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-pitches-for-free-covid-19-vaccine-throughout-india/story-z1jyilsltXFr582ZQX83UI.html
24-10-2020||Pune||PMC notice: e-classes for all, a must||The issue of students being allowed to attend online classes being linked to the payment of school fees has once again been raised by parent groups in the city. If the fees have not been paid, then students are being denied the online connection to attend classes or appear for exams, parents alleged on Friday. Taking congnisance of the parents’ demands, the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) education officer, Meenakshi Raut, has now issued a circular and started sending notices to schools stopping students from attending online classes. “As the Covid-19 pandemic is there currently online education is going on in the schools and we are getting complaints from parents about students being stopped from attending online classes due to fees. School administration and parents should take an independent discussion on school payment issues, but in any case the education of the students should not be stopped. And if the school doesn’t do so, then we will have to consult with our higher officials for taking legal action against the school,” said the circular issued by the PMC education department. “Many schools in Pune are pressuring parents for fees. They are also denying children’s online education, denying passwords and sending out school leaving certificates directly. In this regard, school parents, as well as parent-teacher executive committees have lodged complaints with the education department. We are demanding immediate action against such schools as per the new circular and instructions of the high court and further request you to bring this information to the notice of the court, otherwise it will be a case contempt of court,” said Mukund Kirdat, coordinator, Pune Parents United. During a hearing in the Bombay High Court on October 14, regarding fees during the pandemic, the court had asked the government to bring the matters of coercive action by schools, if any, to the notice of the court. If the schools are not providing online education or expel the child for non-payment of fees or take any other action, it will be in contempt of court. According to the court, education authorities now have to take “administrative and criminal” action and report it to the court. “In the circular issued by the Deputy Director of Education on October 13 it is clearly stated that, if the online education or the other rights of education are denied to child by any schools for reason of non-payment of school fees or other reasons which are not related to child, it will be responsibility of district education officer to take action against such schools. The district education officer should take action against those who violate the order. It has also directed all the district education officers not to deny the child right of education. Issues of payments of fees should be dealt legally separately with parents,” added Kirdat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-notice-e-classes-for-all-a-must/story-FkYoG44fzQAQSKqgyqxtlI.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||All citizens should get free Covid-19 vaccine: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said citizens across the country should get free Covid-19 vaccines, two days after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s promise for free vaccination against the disease in its Bihar election manifesto kicked up a storm.“The whole country should get free Covid-19 vaccines. It is the right of the entire country. All the people are troubled by the coronavirus. So, the vaccine should be free for the country,” Kejriwal told reporters after inaugurating two flyovers in Northeast Delhi. He was responding to a question on the BJP’s poll promise of free Covid-19 vaccines in Bihar.Opposition parties and public health experts have questioned the promise, saying politics should not be linked with immunisation even as Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh governments made similar announcements about free vaccination on Tuesday.Also Read: Delhi L-G asks officials to remain alert to increase in Covid-19 casesUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who released BJP’s 11-point document of pledges in Patna ahead of the polls in Bihar, on Thursday said as soon as a Covid-19 vaccine is available for production at a mass scale, every person in the state will get free vaccination. “This is the first promise mentioned in our poll manifesto,” said Sitharaman.The BJP later clarified that the vaccine would be delivered to all citizens. It said it was up to state governments to give it for free after receiving it at a nominal cost from the Centre. Experts questioned its inclusion in a poll manifesto and argued this was different from a policy announcement of the central or a state government.Bihar goes to the polls in three phases on October 28, November 3, and November 7. The results will be declared on November 10.Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami also on Thursday assured free vaccines for all people in his state. Hours later, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan followed suit.Kejriwal separately also hinted that schools in Delhi are likely to remain shut even beyond October 31. The government had last extended the closure of schools till October 31 on October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/all-citizens-should-get-free-covid-19-vaccine-delhi-chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal/story-rniIymnKLLtqCHdqxBvoxK.html
24-10-2020||Kolkata||Watch: TMC MP Nusrat Jahan dances, plays ‘dhaak’ at Suruchi Sangha||Trinamool Congress lawmaker Nusrat Jahan was seen enjoying the festivities during Durga Puja on Saturday, dancing to the sound of the ‘dhaak’ and also playing the traditional Bengali instrument on the eighth day of the festival in Kolkata. The 30-year-old, who is also a Bengali film actor, was seen sporting a traditional red-and-white saree, performing a few dance moves with other dancers as the ‘dhaakis’ provided the music.The TMC leader, who was accompanied by her husband Nikhil Jain, later tried her skills on the ‘dhak’ at the Suruchi Sangha, a prominent pandal in the city. They were also seen offering prayers to Goddess Durga and performing an aarti, a two-minute-video released on Twitter by news agency ANI showed. #WATCH Kolkata: Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Nusrat Jahan dances as well as plays the 'dhak' at Suruchi Sangha on Durga Ashtami today. https://t.co/NjDsqmc0KF pic.twitter.com/7UqYWQ2EL9The video also shows everyone wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing norms put in place by the government at the Suruchi Sangha pandal in New Alipore area. It is one of the biggest and most famous Durga Puja locations anywhere in the city, despite being devoid of visitors owing to measures in place to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.Jahan had participated in the festivities on Durga Ashtami last year as well. Dressed in a red sari, Jahan was seen dancing with a group of women at the Suruchi Sangha Pandal as her husband played the ‘dhaak’.The TMC leader had received death threats in September on social media when she dressed up as the goddess Durga for a clothing line and shared her photographs on Instagram. Her office had notified the necessary authorities about the incident thereafter.This was, however, not the first time she had to face abuse. She was threatened last year for marrying a Hindu and applying ‘sindoor’ and participating in a rath yatra soon after. “I am God’s special child. I celebrate all festivals. I respect humanity and love more than anything,” Jahan was quoted as saying by ANI after the incident.Durga Puja has been a low key this year as people have been advised by the government to maintain social distancing norms in order to limit the spread of the coronavirus disease.Jahan was voted to the Lok Sabha in the general elections last year as a member of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s All India Trinamool Congress party from West Bengal’s Basirhat constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/watch-tmc-mp-nusrat-jahan-dances-plays-dhaak-at-suruchi-sangha/story-hUfqCaqFWB06qjxx1xeLNP.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Private hospitals instructed to audit, study Covid-19 deaths||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has instructed private hospitals to appoint a committee to audit Covid-19 deaths. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “Though Covid-19 cases are decreasing in the city, the death count is high. An average of 25-30 Covid deaths are recorded daily. Even the number of critical patients is high. With the focus now on saving lives, we have instructed hospitals to appoint internal committees to study Covid-19 deaths.” The official said that though some hospitals already have committees to examine Covid deaths, now it will cover all hospitals. Agrawal said, “We have asked hospital administration to send reports to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). A committee of doctors will study the treatment protocol, patients’ history and treatment carried out before getting admitted to the hospital.” Pune Municipal Corporation health department has instructed CT scan and X-ray centres in the city to keep a record of patients. A civic official said that cases have been reported of residents showing Covid symptoms preferring to do X-ray and city scan on their own and their count are not getting recorded with the civic body. Hence, PMC have asked these clinic centres to inform about these cases as it will help PMC carry out contact tracing. Avinash Bhondwe, Maharashtra IMA head said, “If the purpose of this drive is research based and senior doctors are going to do audit, then it is okay. But it should not ve for the purpose of just increasing clerical work. This type of audit should not be limited only for private hospitals but also needed for government hospitals. Already there is a practice in big hospitals. They use to do analysis of each death and it is old practice. The PMC should clarify the intention of such audit as this work is carried out only by medical experts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/private-hospitals-instructed-to-audit-study-covid-19-deaths/story-hisGADpAEn2uX6ooiQ4CwK.html
24-10-2020||Pune||PMPML launches ‘Abhi’ to service airport and 5 major spots in city||Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), the city’s public bus service, on Friday, launched a new bus service, “Abhi” (airport bus for business home and hotel connectivity). The service will run from the Lohegaon airport to five major locations in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Pune’s member of Parliament, the BJP’s Girish Bapat and mayor Murlidhar Mohol, along with several other city officials, launched the service at the airport. “Abhi” will have 43 electric buses on the five major routes, linking travellers coming into the city with each access to prominent hotels, and business areas in the city. “It is a smart bus facility using zero emission buses. It will allow safe and comfortable transport for passengers along five major routes which include Swargate, Hadapsar, Kothrud, Nigdi and Hinjewadi. Information, including maps and details, will be available at kiosk stands at the airport. Also a mobile application, “PMPML Care”, will display the real-time location of the buses in order to ease waiting periods for commuters,” said Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML’s chairman and managing director. “These electric buses are spacious with storage for luggage to make the journey comfortable. Other facilities include air conditioning, wi-fi, and information about flight schedules on LED TVs inside the bus. The bus fare starts from a minimum of Rs50 to maximum of Rs180. The service will also be open to all citizens for intermediate travel at the same special fares. We hope to get a good response to this bus service,” added Jagtap. MP Girish Bapat said, “We are continuously following up about various issues related to the airport, and the start of the new bus service for the common public is very beneficial. Citizens travel from a long distance to Lohegaon for flights or need to go a long way after arriving at the airport. This bus service will certainly be useful for all the people travelling on flights and certainly, PMPML will gain some good revenue out of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmpml-launches-abhi-to-service-airport-and-5-major-spots-in-city/story-VWhOk6ZyeT3SpPAUrK89bL.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Missing businessman withdraws Rs 5,000 from ATM, erases phone details: police||Gautam Pashankar (65), a city-based businessman, was reported missing since Wednesday as told by family members to the police on Thursday. The family members submitted a “note” to the police that is suspected to be written by Pashankar.Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “His last known location is from inside the city. There was an ATM transaction. He wiped his phone clean by formatting it. He withdrew Rs 5,000.” However, his son Kapil Pashankar denied knowledge of any ATM transaction made on his father’s card.“He left the two phones in the car and the driver brought them back. I do not know of any ATM transaction. Unfortunately, whatever CCTVs we have, they do not cover the footpath. So which direction he has gone, it does not cover. The CCTV that could have helped, the one used for traffic challans, that is dysfunctional due to wiring disrepair caused by metro work, we were told. Whatever our worse times were, it was five years back, not now. We were Pune’s biggest automobile dealers; we are known for it. Today whatever we are doing. I do not understand what led to his decision. We have repaid all our loans to the tune of Rs 150 crores. Not even a single loan is active. There was one individual from whom he had borrowed money, he had repaid that as well. On that day, only Rs 10 lakh was remaining to be returned. I confronted that person and asked him. And he told me that the transaction is over,” said Kapil.The police have released a photograph of the businessman from the location where he was last seen. “These are pictures from Thursday the way he was last seen. We urge people to reach out to us if they find or have seen anyone matching this description,” said sub-inspector SP More of Shivajinagar police station who is conducting the search.The police on Thursday have called several people who had come in contact with Pashankar, including his driver who dropped him near his home. “The note claims that he intends to head outside the city to end his life. He has blamed himself for his recent decisions that he said has affected his family and children,” said PSI More.A complaint has been lodged by Pashankar’s son Kapil. A missing person’s case has been registered at Shivajinagar police station.“His phone is switched off,” said an official of Shivajinagar police station.The missing man is survived by his wife, daughter, son, and grandchildren.The Pashankar family has auto showrooms and petrol pumps in the city. The man had allegedly reached near his residence on Wednesday after which he went missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/missing-businessman-withdraws-rs-5-000-from-atm-erases-phone-details-police/story-5V55U7lHXS5VKpOmJeuGeK.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Passengers at Pune airport grow 10 times since unlock||Pune’s Lohegaon airport has seen tremendous growth since the restrictions on domestic flights were lifted in the month of May this year following the pandemic. Although the airports have been asked to ensure social distancing norms and thorough sanitization of the flights limiting flights operations timings, passenger footfall has been increasing every month. The airport saw a footfall of a little over 17,000 passengers in total in May 2020 which went up drastically each month and the total footfall went up to over 1.88 lakh passengers in the month of September. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “Pune airport has seen a robust growth in passenger numbers, since May 2020. The passenger footfall in May was 17, 200 which soared to 1.88 lakh, last month. We thank the passengers for trusting our services and airport authority staff for their continuous hard work.” Pune airport also welcomed about 118 passengers on an Air India Vande Bharat mission flight from Dubai to Pune while all the Covid-19 standard operating procedures and safety measures were followed, said Singh. The passengers have been asked to arrive at the airport at least two hours before the departure time to ensure social distancing and travel protocols. Dhairyasheel Vandekar, an aviation expert said, “Things are opening up and this growth in footfalls is driven by increasing economic activity. Pune is an established industrial hub and a lot of people sustain in the city because of this. As the activities pick up, people have realised that air travel has come up as the safest travel option because of several reasons including strict compliance of social distancing norms and sanitization process. Some airlines also offer sanitization pouches with sanitizers and face shields. Also, the travel time in flights is lowest as compared to road or rail travel and with time people do tend to loosen the safety precautions as time moves on. Also, the more time someone is exposed to an infected person more likely is the person to be infected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/passengers-at-pune-airport-grow-10-times-since-unlock/story-5iEzpALvNyaC5VbxWPQ5iI.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Body of 4-year-old who drowned with grandmother in Khed recovered||The body of a 4-year-old child, who was one among two people who drowned in Chaskaman dam in Khed on Thursday evening, was recovered by search parties organised by the district administration on Friday morning. The incident happened on Thursday when the area near the dam built over Bhima river in Rajgurunagar area of Pune received heavy rainfall for a short period of time. The other person who is feared dead was identified as Bhorabai Budhaji Pardhi (43) while the deceased child was identified as Sahil Dinesh Pardhi (4), both residents of Khed. The child is the grandson of the missing woman. “The search started last evening and the boy’s body was recovered this morning. One team of NDRF and one team of PMRDA has been deployed for the search,” said Suchitra Amle, tehsildar of Khed. The woman and her grandson were walking home from their farmland with her husband and her mother-in-law near the dam. “The two were walking at some distance ahead while her husband and his mother were behind them. The rains started and then hailstorm started. To save the child from hail, the woman must have taken shelter under a small passageway that is built to divert water coming from a nearby mountain-top. A flow of water came into the small passageway and swept them,” said police inspector Satish Gurav of Khed police station of Pune rural police. “The rain was intense for a very short period of time. But probably a bund somewhere on the slope must have burst and there already was some saturated water near the point where they were standing,” said Amle. The incident will be recorded as accidental deaths at Khed police station of Pune rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/body-of-4-year-old-who-drowned-with-grandmother-in-khed-recovered/story-VuVULVzUeBqwl4rVclPAfM.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Hawaldar succumbs to Covid in Pimpri-Chinchwad||The death of a Hawaldar of Pimpri-Chinchwad police due to Covid-19 on Friday morning took the death toll in the local police force to three.The deceased was identified as Hawaldar Ramesh Lohakare of Chinchwad police station and was declared dead at a private hospital while undergoing treatment for coronavirus.Lohakare did not have any comorbidities, according to senior inspector Ravindra Jadhav of Chinchwad police station who visited the deceased official’s family.He has tested positive on September 29 and had been admitted to Lokmanya Hospital till October 4. However, he was taken back to the hospital on October 8 as he started feeling unwell again. He was under treatment at Lokmanya Hospital when he succumbed to the virus, according to the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/hawaldar-succumbs-to-covid-in-pimpri-chinchwad/story-R7Gb9jSzKWD4iFcV46wJNP.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Pune consumer forum directs logistics company to pay Rs 33,000 in compensation||The Pune district consumer forum has directed Messr Agarwal Packers and Movers company to pay ₹33,000 as compensation to a consumer for deficiency of service. The applicant identified as Manish Thakur availed the services of the company to bring his household goods which comprised a television and a washing machine from Mumbai to Pune. The company promised for a safe and secure delivery after which the applicant paid ₹73,375 as charges for which a receipt was issued. The company transported all the items on January 27, 2019, and the household goods reached on February 6, 2019. As the goods were being unloaded, the complainant noticed that television set and the washing machine had been damaged and showed it to the company representative who informed the head office and promised that suitable measures would be taken after an assessment of the damage. However, no steps were undertaken to resolve the grievances. The complainant said a number of emails were sent to their customer care department but to no avail. Fed up with the inaction, Thakur bought a new television and refrigerator worth ₹60,000 and lodged a complaint with the consumer forum. The company officials contacted him and offered him a compensation of ₹5,000 which was rejected by the complainant. Following the compensation complaint, the forum passed an ex parte order against the company dated January 14, 2020 as the company did not respond to the forum’s notice issued to them at a previous date. The forum in its order mentioned that the company showed deficiency in service and ordered to pay Rs 20,000 as compensation to the consumer along with 10 per cent interest in an order dated October 20, 2020. Besides, it has imposed costs of ₹3,000 to be paid by the company to the consumer for charges towards filing the compensation petition and additional ₹10,000 for causing loss to the customer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-consumer-forum-directs-logistics-company-to-pay-rs-33-000-in-compensation/story-lqZdf2XCpbIPj2gOXVca2K.html
24-10-2020||Pune||Pune district reports over 727 fresh Covid19 cases and 32 deaths in 24 hours||Pune district reported over 727 fresh Covid cases and 32 deaths in 24 hours due to the Covid-19 on Friday. The district has reported 3.28 lakh Covid-19 cases till date, of which 2.94 have recovered, 6,583 were declared dead and 26,824 are active cases.Pune city reported 325 new cases taking the total count to 169,870 and 16 deaths taking the death toll to 3,867, while PCMC reported 155 new cases taking the final count to 83,321 and 5 deaths with 1,181 as death toll. Pune rural reported 247 new cases taking the final count to 75,206 and 11 deaths taking the death toll to 1,533, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 13,247 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the final count to 1,445,103. The recovery rate in the state is 88.52%. Also, 7,347 new cases in the state were reported on Friday taking the total to 1,632,544. In addition, 184 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 43,519. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.63%. Out of 8,479,155 laboratory samples, 1,632,544 have been tested positive (19.25%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 2,438,245 people are in home quarantine and 13,545 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-over-727-fresh-covid19-cases-and-32-deaths-in-24-hours/story-r8Avpkj2jA6jEq0NSM4bZK.html
24-10-2020||Pune||With land dispute resolved, Kalyaninagar-Ramwadi metro work to speed up||The Bombay High Court has asked the private holders to hand over 5,213 square feet land to Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro) within fifteen days as part of metro project.The work of metro corridor two from Vanaz to Ramwadi is in progress, according to Maha-Metro.The work between Kalyaninagar and Ramwadi was halted at Yerawada survey number 141 and 233 after the land owners approached the court.While the Maharashtra government had handed over the land for the metro project, private party challenged it and land ownership case was heard by the high court.Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd public relation officer Hemant Sonawane said, “As a court case was going on regarding land ownership dispute, the metro work at this site was on hold. Maha-Metro appealed to the court to hand over the land. Later, the private party told court that they did not have any objection to hand over the land to the metro project. With parties ready to hand over land for the metro project, the court asked the stakeholders to immediately do it for the project.”According to Sonawane, with the court giving the green signal, the metro work between Kalyaninagar and Ramwadi will resume immediately. “The elevated metro work is in progress on this stretch,” Sonawane said.Maha-Metro is carrying out the work on two corridors. Corridor one is between Pimpri-Chinchwad and Swargate. Second corridor is between Vanaz and Ramwadi. First corridor is mixed and has elevated as well as underground metro. The second corridor from Vanaz to Ramwadi is elevated, according to a Maha-Metro official.Maha-Metro is a 50:50 joint venture of the Government of India and Maharashtra State government.The metro project’s starting station is near Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the line will run for 7 km up to Dapodi. This line will connect up to Swargate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/with-land-dispute-resolved-kalyaninagar-ramwadi-metro-work-to-speed-up/story-h9RGzLlm3pCbl2DlodEEHP.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||BJP leadership’s criticism of Hoshiarpur rape-murder case ‘political puffery’: Punjab CM||Rejecting the BJP senior leadership’s attack on his government and the Gandhis over the Hoshiarpur rape-murder case, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday termed the remarks of Union ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and Prakash Javadekar as “political puffery”, with no substance or basis to support their criticism. Contrary to what the leaders were claiming, there was no comparison between the Hoshiarpur and the Hathras cases, said Captain Amarinder Singh, pointing out that the Uttar Pradesh government and police did not only fail to initiate stern action but also seemingly tried to cover up the matter to benefit the upper caste accused. This, he said, was in contrast to the prompt action taken by Punjab Police, who arrested the accused and were now preparing to file the challan within a week. He said he had directed the DGP to ensure that the case is fast-tracked by the courts to ensure exemplary action for the accused. ‘FORCED TO SPEAK UP FOR JUSTICE TO HATHRAS VICTIM’ On the BJP leaders’ criticism of the silence of the Congress leadership on the Hoshiarpur case, Captain Amarinder Singh said that his party had been forced to speak up and protest the Hathras case because the state had failed to get justice for the Dalit girl there. “Had the BJP government in UP responded as effectively and speedily as we did in Punjab, neither the Congress and the Gandhis, nor scores of NGOs, lawyers, human rights activists would have been forced to take to the streets to fight for the victim,” he claimed in a press release. The “selective politics and selective outrage” charge, which Sitharaman made against Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, was, in fact, apt for the BJP, the chief minister said. No BJP leader had uttered a word in protest against the acts of omission and commission of the UP government and police in the Hathras case, when the entire nation was in uproar, he said, slamming the party over its politically motivated reaction to the Hoshiarpur incident. ‘REFLECTS BJP’S ANTI-DALIT, ANTI-WOMAN MINDSET’ Expressing shock at Sitharaman’s and Javadekar’s remark of “picnic tour” by the Gandhis and other Congress MPs in Hathras, he said it reflected the BJP’s anti-Dalit and anti-woman mindset. “The Gandhis faced lathis at the hands of the UP Police in Hathras, they walked miles to reach out to the victim’s family, who cried on the shoulders of the brother-sister duo,” he said. “If the BJP had made even an iota of this effort to pressurise the UP government into ensuring justice for the family in Hathras, the Congress would not have been forced to take on the responsibility of doing so,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-leadership-s-criticism-of-hoshiarpur-rape-murder-case-political-puffery-punjab-cm/story-FbdvEgPDVgCyYrEFpiwIVP.html
24-10-2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh govt allows prison visits from November 1||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to allow visitors for jail inmates starting November 1, almost eight months after suspending prison visits due to the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Saturday.In an order issued on Friday, the state jail department also directed prison officials to ensure implementation of the Covid-19 protocol during meetings between visitors and inmates, the official from the public relations department said.Following the announcement of the coronavirus-induced lockdown in March, the jail department had banned prison visits and in the previous order issued on August 21, the ban was extended till October 31, he said. Meanwhile, state home minister Narottam Mishra said a video conferencing and telephone facility, which was started in jails during the lockdown, will continue even after November 1 when visitors are allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/covid-19-madhya-pradesh-govt-allows-prison-visits-from-november-1/story-7HEvWHs83V3hcHX9BFe9wN.html
24-10-2020||City||Stubble burning cases on the rise in Jalandhar; officials fail to lodge FIRs||Jalandhar Even as stubble burning incidents are increasing in Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts of Doaba, the authorities have failed to act against farmers, who are indulging in this banned practice on their fields. The government has detected 265 farm fires in Jalandhar district, of which agriculture and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials have visited only 203 sites by October 23. Overall, 97 farmers have been fined Rs 3.5 lakh. The authorities, however, have booked only three persons under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and four under Section 39 of the Air Act for the banned practice. Officials are yet to visit 61 sites.Last season, Jalandhar had recorded 1,550 cases of stubble burning, with Kapurthala reporting 1,200 cases. In Kapurthala, authorities are even more lax. Of 521 sites where stubble burning has been detected, officials have visited only 194 till October 23. Record shows 107 violators have been fined Rs 2.8 lakh. In this district, authorities are yet to visit 327 sites. Police have not booked a single farmer under Section 188 of the IPC, with only four cases registered under Air Act 1981 for pollution..“We have imposed a penalty on violating farmers. In some cases, a red entry in made in the Khasra Girdawari in their land where stubble was burnt. We are booking farmers who do not listen to us. After the season, we will consider registering FIR against more farmers,” said Kuldeep Singh, executive engineer, PPCB.A senior agriculture officer said many farmers are deliberately burning stubble in anger and frustration against the farm laws. He added stubble burning cases would see a steep rise over the next two weeks, with only 60% of the crop harvested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stubble-burning-cases-on-the-rise-in-jalandhar-officials-fail-to-lodge-firs/story-FDN1GZGmUs14dxd0HngPgK.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two light intensity quakes occur in Himachal Pradesh’s Bilaspur, Chamba||Two earthquakes of light intensity rattled Bilaspur and Chamba district on Saturday. The first quake measuring 3.2 on Richter scale struck in Bilaspur district at 10.34am. The epicentre was at a shallow depth of 7km. Another earthquake of 2.7 intensity rattled Chamba district. The tremors were felt at 12.15pm. The epicentre was 5km deep, the Shimla meteorological centre director Manmohan Singh said. Earlier, a quake of 2.7 magnitude was reported in Chamba district on Friday. No loss of life or damage to property was reported from the two districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-light-intensity-quakes-occur-in-himachal-pradesh-s-bilaspur-chamba/story-tdYRizfZguwHegOwBPv06H.html
24-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to have post-Covid-19 care clinic and ward at each district headquarters||The Rajasthan government plans to set up post-Covid-19 care clinics and wards at each district headquarters for patients, who have recovered from the disease in the state.In a circular, the state’s principal secretary (health), Akhil Arora, cited “recent trends” and said it is learnt that patients, who recover from Covid-19, suffer from “stress symptoms”, which remain for a while. “Looking at this, at every district headquarter, post-Covid clinics for counselling and Covid wards/ICU [intensive Care Units] for the rehabilitation of patients suffering from post-Covid symptoms will be set up.”He said post-Covid recovery, patients may face issues like respiratory stress, mental trauma, transitory diabetes, cardiac, kidney, pancreatic issues and body fatigue.Also Read: Phase-3 trial of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to begin in few daysThe circular has directed principals of medical colleges and chief medical health officers that the patients and their relatives should be told about stress symptoms and to approach post-Covid clinics for check-ups or dial the 181 help-line for counselling.The clinics will be operational from 9 am to 7 pm, and a doctor (medicine), psychologist, and Ayush doctor, who has knowledge of Yoga and respiratory exercises, will be available there.Vitals of patients such as temperature, blood pressure, respiratory rate, pulse, and oxygen level will be checked at the clinics. If required, patients can be immediately admitted to post-Covid wards.Raman Sharma, a doctor, said around 10% of patients may suffer from the post-Covid syndrome, which is also called long Covid. Such patients after recovery can face reoccurrence or residual symptoms such as coughing, generalized aches and pains, fatigue, fever or psychiatric problems.Some patients, who have recovered, may also suffer from lungs fibrosis, particularly those above 65, and severe pneumonia, etc.Sharma said post-Covid clinic and wards will be helpful for those with the post-Covid syndrome.As many as 160,000 of 180,000 Covid-19 patients have recovered in the state while over 1,800 people have died. There are over 18,000 active cases in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-to-have-post-covid-19-care-clinic-and-ward-at-each-district-headquarters/story-zjuE2jhtij3XfcD5IzKRoI.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Independent MLA who pledged support to BJP joins Shiv Sena||Independent lawmaker Geeta Jain joined Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Saturday. A former mayor, Jain contested as an independent candidate after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) denied her ticket for the 2019 assembly election. She defeated BJP’s Narendra Mehta and initially pledged support for the party.Chief minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray inducted Jain into his party.Jain’s supporters said after winning the elections last year, she expected the BJP to give her the charge of the party in twin cities of Mira-Bhayander located north of Mumbai. Mehta still holds sway there and Jain felt she was being ignored, they added.Some BJP councillors from Mira-Bhayander are expected to follow Jain in joining the Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-independent-mla-who-pledged-support-to-bjp-joins-shiv-sena/story-Fm5Xaix89pg031yue94RMP.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Sena to hold Dussehra rally in auditorium, not at Shivaji Park||The Shiv Sena has decided to organise its annual Dussehra rally on Sunday at an auditorium in Mumbai and not on the Shivaji Park ground, where the event is traditionally held.This decision was taken in view of the Covid-19 safety protocols, as per which the Sena-led Maharashtra government has prohibited political, social and religious gatherings, party sources said on Saturday.This is for the first time the rally will not be held at the Shivaji Park, where party workers gather in large numbers to hear the party chief address them on Dussehra evening.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is president of the Shiv Sena, will address the party workers from Swatantryaveer Savarkar auditorium opposite the Shivaji Park ground at Dadar in central Mumbai at 7 pm, the sources said.He and his family members will first pay their respects at the memorial of late party founder Bal Thackeray at Shivaji Park.The party sources said that a select group of 50 people will have the access to the auditorium, including ministers, leaders.The event will be telecast live on all the social media accounts of the party.This is the first Dussehra rally of 60-year-old Thackeray after becoming the chief minister last year. He will complete a year in office on November 27.The Dussehra rally is an important event in the calendar of Shiv Sena, which was launched in 1966.Thackeray is likely to speak on Shiv Sena’s political journey and its transformation oer the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sena-to-hold-dussehra-rally-in-auditorium-not-at-shivaji-park/story-RYX5pIIEkDNAEJpSWmNB2O.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis tests positive for Covid-19||Former Maharashtra chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Fadnavis tweeted about his health condition.“I have been working every single day since the lockdown but now it seems that God wants me to stop for a while and take a break!I have tested #COVID19 positive and in isolation. Taking all medication & treatment as per the advice of the doctors,” he tweeted.I have been working every single day since the lockdown but now it seems that God wants me to stop for a while and take a break !I have tested #COVID19 positive and in isolation.Taking all medication & treatment as per the advice of the doctors.“Those who have come in contact with me are advised to get covid19 tests done. Take care, everyone!,” he added.Fadnavis was recently appointed as its poll in-charge for Bihar assembly elections. He has already held a few meetings in Bihar and also held a three-day tour of floods affected areas of western and central Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-leader-devendra-fadnavis-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-ZmuQQ0kmyx8hZdYiqskXmJ.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police to check Aarogya Setu app of all visitors to police buildings||Anticipating a spike in Covid-19 cases during the winter and ongoing festive season, the Delhi Police have launched a 16-point action plan to educate people daily, both online and offline, about the precautionary measures with “wear the mask, follow social distance, and maintain hand hygiene” as the campaign’s tagline.To raise awareness about the key precautionary measures, the police will use all available resources such as websites, police vehicles, buildings, digital screens, and hoardings across the city. HT has seen a copy of the action plan titled ‘Public Heath Response to Covid-19: Campaign for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour’. Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava’s office issued the plan last week.“Our objective behind launching this action plan is to propagate the government of India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s awareness campaign regarding Covid-19,” said Shrivastava.Also Read: Phase-3 trial of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to begin in few daysAs per the plan, people visiting any police building in the city will be asked to show their health status on the Aarogya Setu contract tracing app. If they do not have the app installed on their smartphones, they will be advised to do so.A police officer, who did not wish to be named, said if a visitor is in urgent need of police assistance or does not have a smartphone, he or she will be allowed to enter a police building after following other Covid-19 related protocols. “But if the matter is not urgent and the visitor has a smartphone, the person would be urged to first install the app and then enter the building.”The police’s emergency helpline, 112, which receive 15,000-20,000 calls daily, will send auto-generated text message “wear mask, follow social distance, and maintain hand hygiene” after each call as part of the plan. Similarly, all police correspondence, First Information Reports (FIRs), traffic fine notices and text messages, the notices to witnesses, complainants, e-FIRs, lost and found reports, and no-entry permissions will carry the tagline.According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, 4,086 new Covid-19 cases and 26 deaths were reported on October 23, taking the total number of confirmed infections in the city to 348,404. The toll from the disease rose to 6,189.Also Read: Mumbai: Now, sweep road for one hour if caught without a mask in a public placeKeeping in view the heavy footfall on streets for festival shopping, all police vehicles fitted with public address systems will make announcements about the precautions twice daily at 386 markets, 1,490 bus stands, and other crowded places.The police estimate that nearly 98,000 people would be covered daily through these announcements. Also, posters and standees with the tagline message would be put up in shopping malls and complexes with a target to reach 91,000 people daily.According to the plan, the home page of all Delhi Police websites will also display the tagline. Also, each Twitter handle of the police department will tweet about the precautionary measures that will also be displayed on all digital screens installed at various locations, and in waiting rooms of the police offices.“All these Twitter handles collectively have nearly 3.1 million followers. It means that through tweets that many people will be reached with the message about wearing masks, washing hands, and maintaining social distancing to avoid getting infected with Covid-19,” said another police officer, who was involved in drafting the plan.Health experts welcomed the campaign but cautioned against harassment. “There have been instances where people were harassed and fined for not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing. It is my personal opinion that the police’s initiative should only be towards creating awareness among the public and not prosecuting or harassing them,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, who heads the community medicine department at New Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-check-aarogya-setu-app-of-all-visitors-to-police-buildings/story-zbMScxPMB8TqA02OB8iwTK.html
24-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan girl killed by brother for insisting on marrying man she loved||A 22-year-old girl from Bhiwadi town of Rajasthan’s Alwar district was allegedly killed by her brother for wanting to marry the man she loved, police said.The alleged murder took place around 2am on Friday, said police. The accused called his parents who were out of town and informed them that he had killed his sister but they didn’t believe it, considering it to be a prank, a police official said.“On Friday afternoon, following a tip by the milkman, we reached Santhalka village and saw that the accused, Pawan (24), was sitting near the body of his sister. Prima facie, it appears that the brother banged her sister’s head on the floor repeatedly, leading to her death,” said a police official from Bhiwadi.Also Read: Jaipur: Four held for robbing jewellery worth Rs 90 lakh last weekPreliminary probe further revealed that Pawan ran an AC repair shop, where another youth Vishnu was employed.“The victim was in a relationship with Vishnu and both belonged to the same community. They wanted to get married but the family of the victim was not ready, therefore, Vishnu quit his job at Pawan’s shop. The girl’s family started looking for a boy for the victim to marry but she was adamant on marrying Vishnu. There was tension in the house on this matter,” the police official added.Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-girl-killed-by-brother-for-insisting-on-marrying-man-she-loved/story-7HwLnwN0zCliNld3v7AIqJ.html
24-10-2020||Lucknow||Fifth-highest number of road mishap deaths in India last year took place in Kanpur||Kanpur reported the fifth-highest road accident fatalities and the highest crash severity in the country in 2019, according to an annual Union road transport and highways ministry report.Delhi (1,463) topped the list of cities with the highest deaths due to road accidents followed by Jaipur (1,283), Chennai (1,283), and Bengaluru (768). Kanpur reported 692 deaths even as its population is much lesser than the four cities and only one-fourth of that of Delhi.At 45.5, the crash severity in Kanpur was the highest among the cities with over one million population. Road crash severity is the number of people killed per 100 crashes. Over 45 people died per 100 road accidents in Kanpur. Delhi, Jaipur, Chennai, and Bengaluru were other four cities with high severity at 26.1, 30, 18.4, and 16.4.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Ensure death audit of Covid-19 fatalities, chief secretary tells officialsUttar Pradesh’s transport commissioner, Dheeraj Sahu, said Kanpur is a crowded city with a greater concentration of vehicular traffic. He added it could be the possible reason for more deaths as well as the high crash severity.Piyush Tewari, the head of the NGO SaveLIFE Foundation, said poor road infrastructure, weak enforcement of traffic laws, and lack of prompt emergency care appear to be other important reasons for more deaths and the highest crash severity in Kanpur.Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous states, topped the list of states with maximum road crash deaths in the country in 2019. It accounted for 15% of the total 1,51,113 deaths in road accidents across the country with 22,655 fatalities. Maharashtra accounted for 8.5% and Madhya Pradesh 7.4%.Road crash deaths in the country decreased only marginally by 0.2% to 1,51,113 from 1,51,417 in 2018.The crash severity is Uttar Pradesh was found to be 53.2 which was higher than the all-India average of 33.7.With 2,688 deaths, Uttar Pradesh accounted for 24% of fatalities of children in road accidents in 2019.In terms of the number of road accidents, Tamil Nadu (12.7%) topped the list of states followed by Madhya Pradesh (11.3%) and Uttar Pradesh (9.5%). Crashes per 100,000 population in Uttar Pradesh were 18.7. It is also lower than in Tamil Nadu (81.4) and Madhya Pradesh (62.5).Tewari said poor compliance of rules with regard to wearing helmets and seat belts as well as lack of medical care were important factors that explain why Uttar Pradesh has more deaths despite lesser crashes than other states.Sahu said a better road network that allows vehicles to ply at higher speeds was also one of the reasons for more deaths in Uttar Pradesh. “But if you measure the deaths per 100,000 as well as the vehicular number, you will find the number of road accident deaths is not the highest in Uttar Pradesh,” he said. “We are taking a lot of measures to effectively reduce the number of both accidents and deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/fifth-highest-number-of-road-mishap-deaths-in-india-last-year-took-place-in-kanpur/story-J2QqhTsiDYc9NlHxrHZknN.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court upholds life term for man who raped a 3-year-old girl||The Bombay high court has upheld the life imprisonment awarded to a 27-year-old man for raping a three-year-old girl in September 2014 while rejecting the convict’s argument that the survivor was not cross-examined during the trial. Justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik on Monday concluded the trial court in the case had rightly convicted Sudam Shelke and he did not deserve leniency.The court noted the girl was hardly three at that time. “There can be no infirmity in the prosecution case only because of the non-examination of the victim,” said the court.Also Read: Authorities can’t scuttle down welfare schemes: Bombay high courtThe court also found no merit in Shelke’s submission that his complicity in the crime could be ruled out since he had not sustained any injuries during the assault. He maintained that he should have suffered some injury, especially because the girl was just three.The high court said the trial court correctly relied on relevant medical jurisprudence that in young children there are few or no signs of general violence caused by resistance. A child usually has no idea of what is happening and also is incapable of resisting, it added. The court said in such cases, complete penetration is not possible, especially when a perpetrator is a grown-up man. Even slight penetration is sufficient to attract rape charges, it added.“We are in agreement with the view of the trial court that no benefit can be given to the accused merely because he has not sustained any injury on his private part,” said the high court while dismissing Shelke’s appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-upholds-life-term-for-man-who-raped-a-3-year-old-girl/story-haK9pMe7URJZhK049wFLSL.html
24-10-2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Four held for robbing jewellery worth Rs 90 lakh last week||The Rajasthan police on Friday said they have busted a gang of robbers with the arrest of four people allegedly involved in the robbery of jewellery worth Rs 90 lakh last Saturday in Jaipur. The four have been identified as Dilip alias Mahi, Sandeep Kumar, Mukum alias Kala and Sadar Khan. The accused have dozens of criminal cases registered against them in Haryana, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh.The four armed men barged into a jewellery shop and stole the gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 90 lakh. “Seeing the seriousness of the case, five special teams were formed to nab the accused. CCTV footage of nearby areas was scanned and during which it was found that the accused left the car and moped used by them in Vishwakarma area of the city. Further, the details of the moped owner were obtained. It belonged to a woman. The moped was given to the accused by her friend identified as Vinod Parajapat. From Vinod, police got the lead on one of the accused Mahi,” said Pradeep Mohan Sharma, deputy commissioner of police.Also Read: 1,815 fresh cases push Rajasthan’s Covid tally to nearly 183,000Sharma added they recovered 12 kilograms silver and 200 grams gold from Mahi’s residence.“When the accused were quizzed, police found that the mastermind of the gang is Mukim, who is currently lodged in Udaipur jail and three dozen cases of dacoity, loot, murder are registered against him in Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan. From jail, he contacted his two aides who further contacted Sadar, again a hardcore criminal from Uttar Pradesh, who arranged arms for Mahi, Kumar, and himself. They surveyed probable target in Jaipur and last Saturday they robbed the jeweller,” Sharma said.The police are also tracking the location of two other accused and the other crimes they have committed in Rajasthan and other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jaipur-four-held-for-robbing-jewellery-worth-rs-90-lakh-last-week/story-VWxNQG4aZ7fK4D4XbLZBeM.html
24-10-2020||Business||Mumbai: Real estate developers offer schemes to woo buyers during festival season||Real estate developers are offering discounts, gifts, assured rentals and flexible payment plans to woo homebuyers in Mumbai this festive season even as the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the sector hard.Tata Housing has announced ‘Wow is Now’ scheme, which enables customers to pay only a 3.99% interest rate for one year. The rest of the interest is to be paid by Tata Housing. In addition, customers have been offered gift vouchers ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs 8 lakh depending on the type of properties booked.The Wadhwa Group has come up with the ‘Postpaid Homes Plus’ scheme which allows a buyer to pay 10%, move in with the builder paying EMIs for the first year.The Runwal Group has come up with a bouquet of offers for its projects in Kanjurmarg and Mulund. The offers include zero GST, zero stamp duty, zero floor rise charges, and easy payment plans.Also Read: Tata Realty and Infrastructure announces new home loan schemeNavin Makhija, managing director, Wadhwa Group, said the schemes have been tailor-made to give respite to the customers. “The residential segment looks very promising in the current scenario of Covid-19 as many people including the younger generation are now looking to own a house rather than be dependent on rental accommodation. This festive season, we are providing an array of offers... which solve the customer’s current liquidity woes of paying everything upfront,” said Makhija.Amit Parsuramka, senior vice president, Tata Realty & Infrastructure Limited, said these schemes were introduced to boost the demand among the homebuyers. “The schemes will certainly provide financial relief to homebuyers and make owning a home more attractive for first-time buyers as well as investors.”Spenta Corporation is offering a two-year zero pre-EMI offer and booking at 5% of the amount for its newly launched tower at Chembur.For years, Dussehra and Diwali have been the favourite and auspicious occasions for homebuyers to book their apartments. Realty experts said the festive season will offer an excellent opportunity to drive the sales volume.Shveta Jain, managing director, Residential Services, Savills India, a real estate consultancy firm, said various incentives will accelerate the buying decision. “We expect a positive response from the end-users, especially from the first-time buyers due to the discounts and schemes being offered by the developers,” said Jain.Abhinav Sharma, head of research, CBRE India, said attractive mortgage rates and stamp duty cuts will attract homebuyers and are expected to contribute to a strong recovery in the last quarter of 2020 and initial quarters of 2021.The situation for the sector has improved with the sale of 7,635 housing units in July to September period compared to 2,687 in the first quarter. Between January to March, 15,959 housing units were sold, according to Knight Frank India, a real estate consultancy firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business-news/mumbai-real-estate-developers-offer-schemes-to-woo-buyers-during-festival-season/story-VAW1Yiq3Qq7Gzs41rhqMFI.html
24-10-2020||Kolkata||Fight against coronavirus theme of Md Ali Park Durga Puja||The Md Ali Park Durga Puja committee, one of the most popular pujas in the city, has themed its celebrations on the fight against coronavirus this year.“We have covered the body of demon Mahisasura with the spiked Covid-19 virus as shown in pictures. He is the coronasura vanquished by the goddess,” the joint secretary of the puja committee Ashok Ojha told PTI on Friday.At the foot of the goddess, idols of Covid warriors like doctors, health workers and police enact scenes.Two health workers clad in PPE are seen attending a Covid patient, in another scene frontline Covid warriors like policemen are seen persuading people on the road to wear masks.“In this pandemic situation, frontline Covid-19 warriors like doctors, nurses, other health personnel and policemen are risking their own lives to ensure we live safely. Md Ali Park had always brought up contemporary issues through idol and models without deviating much from the ‘sabeki protima.’ This year the situation is more overwhelming as it affects all of us. Hence we have themed our low key puja this year on the battle against the deadly contagion,” Ojha said.Kush Bera, the idol maker from Nadia district said, “the organisers gave me the freedom to work out something on the corona issue. None of us had seen the virus but as we have seen its picture in media, I have sculpted the demon accordingly.” The Sahid Colony Sarbojonin Durga Puja, in northern outskirts Sodepur, also themed its celebrations this year on the battle against Covid-19.“We are paying tribute to the coronavirus warriors by adorning our marquee with images of doctors, health workers and displaying posters to raise awareness about the role played by these frontline soldiers,” a puja committee office bearer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/fight-against-coronavirus-theme-of-md-ali-park-durga-puja/story-L4oIdSKqW2pzVcY5qINzEL.html
24-10-2020||City||Landslide cuts off Imphal-Dimapur Highway in Manipur||Incessant rain has triggered a landslide in Manipur’s Senapati district and completely cut off the Imphal-Dimapur sector of the National Highway 2. There were no immediate reports of any casualties even as the main supply route for the state was cut off. Many Imphal-bound trucks, mostly carrying essential items, were stranded along the highway.Senapati district administration officials said they were monitoring the situation while necessary steps were being taken to address the situation.Major rivers in the state, including the Imphal River, which passes through the state capital, have separately been flowing close to the warning level due to incessant rain over the last three days. The water levels of three other major rivers –Iril, Nambul, and Nambol--have also risen.Also Read: Heavy rain warning for West Bengal, N-E; air pollution spikes over NW IndiaAs a precautionary measure to reduce the downstream water levels in the major rivers, all gates of the Imphal barrage have been opened fully. Three out of five Ithai barrage gates are also being opened, officials said.Officials have written to district authorities asking them to take precautionary measures. A toll-free telephone number, 1070, has also been set up at the State Emergency Operation Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/landslide-cuts-off-imphal-dimapur-highway-in-manipur/story-FQMcR8xwJ5zQ4baXCJ2TYL.html
24-10-2020||City||Tripura club organises Durga Puja sans idol in remembrance of three local Covid-19 casualties||Though Durga Puja is being celebrated following strict guidelines amid the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, a club in Tripura has organised the puja sans an idol for the first time in 52 years. Established in 1953, the Tarun Sangha Club located at Dhaleswar in Agartala took the initiative this year to express sympathy to the bereaved family members of three persons, including the club’s former secretary, who died of Covid-19 in the neighbourhood. Adhering to the prescribed guidelines for Durga Puja, the club reduced the scope of devotees gathering by organising ghot puja (puja of a kalash instead of an idol). They have decided to allow only five-six people at a time for pushpanjali, while maintaining social distance. Also Read: Heavy rain warning for West Bengal, N-E; air pollution spikes over NW India“We lost three people in our locality due to Covid-19; some are still in home isolation. This year is different from the previous year. As per our decision to pray for the departed souls, we just offered puja to Goddess Durga through a ghot without any idol for the first time since we started organising a puja in 1968. Secondly, we wanted to avoid a crowd during the procession of Vijaya Dashami (Dussehra),” said the president of Tarun Sangha club Tarun Kumar Sinha.He further added that they didn’t collect subscriptions from the locality this time and organised the puja from the club fund. The club spent nearly Rs 3.50 lakh for the puja last year. The expenditure was reduced to Rs 45,000-50,000 this time. They also cancelled social and cultural programmes this year.The club has over a hundred members, including 32 women. Every year, the women organise the Durga Puja. “The previous year, 11 of our women members prepared the bhog (prasad). But this time, three members have decided to prepare the bhog each day, while maintaining social distance. Unlike other years, we will not distribute prasad among the devotees,” said Sinha. The Tripura government issued a set of guidelines early October for Durga Puja. They included collecting online subscriptions, reducing the number of puja pandals, avoiding narrow entry and exit systems in the pandals, allowing 5-10 people to visit the idol at a time, mandatory Covid-19 tests of puja organisers , priests, volunteers and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tripura-club-organises-durga-puja-sans-idol-in-remembrance-of-three-local-covid-19-casualties/story-507Fr2wlH1Q0MQvonrONgK.html
24-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Ensure death audit of Covid-19 fatalities, chief secretary tells officials||The Utar Pardesh government will conduct a death audit of all people who died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and also examine if there was any negligence in their treatment at any level.Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari issued directions to officials in this regard in a Covid-19 review meeting held in Lucknow on Friday. He asked officials to set up a committee to conduct a death audit and find out if any Covid-19 patient died due to negligence in treatment. “Take strict action against the guilty if negligence is found at any level, right from the stage of contact tracing to lab test and treatment,” he said. Also Read: Global Covid-19 tally crosses 42 million markTiwari said that there was a substantial dip in the number of daily Covid-19 cases but warned against laxity. He asked officials to strictly enforce social distancing and face mask rules in crowded places, including religious places.“Ensure videography of all identified crowded places and take action against people who are caught violating rules regarding physical distancing and wearing masks,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-ensure-death-audit-of-covid-19-fatalities-chief-secretary-tells-officials/story-12hrxgm4fKCUy0Ss459CVK.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Many want to leave BJP; party says Maharashtra government will collapse to stop them: Eknath Khadse||A day after joining the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) following his resignation from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Eknath Khadse on Saturday asserted that many people want to leave BJP and to stop them the party is saying that the Maharashtra government is going to collapse.“Many people want to leave BJP and to stop them the party says the government (in Maharashtra) is going to collapse, but the government is not going to fall,” Khadse told ANI.Commenting upon his priorities after joining NCP, Khadse said, “When we join the party, two things take place -- we will strengthen the organisation and will work with the government for development. Our major priority is that with the help of government, development takes place in our area.”Eknath Khadse joined the NCP on Friday in the presence of party chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai.Earlier this week, Khadse had announced his intention to join the NCP and alleged that he had suffered a lot in the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/many-want-to-leave-bjp-party-says-maharashtra-government-will-collapse-to-stop-them-eknath-khadse/story-9xKPuZKkodAmFTYYY3VqfL.html
24-10-2020||Lucknow||Mission Shakti: Yogi Adityanath orders glass room in all UP police stations for women complainants||All police stations in Uttar Pradesh would have to set up a glass room for women complainants to register their complaints before women police personnel. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the setting up of a secret glass room in police stations across the state would help women complainants speak freely to women police personnel.UP’s all 1,535 police stations would now have a women help desk too. Adityanath inaugurated these women help desks on Friday. These initiatives are part of the ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign that has been started in UP to ensure women safety gets top priority.All helpline numbers- 1090, 181, 112, 1076, 1098 and 102 will be displayed at the help desk and secret rooms so that women complainants can call for help when needed. A warning of action on misuse of the helpline will also be mentioned at the help desk. The help desk should be equipped with CCTV and a computer and there should be seating arrangement for police personnel and the complainant. The complainant should also be provided stationery to write her complaint, CM said. Adityanath said that respect for women should be instilled in people and Mission Shakti programmes should be organised in educational institutions across the state. An effort should be made to make respect for women a tradition in schools through morning assembly prayers and cultural events, he said.Also Read: Election commission pulled up by HC, told to hold Suar assembly by-pollsThe launch of Mission Shakti has triggered a political turnaround in the state with elements, trying to blow incidents out of proportion, being pushed on the back foot, he said.Adityanath also lauded the efforts of the state police and added further that the chief secretary and officers in the chief minister’s office will review activities of the various state government departments associated with Mission Shakti. Also Read: Mathura’s Banke Bihari temple to reopen for devotees from October 25The ambit of Mission Shakti should be broadened as it aims to change the people’s attitude towards women. More people should be motivated to join the campaign as the connection of common people with government machinery will pave the way for the success of the campaign, he said. The chief minister also spoke to women teachers, police personnel, representatives of voluntary organisations as well as people’s representatives at the women’s help desk at police stations located in Gautam Buddha Nagar, Lucknow, Varanasi, Meerut and Agra districts.The people’s representatives said that the measures taken by the state government have instilled a sense of security and confidence among women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mission-shakti-yogi-adityanath-orders-glass-room-in-all-up-police-stations-for-women-complainants/story-9yH811zURAwANqEskgMYbP.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Five arrested for staging fake robbery in Delhi||A 21-year-old man has been arrested along with his brother and three others for allegedly staging an armed robbery of Rs 25 lakh near the Dwarka Sector-9 Metro Station on Monday, police said on Saturday.Deputy police commissioner Santosh Kumar Meena said of the stolen Rs 25 lakh, Rs 20 lakh and two two-wheelers used in the offence have been seized from the five.The five have been identified as Vaibhav Singhal, the alleged mastermind, Ayush Singhal,19, Akib Javed,25, Krish Negi,19, and Rahul alias Gabru,19. Javed has been Vaibhav Singhal’s fiend for four years and was promised a share in the looted money along with Negi and Rahul.Also Read: Scare on Delhi-Goa flight over ‘terrorists’ on boardMeena said Vaibhav Singhal claimed he had come to deliver the money to his uncle Vijay Garg when it was supposedly looted on October 19 at knifepoint by three men riding a scooty. “We found the role of Vaibhav and Garg suspicious and they were not cooperating in the probe. We then focused our investigation on the three scooter-borne men who committed the alleged robbery. Our investigating team scanned the CCTV footage and found that two more suspects were on a bike. The team followed the back trail, identified the vehicles, and caught Akib Javed,” he said.Police said Javed’s interrogation unravelled the entire conspiracy and it led to the arrest of the two Singhal brothers, Negi and Rahul. Vaibhav Singhal allegedly planned the fake robbery plot and included his brother and friend Javed. Ayush allegedly gave Rs 10,000 to Rahul for arranging a stolen scooter to use it for the fake robbery.“Rahul stole the scooter and included Negi and two minor boys in the crime. We are interrogating the arrested persons to recover the weapon used in the crime and the remaining stolen money. Efforts are also on to apprehend the minor boys,” said an investigator, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/five-arrested-for-staging-fake-robbery-in-delhi/story-ximQedjHUpSwCIeFAqMddO.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Now, sweep road for one hour if caught without a mask in a public place||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to make violators do community services in form of sweeping roads for an hour or cleaning graffiti if they argue against or refuse to pay Rs 200 fine for not wearing masks in public places, officials aware of the matter said. This punishment will be implemented as per BMC’s Solid Waste Management Bye-Laws, which give it powers to have citizens do community services for spitting on roads.The officials said police cases will be lodged against those violators, who refuse the community service. They added many violators refuse to pay the Rs 200 fine for not wearing masks in public and that prompted the civic body to introduce the concept of community service to check the violations.Also Read: Crowding in women’s compartments of Mumbai trains, FoB; Commuters demand extension of travel slotsSuresh Kakani, BMC’s additional commissioner, said their aim is to not earn money but to ensure that citizens wear masks in public places. “For this, we are exploring all possible means to ensure people realise the importance of wearing masks.”Kakani said besides community services, including sweeping roads, they will also file cases against violators with the police. “At the same time, we are using all means to spread the message on wearing masks in public places.”The BMC has been using social media, and hoardings to increase awareness over the importance of wearing masks in public to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Until October 21, over 100,000 citizens have been fined Rs 2.30 crore for not wearing masks in public places since April. Of this, Rs 1.64 crore was recovered from over 82,000 violators between October 1 and October 21.The BMC on October 12 launched a drive to ensure people wear masks in public. Nearly 40,000 citizens were penalised on the first day of the drive. As many as 60,000 citizens were penalised for not wearing masks over the next 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-now-sweep-road-for-one-hour-if-caught-without-a-mask-in-a-public-place/story-Fm1XPOYRIZWQjGkwxc5jcN.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Authorities can’t scuttle down welfare schemes: Bombay high court||The avowed objectives of welfare schemes cannot be allowed to be scuttled by implementing authorities, the Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench has said while directing the Maharashtra government to reimburse the tuition of the daughter of a school teacher as per a scheme that provides for free education up to the college for the children of permanent teaching and non-teaching staff of private aided schools.Justices SV Gangapurwala and Shrikant Kulkarni on Monday expressed displeasure that though the scheme has been in force since 1995, one Sana Khan was reimbursed just Rs 6,000 of the annual tuition fee of Rs 1.09 lakh. Khan, 19, had moved the court contending that she was entitled to reimbursement of the entire fee under the scheme. The court accepted her contention. It said once the government has taken the decision to provide free education, the authorities implementing it cannot say that the reimbursement of tuition fees would be restricted to Rs 6,000 annually because when the policy was introduced in August 1995, the tuition fees for Bachelor in Physiotherapy course, which Khan is pursuing, was Rs 6,000 per annum.Also Read: Crowding in women’s compartments of Mumbai trains, FoB; Commuters demand extension of travel slots“Such an attitude would render the welfare policy of the government of giving free education to the wards of full-time employees of aided primary, secondary, and higher secondary schools nugatory.”The court said the intention of the state government is clear in the government resolution issued for implementation of the scheme. It added the resolution in unambiguous and states that the state has decided to provide free education to the children of full-time teaching and non-teaching employees of aided schools.The court held so long as the scheme exists, the authorities will be duty-bound to reimburse Khan full tuition fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/authorities-can-t-scuttle-down-welfare-schemes-bombay-high-court/story-dqx3rGfoZA2gfnmL3SmOVO.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Congress leader Harish Rawat questions timing of ED summons to Punjab CM’s son Raninder||Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Rawat on Saturday questioned the timing of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summons to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh in the alleged illegal foreign funds case, saying such acts will not suppress the CM’s voice against the Centre’s farm laws. Rawat, who is an All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and a former Uttarakhand chief minister, tweeted: “Capt Amarinder Singh is the voice of Punjab and farmers of the country. Just see the timing of the ED summons.” He was referring to the Punjab chief minister’s move to convene a special assembly session to pass Bills to counter the farm laws earlier this week. “If you raise a voice then the ED, income tax department and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) will come after you. Is this not a message?” Rawat said, criticising the BJP-led central government. ED SUMMONS RANINDER ON OCTOBER 27 The ED has summoned Raninder Singh in an ongoing probe into illegal foreign funds on October 27. It has asked him to be present for questioning at its zonal office in Jalandhar, officials said. In August, the ED had filed three applications in a Ludhiana court for the inspection of new documents filed by the income tax department in the cases against the chief minister and his son. The matter is still pending with the district and sessions court in Ludhiana. In July 2016, Raninder had appeared before the ED in the case and said he had nothing to hide. “I’ll attend the probe as they want me to as I have nothing to hide,” he said. ACTION UNDER FEMA ON I-T DEPT COMPLAINT The central agency initiated action against Raninder under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) after the income tax department filed a complaint in a Ludhiana court, saying he had lied under oath about trusts owned by him in Virgin Islands. In 2016, Raninder was summoned by the ED in connection with a FEMA violation. The IT department said that Raninder misguided the agency by claiming that he did have documents related to the family’s income and trusts abroad. The IT department alleged that Raninder was a ‘settler’ of Jacaranda Trust, which the family formed. Other undisclosed trusts include Mulwala Holdings Limited and Allworth Venture Holding Limited. Capt Amarinder Singh and Raninder also allegedly carried out ‘undisclosed’ financial transactions through a bank account in HSBC, Geneva, and HSBC Financial Services Limited (Middle East), the department said. The IT department said the trusts were established in 2005 and most of the deals were routed through Virgin Islands. The agency submitted in the court that it has documents sourced from Virgin Islands that show Captain Amarinder Singh and his son Raninder as owners of Marine Mansions in Dubai and other properties in the United Kingdom. Both Amarinder and Raninder have denied any wrongdoing and termed the charges false. Hindustan Times made several attempts to reach Raninder for comments on the latest summons but he remained unreachable. The chief minister’s media adviser, Raveen Thukral, also declined comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/congress-leader-harish-rawat-questions-timing-of-ed-summons-to-punjab-cm-s-son-raninder/story-v0zFMhy7KNuIiHnCPqDflO.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal to inaugurate Seelampur and Shastri Park flyovers today||The much awaited flyovers at Seelampur and Shastri Park will be opened for the public from Saturday, bringing major relief to residents of east and northeast Delhi as well as people who regularly commute through these areas from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate both the flyovers at noon Saturday. Earlier in the week, public works department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain had said the estimated project cost of the Seelampur-Shastri Park flyover package was Rs 303.31 crore, but the Delhi government completed both the flyovers and spent only Rs 250 crore. “Our PWD managed to save at least Rs 53 crore in the project, which is very important at this time (of the pandemic) since the government’s usual sources of revenue have been severely hit,” Jain had said.Also Read: Delhi’s air quality remains ‘very poor’The government said the two flyovers are likely to reduce travel time between Shahdara in east Delhi to Kashmere Gate Interstate Bus Terminus (ISBT) by at least 10 minutes. At present, because of heavy vehicular movement and rampant encroachment, there are multiple bottlenecks leading to major snarls on the stretch. Sometimes, during peak hours, it takes 30-40 minutes to cross the stretch. Construction of the two flyovers, to provide a signal-free ride between Welcome in northeast Delhi and the Kashmere Gate ISBT—a roughly 8km-ride on one of the most congested and traffic-heavy stretches in Delhi — had started in February 2019. They were to be completed in March 2020 but the project hit an initial hurdle in the form of a construction ban due to pollution and a later hurdle because of riots in the region in February. The project was stalled further due to the coronavirus disease-induced nationwide lockdown which began on March 25. The deadline for the flyovers was then shifted to July 2020, but due to lack of labour, they could not be completed earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-inaugurate-seelampur-and-shastri-park-flyovers-today/story-vxwvNxUgMwffeyUbGfCTOK.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||It’s homestays over high-end hotels in Himachal Pradesh this holiday season||At a time when the Covid-hit tourism industry of Himachal Pradesh is struggling for revival, visitors to the hill state are preferring countryside homestays over high-end hotels at popular holiday destinations.The loss to the state’s tourism industry due to the pandemic this year has been pegged at Rs 20,000 crore. Last year, 1.72 crore tourists visited the state, while nearly 80,000 have visited Himachal so far in 2020.With the state government opening its doors for visitors in the last week of September, tourists have chosen to spend their time in countryside homestays rather than holidaying in hotels of traditional tourist destinations of Kullu, Manali, Shimla, Dharamshala and Kasauli.“There is hardly 25% occupancy in hotels. The losses are huge for us. With rail and air services still hit, tourists from Gujarat and West Bengal have skipped a holiday to Himachal this festive season,” says Ashwani Bhamba of the Federation of Hotels and Restaurateurs.WEEKEND TOURISM PICKS UP IN APPLE BELTThe tourist inflow is more from Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh on weekends. Hoteliers in and around Shimla are demanding the resumption of inter-state Volvo luxury bus services to facilitate visitors from nearby states.Homestays in Mashobra, Kufri, Fagu, Narkanda, Theog, Kotgarh, Kotkhai and Rohru, all places around Shimla, are popular with tourists. Homestays near Kullu, Manali and Parvati Valley are also attracting visitors.Many orchard owners have turned their houses into homestays. “My homestay was packed to capacity even before the pandemic struck. After the lockdown was lifted, I’ve got many queries and plan to reopen it in December,” says Atul Mehta, the owner of Deodar Cottage in Kotgarh, known for apple production. In 1916, American missionary Samuel Evan Stokes, popular as Satyanand Stokes, had settled down in Kotgarh and introduced apple growing in the area.ECONOMICAL AND CONVENIENT OPTIONDuring the pandemic, tourists prefer homestays in the lap of nature as they are away from the hustle and bustle of towns. “Homestays with orchards are a refreshing retreat and becoming popular,” says entrepreneur Palak Chauhan, 22, who owns Jannat, a homestay in Mashobra, 10 km from Shimla. “It’s safer to holiday away from cities during the pandemic. A stay in the countryside is more refreshing than a high-end hotel,” says Prashant Prajapati, a tourist from Noida, who had recently holidayed in Kotgarh.Moreover, the homestays are economical. A room at a homestay is available for between Rs 1,800 and Rs 2,500 a night, while a room in a luxury resort costs between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a night.Almost every homestay has its own website with information such as the type of room, meal plans and facilities. Homestays can be booked with the help of travel agents, while guests also recommend them to friends and family. Most homestays offer breakfast, lunch and dinner according to the preference of guests and they have housekeeping staff.According to the state tourism department, Shimla district has 433 homestays with a bed capacity of 2,676, while the entire state has 2,189 homestays with a bed capacity of 12,181.Their popularity grew after the Himachal Pradesh Home Stay Scheme was launched in 2008 to promote tourism in interior areas of the state and decongest the towns besides providing jobs in villages.TOURISTS VISITING HIMACHAL OVER THE YEARSYear Indian Foreign Total 2019 1.68 crore 3.82 lakh 1.72 crore2018 1.6 crore 3.56 lakh 1.64 crore2017 1.91 crore 4.70 lakh 1.96 crore2016 1.79 crore 4.52 lakh 1.84 crore2015 1.71 crore 4.06 lakh 1.75 crore2014 1.59 crore 3.89 lakh 1.63 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/it-s-homestays-over-high-end-hotels-in-himachal-pradesh-this-holiday-season/story-xNH1SzaIEXq6HJMHpkjJCK.html
24-10-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s Miriti village misses former president Pranab Mukherjee on Durga Puja||The 126-year-old Durga Puja at the ancestral home of the Mukherjees in remote Miriti village in West Bengal’s Birbhum district is being organised as usual this year too. But the puja has lost one of its biggest attractions. The priest himself. The villagers and close associates of former President Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away in August, say they feel his absence at every step.“He used to guide us like a father figure. This time, he is not here with us anymore and we can feel it even more during the puja because he used to do everything from reciting the Chandi every day and performing the Sandi Puja. It was his puja and the priests used to assist him,” said Rabi Chattaraj, 71, a resident of Miriti.The village is around 230 km south-west of Kolkata where the puja was started by Mukherjee’s ancestor, Jangaleswar Mukherjee, 126 years ago.Also Read: Pandemic, ban on visitors, and rain ensure Kolkata’s Durga Puja remains muted one“No matter where he was, he used to make it a point to come to the village during Durga Puja and hold the puja in his ancestral house. It was a big attraction and people from far off villages used to come just to see him when he was the president,” he said.A devout Hindu, Pranab Mukherjee never missed his priest’s role except in 2015, when his wife, Suvra, passed away just a few days before the annual festival. Although other priests performed the routine rituals, it was Mukherjee’s job to chant scriptures from the 13 chapters of Chandi.“He had almost memorised the entire Chandi as he used to chant it every day the first thing in the morning. So, while performing the Durga Puja, he could chant it without referring to any scriptures,” said Chattaraj, who shares a very close and cordial relation with the Mukherjee family.Friday was Saptami of Durga Puja. Following tradition and wearing patta-bastra, Mukherjee would visit a nearby river to perform the Saptami rituals. After returning, he chanted the Chandi (a set of slokas) before the idol.“This time, the Chandi is being recited by a priest in the absence of my father. Villagers and family invitees are coming regularly to meet us. They are all remembering my father. His absence is being felt,” said Abhijit Mukherjee, son of Pranab Mukherjee and a former lawmaker.Also Read: Play, pause, repeat: Durga Puja moves from pandals to phonesDuring his stay in the village, Mukherjee would spend time with family and old friends, some of whom went to the Shib Chandra High School at Kirnahar, which is more commonly referred to as Pranab’s school.The former president was one of the country’s most admired political leaders.Villagers at Kirnahar had organised a Maha Mrityunjaya yajna when Mukherjee was hospitalised this summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-s-miriti-village-misses-former-president-pranab-mukherjee-on-durga-puja/story-NAQdg3eqmbr5aHoVDC253H.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality remains ‘very poor’||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the ‘very poor’ category on Saturday morning, just a little better than Friday’s. On Saturday morning, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) reading was 348.Delhi’s overall AQI reading on Friday was 366 (in the ‘very poor’ zone), the worst in at least eight months, and a marked deterioration from Thursday’s 296, which was in the ‘poor’ zone, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). An AQI reading of 201 to 300 is considered ‘poor’. A reading of 301 to 400 is in the ‘very poor’ category, and such bad air could lead to respiratory illnesses, especially in children.Also Read: Delhi pollution: Plans on paper, and poison in the airOn Friday, at least 12 of 35 monitoring stations in Delhi recorded ‘severe’ air (401-500). Friday was the second time this year that the national Capital’s air quality deteriorated so much— in January 22, Delhi’s AQI reading was 370. Experts said that the air might turn dirtier in the national Capital over the weekend, before improving marginally from October 26. The city’s air quality will start deteriorating again on October 29, according to an India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. “The wind speed will remain low till October 25, after which we expect a slight improvement. But with the temperatures also falling, the pollution levels could spike again from October 29,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-remains-very-poor/story-j5PLx9BZZG3YpxRJMki0lK.html
24-10-2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP president dissolves all district youth morcha committees; differences brewing||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh on Friday dissolved all the district committees of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the party’s youth front. The committees were formed over the past five weeks. Ghosh empowered the BJP’s district presidents to take over BJYM’s functioning till further decisions are taken. BJP leaders, who did not want to be quoted, said Ghosh made the announcement following severe differences with Saumitra Khan, president of the state BJYM, over appointment of some office bearers. Khan was the sitting Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha member from Bishnupur constituency in Bankura district when he joined the BJP before the 2019 polls. Khan retained the seat. He was made president of the state BJYM about two months ago. “Due to some reasons, till any further announcements, all district presidents of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and respective district committees are being dissolved from today,” said the organizational announcement signed by Ghosh. “Till further announcements their duties will be taken up by the respective district presidents of the Bharatiya Janata Party,” the notice said. The district committees of the BJYM were formed recently. Ghosh’s decision came as a shock to both BJYM and BJP leaders. Many were surprised that he made the announcement on his personal letterhead as Lok Sabha member from Midnapore and not on the party’s letterhead. Interestingly, on Thursday, Shankudeb Panda, also a former TMC leader, was made state vice-president of the BJYM by Khan. Two others, Digvijay Singh and Avishek Singhania were also made vice-presidents and four persons, including actor Rimjhim Mitra, were made secretaries. Neither Ghosh nor Khan was available for comment. Their phones were unreachable till 10 pm on Friday. BJP leaders said on condition of anonymity that a cold war is on in the state BJP over induction of new leaders in the BJYM. Also Read: PM Modi’s Bengal poll pitch hinges on delivery of development, promise of changeThe differences cropped up in the first week of September after Khan announced the names of members in BJYM’s new state committee. Senior party leaders said Ghosh declared the list null and void and wanted changes to be made. Khan had to publish a new list in which Prakash Das, a youth leader known to be close to Ghosh, was named as the Morcha general secretary. “A section of central leaders of the BJP wanted Shankudeb Panda, who is known to be close to national vice-president Mukul Roy, to be the Morcha general secretary,” a state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity. Also Read: Gurung’s re-emergence, alliance with TMC raises questions unansweredHe said that BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, who looks after the organization in Bengal, also wanted Panda’s induction. He had a discussion with Ghosh but the latter was not willing to change his decision. Anupam Hazra, the former TMC Lok Sabha MP from Bolpur, who defected to the BJP in March 2019 and was defeated by TMC’s Mimi Chakraborty in Jadavpur Lok Sabha constituency, was made a vice-president in the Yuva Morcha in September. This decision too was changed at Ghosh’s behest and Hazra was recently made a national secretary of the BJP in place of Rahul Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-bjp-president-dissolves-all-district-youth-morcha-committees-differences-brewing/story-FpSm4Y6e29lBeDVx8ccZTO.html
24-10-2020||Election:||PM Modi makes Bihar pitch||Reminding Bihar of what he called the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) “Jungle Raj” marked by lawlessness, destruction and corruption, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday made a strong pitch for the re-election of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) “under the leadership of Nitish Kumar” in the upcoming assembly polls to create an Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bihar.He also said that the Centre’s welfare measures, economic reforms and development programmes have benefited citizens; defended the state government’s handling of the pandemic; praised the valour of soldiers from Bihar in defending national security; and attacked the Opposition for speaking up for “middlemen” for personal benefit at the expense of national interest, and for aiding forces that want to “weaken” and “divide” the nation, and said India would stay firm.On the first day of campaigning in Bihar, Modi — who addressed rallies in Sasaram, Gaya and Bhagalpur — declared that Bihar had made up its mind to re-elect the NDA to expedite development, and attempts to create “illusions” by “inflating the image” of select leaders or talking up the emergence of new forces will not work. His remark comes in the wake of reports of Opposition rallies, led by RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, generating substantial crowds.Modi also paid tribute to the late Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder and his former Cabinet colleague Ram Vilas Paswan for being a champion of Dalits and the poor, but did not mention Chirag Paswan or the LJP’s decision to contest separately in the state, while being a part of the NDA nationally. He, however, asked for votes in all three speeches for only the four NDA constituents — the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Janata Dal (United) or JD(U), Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM), and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP). After tracing the recent political history in Bihar, the PM also claimed that he and Nitish Kumar (who is the target of LJP’s and the Opposition’s attacks) had only got an opportunity to work together for three to four years so far and Bihar had a long way to go in its “development journey”.The Opposition, however, slammed the PM for his silence on China, unemployment, and particularly the migrant crisis during the Covid-19 lockdown. “Workers from Bihar were chased away from Delhi and other states. They travelled on foot. When you were walking hungry and thirsty, did Modi help you? Did he help workers of Bihar,” Gandhi asked.Modi’s speeches were marked by four big themes — a strong attack on the RJD, with an attempt to trigger memories of what he alleged was “misrule” during the period it was in power; a defence of the Centre’s rural schemes, recent agricultural reforms, and Swamitva scheme entailing the distribution of property identity cards to owners; a detailed defence of the progress made in Bihar, especially on economic and connectivity projects, and how this could only be sustained with the return of the NDA; and a general attack on the Opposition for its obstructionism.In all his speeches, the PM focused on the past. He spoke of how there was a time in Bihar, when after sunset, everything was closed; when people didn’t buy cars so that “workers of one party” did not get to know of their earnings; when it was not certain if one was travelling from one town to another whether the person would get to the destination or get kidnapped on the way; when electricity was only in the homes of the prosperous; and when there was dacoity, murder, and extortion under those whose job it was to govern.Without referring specifically to either the RJD or Lalu Prasad, who ruled in that period, the PM said, “In the 1990s, Bihar was pushed towards anarchy. You experienced it. The misrule of 90s is still at the root of today’s issues. Many young people are voting for the first time... Bihar has traversed a long journey. You are seeing a new Bihar, new systems. But there was a time when this was unimaginable.”He then asked who voters would trust. “Bihar deserves a corrupt-free regime. Who will provide it — those who are enmeshed in corruption or those who fight it? Bihar is entitled to development. Who will provide it — those who have only enriched their families or those who have forgotten their families to serve the public,” he said, asking similar questions about industrialisation, investment, law and order, and education.Second, the PM strongly defended the governance and welfare record of the NDA government — highlighting, in particular, schemes for rural housing, gas cylinders, toilet construction, electrification, bank accounts, loans through Mudra Yojana, health insurance through Ayushman Bharat, direct income transfer into accounts of beneficiaries, and the provision of free rations, along with other measures, during the pandemic.He spoke about the recent agricultural reforms and how it would benefit farmers in Bihar.Modi also extensively spoke of the government’s new Swamitva scheme, which entails the distribution of ownership rights in the form of property IDs, and said that this would be a huge relief in villages, and prevent and resolve disputes.“Now, everyone in villages can get ownership rights; they will get legal documents; this will help resolve disputes in villages; property card will help them buy and sell property; they don’t have to worry about their homes being captured; and they can get loans easily from banks.”Third, the PM spoke of how Bihar had seen rapid progress, especially in the sphere of electrification, road construction, provision of drinking water, bridges, irrigation and connectivity projects, and said that if it was not for quick decision-making during the pandemic in the state, many more lives would have been lost and there would have been “unimaginable chaos”.Providing his perspective on how Bihar’s politics has evolved, Modi said there was an 18-month period (referring to Nitish Kumar’s alliance with RJD and their coalition government in 2015-17) when the CM realised that the alliance would not lead to Bihar’s development, but push back the state. “That is when he we came together again.”He said that Bihar’s citizens should remember that he and Nitish Kumar have only got the opportunity to work together for three to four years, and while work has substantially improved in this period, there is a long way to go.Finally, a consistent thread in the PM’s speeches was a more general attack on the Opposition for what he claimed was its consistent obstructionism even at the cost of public welfare or national interest.“They are also willing to help those conspiring to weaken India. You tell me — wasn’t the country waiting for years to remove Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir? The NDA government decided it, but they want to reverse it. And then, they are asking for votes in Bihar, which sends its children to secure India’s borders. This is the land of jawans and kisans. I want to say clearly — they can take help from whoever they want; India will not step back from its decisions.”The first of Bihar’s three phases of polling is on October 28; followed by voting on November 3 and 7.The results will be announced on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/pm-modi-makes-bihar-pitch/story-7T0Awv1EgDLnJQP26qVgXP.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Toxic haze engulfs Delhi as air nears ‘severe’ zone||Delhi’s air quality inched perilously close to “severe” on Friday, sparking fears that the Capital’s annual pollution ordeal during the festive season and the winter months have returned despite mitigation plans that may again come to naught as the situation is expected to worsen over the weekend.The city’s air quality index (AQI) eventually settled in the “very poor” category with a reading of 366, according to the 24-hour rolling average at 4pm. It was the worst in nine months and marked a sharp deterioration from Thursday’s 296, which was in the “poor zone”, according the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).But during the day, at least 12 of 35 monitoring stations in Delhi hit the “severe” level with the overall air quality bordering the lowest classification. It was on January 22 (AQI of 370) that the air in the Capital was worse than that on Friday, when a toxic haze hung over the city. An AQI of 201 to 300 is considered “poor”. A reading of 301 to 400 is in the “very poor” category and is associated with respiratory illnesses, especially in children and those exposed to the bad air. An AQI of 400-500 is considered “severe”.Scientists attributed the bad air to calm surface wind conditions that have led to the accumulation of pollutants in the atmosphere, and variable wind direction that brought pollutants from stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana towards the National Capital Region (NCR).There were 1,213 farm fires recorded in the two states on Thursday, and the share in pollution was 17% on Friday — up from 9% the previous day.The AQI, according to the 4pm CPCB bulletin, was 334 in Gurugram, 369 in Noida, 360 in Faridabad, 344 in Ghaziabad, and 381 in Greater Noida.VK Soni, head of the environment monitoring research centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said weather conditions were likely to remain unfavourable for the dispersal of pollutants through the weekend.“Surface winds are either calm, or there has been extremely low wind speed since Thursday. The pollution, which has accumulated, is not dispersing. We are not expecting these conditions to improve till Sunday. Overall, wind direction is northwesterly, which means stubble fires (in Punjab and Haryana) are also impacting the air quality in Delhi,” Soni said.Experts feared that Delhi’s air might turn dirtier over the weekend, before improving marginally from October 26. The air will start deteriorating again from October 29, according to IMD forecast.“The wind speed will remain low till October 25, after which we expect that there would be a slight improvement. But with the temperatures falling at the same time, the pollution levels could spike again from October 29,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi.Bad air during this time of the year has been a recurring problem for Delhi and the northern plains due to a combination of factors, including meteorological changes, crop stubble burning, and festive firecracker bursting during Diwali.To fight the annual crisis, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, or Epca, implemented a series of steps on October 15 under the winter phase of what is known as the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), including banning diesel generator sets, laying stress on 13 pollution hot spots in the city, mechanised sweeping of roads and strict dust control measures at construction sites.“While there is no need to panic, we have directed all agencies to start water sprinkling and monitor local pollution sources. Enforcement will be the key in the coming days,” said EPCA chairperson Bhure Lal. He added that all concerned government agencies in the national capital region (NCR) have been directed to keep a close watch on the pollution levels and act accordingly.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said the city was facing a difficult situation since the Covid-19 crisis made people more vulnerable.“...the focus of enforcement agencies should be to improve the action on ground before people’s health start getting impacted by this annual air problem,” said Roychowdhury.Apart from the regular measures under Grap, the Delhi government has taken additional measures to check the winter spike in pollution, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said.“We have started a campaign across the city to control vehicular emissions — red light on, gaadi off — in which we are encouraging people to switch off their ignitions while they wait for the red light to turn green,” Rai said.But experts feared the plans would once again do little to prevent the city from, once again, plunging into a bad air emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/toxic-haze-engulfs-delhi-as-air-nears-severe-zone/story-tIyKXSrz98YISuJayKRlCL.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Barakhamba aesthetics||It takes a bougainvillea to raise a city. That’s what one feels on witnessing the magical scene of a Connaught Place high-rise emanating from the flower pot of a pink bougainvillea.This illusion is caused by the combined effect of the night, the lights of the street lamps, the lit-up building itself, the long screen of pavement trees, and the black starless sky. The bougainvillea pot is placed on the road divider in central Delhi’s Barakhamba Road, and the building is the distinctive Statesman House.The late night sight is incredibly surreal. The entire length of the road divider is in fact decked with pots containing the bougainvillaeas. Many are pink, but some are white too.Bougainvillaeas are well-suited to a rough-and-tough metropolis like Delhi. These scentless flowers might look fragile, but are able to thrive in the most adverse conditions of heat, smog, and dust—a fact confirmed by PK Tripathi, a member of the esteemed Delhi-based Bougainvillea Society of India. They are usually seen on the city footpaths as shrubberies hanging about boundary walls, growing in a wild abundance, impervious to any semblance of order. So here it is unusual to see the flowers arranged so carefully, in a neat row of pots, by the NDMC (introduced a month ago before the coronavirus triggered lockdown).At night the pink petals, especially, seem to glow. As the headlights of a passing car fall on the flowers, the pink shine is instantly lost, dissolving into the brighter blinding light that has fallen on them. But the car goes away and the pink radiance returns.Tonight, a bunch of commuters are standing at a bus stop. They are all in masks, all busy with their mobiles. Nobody is noticing the row of bougainvillaeas. Now a young man crosses the road from the other side. On stepping into the divider, he pauses behind one of the plants and curiously gazes upon a thicket of these flowers. He seems absorbed. The spell is broken within moments as he leaves the divider and crosses over to the other side. You must come to cherish these bougainvillea. Detached from their more natural settings, they look poignant and otherworldly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-barakhamba-aesthetics/story-BOscvfLK0yAHbQFoWhwJWK.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||‘Very poor’ air plagues Noida, Ghaziabad||The cities of Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh and Gurugram in Haryana all suffered “very poor” air on Friday. While Ghaziabad had an air quality index (AQI) of 344, Noida and Greater Noida had an AQI of 369 and 381, respectively. Gurugram, meanwhile, recorded an AQI of 344, the worst of the season so far.Uttar Pradesh pollution control board’s Ghaziabad regional officer Utsav Sharma said, “There has been a rise in PM10 and PM2.5 levels due to road dust, dust from construction sites, as well as stubble and garbage burning. Vehicular emissions are primarily responsible for the rise in PM2.5 levels. To curb this spike, we are regularly surveying industrial units, farmlands and different agencies are taking up water sprinkling on roads to settle dust, among other measures.”Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said authorities were working to control pollution. “It (high pollution) is a matter of concern and departments and the authorities are already on the job. They are using different measures such as anti-smog guns and water sprinkling to settle pollutants. We have a two-pronged strategy -- first, to spread awareness at probable sources of pollution and, second, to ensure strict enforcement,” he said. The Noida authority has issued penalties worth over Rs 30.94 lakh since last Saturday on entities adding to air pollution, according to PTI.Sachin Panwar, a Gurugram-based air quality scientist, meanwhile, said the recent drop in quality was “just the beginning” with the interplay of factors such as dip in temperature, reduction in wind speed, and stubble burning. “We can expect much more severe air pollution conditions in the first week of November, unless there is rain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/very-poor-air-plagues-noida-ghaziabad/story-35qBUNd58hxQGfrHxybmBL.html
24-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugramwale: The animal stories||Both Guddu and Chuck are brown. They have the same flappy ears and exactly the same size.They must be twins, no?“They are step-siblings,” says Dinesh. “They have the same papa, but their mummy is alag alag (different).”Guddu and Chuck are dogs. Dinesh is a human. He is holding on to Guddu’s leash. Chuck’s caretaker is another human, SS Rawat.This afternoon, the four folks are briefly lying in a public park in Gurugram. Dinesh and Mr Rawat are otherwise walking the dogs as part of their job. The dogs live with their employers, a human family, in a house nearby.“They are a little over a year,” says Dinesh, affectionately embracing his Guddu. Patting Chuck’s back, Mr Rawat explains the young dogs’ huge size, saying, “Some dogs grow very fast.”It is the two humans’ assignment to escort the dogs every afternoon in the neighbourhood park. “We love Guddu and Chuck,” says one of them. Indeed, some personal histories linger on behind their fondness for dogs.Dinesh, to start with, has always been fond of animals. He grew up in a village in Madhubani, in Bihar. “As a child I used to play with rabbits… had them as pets,” he says, a faint smile clinging on to his face. “Though we didn’t have dogs at home, there were a few strays who would always be hanging about the entrance, and we would feed them daily with milk and roti.”Mr Rawat confesses that he isn’t fond of animals as much as his colleague, “but I’ve grown attached to Chuck and Guddu.” Coming from a mountain village in Pauri, in Uttarakhand, he has a less friendly childhood with animals. “We would often see cheetahs and baghs (tigers) in the jungles.” Sometimes a bagh might appear at night in the village, looking to attack a goat for food, “and then we all would gather and scare him away by beating drums and by shouting.” The bagh would run away, back into the forest.Both Madhubani and Pauri are far from the Millennium City, and the only intimate link to animals for these two men remains with their employer’s dogs.By now, Guddu and Chuck are jumping over each other and one doesn’t know if they are fighting or playing. Dinesh and Mr Rawat affectionately but forcefully restrain their respective charges, and get up to make a round of the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugramwale-the-animal-stories/story-PNyBPvy5G9pAMExf6crpXN.html
24-10-2020||City||Youth Congress leader among 4 held for abetting suicide of Bathinda bitcoin trader||Four persons, including the Youth Congress’ Jaito block president, were arrested on Friday for allegedly driving a 41-year-old Bathinda-based cryptocurrency trader to end his life. The trader allegedly shot his 38-year-old wife and two children aged 14 and 10 dead with his licensed weapon before taking his life on Thursday. The names and contact numbers of nine persons, including that of Youth Congress leader Manjinder Singh Dhaliwal, were mentioned in a suicide note left by him, the police said. “Dhaliwal, Parveen Bansal and Ashok Kumar of Bathinda city and Mani Bansal of Raman Mandi town in the district were rounded up yesterday for questioning and were arrested today,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Aaswant Dhaliwal. Aman Kohinoor and her husband Raju Kohinoor, Babbu Kalra, Sanjay Jindal and Abhishek Johri, a Delhi resident, are other accused who are yet to be arrested. In the suicide note, the trader alleged that most of the accused were threatening and humiliating him for his failed business. In their initial investigation, the police claim to have found that the deceased, who belonged to an affluent business family, owed nearly Rs 1 crore to various people. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. “As a part of investment deals in bitcoin and real estate, the victim had issued post-dated cheques to the investors. As he failed to keep his commitments, the investors started asking for their money back. We have found that he had committed to clear the debts by October 20 but he failed to raise the funds,” said a police official. The deceased had to sell a large house in Panchvati Nagar, an upscale residential locality, three years ago at a throwaway price to clear his debts, it is learnt. He then moved his family to a rented accommodation two-and-a-half-years ago. He switched over to chit funds or unregulated saving schemes around five years ago and made several people invest in shady companies, said an official. Then he gradually he moved to investment in ‘virtual money’ and allegedly lured his previous clients to invest in bitcoins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-congress-leader-among-4-held-for-abetting-suicide-of-bathinda-bitcoin-trader/story-DkYaijgy22k80SuJW10MVM.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Covid-19 positivity rate hits two-month low||A gradual daily decline in Covid-19 cases in Punjab in over the two weeks has brought the state’s overall positivity rate down to 5.2 %, the lowest in the past two months. The positivity rate for the week ending October 23 was 3%, also the lowest during the same period. The rate for the week from September 14 to 20 was 9.8% when the daily addition of cases in the state ranged from 2,300 to 2,500. The overall positivity then was also the highest at 6.4%, show the figures available with the health department. The national positivity rate also came down to 7.81% on October 22. “This is a significant development in the fight against the coronavirus when the state has maintained high sample collection daily. Despite decrease in positivity rate, we have not cut our collection. An average 25,000 people were tested in the last fortnight on a daily basis,” said Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. Mortality rate continues to rise The state has failed to improve its death ratio which continues to be the highest in India at 3.14%, almost double the country’s overall mortality rate of 1.6%. Punjab is the only state now with a mortality rate higher than 3% followed by Maharashtra and Gujarat at 2.64% and 2.24% (as on October 22). Most states, including Maharashtra and Gujarat, have managed to decrease their Covid death ratio. Till October 22, the state witnessed 4,072 deaths due to infection. When the state witnessed its peak of cases from September 14 to 20, its case fatality ratio was 2.9%. State planning its 3rd sero survey The nodal officer said Punjab is likely to conduct its third serological survey in the next few days. “We think this is the best time to do it as business and other commercial activities have almost in a full swing. Besides, the government has allowed some social gatherings with riders,” said Dr Bhaskar. The previous sero survey carried out by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had found that in the worst-hit districts of Ludhiana and Jalandhar 18% and 9.7% of the population may have been exposed to the virus. The survey was conducted in four districts of the state from August 17 and September 22. The first sero survey that was carried out in containment zones had found antibodies in 27.7% of the population living in these areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-covid-19-positivity-rate-hits-two-month-low/story-rWvIRo2PUIvxLXCxSTmeqO.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Crowding in women’s compartments of Mumbai trains, FoB; Commuters demand extension of travel slots||Commuters travelling by local trains complained of crowding inside the women’s compartments and on foot overbridges (FoB) on the suburban railway network on Friday.Since Tuesday, women commuters are allowed to travel by local trains within the stipulated time slots between 11am and 3pm, and post 7pm. “There is overcrowding inside the women’s compartment. I travelled today on the Western Railway (WR) line, and the train compartments were full. It is the same condition on the Central Railway (CR) line,” said Renu Chaudhary, a media professional from Naigaon who was travelling to Andheri.Women passengers also claimed that due to the stipulated time restrictions, there was crowding similar to before the lockdown. “As the travel time slot nears its end, commuters start getting into crowded compartments. The travel timings should be extended,” said Aarti Singh, a Vidyavihar resident.Passengers also took to social media to complain of overcrowding on the FoBs at railways. “If this is the way we are going to fight from coronavirus then when will males be allowed to travel by local trains railway minister @PiyushGoyal?. This is the way Mumbai will win over corona,” tweeted @Manojtiwarirke1.The railways have stated that train services will be increased in the coming days after inspection of the increase in women commuters.“Introduction of additional trains will be planned. We are studying the increase in passengers and will be operating new train services,” said a senior CR railway official. CR operates 706 local train services while WR runs 704 services daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/crowding-in-women-s-compartments-of-mumbai-trains-fob-commuters-demand-extension-of-travel-slots/story-7BRGxjSWr9xKXQyWZxkDCK.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Woman robbed of gold chain in Mumbai, 3 held||Sakinaka police on Thursday arrested three men for allegedly robbing a 38-year-old woman of her gold chain worth Rs15,000 near JP Hospital on Andheri-Kurla road. The accused have been identified as Shivaji Nagar resident Pir Mohammad Shaikh, 23; Govandi resident Arar Abdul Khan, 18, and Kurla resident Adil Shaikh, 21. According to the complainant Afsana Shah, an autorickshaw ran over her daughter Gausia’s foot while the duo had been for a walk. While she was tending to her daughter’s injury, two bike-borne men snatched her chain and fled the spot. “After Shah raised an alarm, two people came to her help and chased the accused on their bike. One of them also contacted the police control room, following which a team from Sakinaka police station intercepted the accused and arrested Shaikh and Khan,” said a police officer from Sakinaka police station. During their questioning, the police discovered that Adil who is an autorickshaw driver, was Shaikh and Khan’s accomplice and he had caused the accident to divert Shah’s attention. The police then arrested him from his home in Kurla. The trio have been booked under sections 392 (punishment for robbery), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Adil is also booked under section 134 (a) (b) [duty of driver in case of accident and injury to a person] of Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-held-for-robbing-woman-s-chain-in-mumbai/story-vzfpqT5nWVIt3y45EdJOuN.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||University of Mumbai declares results of 20 exams||The University of Mumbai (MU) announced the results of 20 regular and backlog/allowed to keep term (ATKT) exams for the 2019-20 academic year on Friday, less than a month after the tests concluded. As per information shared by the university, results of the third-year Bachelor of Commerce (TYBCom) (semester 5) stands at 94.36%, after more than 22,000 students cleared the exam. Other results announced include those for Bachelor in Pharmacy (BPharm) semester 7 (choice-based), third-year Bachelor in Arts (Culinary Arts) semester 5 and 6, BPharm semesters 7 and 8, TYBCom Transport Management semester 5, TYBCom Financial Management semester 5 and BSc Aviation semester 5 among others. “The process of uploading marks on the portal by the colleges is underway and the university is trying its best to get the results of the remaining examinations expeditiously,” said the Vinod Patil, director of board of examination and evaluation, MU. “Thanks to the work and cooperation of the college principals, teaching and non-teaching staff, it has been possible to announce results in such great time. We hope the same enthusiasm and efficiency will continue in the future,” said TA Shiware, who was invited by MU to help with the examination and evaluation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-declares-results-of-20-exams/story-ZA7l83mh7ng0V0yZXvX6BI.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||After varsities in Maharashtra promote law aspirants without exams, student outfit seeks clarity from BCI over validity of certificates||A Maharashtra-based student activist group has approached the Bar Council of India (BCI) to seek clarity if promoting law students – except those in their final or sixth semester – to the next grade without asking them to take the exams will be considered valid. The move follows a circular from BCI in June stating that second and fourth semester students pursuing the three-year LLB course should be promoted based on a physical examination conducted within a month of the colleges reopening. However, all Maharashtra state universities have already promoted all the students – except those studying in their final year – based on their previous semester performance. “A circular by BCI released in May and an eventual press release about the same had clear directions that examinations of all students, except final-year students, should be conducted within one month of reopening of colleges,” stated a letter addressed to BCI by the Students Law Council. It further mentions that despite such clear directions, universities across Maharashtra decided to declare results of second and fourth semester students without conducting physical exams. “Universities have marked students based on their performance in previous semesters and promoted all,” the letter further stated. With the increasing Covid-19 cases in the state and the lockdown in place, university exams had to be postponed. While the government of Maharashtra had decided to promote all students based on their previous performance, a Supreme Court order in September ordered all higher education institutions to promote final-year students of professional as well as non-professional courses only on the basis of an examination. The state government then decided to promote all students (except final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students) of non-professional courses on the basis of their performance in previous semesters. It also clarified that in matter of professional courses the decision will be left to their respective examination authorities. In this case, BCI had clarified that all students will be promoted to the next class on the basis of a physical examination once colleges reopen. “Our concern is whether the promotion certificates approved by the state universities will be accepted and considered valid by BCI in the future. If not, the lives and futures of several law aspirants are at stake,” said Sachin Pawar, president of Students Law Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-varsities-in-maharashtra-promote-law-aspirants-without-exams-student-outfit-seeks-clarity-from-bci-over-validity-of-certificates/story-b7EjWqNYPp4v6hinOxgiZL.html
24-10-2020||City||Mumbai coastal road: Civic body authority gives nod to cut 41 trees for project||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s tree authority (TA) on Friday approved a proposal to cut 41 trees for the construction of the 9-km coastal road between Princess Street Flyover and Worli. The authority has also given its nod to transplant 322 trees for the project. The proposals of 538 trees were presented before the TA for the coastal road project on Friday. Of these, the authority directed that 165 trees be kept untouched and 82 new trees be planted. The authority received 13 proposals entailing 1,006 trees which would be affected owing to projects such as the coastal road and Metro construction. Of these, the TA directed that 540 can be transplanted, 134 need to be planted, 67 can cut and 399 trees need to be kept untouched. However, of the 13 proposals, six were not taken for discussion. The BMC had last year in February said that around 600 trees would be affected for the construction of its ambitious coastal road project, which is proposed to link Marine Drive to the southern end of Bandra-Worli sea link. Of these, 140 trees are proposed to be cut, while 460 are to be transplanted. Between Princess Street Flyover and Priyadarshani Park, 31 trees are proposed to be cut, while 127 other are to be transplanted. Between Bhulabhai Desai Road and Tata Garden, BMC proposed to cut 61 trees and transplant 79 more. The civic body said from Haji Ali to Lotus junction at Lala Lajpatrai Road, 38 trees are proposed to be cut and 49 to be transplanted, while at Worli Seaface, 10 trees are to be cut and 205 to be transplanted. On Friday out of the total four proposals for coastal road, only two were taken for discussion. Abhijit Samant, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator and TA member, said, “We have requested the administration to hold a physical meeting of the tree authority instead of a video-conferencing to ensure clear communication. Today also, there was a lot of disturbance [during the meeting] and when we raised the point to improve the quality of transplantation. Transplanted trees end up dying a while later as there is no proper care taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-coastal-road-civic-body-authority-gives-nod-to-cut-41-trees-for-project/story-5IV8IDECtJtbDBRmrnWlCJ.html
24-10-2020||City||8 booked, four held for illegal mining in Kharar’s Majri block||Eight persons were booked and four arrested for illegal mining in Abhipur village of Majri block in Kharar, which continues to remain a hotbed of the illegal practice in the district.A crusher, a JCB and a truck were also impounded.A case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 21 of the Mine and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act was registered against Mukhpal Singh, Surinder Pal Singh Gill, Randhir Singh, Lakwinder Singh, all residents of Taran Taran, Lakhvir Singh and Surjit Singh from Ferozepur, and Karam Chand, owner of the crusher and resident of Ropar, and driver Raminder Singh.The four arrested are Randhir Singh, Surjit Singh, Balwant Singh and Raminder Singh. They will be produced in a court on Saturday.On October 13, a team led by Ropar divisional commissioner Rahul Tewari, deputy commissioner of Mohali, Girish Dayalan, additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain, and district mining officer Gurpreet Pal Singh visited the spot and detected 16 illegal crushers.Dayalan said, “We have formed a team of the mining department, pollution department, power department and police to check the illegal functioning of crushers.”On July 16 this year, the mining department had raided Gocher village and found that fresh 5,000 cubic feet of gravel had been dug out. The officers had also seized a crusher, which was lying at a little distance from the said village.On July 6, Majri police had booked former director general of police (DGP) Paramdeep Singh Gill along with 44 farmers of Saini Majra in Majri block for allowing illegal mining on their land under Section 21 of the Mine and Minerals (Regulations and Development) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-booked-four-held-for-illegal-mining-in-kharar-s-majri-block/story-94G6RNa4m0JLD7OX1CZLDL.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Covid tally crosses 20,000||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally crossed 20,000-mark with the hill-state recording 196 fresh infections on Friday. The tally stood at 20,040 The death toll mounted to 280 as one more patient succumbed to the virus in Kullu district. Of the new cases, 42 were recorded in Shimla, 36 in Mandi, 34 in Kullu, 21 in Hamirpur, 17 in Sirmaur, 14 in Kangra, 11 in Solan, 8 in Kinnaur, 7 in Chamba, three in Una, two in Bilaspur and one in Lahaul-Spiti. There are 2,620 active cases in the state. The overall recoveries have reached 17,113 as 196 more patients have been cured. The recovery rate is currently above 85%. With 3,513 cases, Solan remains the worst affected district followed by Kangra with 2,850 infections whereas Mandi is on the third spot with 2,608 cases. Sirmaur has 2,208 cases, Shimla 2,150, Una 1,497, Kullu 1,203, Bilaspur 1,181, , Hamirpur 1,163, Chamba 1,090, Lahaul-Spiti 305 and Kinnaur 272.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-s-covid-tally-crosses-20-000/story-zfCBRmWd2X8uBbMagfN9WI.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||TRP fraud: Ninth accused arrested by Mumbai Police||Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Thursday arrested 45-year-old Harish Kamlakar Patil, who worked as a vendor for television channels, as part of its investigation into allegations of television rating points (TRP) being rigged. Patil, a Chandivli resident, is the ninth accused to be arrested in the case. He was produced before a magistrate’s court and has been remanded in police custody till October 26. The alleged TRP scam came to light after the ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a police complaint alleging certain channels were rigging TRPs in order to attract advertisers. According to the crime branch, Patil is suspected of having fraudulently increased TRPs for certain channels. He had registered seven dummy companies with various addresses in Mumbai, all in his name. “It appears all seven companies were dummy companies and used for financial transaction by channels. We are investigating the veracity of these companies and its links with all channels and their financial transactions,” said assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, of crime branch. Vaze said the authenticity of the seven firms was in doubt since the crime branch had found that a firm owned by Patil, named Capslock Digital Solution Private Limited, was a dummy entity. “We found there was no company registered to the given address,” said Vaze. Patil is also allegedly a close associate of wanted accused, identified as Abhishek, who also works as a vendor for many channels including Republic TV and runs a company named Max Media and is suspected to have fled the city, said crime branch officials. “One of the five suspected channels had deposited money in Capslock Digital Solution and Abhishek had withdrawn the amount and distributed it to others, including the arrested accused Umesh Mishra and others who then gave the money to households where barometers were installed to increase TRP,” said Vaze.Abhishek uses multiple mobile numbers, registered using forged documents. “Abhishek does not use phone numbers registered in his name. He does not disclose his real identity, and deals with people using fake names,” said Vaze, adding that one of Abhishek’s numbers is in the name of someone who died three years ago. Kothawale also has two mobile numbers in the name of arrested accused Umesh Mishra. On Friday, crime branch added four new sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the case, including sections 212 (harbouring offender), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 465 (punishment for forgery) 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating). This is the second time sections have been added to the case that was originally registered on October 6 under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 409 (criminal breach of trust), and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. On October 20, the crime branch had earlier added four more sections, including sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information) and 204 (destroying any document to prevent its production as evidence).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/trp-fraud-ninth-accused-arrested-by-mumbai-police/story-hO2yjugTd0WNgfE2rgGwqN.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 12 more lives in J&K, toll 1,424||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded 12 deaths and 586 fresh coronavirus infections. The death toll has reached 1,424 and the total number of positive cases in the Union territory are 90,752.Officials said 380 people tested positive in Kashmir and 206 in Jammu. Of the 12 fatalities, eight were in Kashmir and four in Jammu division. August has witnessed 326 deaths, 478 fatalities were registered in September and 231 persons have lost their lives in October so far.Also, 684 more patients have been cured, taking overall recoveries to 81,486. The recovery rate rose to 89.6%, the highest so far. The recovery rate has continuously improved in the past one month. So far, in October, 23,878 patients have been cured as against 15,096 fresh infections.October has also witnessed a decrease in the average number of daily cases. As against an average of 1,245 daily novel coronavirus cases in September, October has recorded an average of 686 cases daily till date. In terms of fatalities too, the average daily deaths in October are around 11 as against 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the UT so far has crossed 21.25 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of new cases were recorded in Jammu district at 121. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 54 more people tested positive.Till date, 6.39 lakh people have been enlisted for observation —19,395 in home quarantine, 7,842 in isolation. Besides these, 5.60 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-12-more-lives-in-j-k-toll-1-424/story-hUxXEkhWgf0KnSlOuYitIN.html
24-10-2020||City||17 dengue cases in 5 weeks put Ambala health department on toes||Seventeen cases of dengue since September 15 have put the health department on high alert. With coronavirus subsiding in the district, health officials are now on their toes to contain this vector-borne disease which is expected to last till November end. The department has started focusing on high-risk areas of the district and is carrying out activities such as distribution of special nets, besides spreading awareness about checking stagnant water in residential areas, where mosquito larvae are mostly found. Such field tasks are being carried out by accredited social health activists (ASHAs) and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) in several areas of the district. Dr Sunil Hari, a senior official at the civil surgeon office, said the department is active since early September, but then it had to face challenges on two fronts: dengue as well as Covid-19. “The daily count of coronavirus cases had crossed the three-digit mark in the district. This year, we only have registered 17 cases of dengue till Thursday. Last season, the number was 252 and the disease had claimed two lives in Ambala City and Naraingarh,” he added. “Till now, no double infection case (Covid and dengue) has been reported in the district. But, we can’t ignore the risk as Covid situation is ever-evolving,” the doctor said. Ambala has, meanwhile, reported not even a single case of malaria this season. Can expect severe Covid cases soon: OfficialsEven as the Ambala health department has managed to contain the spread of coronavirus and logged one of the highest recovery rates in the state at 96.23%, officials are of the opinion that severe infection cases can come up in the winter. “Despite the highest number of sampling, the infection rate has gone down significantly that indicates that the virus has weakened. But, due to approaching winter season, the severity of infection might increase due to cold Himalayan waves in the area,” a health official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.“Due to the chilly weather, patients might develop pneumonia that could be dangerous for their lungs and overall health,” the official added. Till Thursday evening, nearly 1,10,000 samples for Covid test had been taken in the district. Total cases stood at 8,780, with only 223 active cases in Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-dengue-cases-in-5-weeks-put-ambala-health-department-on-toes/story-3PxEIeWcPG331U6f5FW2kJ.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Former BJP leader Eknath Khadse joins NCP; will not be made Maharashtra minister||Former Bharatiya Janata Party leader Eknath Khadse joined the Nationalist Congress Party, in the presence of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, on Friday, becoming the first seniormost leader from the state BJP unit to make the switch in the past over two decades since the party was formed. Putting speculation to rest, Pawar said there won’t be any change in the NCP’s ministers and Khadse had not sought a ministerial berth while joining the party. Speaking on the occasion, Khadse issued a veiled threat to his former colleagues, saying he would expose those who have made illegal land deals. “False cases were filed against me that include two cases of corruption by ACB, one at Nashik and another at Pune. A molestation case was also filed against me… I have never used a woman for politics, nor have I stabbed anyone in the back. It is not in my nature,” Khadse said, targeting the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis without taking his name. “Now, I will show who has taken how many plots illegally. People don’t have to wait for long. I will also demand action against those who have violated rules and regulations… If they put ED (Enforcement Directorate) behind me, I will show CD,” said Khadse, on state NCP chief Jayant Patil’s remarks that he may face ED probe after quitting the BJP. Khadse has been blaming Fadnavis for being neglected in the BJP for the past four years. “Not just my followers, even some BJP leaders advised me to join the NCP. I told them about my condition and asked some senior BJP leaders if I should go to another party. They advised me to join the NCP,” he said. “Some claimed that Khadse demanded ministerial position in the state government, which is not true. Khadse has not made any demand, nor did we have any discussion on this. He wants to work for people again. No one is going to be made a minister, similarly no one is going to be removed. There will be no changes in the ministerial council. Everybody will work together as a team,” Pawar said. According to a proposal under consideration, housing minister Jitendra Awhad could be asked to resign and appointed him as the state NCP chief. The NCP will then exchange his portfolio with the Sena, which has the agriculture department. On Friday, agriculture minister Dada Bhuse said he was ready to give up the post if asked by Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Currently, Jayant Patil is holding position of the state unit chief as well as water resources minister in the MVA government. Reacting to his claims, state BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari said, “He is trying to justify his decision of joining the NCP by alleging false cases were filed against him. The truth will come before everyone when the cases come to court. Why is he worried?” He also said the party will react only after Khadse comes out with the revelations on illegal land deals. On Friday, Khadse said all members from many panchayat samitis, municipal council and others will join the NCP. “I will work even harder for the NCP than I did for the BJP in the past 40 years. Many people who were elected to various bodies didn’t want to join today, but they will come soon,” he said. Ajit skips party event Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who is virtually number two in the party after NCP chief Sharad Pawar, skipped the event leading to speculations that he was unhappy with the developments. NCP leaders said Ajit Pawar was unwell since Thursday and even got a Covid-19 test done. He tested negative, but has quarantined himself at home as a precautionary measure. “Some news reports have claimed that Ajit Dada is upset. Why will he be upset? He is only taking precautions which all have been told to follow due to the Covid pandemic. There is nothing to worry,” the NCP chief clarified in his speech. He named NCP ministers who had been infected in the past few weeks and said the latter have chosen to carry out their duties even though it meant meeting people at the risk of getting infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/former-bjp-leader-eknath-khadse-joins-ncp-will-not-be-made-maharashtra-minister/story-tXRhL9m1gRGeUHZRDu8fYM.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||5 killed, 8 hurt in Doda, Poonch road mishaps||Five people were killed and eight others were injured, in two separate road accidents in Poonch and Doda districts of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday.A Trax on its way from Khellani to Hambal veered off the road and plunged into a gorge at Domail in Doda district killing three people including the driver on the spot, said Doda SSP Mumtaz Ahmad.He added that eight people on board were injured.The deceased have been identified as Tara Mani aka Om Raj, Ishtyaq Ahmed, and driver Mohammad Ayub. Soon after the mishap, locals and police rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation.The injured were shifted to Doda district hospital where the condition of some of them is stated to be critical.“Prima facie it appeared to be a case of negligent driving,” the SSP said.In another accident, a tanker driver and the conductor were killed when their vehicle skidded off the road and plunged into a deep gorge on Mughal Road near Poshana on Friday morning.“The deceased have been identified as driver Tarvinder Singh and conductor Mangal Singh,” said Poonch SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-killed-8-hurt-in-doda-poonch-road-mishaps/story-PdkoiOJo3WGyKBBeE4AeCI.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||BEST starts plying buses at full capacity in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) has started plying its buses at full capacity since Friday evening after receiving approval from the state government. The BEST is the second-largest public transport system in Mumbai after suburban trains.The Maharashtra government on Friday afternoon permitted the transport provider to operate buses at full passenger capacity, while still maintaining Covid-19 protocols, including passengers wearing face masks, using hand sanitisers and maintaining social distance.The BEST administration has directed its bus conductors to maintain distance among passengers. However, passengers have stated that presently, no social distance is maintained on many routes, and it is difficult to do so during peak hours. BEST started operating bus services in the city under the state government’s Mission Begin Again initiative since June 8. Earlier, only 30 passengers were allowed to travel per bus – 25 seating and five standing. The capacity of a single-decker bus is nearly 60 passengers with 40 seats and space for 20 to stand. A double-decker bus’ capacity is 90 passengers, and a midi bus’ capacity is nearly 40 passengers. Nearly 4,000 BEST buses operate daily, with an average of 15 lakh passengers. The agency is also operating buses of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) on its long-distance routes. BEST had also started taking action against drivers and conductors of buses in which crowding is witnessed.The BEST also announced that it would increase the number of buses on feeder routes. “As local train services are slowly resuming for the general public, long-distance passengers are likely to decrease. More buses will be operated on feeder routes,” said a senior BEST official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/best-starts-plying-buses-at-full-capacity-in-mumbai/story-1WFQo3EQuAfRBDUJj2bbAJ.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Price of onions skyrockets due to supply crunch||Price of onions in Chandigarh has skyrocketed in the past few days as the vegetable was being sold up to ₹75/kg till October 21. The rate still continues to hover over ₹65/kg due to shortage of supply. Prices of other staple vegetables such as potatoes and tomatoes also continued to be on the higher side. Rashwinder Singh, auction recorder of the Chandigarh wholesale mandi in Sector 26, said, “Due to flooding and bad weather conditions in the southern part of the country, onion from Maharashtra was unable to reach the city in enough quantity. Even now, the supply is low. In fact, supply from other places, including Rajasthan, is required to bring the prices down.”The rise in tomatoes and potatoes’ rates is being attributed to transportation issues. “We would earlier get potatoes and tomatoes from Himachal Pradesh, but that is not feasible this year. Only a higher variety of both the vegetables is available, which is why prices are on the higher side in the market,” Rashwinder added.Prices of vegetables coming to the city from Punjab, including bitter gourd, bottle gourd and eggplant, continue to be remain stable, while rate of locally grown cucumber has come down due to good supply. As per officials, prices of the staple vegetables will continue to stay high till the end of November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/price-of-onions-skyrockets-due-to-supply-crunch/story-fRwUyc1laT3bJjRF91TPZJ.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra breaches 43,000-mark of Covid-19 deaths; less than 10,000 cases for sixth consecutive day||For the sixth consecutive day, Maharashtra recorded fewer than 10,000 new cases of Covid-19. On Friday, 7,347 new cases were reported, taking the state’s Covid tally to 1,632,544. The percentage of active cases is 8.81% (143, 922 cases) and with 13,247 recoveries recorded in the last 24 hours, the recovery rate is 88.52%. The total number of recovered patients is 1,445,103. Officials said it was important to maintain this downward trend till November. On Friday, the state recorded 184 new deaths from Covid-19, taking the toll to 43,015. In the last 23 days, Maharashtra has recorded 6,140 deaths. Mumbai continues to report the highest incidence of Covid-19 in the state with 1,470 new cases on Friday and a total of 248,802 cases. Active cases stand at 17,667 in the city. With 48 new deaths reported on Friday, the city’s Covid-19 death toll is 10,009.Nagpur city recorded 479 new cases on Friday — the second-highest number of cases in the state — pushing its case count to 75,550. Pune city was in third place, with a daily caseload of 325 bringing its Covid tally to 169,870.Maharashtra has consistently reported the most deaths from Covid-19 in the country. However, the figures have improved since August, when 7,259 deaths were reported between August 1-23. While the state aims to lower the case fatality rate (CFR) to 1%, at present it stands at 2.63%, the second-highest in India after Punjab. As of Thursday, Punjab’s CFR was 3.14%.A senior official requesting anonymity said, “We are focusing on casualties. We are also doing regular audits of deaths and found some lapses in the recent audit. There is still scope of improving contract tracing and referrals to Covid hospitals as patients are coming late, which can lead to loss of life. We are still working on removing the fear of taking Covid tests through counselling.”In terms of caseload, Maharashtra has recorded 249,252 cases in the last 23 days, which is less than the 260,704 cases recorded between August 1 and August 23. “The low count needs to be continued until November. Everything depends upon how things turn out after Dussehra and Diwali,” said another official, on condition of anonymity.Till Friday, the state had conducted 8,479,155 tests, with 76,596 conducted in the last 24 hours. The state’s overall positivity rate is 19.25%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-breaches-43-000-mark-of-covid-19-deaths-less-than-10-000-cases-for-sixth-consecutive-day/story-X5sY99kKYdogjLXGLPQ8DO.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Fire at south Mumbai mall under control after 18 hours||At least 3,500 residents of a 55-storey high-rise were evacuated after a major fire was reported in the neighbouring four-storey City Centre Mall on Bellasis Road in Mumbai Central around 9pm on Thursday. The fire was brought under control after more than 18 hours, with 88 tankers and over 250 firemen. While no resident or visitor was hurt, four firemen and one deputy fire officer suffered injuries. The dousing was going on at the time of going to press. The cause is not yet known. The fire was reported in a shop on the second floor of the mall at 8.53pm on Thursday, as a level 1 (small fire). It soon spread to other floors and the Mumbai fire brigade declared it a brigade call – level 5, a rare event in which the chief fire officer is required to be present – at 2.42am. Each floor of the mall has about 300 to 400 shops. The second and third storey of the building was completely charred. According to fire officers, dousing the fire took time owing to the huge stock of electronic items, including mobile phones, batteries and circuit. It spread owing to the sanitisers, they added. A senior fire officer said, “It was a huge area, and there was a lot of combustible material inside the building. Malls usually have air-conditioning and are completely closed. This building had a glass façade and glass lining the building. We had no option, but to do fire-fighting from inside. It was very challenging, as we were standing in the atrium inside the building, and the roof was falling off on firefighters’ heads.” A civic official said, “The smoke was very thick and a few residents from the adjoining building had already begun to vacate premises. Later, all residents were safely evacuated from the adjoining building with the help of Mumbai Police.” While the Mumbai Police and ward staff cleared the entire road for traffic and cordoned off a stretch of 100 metres, chunks of concrete and glass from the facade were falling off. The fire brigade suspects a short-circuit led to the fire. Ganesh Purohit, who has rented two shops on the first and third floor to a mobile phone accessories store in the mall, said, “I was in my shop in the mall when the fire started. It started in a shop, where a small battery exploded. All nearby cartons caught fire. The shopkeeper doused the fire. In a few minutes however, the fire restarted. We called the fire brigade.” Another shop owner who has rented out his premises to a corporate office and storage unit said, “We have been complying with fire safety rules and regular audits are done by tenants.” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said, “After the fire is doused, all angles will be investigated to ascertain the cause.” Local corporator and Bhiwandi MLA Rais Shaikh of Samajwadi Party lived on the 21st floor of the building, from where 3,500 residents were evacuated. Shaikh said, “The Mumbai fire brigade took a call around 2.30am to vacate the building. There was heavy smoke in the surroundings. Many took the lift and others used the stairs. All residents went to their relatives’ place… In the past too, I had brought it into notice of the fire brigade. If there was proper fire safety equipment in the mall, the fire would have been brought under control last night itself.” Regarding the mall’s fire compliance, a senior officer of the Mumbai fire brigade said, “It is now a matter of investigation. A few things such as the internal hydrant system were working. We had to switch off the power and the diesel generator set. The firefighting system was connected to the DG set. Ideally there should be a DG set for the building lighting, and a separate DG set for the firefighting system.” Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner of D ward under which the location falls, said, “There were no complaints of illegalities or violations in the last one year. However, we will investigate if any violations are found post the firefighting operations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-at-south-mumbai-mall-under-control-after-18-hours/story-9H3IUCM7P8WARZPnmmcgLP.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bail granted to Bathinda bizman in ₹1.3-lakh graft case||The special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has granted regular bail to one Lakhwinder Singh, a Bathinda-based businessman, who is an accused in a ₹1.3-lakh graft case.The case also involves the then deputy chief labour commissioner, labour enforcement officer and others.Earlier, the court had granted him anticipatory bail and passed an order that in case he surrendered within ten days, he could also be released on regular bail after furnishing a surety bond of ₹1 lakh.On May 30, 2019, CBI had arrested five people including a deputy chief labour commissioner and a labour enforcement officer, both posted at Chandigarh; two partners of a Bathinda-based private HR firm; and an employee of a private construction company.It was alleged that the bribe was offered and demanded in lieu of issuance of a favourable report to the private construction company and for issuance of an NOC in favour of a few other private firms located in Bathinda.On July 7 this year, the CBI had filed a chargesheet against seven persons identified as deputy chief labour commissioner Mahesh Chand Sharma, labour enforcement officer Vivek Naik, Gurmeet Sidhu and Munish Garg of Advantage HR Solutions, and Akhand Raj Singh of Nagarjuna Construction Company Limited, and private persons Inderjeet Singh Baath and Lakhwinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bail-granted-to-bathinda-bizman-in-1-3-lakh-graft-case/story-LrUogIuydntyanhkvGPosK.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya alleges ‘land scam’ in ₹10,000-crore Mumbai hospital plan||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya has alleged ‘land fixing’ by the state government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the process of acquiring land for a proposed 5,000-bed hospital in Mulund for infectious diseases. The BJP leader on Friday said that the process for the acquisition moved at a suspicious pace as it was for the benefit of a particular builder.Somaiya said that after inviting bids on July 30, for the land in eastern suburbs, only they received two proposals, of which one was fake. He alleged that the proposal, with an estimated cost of ₹10,000 crore, was cleared by the BMC in just two months.“Actually, it is the state government’s ‘understanding’ with the builder. The land parcel and its cost were finalised first, and then the proposal for the hospital was moved, citing the Covid-19 outbreak. It’s a land scam,” Somaiya said.Including land and operation costs, the hospital is going to cost ₹12,000 crore, which will have to be borne by the citizens of the city, he said.The BMC has denied any wrongdoing in the matter. A senior BMC official said, “We had floated an expression of interest, and had received proposals to it. We have not purchased any land parcel yet. Also, after going through technicalities, the civic commissioner has already written to the state government to take up the project.”Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had, in a letter to the state government earlier this month, said that considering the estimated costs ran in thousands of crores for setting up of the hospital, the state government should take up the project. Chahal had cited that the project was not financially viable for the BMC considering it has lost crores of revenue owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and already has its hands tied in several big-ticket civic projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-leader-kirit-somaiya-alleges-land-scam-in-10-000-crore-mumbai-hospital-plan/story-1q1FfuctNS4peLHCmoUW1I.html
24-10-2020||City||Soon, special drive to identify unlicensed, illegal travel agents in Mohali: DC||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Friday said that a special drive for the identification of unlicensed and illegal travel agents will soon be undertaken by all sub-district magistrates and area deputy superintendents of police.The DC said in wake of complaints being received against licensed and unlicensed travel agents of cheating and fraud, sub-divisional committees had already been constituted. Wherever appropriate, criminal action as prescribed under the Punjab Travel Professionals Regulation Act and Rules, 2014, will be initiated against the wrongdoers, he added.The defined offences and penalties entail imprisonment for a period not less than three years, which may extend to seven years along with a fine which may extend to ₹5 lakh as per the provisions of the Act.The Punjab Travel Professionals Regulation Act and Rules, 2014, provides for the regulation of the activities of travel agents with a view to check and curb illegal and fraudulent activities and malpractices including human smuggling in the state. A list of registered licensees has been uploaded on the website www.sasnagar.nic.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soon-special-drive-to-identify-unlicensed-illegal-travel-agents-in-mohali-dc/story-LzaV8xZ6yvFS0HrPMEjySL.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Death toll due to Covid-19 in Mumbai crosses 10,000-mark||The death toll due to Covid-19 in Mumbai crossed the 10,000-mark on Friday, with 48 new deaths reported on Friday, bringing the total to 10,009. The case fatality rate in Mumbai is now 4%, down from 5.5% in August. However, Maharashtra’s case fatality ratio is presently at 2.6%. Mumbai’s deaths comprise 22% of the total deaths in Maharashtra. The city on Friday recorded 1,470 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 248,802. There are now 17,667 active Covid cases in the city. Of the 48 Covid deaths reported on Friday, 36 victims had comorbidities; 37 were men, and 11 were women. Two deaths were of patients below the age of 40; 12 were between 40 to 60 years, and 34 deaths were of those above 60 years of age.The recovery rate in the city is 88%, and the growth rate of Covid-19 cases is 0.60%. The doubling rate in Mumbai is 115 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-in-mumbai-crosses-10-000-mark/story-vBQkHMlk1SYRjhJTWMrZYM.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government fixes rate of Remdesivir injection at ₹2,360 at private hospitals||Following complaints of overcharging, the Maharashtra government on Friday decided to fix rates for Remdesivir injection 100mg vial at ₹2,360 at private hospitals. It has also decided to identify one private medical store in each district across the state where the injection – considered effective in Covid-19 treatment – will be made available.The state has already made Remdesivir free for Covid-19 patients getting treated at government hospitals.“There were complaints from all parts of the state over private hospitals or chemists charging exorbitant rates for Remdesivir injections. To make them available at affordable rates, the state government has decided that a 100mg vial of Remdesivir will be available at ₹2,360,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, Maharashtra health department.With the help of the food and drugs administration (FDA), the government has also identified a private chemist in each district to provide the drug. In all, 59 such medical stores have been identified. Of them, five are in Mumbai, 13 in Pune, 10 in Konkan region, nine in Nashik, 11 in Aurangabad, six in Nagpur and five in Amravati.“Private hospitals have been directed to send a proposal to the authorised official of the concerned district along with Covid-19 positive reports and identity documents, to get the injection,” Dr Vyas said.Earlier, the government had capped rates for masks, Covid-19 tests, treatment at private hospitals and cost of ambulances run by private operators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-fixes-rate-of-remdesivir-injection-at-2-360-at-private-hospitals/story-Vs43ewlCdoJJfyRpW5pokK.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi Transportation Corporation to engage NBCC India Ltd to develop land parcels||The Delhi Transportation Corporation (DTC) board on Friday resolved to engage the NBCC India Limited as a project management consultant (PMC) for development of land parcels under a plan that includes setting up one multi-level bus parking depots, few commercial facilities and construction of residential quarters for employees, said a senior official. “DTC board resolves to engage NBCC, which is an enterprise under the Union government as PMC for the development of land parcels, on nomination basis. Development of Multi-Level Bus Parking Depots, development of DTCs residential colonies and more commercial facilities to come up under the development plan,” the official said. In a board meeting on Friday, the DTC also approved 180 days maternity leave to the female employees, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-transportation-corporation-to-engage-nbcc-india-ltd-to-develop-land-parcels/story-xSQYZH4kWiR4CtEo3sacVN.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Bail granted to Delhi riot accused, court says UAPA not valid against suspect||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted bail to Faizan Khan, one of the 22 persons arrested by Delhi police special cell for the conspiracy behind the Delhi riots. Police had accused Khan of allegedly supplying a SIM card to Jamia scholar Asif Iqbal Tanha(another accused in the case). The HC observed that invocation of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) is not valid against Khan as it based on nothing but “bald statements”. This is one of first bail granted (on merits) in the main riots investigation case, which police are probing on allegations that the riots were pre-planned. Prior to this, Safoora Zargar had been granted bail on humanitarian grounds because she was pregnant. Co-accused Ishrat Jahan, a former congress Councillor, had secured bail for 10 days for her wedding. Justice Suresh Kait said there is no proof of Khan’s involvement on record such as CCTV footage, video or chats of the petitioner with any of the group, except the allegation that he provided SIM on fake ID in December 2019 and took a small amount of Rs 200 for the same. The court granted bail to Khan on a personal bail bond of Rs 25,000 with one surety of the like amount while noting that for invoking UAPA against the petitioner, it is the duty of the investigating agency to demonstrate that the accused had “actual knowledge” that the said SIM card would be used for organising the protests. It observed that Khan had voluntarily appeared before the agency for questioning and did not evade or flee between the periods of registration of the FIR and has fully cooperated with the probe. He was arrested by Delhi Police on 29 July, and is alleged to have been part of the conspiracy hatched by a group of prominent anti-CAA activists, local politicians, student activists and some locals in February 2020. Khan had allegedly supplied and activated the SIM card registered fraudulently in the name of one Abdul Jabbar, but had given it to Tanha and was used by Safoora Zargar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bail-granted-to-delhi-riot-accused-court-says-uapa-not-valid-against-suspect/story-fBKZoKVdsH1kgc9mKYymwN.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Man shot dead near Mohan garden, police suspect old rivalry||A 35-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by a father-son duo over an old enmity in southwest Delhi’s Vipin Garden near Mohan Garden on Thursday afternoon, police said. The father-son duo fired eight bullets, five of which hit the man’s body and he died on the spot, they said. The two are absconding after the crime. The two had called the 35-year-old man, who also had a criminal background, to resolve their differences and end their enmity.Police investigation has revealed that the two men offered him a cup of tea and then shot him dead. The daylight firing incident triggered panic among local residents. A case of murder was registered at the Mohan Garden police station. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that the police control room had received a call regarding firing at 55-foot road falling under the territorial jurisdiction of the Mohan Garden police station. A police team reached there and found Vikas Mehta, murdered with gunshot injuries. Police said Mehta’s name was on the list of bad characters of the Mohan Garden police station. A bad character, according to police records, is a person with multiple criminal cases whose activities must be monitored because he or she is a threat to law and order. “Mehta was killed by a father-son duo over an old enmity. We have identified them. Our teams are conducting raids to nab them. Eight bullets were fired. Five of them hit Mehta,” added DCP Meena. The police, however, did not specify the issue over which Mehta and the father-son duo were having their longstanding enmity. Mehta is survived by his parents, wife, and two children. The family lives in Vipin Garden area. Mehta’s body was shifted to a government hospital’s mortuary in west Delhi for autopsy, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-shot-dead-near-mohan-garden-police-suspect-old-rivalry/story-JQ1Ewn23ZFXC2km23pIXbM.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Fourth FIR against Republic TV; Mumbai Police books its editorial team||The Mumbai Police on Friday registered a fresh first information report (FIR) against Republic TV and booked its executive editor, anchor, two reporters and other editorial staff for allegedly broadcasting false and baseless news inciting disaffection among the police personnel against Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and maligning Mumbai Police’s image. This is the fourth criminal case registered against Republic TV and its employees by Mumbai Police.The latest FIR is registered by the Special Branch-1 (SB1), the intelligence wing of the city police, at NM Joshi Marg police station. The complainant, Shashikant Pawar, is a sub-inspector posted at the Social Media Lab (SML). SML is entrusted with monitoring content on social media platforms and television channels and identify posts, fake news, rumours and other content that has potential to create unrest in the city or can lead to any communal tension or law and order situation in the city or state, and inform top brass of the city police for further action.According to the FIR, on October 22 police officers at SML observed that Republic TV (English) broadcasted a show under the segment Biggest Story Tonight with a caption line ‘Revolt against Param Bir Singh? Senior officer part of the probe gives details’. The news item broadcasted on the channel showed “many policemen in the police force are in the sanctity of rebellion against Param Bir Singh and this is not good for the credibility of a police force. Singh is tarnishing the image of Mumbai Police, and his orders are not acceptable to the junior officers in the department’, states the complaint.The news show was anchored by Shivani Gupta while the reporter was Sagrika Mitra. The news was based on story gathered by reporter Shawan Sen.“By broadcasting such content, the channel and its journalists intentionally tried to incite disaffection among the police personnel against the police commissioner and the act also maligns Mumbai Police’s image,” the complainant said.The police have booked Gupta, Mitra, Sen and executive editor of the show Niranjan Narayan Swami and other editorial staff. They all have been charged with section 3 (1) of The Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922 and sections 500 (defamation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.Goswami is already facing two FIRs at Pydhonie and NM Joshi Marg police stations for inciting communal tension and spreading hatred between two communities. The city police also initiated chapter proceeding against Goswami and have issued him a show cause notice around two weeks ago. The channel is also facing an investigation in the television rating point (TRP) scam.Republic TV on Friday evening released a statement that read: “Republic Media Network is shocked to learn that the Mumbai Police has now registered an FIR against the entire Editorial Staff of Republic Media Network. With it, the Mumbai Police led by Param Bir Singh has achieved a new global feat of state machinery trying to muzzle the voice of the free media.In a brazen abuse of office, the Mumbai Police has booked the “Editorial staff and Newsroom Incharge for the concerned report getting aired and others” at the Republic Media Network. This comes as the most grave attack on the freedom of press safeguarded under Article 19 (1)(a) of the Constitution of India. This booking of all journalists of a news media organisation, left unchecked will have a chilling effect on democracy, especially within the state of Maharashtra.While Param Bir Singh may be cornered and uncomfortable with the fact that his elaborately crafted lies against Republic are falling apart before the people of India in the face of the truth and real facts, he seems to be using that as a basis for undertaking his large-scale witch-hunt against Republic Media Network’s journalists. Republic’s Editorial staff stands together and in firm opposition to the intimidation tactics deployed by the Param Bir Singh-led Mumbai Police.Never before has the entire editorial team of a media organisation been booked in one FIR, because one Mumbai Police Commissioner is out with a vendetta campaign against the Network. Our 600 member strong editorial staff stands united in putting out facts and doing its reportage without fear or favour. We will never-ever succumb to pressure tactics, from Param Bir Singh or anyone else.Journalists are being targeted for exposing the misdeeds of the Mumbai Police Commissioner. The Republic Media Network and its members are being harassed for not revealing their journalistic sources. Every single member of Republic Media Network is more strongly resolved than ever before to fight and win against this vicious campaign by the Maharashtra state machinery against our journalists.We will abide by our duty as the fourth pillar of democracy, even as the Param Bir Singh-led Mumbai Police seems to have lost control of law, constitutionality, and rationality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fourth-fir-against-republic-tv-mumbai-police-books-its-editorial-team/story-Zwnwnqg8rNCuPEndszgqyK.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government announces ₹10,000-crore relief for farmers and infra damages after cyclone, unseasonal rain||Maharashtra government on Friday announced a relief package of ₹10,000 crore for farmers from Konkan affected by Nisarga Cyclone in June, and those from eastern Vidarbha hit by unseasonal rain in August, and to rebuild infrastructure damaged across the state owing to the multiple natural calamities. The announcement came after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his cabinet colleagues, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis made separate visits to the affected districts earlier this week. According to estimates, more than 10.5 lakh hectares under cultivation was affected across 10 districts in central and western Maharashtra owing to the unseasonal rain and retreating spell of monsoon over the past fortnight. Farmers had demanded an immediate relief, without waiting for Central assistance and administrative formalities to be completed. Solapur, Sangli and Satara in western Maharashtra and Osmanabad, Latur, Beed and Parbhani in central Maharashtra have suffered maximum losses.After a review meeting with his senior cabinet colleagues on Friday, Thackeray announced the relief package, of which ₹5,500 crore is expected to go directly into the hands of farmers in the form of ex-gratia for losses of crops, livestock, horticulture, human lives and housing structures. The rest will be used to rebuild roads, government properties, and spruce up water supply schemes, among other infrastructure requirements.Thackeray, meanwhile, slammed the Central government and said had it released state dues of ₹38,000 crore towards Good and Services Tax (GST) compensation, devolution of taxes and relief packages, the Maharashtra government could have been in a position to increase the relief package amount. “The Centre has not released a penny as yet, against our two memorandum of Rs1,065.58 crore and Rs814 crore demanded against the relief from losses due to Cyclone Nisarg and unseasonal rain in eastern Vidarbha. The Centre has not yet sent its team for assessment of the losses in the past two weeks despite repeated reminders,” he said. Fadnavis termed the package a “sham”. “The relief is too little against the losses… Thackeray has retracted on his own words and has given baseless reasons. Before coming to power, he had demanded a relief of Rs25,000 to Rs1 lakh a hectare for the losses last year. The figures from the relief package are regular allocation from the budget. It is just hogwash by the Thackeray government,” he said.The CM said, before coming to power, he had demanded relief of Rs25,000 a hectare for farmers who had suffered crop losses, but the current Covid-19 induced financial crisis has restrained him from announcing it. “I had demanded a compensation to the tune of Rs25,000 a hectare, but in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and outstanding [money] with the Centre, we are unable to offer it. The package announced today [on Friday] is the largest-ever given for a natural calamity in the state. We have increased the relief amount to Rs10,000 a hectare for crop losses on irrigated and non-irrigated land and Rs25,000 a hectare for horticultural crops from an amount ranging between Rs6,800 and Rs25,000. We will do whatever is required for farmers and will borrow if the need be,” he said. The CM also said the administration has been directed to ensure that the relief reaches the affected farmers before Diwali. He said spot assessment of losses will be completed in the next two days. He said the government has spent Rs30,800 crore on natural calamities and other calamities such as Covid-19 in the past year. Ajit Nawale, sate general secretary, Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, said the relief would not even help the farmer to recover their input cost. “The losses are massive and the relief announced is too little,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-announces-10-000-crore-relief-for-farmers-and-infra-damages-after-cyclone-unseasonal-rain/story-nrxo7EjeOYKl1Fp5HaMFOJ.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Constable beaten up, ‘abducted’ from Kashmere Gate||A Delhi Police constable was allegedly ‘abducted’ in a private bus by four-five men from near Kashmere Gate bus terminal, assaulted, and robbed of his service pistol, mobile and wallet on Wednesday night, senior police officers said. The constable was in his police uniform when the alleged incident took place.The alleged abductors tied the constable’s limbs and stuffed a piece of cloth in his mouth so that he could not scream for help. They threw the constable at the roadside at an isolated place in Makkhanpur near Firozabad in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday morning, after assaulting, robbing, and keeping him confined in the moving bus for nearly six hours, during which the vehicle travelled 250km, officials said on Friday. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphose said that the injured constable, identified by his first name Sachin, then sought help from some passersby and reached the local police station in Uttar Pradesh, which in turn informed the Kashmere Gate police station. A team from Kashmere Gate police station then was dispatched to Uttar Pradesh to bring back the injured constable. “A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code was registered and several teams were formed to identify and nab the suspects. A father-son duo, identified as Rajiv Chaurasis alias Munna and his son Ankit Chaurasis aka Chhotu, were arrested from Machhand village in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind on Friday for their involvement in the incident. The bus was seized from outside their home. At least four-five suspects are still absconding. A police team, along with constable Sachin, is conducting raids to nab them,” said DCP Alphonse. The DCP said that constable Sachin was on night bike patrolling duty in Mori Gate area on Wednesday. Around 11pm, he spotted a private bus near the Kashmere Gate bus terminal that was overcrowded, with some women passengers were screaming for help. He stopped the bus for checking and two men, who identified themselves as the bus operators, came out of the vehicle. “When the constable asked them the reason for the commotion, the duo first argued with him. They then boarded the bus and asked the driver to drive. The constable became suspicious and made the driver stop. He then went inside the vehicle to inquire. But five-six people attacked and overpowered him, locked him inside and began assaulting him, even as the bus started moving,” a senior police officer said, requesting anonymity. On the way, the officer said, the operators assaulted Sachin, robbed him of his service pistol, mobile phone and wallet. They then threw him out of the bus in Makkhanpur. The constable had told his superiors that there were many passengers on board the bus and some of them even tried to intervene but to no avail . One of miscreants, now identified as Ankit Chaurasia, was constantly talking to someone over the phone in a local dialect that made the constable believe that he was from Bhind-Morena in MP. Ankit was taking instructions from the person about how to deal with the constable and the situation. “The person on the other end of the phone turned out to be Ankit’s father Rajiv Chaurasia. We have arrested him as well. The constable’s stolen service pistol has also been recovered. Efforts are on to nab other suspects,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/constable-beaten-up-abducted-from-kashmere-gate/story-P3DyuunWouLlIyAKMGMnsM.html
24-10-2020||Mumbai||Researchers from IITs and IISER publish framework for setting up regional air monitoring sites||Researchers from two Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and an Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) have released a framework for setting up air regional air monitoring sites that work simultaneously. The researchers have already set up 11 such sites across the country to simultaneously monitor particulate matter (PM) concentration in air. While PM concentration is measured in various parts of India, this is the first time a coordinated effort is being made to measure air quality at the same time. Researchers said data collected from the sites can help better understand air quality and the reasons behind the same. The study by researchers from IIT-Bombay, Delhi and IISER-Bhopal is a part of the national multi-institute project — Carbonaceous Aerosol Emissions, Source Apportionment and Climate Impacts (COALESCE), which is funded by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The study was published in the inter-disciplinary journal Atmospheric Environment in August. Researchers have set up 11 ‘regionally representative monitoring sites’ or RRMS for accurate measurement of PM2.5 in these sites using satellite data. PM2.5 refers to miniscule particles with diameter less than 2.5 microns suspended in the air. Emitted by power plants and vehicles, PM2.5 is a significant contributor to air pollution across the country. The 11 sites are Sangareddy Road in Hyderabad, Mahabaleshwar, Delhi Road in Rohtak, Sector 81 in Mohali, Jaisalmer Road in Bikaner, Shallabaug in Srinagar, Shyamnagar near Kolkata, Pulibor in Jorhat, Mesra, Bahuri near Bhopal, and Mysuru.“Currently, PM2.5 measurements at the 11 regionally representative locations are underway and the data is being analysed. Filter-based PM2.5 samplers have already been deployed at these RRMS, and air sampling has started. The data received can be used to match with that of our field surveys to better understand the causes for pollution,” said Mani Bhushan, co-author of the study and a professor at the department of chemical engineering at IIT-Bombay. “The framework that we propose for a coordinated measurement of air quality can be used further by other countries that may want to measure their air quality at different places,” he added. Before zeroing in on a site to represent a region, researchers ensured that the results of the measurements were not affected by the peculiarities of the site itself. “Most of the sites are fairly distant from major sources of traffic and dusty unpaved roads as well as free of agricultural, industrial and domestic biomass burning. The sites also captured the seasonal variations in particulate matter due to westerlies carried from the Mediterranean Sea across the Arabian Peninsula, Arabian Sea, and the Bay of Bengal,” read the study.“At present there is no coordinated effort of simultaneously measuring air quality in different places. Data from a coordinated effort will help understand the correlation between pollution, weather and emissions. In the long run simulations can be made to predict the movement of particles in the air based on wind direction, for example,” said Arun Sharma, professor and director at University College of Medical Sciences, University of Delhi, who was not a part of the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/researchers-from-iits-and-iiser-publish-framework-for-setting-up-regional-air-monitoring-sites/story-p87hdpRfqrncazyXLsm3hI.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Walled City renovation to feature in Delhi’s tableau for R-Day parade||The Delhi government has decided to showcase its ‘Redevelopment of Shahjahanabad’ project, which includes pedestrianisation and upgrade of the historic Chandni Chowk area, in its tableau for the 72nd Republic Day parade next year. The Sahitya Kala Parishad, under the Delhi government, has invited tenders from firms to “conceptualise, design, fabricate and display” the tableau. A senior Delhi government official said the process to select the firm will start after November 2. “The theme has been decided and it will showcase our work being carried out in Chandni Chowk. The contractor will have to make a detailed presentation about the concept. The idea presented by the contractor will be placed before a select committee of the government’s department of art, culture and language,” the senior official said, not wishing to be named. The final design will be sent to the ministry of defence (MoD) for final approval. As per the tender document, the contractor will have to carry out changes as suggested by the select committee and MoD. The official quoted above said the theme of ‘Redevelopment of Shahjahanbad’ was finalised to showcase the city’s rich heritage and measures taken to preserve it. The redevelopment work at Chandni Chowk is a major project which is nearing its completion. As part of the project, the 1.5km long stretch between the Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid is being redeveloped as a completely pedestrian space. The government has also carried out major work to relay water and sewer lines and take electricity and other cables underground. The Shahjahanbad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) is the nodal agency for the implementation of the project, Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vypar Mandal, said, “It is a matter of pride that the redevelopment project has been chosen as the theme for Delhi’s tableau. While the work is ongoing, we want the government to take more measures to protect the heritage of this area. It should form a statutory body on the lines of the New Delhi Municipal Council (looks after Lutyens’ Delhi) to look after this special area.” Heritage expert Swapna Liddle, convener of Intach (Delhi chapter), an NGO that works to preserve heritage, welcomed the move and said, “It is a great move to draw attention to two important issues -- the historical importance of the area and the need to rejuvenate it. The area has been neglected for long. It will be interesting to see how the tableau takes shape.” Although the final decision on the tableaux that will be paraded out on Republic Day rests with MoD, the Delhi government officials said all efforts are being made to ensure that Delhi makes it to the final list. In the last five years, the Delhi government’s tableaux were part of the Republic Day parade in 2017 and 2019. In 2017, the government had showcased its ‘education model’, while in 2019, the tableau was about Mahatma Gandhi’s 720-day stay in the national capital between 1915 and 1948.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/walled-city-renovation-to-feature-in-delhi-s-tableau-for-r-day-parade/story-FaVVWvfrpmnC8zNiUOyfHO.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||New Parliament building to be ready by October 2022; construction to begin this December||Construction of a new Parliament building will begin in December and is likely to be completed by October 2022. Necessary measures have been put in place to ensure that Parliament sessions can be held uninterrupted during this period in the existing buildings, Lok Sabha Secretariat said on Friday.Officials also said that sufficient steps have been taken to control air and noise pollution during the construction work for the new parliament building, which will have separate offices for all MPs and those will be equipped with the latest digital interfaces as a step towards creating ‘paperless offices’.The new building will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage, a lounge for members of Parliament, a library, multiple committee rooms, dining areas and ample parking space.In the new building, the Lok Sabha chamber will have a seating capacity for 888 members, while Rajya Sabha will have 384 seats for the upper house members, sources said after a review meeting chaired by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. This has been done keeping in mind the future increase in the number of members for the two houses.At present, Lok Sabha has a sanctioned strength of 543 members and Rajya Sabha of 245.The ground-breaking ceremony is expected to be held in December and may be attended by President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, besides the presiding officers of the two houses among other dignitaries including political leaders.The existing building is a British era building, designed by Edwin Lutyens and Herbert Baker who were responsible for planning and construction of New Delhi.The Foundation Stone of the existing Parliament House was laid on February 12, 1921 and the construction took six years and cost Rs 83 lakh at that time. The opening ceremony was performed on January 18, 1927 by the then Governor-General of India, Lord Irwin. At the meeting, Birla said there should be no compromise in ensuring quality control and timely completion of the work relating to the new Parliament House.A monitoring committee will be constituted to oversee the construction work, which would include officers of Lok Sabha Secretariat, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, CPWD, NDMC and architect/designer of the project.Last month, Tata Projects Limited won the bid to construct the new parliament building at a cost of Rs 861.90 crore. The new building will be constructed close to the existing one under the Central Vista redevelopment project.In a statement, the Lok Sabha Secretariat said Birla chaired a review meeting regarding the construction of the new Parliament House today. The meeting was also attended by Union Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Shri Hardeep Singh Puri.During the meeting, Birla was briefed about the progress made in the shifting of facilities and other infrastructure from the area proposed for the construction of the new building.“The barricading plan and the various mitigating measures to control the air and noise pollution during the construction process were elaborated. The officers of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs further briefed Birla about the proposed movement plan of VIPs and staff during this period, including during Parliament sessions,” the statement said.The existing Parliament House building will be suitably retro-fitted to provide more functional spaces for parliamentary events, to ensure its usage along with the new building, officers said.Reviewing the various aspects and progress of the project, Birla stressed on the smooth coordination and resolving issues between various agencies involved on a regular basis.The ‘Constitution Hall’ will house the original copy of the Constitution, digital displays for showcasing India’s democratic heritage etc. Visitors will be given access to this hall to help them to appreciate and understand India’s journey as a parliamentary democracy.The redevelopment project of Central Vista -- the nation’s power corridor -- envisages a new triangular parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate.Under the Central Vista redevelopment project, the prime minister’s residence and office are also likely to be shifted near the South Block and the vice-president’s new house will be in the vicinity of the North Block.According to the plan, the vice president’s current residence is among those buildings identified by the government for demolition in Lutyens’ Delhi for the purpose of the project. There are plans to covert the North and South Blocks, which symbolise the government’s authority since their inception in Lutyens’ Delhi, into museums.Gujarat-based architecture firm HCP Designs has designed the Central Vista redevelopment project. The firm has the responsibility of preparing the master plan of the project, including designs landscape and traffic integration plans, and parking facilities among others.In September last year, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had said the British ruled India for 190 years and they had good architects who built buildings which is now part of the country’s cultural heritage.The government is likely to demolish buildings such as Udyog Bhawan, Krishi Bhawan and Shastri Bhawan to facilitate a new Central Secretariat which will house offices of several ministries. Puri had said that buildings that had been built in 1960s and 70s should have been torn down many years ago. The existing building is a massive circular edifice of 560 feet in diameter. The Parliament House Estate is enclosed by an ornamental red sandstone wall or iron grills with iron gates that can be closed when occasions demand. The building has in all twelve gates. PTI JTR BJ BJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-parliament-building-to-be-ready-by-oct-2022-construction-to-begin-this-december/story-XH7zYnuFGecTGGAZ9LxJUJ.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh residents fall prey to fraudsters||Two first information reports (FIRs) were registered on the complaints of as many residents of Chandigarh, who were duped by fraudsters, police said on Friday. In the first case, complainant Roshan Lal Singhal of Sector 35 told the police that he was duped of ₹19,999 by an online trickster. He alleged that he was using e-commerce payment system Paytm wallet from which ₹700 were wrongly debited. Singhal claimed that he dialled the helpline and a person claiming to be a customer care executive took his details with an assurance that the money would be refunded. “But, ₹19, 999 was debited using Paytm on September 2,” he added. An FIR was registered on Singhal’s complaint under sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector-36 police station. Another similar complaint was lodged by Mukesh Bhagat of Sector 41, who said he lost ₹24,835 through Paytm on September 7. A case under same IPC sections was registered at the police station of Sector 39.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-chandigarh-residents-fall-prey-to-fraudsters/story-HtE0wrfcotuz657KV0LgQL.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Wind knocked out, air turns bad in Indo-Gangetic Plains||Not only Delhi, the entire Indo-Gangetic Plains were battling “very poor” air quality, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in its air quality index (AQI) bulletin on Friday, and several of these cities were bordering on “severe” air as meteorological conditions remained hostile for a second day in a row.Since Thursday, winds reduced over the region and their direction become variable, shifting to northeasterly for a few hours and northwesterly for the rest of the time. This led to the entire stretch -- Panipat, Kurukshetra, Hisar, Gurugram, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Fatehabad, Bulandshahr, Bhiwadi, Bahadurgarh, and Ballabgarh, among others -- recording “very poor” air on Friday, underlining once again that its not just the national capital but the entire Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP) “air shed” that needs urgent help. The air shed is a region in which the atmosphere shares common features with respect to dispersion of pollutants. In other words, a region that shares air flow. India Meteorological Department’s Silam (atmospheric dispersion model), a new feature on the IMD website, showed almost all of northwest India, particularly Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh impacted by high PM 2.5 (fine, respirable pollutants) concentrations ranging from 200 to 500 micrograms per cubic metres.“This is typical of October in the entire region. The monsoon withdraws, and then winds gradually become calm, there is no precipitation or any other western disturbance which can disperse the pollution. We are seeing the same thing now. Since yesterday, there is hardly any wind in the region so whatever pollution, both from local and regional sources and from specific sources like crop stubble fires, remain accumulated. We don’t expect an improvement for Saturday and Sunday, but we are not expecting air quality to deteriorate to ‘severe’ either,” said Vijay Soni, a scientist in IMD’s air quality management division. Data with System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) ,which is used for analysis by CPCB, suggested that stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana were contributing to 17% of Delhi’s PM 2.5 load. There were 1,213 fire points recorded by SAFAR on Thursday.The issue of trans-boundary transport of pollutants was highlighted by scientists in 2016 when IIT-Kanpur, in its source apportionment study for Delhi, said air is more toxic in winter than in summer in the Capital; and that the single most important component was secondary particles, which accounted for about 28% of total PM2.5, and combustion-related carbon accounted for about 23%. The study pointed out that secondary particles form precursor gases, which are emitted from far distances from large sources. Though the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) mentions contribution from sources outside Delhi due to winds carrying pollution with the incoming air towards Delhi-NCR, indicating the regional aspect of air pollution, the focus of the Union government’s pollution fight has been largely city-specific.According to a webinar on a review of NCAP implementation held in September by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, air pollution action plans for 122 cities have been approved. These focus on management of pollution hots pots, public transport and fleet modernisation, paving of roads, cleaner fuels for industries, etc. But these are yet to be implemented. NCAP was launched in January last year and has a target of 20% to 30% reduction in PM 2.5 concentrations over 2017 annual levels in over a hundred cities.“The entire IGP is an ‘air shed’ because it’s a low-lying area stretching from Indus river in Pakistan up to Bangladesh. There are Himalayas to the west and the altitude changes in the region below IGP. Meteorological factors are very similar in the entire region and they need common interventions, otherwise it’s very difficult to see any significant improvement in air quality. Every October, the boundary layer here drops and close to 700 million people are impacted by poor air,” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor, IIT-Delhi, who is doing a World Bank project on cost effective air pollution interventions for the region. “Satellite data studied by us shows there has been a marginal improvement in annual air pollution concentrations in India in the last two years. This year, I am expecting that we will not see a deadly smog like we saw in 2016. Some actions have been taken like the Ujjwala scheme to provide subsidized LPG or improvement in technology of brick kilns. But we need to see how many are using the scheme, what’s the implementation on ground. NCAP needs an ‘air shed’ approach, where the entire region has a common air pollution mitigation plan,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wind-knocked-out-air-turns-bad-in-indo-gangetic-plains/story-dmp1RFCpaLMLbYTGNOHC3K.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi L-G asks officials to remain alert to increase in Covid-19 cases||Delhi’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Friday directed the district administrations to be alert in the light of a potential increase in spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the festive season, scale up health care facilities ahead of winters and intensify coronavirus-related campaigns, senior government officials said.The L-G was chairing a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is its vice-chairperson, chief secretary Vijay Dev, NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, and Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), other than senior bureaucrats.“The L-G advised all (agencies) concerned to intensify surveillance, detection, contact tracing and quarantine of Covid-19 positive cases, while undertaking extensive campaigns. He emphasised on continued and coordinated efforts to combat Covid-19 with regular monitoring and feedback from experts,” Baijal’s office said in a series of tweets after the meeting.The L-G’s office said, “He interacted with district magistrates, deputy commissioners of police and municipal commissioners and advised field officials to ensure strict enforcement of preventive and protective measures for management of Covid-19 particularly in view of the festive season. Officials were directed to intensify efforts to prevent and mitigate rising air pollutions in Delhi.”Several officials who attended Friday’s meeting told HT the L-G emphasised on the concerns about the festive season, the winters and awareness campaigns.Earlier this month, a committee led by Dr Paul and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which is helping DDMA draft a revised Covid-19 strategy, had warned that the Capital could witness 15,000 new Covid-19 cases every day in the winters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-l-g-asks-officials-to-remain-alert-to-increase-in-covid-19-cases/story-RQHsDlagRyG8AZaVqDUZIM.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Blanket extension of bail/parole will end on October 31, says high court||The Delhi high court has ended its blanket order extending interim parole/bail of around 6,000 prisoners that were granted prior to and during the Covid-19 lockdown, and said it will no longer be in effect after October 31. All under trials, whose bail period was thus extended, have to surrender in a phased manner between November 2 and November 13, it said. In an order dated October 20, a special bench of chief justice DN Patel, justice Siddharth Mridul and justice Talwant Singh said the interim stay extension order had been necessary as the functioning of courts was curtailed due to Covid-19 lockdown that came into effect on March 25. Also, there was an urgent need to decongest prisons to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among inmates.The bench said the situation has now changed and all courts (at the high court and district courts) are functioning either in person or through video conferencing. It took note of the status report filed by the prison authorities and said there was no spread of Covid-19 in jails either and, of the nearly 16,000 inmates, only three had contracted the disease -- they have been segregated and admitted to hospital. The observations by the bench came while hearing an application moved by one of the prosecutors in the north-east Delhi riots cases being heard by trial courts, seeking a modification of the high court’s July 13 and July 24 orders extending interim bails/paroles benefit to everyone granted the relief on or after March 16. The application had alleged that the two orders were being misused by the accused in the riots cases as they sought bail on the grounds of family members being ill or other such grounds, and then kept extending the bail on the basis of the high court orders. The lawyer told the bench that around 20 accused in riots cases were out on interim bail and are now enjoying benefits of the high court’s blanket order. Those who would have to surrender before November 13 include 2,318 prisoners charged with heinous crimes and granted interim bail; 2,907 prisoners involved in minor crimes and granted interim bail; and 356 prisoners who were granted interim bail by the high court. The court said the surrender process would start on November 2 with the prisoners of Central District, Tis Hazari Courts and would culminate on November 13 with the surrender of prisoners from Rouse Avenue Courts Complex, New Delhi, the high court said. The three judge bench said the 2,318 prisoners accused in heinous crimes have the liberty to move the respective courts for extension of their interim bails and the courts concerned shall consider the said applications on its own merits. “As far as 2,907 prisoners granted bail on the recommendation of high power committee are concerned, a request has been made to the committee to decided on these persons within 10 days,” the bench said. The court said the jail authorities should make appropriate arrangements to ensure that measures suggested by government authorities to contain the spread of Covid-19 are in place. The bench further said that the interim orders passed in civil matters, which were extended since March 25, “shall cease to have effect as on the next date of hearing”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/blanket-extension-of-bail-parole-will-end-on-october-31-says-high-court/story-BMBgTVxCAigK5xUvnR8ZeI.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Let Umar Khalid step out of jail cell: Court||A Delhi court Friday termed as “bizarre and strange” Tihar’s submission that the cell in which former JNU student Umar Khalid was kept was located at a place from where he could see more than half of the ward and asked the jail authorities to allow to step out of his confinement. The jail’s reply came after Khalid, who is accused of hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the north-east Delhi riots, told the court on Thursday that he was not allowed to step out of his cell; was kept alone; and was not allowed to meet anyone. He alleged this was akin to solitary confinement. The court had asked the Tihar jail no 2 superintendent to appear before it on Friday. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat told the superintendent to ensure Khalid is allowed to step out as per rules and to ensure there are no more complaints that an undertrial is being kept in sort of solitary confinement. Khalid told the judge that after he apprised the court about the situation a day earlier, things got better and the jail superintendent himself came allowed him to step out of his cell. Appearing for Khalid, senior advocate Trideep Pais said, “Is he (Khalid) an animal in a zoo that he is locked in a cage where he can see people and the people can look at him, but he can’t move out. This has to end for once and for all” and urged the court to pass an order against the jail authorities. The court told the authorities that such no such complaints should come. “What kind of submission is this (referring to the third page of the reply)... It is a bizarre thing to say. This is strange. I should not get a complaint of this nature”. The authorities agreed to Khalid’s request of books and warm clothes in the wake of the approaching winter. Meanwhile, the court extended the judicial custody of Khalid and Sharjeel Imam, another accused in the conspiracy case, till November 20 even though both the counsels opposed the remand pleas. Pais contended that the present judicial remand application moved by Delhi Police Special Cell is a copy paste of an earlier remand plea. He said the remand is not necessary, he submitted. Advocate Surabhi Dhar, who appeared for Imam, said the remand application is an attempt to keep her client in continuous incarceration. The court then said it would pass a detailed order later. Imam told the court that like Khalid, he is being kept in a high-security area and that he should get more mobility. “When i was brought to Tihar from Guwahati, and was lodged in jail no 2, documents, submissions to professors, IT, etc., were seized and the jail authority said would be handed over to me as soon as they had a look at it. They have not been returned yet,” he said. The court asked the counsel to file an appropriate application along with other grievances. Communal riots had broken out in parts of north-east Delhi in February 2020, in which 53 lives died and 607 persons were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/let-umar-khalid-step-out-of-jail-cell-court/story-1ouWNAsy2Kew5ebfyuso4L.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt launches web portal for e-vehicle subsidy||The Delhi government on Friday launched a web portal to help people avail of subsidies on the purchase of electric vehicles (EV) and facilitate the easy disbursement of incentives under the government’s EV policy that was notified on August 7 with an aim to help reduce air pollution in the Capital. “The ev.delhi.gov.in is a user-friendly interface for the seamless disbursement of incentives to vehicle buyers. The portal will ensure a hassle-free procedure. Buyers will receive subsidy within three days,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot said after launching the portal at the Delhi Secretariat on Friday. Encouraging electric vehicles is part of the government’s seven-point action plan to combat air pollution announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on October 6. Other measures under the plan include a war room for real-time monitoring of air quality, a mobile application to register complaints, tree transplantation policy and dust-control strategies. Delhi experiences a major air pollution problem every year, especially during winter. Vehicular pollution is one of the major contributors of toxic particles in the air. The Capital has 10.1 million registered vehicles – higher than any other city in the country. In the last four years, Delhi witnessed several initiatives such as the odd-even road rationing scheme to combat vehicular pollution. The government has also launched a campaign to encourage people to switch off their vehicle engines while waiting for the traffic signals to turn green. According to government records, Delhi has around 85,000 registered electric vehicles – of which around 1,000 are four-wheelers, 4,000 are two-wheelers and the rest are e-rickshaws. Gahlot said on Friday: “It would help electric vehicle buyers from the point of purchase till subsidy and incentive amounts are credited to their bank accounts. The entire process is online. The registered users will keep getting updates under various stages – when documents are processed by dealers, verification by local MLAs and when the subsidy amount is sent to the bank concerned. Only three documents are needed – purchase invoice, Aadhaar and a copy of a cancelled cheque,” Gahlot said. Under the government’s EV policy, electronic vehicle owners are entitled to subsidies up to Rs 150,000 depending on the nature of vehicles. They have to pay the entire amount to dealers while purchasing the vehicle and then claim government subsidy. Under the policy, vehicle owners are also entitled to a range of incentives for scrapping fuel-based vehicles and investing on electric vehicles. While the EV policy was notified on August 7, other provisions such as road tax exemption and registration fee waiver were separately notified on October 10 ad 15, respectively. All electric vehicles purchased on or after August 7 would be eligible for subsidies. But only those registered after October 10 and 15 would be eligible for the two other relaxations. Road tax and registration can cost up to Rs 5,000, a senior official with the transport department said. Gahlot said more than 100 electronic vehicle models have been approved by the Delhi government for subsidies and incentives – of which, 12 are four-wheeler models and there are 14 two-wheeler models. Most of the rest are e-rickshaw models. As many as 36 manufacturers and 98 EV dealers have shown interest in the policy too, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-launches-web-portal-for-e-vehicle-subsidy/story-HBOu156IPTlTYhaxnSS6KJ.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Air pollution increases the risk of severe Covid-19, hospitalisations, warn experts||Delhi’s deteriorating air quality has prompted experts to sound the alarm about a possible increase in transmission and severity of the viral Covid-19, which ultimately may lead to more patients succumbing to the virus.With pollution levels on the rise in Delhi and the entire Indo-Gangetic plains, hospitals in the city are preparing for a potential increase in the number of hospitalisations from the novel infection. The dip in temperatures in the region will further aggravate the situation, officials warned. “Covid-19 patients who were asymptomatic or relatively stable earlier, will now likely develop more severe respiratory symptoms due to the increase in the pollution levels; a higher proportion of Covid-19 patients are likely to be symptomatic. Plus, the dip in temperatures may lead to more cases — as witnessed in Europe,” said Dr Karan Madan, additional professor of the department of pulmonology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences. Severe disease and mortality Studies from across the world have shown that there could be an increase in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 with the increase in the levels of pollution. A study from Italy shows that higher mortality was reported from regions, where air pollution levels were high. The mortality rate in northern Italy – where pollution levels are higher – was calculated at 12%. In comparison, the mortality rate in other parts of Italy was at 4.5%. Another research from Europe, showed that 78% of all Covid-19 deaths were reported from five regions in Italy, France, Spain, and Germany where the levels of nitrogen dioxide was high. A study from the Harvard University has also shown that with every 1 μg increase in PM 2.5 long term exposure, Covid-19 mortality went up by 8%. The authors of the study said that counties with higher pollution levels will have higher numbers of hospitalisations and higher numbers of deaths. “The studies from Italy and Harvard University show the association of mortality due to Covid-19 with long term exposure to air pollution. Chronic exposure to high levels of air pollution, like that being experienced in Delhi and many parts of norther India, compromises the immune response of the respiratory system. It is well established that pneumonias (one of the most common symptoms of Covid-19) are more common and more serious in regions with high pollution levels,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the AIIMS. The pollutants in the air also reduce the immune response of the respiratory system, thereby affecting more people. “Pollutants inflame the respiratory tract and down-regulates the immunity of the respiratory mucosa (where the Sars-CoV-2 first attacks), making people more susceptible to the infection. Also, because the respiratory tract and tungs are already inflamed because of pollution, Covid-19 is likely to cause severe symptoms. Also, high pollution levels aggravate the symptoms of patients who already have underlying conditions like asthma, chronic obstructive respiratory disorder,. For such people, the outcome of contracting Covid is likely to be worse,” he said. Transmission Some studies also suggest that particulate matter may accelerate the spread of Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. A study conducted in Italy suggested that high concentrations of particulate matter (PM) could result in the virus forming clusters. Another study from Wuhan, China, showed that the incidence of Covid-19 was higher in areas with high levels of PM2.5 and nitrogen dioxide concentration. Another study from southern India suggests that particulate matter, when exposed to water in the atmosphere, may encapsulate the virus leading to increase in transmission. “The virus is mainly transmitted through droplets ejected by an infected person when they talk, sneeze or cough. These droplets may not evaporate quickly in winter and remain suspended for longer duration. Or, they might settle on the particulate matter and remain in the air for longer periods and lead to more transmission. Hence, there is a chance of increased transmission when the pollution levels go up,” said professor Sachidanand Tripathi from IIT-Kanpur who works on air pollution. “Whether pollutants directly lead to increased transmission is not clear, but definitely the cold leads to increased transmission like any other viral infection, as they are likely to stay alive longer in the favourable temperatures,” added Dr Khilnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/air-pollution-increases-the-risk-of-severe-covid-19-hospitalisations-warn-experts/story-pYLf7tMtjDmkXnxMyT0tDJ.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Air quality in deep red in Delhi’s 12 monitoring stations, 9 of them hot spots||Air quality plunged to the ‘severe’ zone in at least 12 of the 35 pollution monitoring stations of Delhi on Friday. Nine of these are neighbourhoods that have already been marked as ‘hot spots’, where the government has improved monitoring and is focusing on stricter enforcement of rules over the last two years. On Friday morning, when Delhi’s overall air quality deteriorated to the ‘very poor’ category, these nine ‘hot spots’ -- - Narela, Alipur (Narela-Bawana), Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Wazirpur, Bawana and Mundka -- were already in deep red (severe). In some stations such as Dilshad Garden, Dwarka sector 8 and Nehru Nagar, air pollution did not reach the severe category but was at the extreme end of very poor, recording AQIs 396, 396 and 398, respectively.  In 2018, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had released a list of 13 neighbourhoods identified as Delhi’s pollution hot spots— where the air is noxious at most times of the day with monitoring stations often showing ‘deep red’. However, with specific action plans and intensive patrolling, pollution enforcement agencies had claimed the quality of air in these areas had shown a substantial improvement. But on Friday, as the city faced its worst air day in the last eight months, the situation at many of these hot spots was alarming. As against the average AQI of 366 recorded in Delhi, the index at these hot spots were above the mark of 400. In Narela, the AQI was 402, in Mundka it was 418, Anand Vihar was 409 and Wazirpur was 441. Data shows the prominent pollutant in most of these stations was PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter), which means the source was vehicular emissions and open fires. Bhure Lal, chairperson, Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca), said action taken in these areas was being regularly monitored. “Since the air quality across the city was in the very poor category today (Friday), and the hot spots were in a worse condition, we directed increased patrolling and action in these areas. We had a meeting with the government and the municipal agencies and we will keep a close watch,” Lal said. Data showed a steep rise in the levels of PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) in these neighbourhoods. At Anand Vihar, the PM 2.5 levels rose from 343ug/m3 at 6am to 523ug/m3 at 9am. As the wind speed picked up during the day, the levels improved slightly, but the graph went up again after 6pm. Experts said the increase could be attributed to vehicular pollution, which is usually high in this part of the city in the day. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, said low wind speed, coupled with an increased stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, pushed the city to poor air. At the same time, local pollution sources such as dust, vehicular movement and open garbage burning added to the pollution levels. “Till 10am, the winds were completely calm and even by noon when the wind picked up, the average speed remained 5-6kmph, which was not enough to facilitate the dispersion of pollutants. The increase in moisture early in the morning trapped pollution particles,” Srivastava. According to the CPCB list, the 13 hot spots—Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase II, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Bawana, Narela, Mundka and Mayapuri -- are based on the high particulate matter (PM) concentration in these areas on a long term. The Supreme Court had last year asked Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev to fix these 13 spots. The court had said it won’t allow “inaction” by the authorities to play with the lives of the people. The court rapped the city government for failing to deal with road dust, construction demolition and garbage-dumping activities. Enforcement agencies said even before the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) ordered the implementation of the winter segment of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) in the city, monitoring has been going on in these 13 hot spots. “It will be unfair to expect an overnight change in these hot spots. From where we had started, there is a very visible improvement in all of these 13 areas. But we will continue monitoring and patrolling in these hotspots so that the local sources can be controlled,” said a senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-in-deep-red-in-delhi-s-12-monitoring-stations-9-of-them-hot-spots/story-lEejkECU7Av9hLhxdU6IcP.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC stays order to Delhi-funded colleges to pay salaries from student fund||The Delhi High Court on Friday stayed the Delhi government October 16 order, asking 12 Delhi University colleges fully funded by it to pay outstanding salaries to staffers from the Students Society Fund.Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to Delhi University (DU) on a petition filed by the Delhi University Students Union (DUSU), challenging the government’s order to colleges to pay the salaries of over 1,500 staff—both teaching and non-teaching—from the student fund and release the amount in two weeks. A spokesperson of Delhi government refused to comment on the issueThe 12 colleges affiliated to Delhi University but fully funded by the Delhi government are Acharya Narendra Dev College, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences, Bhagini Nivedita College, DeenDayal Upadhyaya College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women’s College, Indira Gandhi Institute of Physical Education & Sports Sciences, Keshav Mahavidyalaya, Maharaja Agrasen College (DU), Maharshi Valmiki College of Education, Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences for Women and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies. The court said instead of using the student fund, the state should have paid the salary to the college staff. The court transferred the matter to another court before whom similar matters are pending. Advocate Jivesh Tiwari, appearing for DUSU, said the fund is collected from students and is to be used for student welfare, and urged the high court to stay the government’s order. Reacting to the order, DUSU president Akshit Dahiya said, “We had challenged the anti-student directive of the Delhi government on the grounds that the Students Society Fund (SSF) corpus, which is entirely made up of fees charged from students, is meant for funding student societies at colleges, and the unspent amount is to be utilised only for student welfare.” The matter would be now heard on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dehi-hc-stays-order-to-delhi-funded-colleges-to-pay-salaries-from-student-fund/story-V8e7eLGpz94mM7qpEKwu0H.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Spike again: Delhi sees 4,086 new cases in a day||After a gap of a little over a month, new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi on Thursday again breached the 4,000-mark, capping what appears to be a clear resurgence of cases in the Capital right before the festive season.A total of 4,086 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Friday, taking the total number of confirmed infections in the city to 348,404, according to Friday’s health bulletin by the Delhi government.The seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, now has been rising for 11 straight days – it has risen from 2,661 on October 12 to 3,421 on Friday.With the cases rising, the positivity rate – the proportion of tests that are positive for Covid-19 – also continued its rise with 6.98% of the 58,568 samples tested in the past 24 hours coming back positive. The seven-day average positivity rate is now at 6.37% — it was 5.73% the week before, and 5.4% the week before that.While the first wave cases in Delhi peaked around the end of June, new infections had again started rising in the start of September. However from the third week of September, these numbers had started declining again, but now have been rising steadily in the last 10 days along with an increase in the number of the more accurate RT-PCR tests.More than 16,000 RT-PCR tests were done in the city for the third consecutive day. “The sensitivity of the rapid antigen test is about 60% to 65% at best; if we use more RT-PCR tests, of course, we will detect more cases. But I think the current increase in the cases is not just because of the RT-PCR tests; there might be some increase happening on the ground. It is the festive season, people are stepping out, going shopping and all this leads to increase in the transmission of the infection and higher number of cases,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Experts said this resurgence of cases at the outset of the festive season is a cause for concern as the numbers are likely to increase further with more and more people stepping to celebrate and shop.“When it comes to Covid-19, it has been seen that transmission increases with proximity. And, with festive season people are likely to meet their friends and families, eat together, and not strictly follow the measures such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance, which will lead to a further increase in the number of cases in the coming weeks,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS. And, the increase in the levels of pollution will add to the woes, they said. “This is a double whammy. The air quality index is already hovering over 300. This will compound the impact on the lungs and respiratory tract of the people, leading to more symptomatic cases and hospitalisations in the coming months. It is of utmost importance that people follow the precautions like wearing masks, washing hands, and maintaining social distancing now more than ever. This is especially true for people who already have underlying conditions like asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that will worsen with the high levels of pollution,” said Sandeep Nayyar, head of the department of respiratory medicine, allergy and sleep disorders, BL Kapur Super Speciality Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/spike-again-delhi-sees-4-086-new-cases-in-a-day/story-Lbo1NjNRpbER13IPHnbB0M.html
24-10-2020||City||Mohali: Draw to issue temporary licences for crackers’ sale on November 5||Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said that a draw of lots will be held on November 5 to award temporary licences to traders for the sale of crackers. To maintain transparency, the draw would be conducted in the presence of a committee constituted for the same at 2.30pm at the district administrative complex in Sector 76 and the entire process will be videotaped.Giving an update about the change of date of application, the DC informed that applications for the same will be accepted from October 28 to October 30 before 5pm at any of the Sewa Kendras of the district.Dayalan also informed that on Diwali (November 14), the use of firecrackers would be permitted from 8 pm to 10 pm and on Gurpurab (November 30) from 4am to 5pm and from 9pm to 10pm, within the prescribed sound limit. The sale of firecrackers for Diwali shall be done from 10am to 7.30pm on November 12, 13, and 14, and for Gurpurab, it shall be done from 10am to 7:30pm on November 29 and 30.No person shall store crackers illegally and sell them without a licence, reiterated Dayalan.He added that no resident shall sell or use Chinese firecrackers.For more information regarding designated places and conditions for the sale of firecrackers, interested citizens can visit the website of the DC office: www.sasnagar.nic.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/draw-to-issue-temporary-licences-for-sale-of-crackers-on-november-5/story-94Wb9JJt23ApTxyNyio0vJ.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU’s UBS initiates admission process for PhD programme||University Business School (UBS), Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh has initiated the admission process for PhD programme for academic session 2020-2021, for candidates who have qualified the UGC NET /JRF/ SLET examinations with fellowships and scholarships.The university stated that all candidates, who had already cleared the entrance test for admission to the PhD programme in management (for academic session: 2020-2021) in 2018 and 2019, were required to fill an application form available on the university website.It also stated that all those who had applied for the PU PhD entrance test 2020 for admission to the PhD programme in management for academic session 2020-2021, were required to wait till PU decides upon their admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-s-ubs-initiates-admission-process-for-phd-programme/story-7f2jaJ5jBxITlROc5mtHzI.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman duped of ₹5 lakh on pretext of job||The police on Friday booked a Manimajra resident for duping a woman of ₹5 lakh on the pretext of securing a clerical job in a bank. The accused was identified as Sunny Virk of Govindpura, Manimajra. Complainant Sarsawati of Sector 46, Chandigarh, stated that her husband, who is a defence staffer posted at DRDO, Chandigarh, was training in Panchkula in March 2019 when he met one Harpreet Kaur at the bus stand who told him that she had applied for a job in CTU and could get a job for his wife well. Harpreet had then got them introduced to Sunny who had assured them of a clerical job and demanded ₹7 lakh for the same. They had paid ₹5 lakh but despite waiting for three months neither did Saraswati get the job nor was the money refunded. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC was registered at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-duped-of-5-lakh-on-pretext-of-job/story-jfWmTwxBFUnjqxB76YsavL.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health department warns against use of stickers on fruits and vegetables, issues 30 notices||The UT health department on Friday issued notices to around 30 fruit and vegetable vendors at the wholesale fruit and vegetable market in Sector 26 for using stickers on fruits and vegetables to make them look of premium quality.“Use of stickers on fruits and vegetables to make them look of premium quality is common. A lot of times, these stickers are applied directly on food surfaces such as on fruits like apples, kiwis, mangoes, oranges, bananas, pears, and some common fruits. A wide variety of adhesives is used on these stickers to paste them effectively. The safety of these adhesives is not known. It may contain harmful chemicals that may affect human health. The risk of consuming these adhesives is high in case of fruits or vegetables consumed with skin,” a release by the health department stated.To put a stop to such practices, a team of food safety officers inspected the Sector 26 wholesale markets and made the vegetable and fruit vendors aware about the need to stop use of such practices. They were issued notices to stop pasting such stickers on fruits and vegetables. Traders were advised to use functional barriers to avoid direct application of stickers on fruits and vegetables. “A few fruits can be packed in transparent thin films on which these stickers may be applied,” the department stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-department-warns-against-use-of-stickers-on-fruits-and-vegetables-issues-30-notices/story-vfN7TmP5NS5Tgf4s7q5JMI.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Pituitary tumour: PGIMER doctors get better results using advanced technology||In a first of its kind, endoscopic skull base surgeons at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research have shown that the use of advanced neurosurgical gadgets can improve the outcome of endoscopic surgery for a pituitary tumour. “Though these tools are being used widely, there has not been adequate proof of their actual efficacy. The study led by Dr Dhandapani SS is the first to show that navigation and angled endoscopes help a surgeon deliver even better results. Navigation was helpful during surgery in almost half of the cases. The tumour resection rates improved from 71% to 87%, and the retreatment rates decreased from 21% to 8% with navigation,” the institute stated in a release on Friday. It also stated, “In complex hormone-secreting tumours, the cure rate improved from 0% to 69% using navigation. Angled endoscopes were helpful in additional tumour removal in 63% of cases. In non-secreting tumours, angled endoscopes improved resection rates from 71% to 92%, and re-treatment rates decreased from 16% to 0%.”Though in this regard, microscopic surgeries through the nose were the standard, recently neuronavigation was introduced for better precision during neurosurgery for complex tumours. Surgical navigation is a computerised technology to precisely identify targets similar to GPS in mobile devices. Also, angled endoscopes help surgeons see the tumour portions in crucial areas, like a periscope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pituitary-tumour-pgi-docs-get-better-results-using-advanced-tech/story-9irRIJ9tua1R6P6i1RRojM.html
24-10-2020||City||₹1.72-crore development projects launched in Mohali||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday laid the foundation stone of development projects worth ₹1.72 crore in Mohali.These projects aim at giving a complete facelift to the markets and parks of the region.While the markets will be renovated with paver blocks, provision for rainwater discharge, installation of sun shades and ramps among others, a water sprinkler system will be installed in parks along with open gyms, the minister said. A total of 1,000 health cards and 700 old-age pension sanction letters were also distributed. The minister said that soon, a modern, self-sustaining cattle pound will come up on 10 acres of land at Balongi.The projects include upgrading of Phase 1 market at a cost of ₹22 lakh, Phase 2 market at a cost of ₹40 lakh, Phase 6 market and green belt with ₹45.1 lakh, installation of tubewell and sprinkler system in Phase-7 park with ₹20.55 lakh, laying of paver blocks in ward number 37 in Phase 9 at ₹13.2 lakh, development of Phase 9 park in ward number 24 at a cost of ₹10.15 lakh, providing and fixing of open gym equipment with platform for disabled people in with ₹9.48 lakh and upgrade/repair of entry points from Chandigarh to Phase 9 at an expenditure of ₹11.55 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-72-crore-development-projects-launched-in-mohali/story-7b2TSbpa9HvDk5q9lUl7vI.html
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Deadwood employees in J&K can be retired after 22 years of service||Politicking has started over a government order, which states that inefficient government employees who are over 48-years-old or have completed 22 years in service will be shown the door by the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) government. While the Congress has cried foul over the order, the BJP maintains there is nothing wrong with it. On behalf of J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha, financial commissioner Arun Kumar Mehta has issued a notification saying the J&K government has amended Article 226 (2) of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Service Regulations to include a provision allowing the administration to retire at any time ‘inefficient, ineffective officials and employees, including those with doubtful integrity’ in public interest after he or she has completed 22 years of service or attained 48 years of age. A senior official said, “In the past, governments would handover ‘forced retirement’ to tainted officials and employees but they would get interim stay from courts. In certain cases we had to reinstate them and the state had to cough up their arrears and other benefits.Now an amendment has been made wherein the government has provided a time schedule. A review committee will probe each case before a final call is taken.” The amendment has also brought J&K UT service regulations at par with the Centre. The notification says, the official or employee to be retired will be given three-month notice or three months of allowance. The order will not be applicable to posts included in Schedule II of the rules. The administrative department will now start maintaining a register of staff who are due to attain 48 years age or have completed 22 years of service. The amendment also provides for the formation of an internal panel in each department, comprising the administrative secretary, head of department concerned, and two senior officers to be nominated by the administrative secretary. J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina said, “There is no change in the age of retirement, which remains 60 years. The notification has been issued to bring more transparency and accountability. Employees and officials, who are 48 years of age or have completed 22 years of service will be reviewed. If such employees or officials are found to be non-performers, involved in corruption or having doubtful integrity, their performance will be reviewed by a panel before they will be asked to leave.” However, Congress leaders have criticised the order and termed it ‘highly arbitrary and authoritarian’. “The order is arbitrary and will lead to unnecessary exploitation of employees at the hands of the government and superiors and will lead to overt subordination. Officials will remain fearful of being removed in the middle of their career and at a young age. The government is generating fear among its employees, This reflects the BJP’s anti-employee mindset, especially towards Jammu and Kashmir,” Congress leaders said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/deadwood-employees-in-j-k-can-be-retired-after-22-years-of-service/story-zNrAkUPbrvQXTKZMaYNZvM.html
24-10-2020||City||I-T department raids Srinagar, Delhi offices of business group, discovers investments worth Rs 100 crore||The Income-Tax (I-T) department on Thursday evening conducted a series of raids in Srinagar and Delhi and unearthed undisclosed investments of a business group that were worth more than Rs 100 crore.The search-and-seizure operations were carried out on a Srinagar-based group of companies, including three assesses, officials said. “Searches were conducted at 15 residential and business premises, out of which 14 were in Srinagar and one was in Delhi,” according to a release issued by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).The CBDT authorities said the group is engaged in multiple businesses, including construction and renting of commercial and residential complexes in Srinagar, hospitality, handicraft, carpets, trading etc. Also Read: Mehbooba Mufti gets back to work, holds first meeting of PDP after release from detention“The searches have led to the seizure of unaccounted cash amounting to Rs 1.82 crore and jewellery worth Rs 74 lakh. The undisclosed investments and cash transactions of Rs 105 crore of the group have been unearthed during the searches,” the release stated.The group owns a shopping mall, which has a retail space of around 75,000 square (sq) feet (ft), in Srinagar. “However, the corresponding I-T returns against the income from the shopping mail have not been filed. The land was acquired under the Jammu and Kashmir State Lands (Vesting of. Ownership to the Occupants) Act, 2001, which is popularly known as the Roshni Act, from the erstwhile state government at a throwaway price. The search has uncovered evidence of unexplained investments of over Rs 25 crore in the shopping complex,” the CBDT said.The group is also constructing six residential towers in Srinagar. The construction of two towers is complete and the work is in progress in the rest of them for which the I-T returns have not been filed, the statement alleged. “Prima facie, there is an unexplained investment of Rs 20 crore in the project,” CBDT said.Also Read: NGO director arrested, Srinagar MC officials booked on ‘fraud’ chargesThe group is also running a school under the aegis of a trust, which is not registered under the I-T Act, 1961.“One of the trustees has admitted to having withdrawn substantial cash from the said trust, which has been diverted towards other business purposes and personal expenses of the group. Prima facie, there is also unexplained investment of Rs 10 crore in the school building,” the CBDT alleged.The CBDT statement cited that searches had led to recovery of incriminating evidence regarding receipt and payment of cash amounting to over Rs 50 crore from various premises. Three lockers have been uncovered that have been put under restraint.“An engineering consultant firm, which has valued almost all the properties of the group, was also raided during the search operation. The firm did not file its I-T returns, even though it had earned more than Rs 4 crore over the last six financial years,” the CBDT alleged. “This firm had valued properties of various assesses of the Kashmir Valley in such a manner that they could mortgage their assets to avail maximum loans from Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Bank. Most of the loans have turned into non-performing assets (NPA), according to the J&K Bank,” the CBDT statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/i-t-department-raids-srinagar-delhi-offices-of-business-group-discovers-investments-worth-rs-100-crore/story-TmluMvFFcxRqMcHltTNg3J.html
24-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital to get new 1,500-bed block; to become city’s biggest hospital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday laid the foundation stone of a 1,500-bed medical block at Lok Nayak Hospital. In addition, 300 beds will be added in the existing building, taking the hospital’s bed strength to 3,800 in 2.5 years. This will be the biggest hospital in Delhi and one of the biggest in India. The upcoming building will be a 22-storey facility that will have modular operation theatres, several intensive care unit beds, and all diagnostic facilities under one roof. The project is likely to be completed in just over two years, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said.  “The chief minister had a vision of providing world-class medical facilities to the people of Delhi and this is a step in that direction. Usually, not even a 50-bed hospital is made in such a small plot of land, but we have decided to create a 1,500-bed facility. It will be a 25-floor block – three levels below the ground, and 22 above. The entire facility will be centrally air-conditioned. The patients will not have to go from one wing to the other; all the services will be available under the same roof. There will be OTs, ICUs, wards, consultation rooms, MRI service, everything,” said Jain. Not only will the facility be “world-class”, the CM said, it will be economical too. “The cost per bed for this project is just Rs 30 lakh. The total cost of the project comes to Rs 450 crore. In comparison, if you look at any government hospitals under construction – by Central or any state governments – the per bed cost comes to Rs 1.25 -1.5 crore. Plus, all the projects in Delhi in the last five years have been completed before time, with money saved. Mostly, the government projects get delayed by years and overshoot the budget by crores,” said Kejriwal at the ceremony. The chief minister added that in the last five years, his government had worked towards improving the living standards of the people of Delhi. “The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has completed projects on time and saved cost as well, which is then utilised for the betterment of the city,” he said. The ministers also lauded the staff of the hospital for taking care of Covid-19 patients and paid respect to the sacrifice of the doctors and technicians who lost their lives to Covid-19. “The pandemic has had a cascading effect on all of us and I salute to all those who have worked hard and put their lives at stake to serve the nation. Delhi government is the only government which has given ex-gratia of Rs 1 crore to all those who sacrificed their lives during this pandemic. We can’t bring back the heroes but we can help them in whatever way possible,” he said. He also urged people to participate in the government’s latest campaign to combat vehicular pollution – ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’. The aim of the campaign is to encourage people to switch off the engines of their vehicles while waiting for the traffic signals to turn green. “The new building will have 34 modular operation theatres and will add another 150 intensive care unit beds. In addition to that, it will have state-of-the-art research laboratories and teaching centres. All diagnostic facilities will also be available in the same block,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-lok-nayak-hospital-to-get-new-1-500-bed-block-to-become-city-s-biggest-hospital/story-PEFkTpS7R36kURyQWtBTYN.html
24-10-2020||World||Donald Trump thwarted in Latest bid to kill solar-tariff loophole||A US trade court on Saturday temporarily blocked the Trump administration’s latest bid to end a loophole it had granted on two-sided solar panels.The order comes weeks after President Donald Trump moved to eliminate a tariff exemption for the two-sided, or bifacial, panels. Prior to that proclamation, the government tried for more than a year to revoke the exemption, only to get repeatedly thwarted by the trade court.Court of International Trade Judge Gary Katzmann issued a temporary restraining order that effectively prevents the tariff exemption from being removed for two weeks, unless the court takes other action during that time.A spokesman for the US Trade Representative didn’t immediately respond to an email seeking comment.In early 2018, Trump approved four years of tariffs on solar panel imports, starting at 30% and to be reduced by 5 percentage points in each subsequent year. The tariffs were part of a campaign promise to get tough on China, which dominates solar-panel manufacturing, and to boost the US industry.But his administration surprised many in the sector when it granted an exclusion for bifacial panels in 2019. While bifacial was considered a niche product, the tariffs had encouraged some new solar manufacturing in the US, and duty-free module imports exempt from those duties posed a threat.In the October proclamation, Trump said it was necessary to revoke the bifacial exemption because the loophole has “impaired and is likely to continue to impair the effectiveness” of the tariffs intended to bolster US solar manufacturing.That’s why he also said it was necessary to set tariffs on most imported solar cells and modules at 18% starting in February, instead of reducing them to 15% from 20% as originally planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-thwarted-in-latest-bid-to-kill-solar-tariff-loophole/story-BIRsniCxWMdP14ipPtgoyK.html
24-10-2020||World||Thai protesters’ deadline passes, but PM Prayuth Chan-ocha says he won’t quit||Thailand’s government and the country’s pro-democracy movement appeared no closer to resolving their differences Saturday, as the protesters’ deadline for Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha to step down came and went with no new action from either side, and no backing down.After the 10 p.m. deadline passed, protesters called another rally for central Bangkok on Sunday, at a major intersection in the capital’s main shopping district where they have gathered before.Prayuth told supporters Saturday evening as he left a Buddhist temple where a prayer session was held for national peace and prosperity that he would not quit.“The government is sincere in solving the problem and committed to following the law in doing so,” he told reporters.Prayuth’s office had issued a statement earlier in the day repeating his plea to resolve differences through Parliament, which will discuss the political situation in a special session starting Monday.“Although the ongoing political situation comprises many opposing views among different groups, we should rather take this as an opportunity for Thais to consult each other on what is best for the nation,” the statement said.Prayuth this past week issued a call to allow Parliament to seek a solution to the crisis and, in a gesture to appease the protesters, revoked a state of emergency for Bangkok he had imposed a week earlier that made protest rallies illegal.“If all parties are committed to exercise full restraint and flexibility, the circumstances would be more conducive to de-escalating the current tense political conflict and reaching an outcome that is acceptable to all stakeholders,” said Saturday’s statement, quoting government spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri.The protesters, however, said they would stick to their deadline for Prayuth to meet their demands that he resign and that their arrested comrades be released from jail. They have shown no enthusiasm for leaving matters in the hands of Parliament.On Saturday morning, one of the protest leaders, Jatupat “Pai Dao Din” Boonpattararaksa, had told a crowd outside Bangkok Remand Prison that protesters should gather there and consider their next step as they waited for a response from Prayuth.Protesters rallied outside the prison on Friday to press for their comrades’ release. They welcomed the release of Jatupat, who called for seven others still imprisoned to be freed.However, three prominent protest leaders were denied release on bail Saturday morning.In addition to calling for Prayuth’s resignation, the protesters’ core demands include a more democratic constitution and reforms to the monarchy.The protesters charge that Prayuth, who as then-army commander led a 2014 coup, was returned to power unfairly in last year’s general election because laws had been changed to favor a pro-military party. The protesters also say that a constitution written and passed under military rule is undemocratic.The implicit criticism of the monarchy, which protesters believe wields too much power, has irked conservative Thais because it traditionally has been treated as sacrosanct and a pillar of national identity.There is concern that the situation may become more volatile, because in the past week there has been a mobilization of forces who claim to be defenders of the monarchy.Royalists held rallies in several cities, in many cases led by local civil servants. On Wednesday, a small counter-protest in Bangkok turned violent when a few attendees attacked anti-government student activists.King Maha Vajiralongkorn made a rare appearance Friday night as he and Queen Suthida and other members of the royal family walked through a crowd of ardent royalists who had gathered on a street to cheer him as he passed by.The king, in an unusually informal manner, was seen on a widely circulated video giving thanks to an onlooker who earlier in the week had held up a sign supporting the monarchy in the midst of anti-government supporters. The video showed the queen pointing out the man to the king.Vajiralongkorn also spoke briefly with Suwit Thongprasert, a royalist activist who had been part of a group whose violent protests in 2014 put pressure on an elected government that helped trigger the coup led by Prayuth. Suwit was a Buddhist monk known as Buddha Issara when he was a leader of the right-wing People’s Democratic Reform Committee during the 2014 protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thai-protesters-deadline-passes-but-pm-prayuth-chan-ocha-says-he-won-t-quit/story-1x4ZuAaXIYtlt2G5KbaXEJ.html
24-10-2020||World||Missing Pakistani TV reporter is found after 72 hours||A reporter working for Pakistan’s leading Geo News television who had gone missing in the southern port city of Karachi has been found, family and colleague said Saturday.Geo bureau chief in Karachi, Fahim Siddiqi, said Ali Imran Syed had contacted his wife by phone to say that he had reached his mother’s home.Earlier police registered the journalist’s disappearance as an “abduction” case without naming suspects.The reporter left home late Friday evening telling his wife that he would be back in half an hour before disappearing for 72 hours.Recently there have been several cases of Pakistani journalists being detained or abducted for several hours, before being released.Azhar Abbas, head of the Geo TV, earlier said he has contacted provincial and federal authorities “to help trace the missing reporter” and “ensure his safety”.Siddiqi said the reporter’s abduction may have been related to his work on recent political events, including the arrest of an opposition leader who is the son-in-law of former premier Nawaz Sharif.Minister for Human Rights Shireen Mazari said in a tweet no one should “disappear in a democracy”.Pakistani media has been facing renewed pressure from state agencies that have sought to control the topics covered by the media and even restrict the selection of guests for TV talk shows.Journalists and press freedom advocates often accuse the Pakistani military and security agencies of pressuring media outlets to prevent critical coverage.In December last year, a Karachi based reporter with the Express Tribune newspaper, Bilal Farooqi, was arrested on charges of spreading hateful content against the country’s military on social media.In July, Matiullah Jan was briefly detained. Jan is known for criticism of Pakistan’s military and security agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/missing-pakistani-tv-reporter-is-found-after-72-hours/story-rCn9TOROvZghJfUoxeEtqO.html
24-10-2020||World||IS group claims responsibility for deadly Afghan suicide attack that killed 18 people||A suicide bomber struck near an education centre in the Afghan capital Kabul on Saturday, killing at least 18 people in an attack claimed by the extremist Islamic State that rocked the conflict-wracked country.Violence on the ground has spiked in recent weeks despite the Taliban and the Afghan government holding peace talks in Qatar to end the country’s grinding war.The suicide attack, which also left 57 wounded, happened in the late afternoon at the centre in a western district of Kabul, which offers training and higher education courses.“A suicide bomber wanted to enter the education centre,” interior ministry spokesman Tareq Arian said in a statement.“But he was identified by the centre’s guards, after which he detonated his explosives in an alley.”He confirmed the attack had killed 18 people and wounded 57.The extremist Islamic State group subsequently claimed responsibility for the attack.A suicide bomber “set off towards a gathering... in Kabul, where he detonated his explosives jacket” in the crowd, IS said in a statement posted on its social media channels.Witness Ali Reza said the blast sent dust and smoke swirling all around him.“I was standing about 100 metres from the centre when a big blast knocked me down,” said Reza, who had gone to hospital with his cousin, who was wounded in the blast.“Dust and smoke were all around me. All those killed and wounded were students who wanted to enter the centre.”Residents later gathered at the site where pools of dried blood could be seen where the bomber had detonated his explosives-laden vest.Residents in several districts of western Kabul belong to the minority Shiite Hazara community, and are often targeted by Sunni extremists of IS.- ‘World must take notice’ -In the past, extremists have targeted several education centres and other facilities in the area.In May, a group of gunmen launched a brazen daylight attack on a hospital in west Kabul that left several mothers dead. The gunmen were shot dead after hours of fighting with security forces.Washington blamed IS for that attack.Saturday’s suicide attack came hours after a roadside bomb tore through a bus east of the capital, killing nine civilians. Officials blamed that explosion on the Taliban.On Friday, rights group Amnesty International said at least 50 people had been killed in attacks in the preceding week, accusing both the Taliban and the government of failing to protect civilians.“The world must sit up and take notice. Afghan civilians are being slaughtered on a daily basis,” said Omar Waraich, Amnesty’s head of South Asia.“The international community must make the protection of civilians a core demand for their ongoing support of the peace process.”Despite holding peace talks with government negotiators in Doha since last month, the Taliban have only increased violence, in a bid to wield leverage at the bargaining table.The top US envoy to Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, said earlier this week that fighting was threatening the peace process.US influence over Afghanistan’s battlegrounds is on the wane, however, with the Pentagon looking to withdraw all its remaining troops by next May.The Taliban have been quick to exploit the apparent lack of resolve, and began to push for fresh military gains as soon as they signed a withdrawal deal with the US in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/is-group-claims-responsibility-for-deadly-afghan-suicide-bombing-that-killed-18-people/story-jWB8nGl3N183MoCwv9UGuK.html
24-10-2020||World||18 killed, 57 injured in suicide bombing in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul||The death toll from the suicide attack on Saturday in Afghanistan’s capital has risen to at least 18 killed and 57 people wounded, including schoolchildren, the interior ministry said.The explosion struck outside an education centre in a heavily Shiite neighbourhood of western Kabul, Dasht-e-Barchi.The interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian says that the attacker was trying to enter the centre when he was stopped by security guards.According to Arian, the casualty toll may rise further as family members of victims of the suicide bombing are still searching the several different hospitals where the wounded have been taken.No group claimed immediate responsibility for the bombing. The Taliban rejected any connection with the attack.An Islamic State affiliate claimed responsibility for a similar suicide attack at an education centre in August 2018, in which 34 students were killed. Within Afghanistan, IS has launched large-scale attacks on minority Shiites, Sikhs and Hindus, whom it views as apostates.Hundreds of Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan fled the country in September after a gunman loyal to the militant group killed 25 members of the shrinking community in an attack on their share a place of worship in Kabul.The US signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February, opening up a path toward withdrawing American troops from the conflict. US officials said the deal would also help refocus security efforts on fighting the Islamic State, which is a rival of the Taliban in Afghanistan.There has been an upsurge in violence between Taliban and Afghan forces in the country recently, even as representatives from the two warring sides begin their own peace talks in Doha to end the decades-long war in Afghanistan.Earlier Saturday a roadside bomb killed nine people in eastern Afghanistan after it struck a minivan full of civilians, a local official said.Ghazni province police spokesman Ahmad Khan Sirat said that a second roadside bomb killed two policemen, after it struck their vehicle that was making its way to the victims of the first explosion.Sirat added that the bombings had wounded several others, and that the attacks were under investigation.No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attacks. The provincial police spokesman claimed the Taliban had placed the bomb.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/18-killed-including-children-in-suicide-bombing-in-afghanistan-capital-kabul/story-DII12Gmhiq6ghRCVrNe6XI.html
24-10-2020||World||Poland’s president has coronavirus, apologizes to contacts||Polish President Andrzej Duda says he feels well despite testing positive for the coronavirus, and he apologized Saturday to everyone who must quarantine because they had contact with him.Duda, 48, said in a recording published on Twitter that he was experiencing no Covid-19 symptoms “but unfortunately, the test result is absolutely unambiguous.”“I would like to apologize to all those who are exposed to quarantine procedures because of meeting me in recent days,” he said. “If I had had any symptoms of coronavirus, please believe me, all meetings would have been canceled.”Duda’s diagnosis comes amid a huge surge in confirmed new cases of Covid-19 and virus-related deaths in Poland, a nation of 38 million that saw very low infection rates in the spring.The president’s key constitutional roles include guiding foreign policy and signing legislation. But many of his duties are ceremonial, and most of the responsibility for running the country lies with Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki’s government.Poland on Saturday reported 13,628 new confirmed cases and a record daily number of Covid-19 deaths, 179. The daily case count was the nation’s second-highest of the pandemic after a record number set Friday.Social tensions are also growing in the country.Police used pepper spray Saturday on protesters angry over new virus restrictions, a group that includes entrepreneurs, far-right politicians, football fans, virus deniers and vaccine opponents. The protesters, many wearing no protective masks, violated a limit on public gatherings.Police said some protesters threw bottes and other objects at them, and that they were forced to respond.At the same time, people took to the streets in Warsaw and other cities for a third day to protest a Polish court ruling that declared abortions of fetuses with congenital defects unconstitutional. The decision further restricted what was already one of Europe’s strictest abortion laws.Critics accuse Poland’s right-wing ruling party of using the cover of the pandemic and a constitutional court it has filled with loyalists to impede abortion access in a legally dubious manner. They also accuse the Law and Justice party of seeking to exacerbate social conflicts to distract attention from soaring Covid-19 infection rates.The fast spread of the virus is pushing Poland’s strained health system to the breaking point. Doctors say patients are dying not only from Covid-19, but from other illnesses that overwhelmed hospitals are unable to treat.The government is preparing to open field hospitals, but it is not clear where it will find the doctors and nurses to staff them.Duda on Friday visited the National Stadium in Warsaw, which is being transformed into one of the field hospitals. He also bestowed state honors Friday on Iga Swiatek, the 19-year-old Polish tennis player who won the French Open this month, and her father and trainer, Tomasz Swiatek.Duda and the Swiateks wore masks and gloves but stood very close and shook hands as the president fastened honorary pins on them.Iga Swiatek said she and others on her team have no symptoms but would go into quarantine following Duda’s positive test. She said they are tested regularly and would be tested again in three days.The Polish government imposed new restrictions starting Saturday that are just short of a lockdown in hopes of bringing the country’s outbreak under control. The prime minister appealed to Poles to strictly observe these “serious restrictions” in order to protect lives.The country currently has some 11,500 patients hospitalized with Covid-19 and 911 of them on respirators, the Health Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/poland-s-president-has-coronavirus-apologizes-to-contacts/story-J6uVqmGBY18oQwKAlSWCZL.html
24-10-2020||World||New clashes in Nagorno-Karabakh after Washington talks||New clashes broke out between Azerbaijan and ethnic Armenian forces over Nagorno-Karabakh a day after talks in Washington to try to end the deadliest fighting in the mountain enclave in more than a quarter of a century.Azerbaijan’s defence ministry reported fighting in and around Nagorno-Karabakh, a part of Azerbaijan populated and controlled by ethnic Armenians.Local officials accused Azerbaijan’s forces of shelling buildings in Stepanakert, the largest city in the region, which Baku denied.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met separately with the foreign ministers of Azerbaijan and Armenia on Friday in a new attempt to end nearly a month of bloodshed that Russian President Vladimir Putin said may have killed 5,000 people.The collapse of two Russia brokered ceasefires had already dimmed the prospect of a quick end to fighting that broke out on Sept. 27 over Nagorno-Karabakh.Azeri forces say they have made territorial gains, including full control over the border with Iran, which Armenia denies. Nagorno-Karabakh’s ethnic Armenian administration says its forces have repulsed attacks.President Ilham Aliyev told French newspaper Le Figaro that Azerbaijan was ready to sit down for negotiations but blamed Armenia’s actions for the continued hostilities.“We are ready to stop even today,” Aliyev was quoted as saying. “But, unfortunately, Armenia grossly violated the ceasefire. If they don’t stop, we will go to the end with the aim of liberating all the occupied territories.”US President Donald Trump said “good progress” was being made on the issue but did not elaborate and declined to say if he had spoken with the leaders of either country.Asked how his talks went, Armenian Foreign Minister Zohrab Mnatsakanyan told reporters “very good” as he exited the US State Department, and added that work on a ceasefire would continue.World powers want to prevent a wider war that draws in Turkey, which has voiced strong support for Azerbaijan, and Russia, which has a defence pact with Armenia.Shortly before the Washington talks, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan told reporters in Istanbul that he hoped Moscow and Ankara could work together on resolving the conflict.Differences over the conflict have further strained relations between Ankara and its North Atlantic Treaty Organization(NATO) allies, with Pompeo accusing Turkey of fuelling the conflict by arming the Azeri side. Ankara denies it has inflamed the conflict.Pompeo had said ahead of Friday’s talks that he hoped the “right path forward” could be found.But Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan said he saw no diplomatic resolution of the conflict at this stage, and Aliyev has described the prospects of a peace settlement as “very remote”.About 30,000 people were killed in a 1991-94 war over Nagorno-Karabakh. Armenians regard the enclave as part of their historic homeland; Azeris consider it illegally occupied land that must be returned to their control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-clashes-in-nagorno-karabakh-after-washington-talks/story-hCCM4khXqwf0GMmvaAbOqM.html
24-10-2020||World||Iran denounces US brokered Sudan-Israel deal as ‘phony’, secured by ‘ransom’||The US brokered Sudan-Israel deal to normalise ties is “phony” and was secured by a “ransom”, Iran’s Foreign Ministry said on Saturday.“Pay enough ransom, close your eyes to the crimes against Palestinians, then you’ll be taken off the so-called ‘terrorism’ blacklist,” the ministry tweeted. “Obviously, the list is as phony as the US fight against terrorism. Shameful.”Israel and Sudan agreed on Friday to take steps to normalise relations in an accord engineered with the help of the United States, making Khartoum the third Arab government to set aside hostilities with Israel in the last two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-denounces-us-brokered-sudan-israel-deal-as-phony-secured-by-ransom/story-L3GkPgBjKUL6Xr8eCyQ6nI.html
24-10-2020||World||‘Voted for guy named Trump,’ says US President; Biden addresses tipping-point Pennsylvania||President Donald Trump cast his vote in person in his adoptive home state Florida on Saturday before heading out to address three rallies in battleground states, seeking to build momentum for the final 10 days left of polling ending November 3.Joe Biden, the Democratic nominee who on Friday promised free Covid-19 vaccines for everyone once it was available, will address two rallies in Pennsylvania, the battleground state that has been described as the tipping-point for the 2020 White House race. He will be joined by musician Jon Bon Jovi at one of them.“I voted for a guy named Trump,” the president said jokingly to reporters when asked who he voted for, at an early polling station in West Palm Beach. “We’re going to make three stops today, big ones, big rallies, three big ones … I don’t think there’s ever been anything like this, tremendous spirit.”ALSO READ | Donald Trump says India’s air is filthy during US presidential debateMore than 54 million Americans have already cast their ballots either through early in-person voting or mail, of an estimated 240 million eligible voters in all.President Trump’s first rally of the day was in Fayetteville in North Carolina, a battleground state he won in 2016, but where he is now trailing Biden by a thin margin of 1.5 percentage points in the RealClearPolitics average of polls. His next stops were Columbus, Ohio and Milwaukee, Wisconsin, also states he won in 2016. But he now trails Biden in Wisconsin by 4.6 points and Ohio, which he won by 8.1% then, he leads only by 0.6 points.At his rallies, Trump has sought to build a momentum using talking points from the last presidential debate to play on what he believes are Biden’s vulnerabilities — shifting positions on fossil fuel and fracking, for instance, and social security funding.ALSO READ | US presidential election 2020: Donald Trump says final debate went ‘really well’“That could be one of the biggest mistakes made in presidential debate history,” Trump said about Biden’s remarks at the debate on transitioning from oil. “The oil industry pollutes, significantly. ... It has to be replaced by renewable energy over time,” Biden had said.The former vice-president kept his focus on his key case against the president: his handling of the Covid-19 epidemic. “Last night, we saw the President of the United States lie to the American people — repeatedly — about the state of this pandemic,” Biden said in a speech from Wilmington, Delaware, referring to the Thursday night debate.After reiterating his criticism of Trump’s response to the epidemic, which has killed more than 224,000 Americans and infected nearly 8.5 million, Biden spoke at length about his own plan if elected and it included ramped up production and availability of testing kits and protective gear for healthcare professional, a mask mandate in federal buildings and free vaccines.“Once we have a safe and effective vaccine, it has to be free to everyone, whether or not you are insured,” he said, “Let me say that again. This vaccine must be free and freely available for everyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/voted-for-guy-named-trump-says-us-president-biden-addresses-tipping-point-pennsylvania/story-raHZafgP5yo1IrCSoqL9fP.html
24-10-2020||World||Covid: Spain’s regions urge govt to impose state of emergency to allow curfews||Spanish regions are urging the central government to take measures that would give them legal backing to impose curfews as the country battles a resurgent coronavirus epidemic.As of Saturday, 10 of Spain’s 17 regions, including Asturias, Castilla-La Mancha and the Basque Country, had called on the government to decree a state of emergency, which would allow regions to limit people’s movement. Regions expect the government to call a special Council of Ministers meeting on Sunday to approve the measure, Spanish media including El Pais reported. “I would say with almost total certainty there will be one. But it has not officially been called yet,” a source from the Spanish government told Reuters.Meanwhile the Valencia region announced its own curfew from Saturday night until Dec. 9.Valencia region president Ximo Puig said the curfew, between midnight and 6am, would be covered by a law on procedural measures to deal with Covid-19 which “implicitly” states that such measures could be taken without the need for a state of emergency. While many regions favour some form of curfew, the Madrid region opposes it, a stance which has so far prevented a nationwide decision.Spain has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 infections in Western Europe. Total cases rose to 1,046,132 on Friday, while the death toll is nearing 38,000.Catalonia said on Friday night it would impose a curfew across the region, which includes Barcelona, as soon as the central government acted. “We need a decentralised state of emergency in which the Catalan government maintains all management capacity,” deputy Catalan leader Pere Aragones told a news conference. Other regions could follow Valencia and impose curfews by alternative means, such as going through regional courts, if the central government does not act. “If the central government does nothing, we will approve a curfew,” Murcia’s regional president Fernando Lopez Miras, told Spanish broadcaster TVE on Saturday.Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez’s government would likely have enough votes to pass the measure in parliament. It would have the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party and other regional parties who support the measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-spain-s-regions-urge-govt-to-impose-state-of-emergency-to-allow-curfews/story-bNR8kvuDBmMRYJecSjaX6O.html
24-10-2020||World||‘I voted for a guy named Trump’: US President casts early ballot in Florida||President Donald Trump cast an early ballot Saturday in the US election as he geared for another grueling day of campaigning ahead of the November 3 vote.Trump, who is trailing Democrat Joe Biden in the polls, voted at a library serving as a polling center in West Palm Beach, Florida.He has a home in that state and switched his residency there last year from his native New York.“I voted for a guy named Trump,” he said with a smile as he emerged.While voting, he wore a mask, which is rare for the president, who has played down the pandemic.Nearly 55 million Americans have now cast early votes as the coronavirus has made in-person voting more problematic.“It was a very secure vote. Much more secure than when you send in a ballot, I can tell you that,” said Trump, who insists without giving evidence that mail-in voting leads to fraud.“Everything was perfect, very strict, right by the rules. When you send in your ballot, it could never be secure like that,” he said.Trump is waging a frenetic last-ditch drive to catch up with Biden in the final days of the race, with rallies planned Saturday in North Carolina, Ohio and Wisconsin, all of them battleground states.“You’re going to be very busy today, because we’re going to work you hard,” Trump told reporters traveling with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-casts-early-ballot-in-florida-in-presidential-election/story-BY98IpjYaJzD9Yd9f4XvBN.html
24-10-2020||World||9 people killed in roadside bombings of Afghanistan’s Ghazni city||At least nine people, including eight civilians, were killed in two roadside bombings in Ghani city on Saturday, informed Wahidullah Jumazada, spokesman for Ghazni governor.Jumazada said that the first explosion occurred in Rawza area in Ghazi, when a vehicle struck a roadside bomb, which killed eight civilians and wounded one person, reported TOLO News.The second explosion occurred when a security forces vehicle struck another roadside bomb as they arrived at the scene of the first explosion.This happens amid high violence in the country despite ongoing peace negotiations in Doha.According to TOLO News, the figures disclosed by the ministry of interior affairs show that the Taliban have conducted 356 movements over the last week. Two suicide attacks and 52 explosions were part of the movements, the data shows.The data also indicates that 51 civilians were killed and 137 more were wounded in the Taliban attacks over the last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/9-people-killed-in-roadside-bombings-of-afghanistan-s-ghazni-city/story-dCfiMeQ0EvK4NOL1IDeQhL.html
24-10-2020||World||Fighting coronavirus trumps other concerns, says Iran’s supreme leader||Iran’s supreme leader Saturday urged authorities to prioritize public health above any economic or security concerns, amid the Mideast’s worst outbreak of the coronavirus.Iran’s death toll from the global pandemic topped 32,000 this week. The government has resisted a total lockdown fearing it would further devastate its economy, already weakened by unprecedented US sanctions.Ayatollah Ali Khamenei told officials during a meeting with the country’s top counter-coronavirus committee that “the main priority in decision-making is people’s health.”Khamenei urged “all organizations” to follow strictly the health ministry’s guidelines to help restrict the virus’ spread, “regardless of other considerations.”Some hardliner lawmakers have criticized Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s management of the pandemic and demanded his resignation. Rouhani is a reformist politician and also championed Tehran’s nuclear deal with world powers, which began collapsing after the U.S.’s unilateral withdrawal.Lawmaker Mojtaba Zolnouri, who heads parliament’s influential committee for national security and foreign policy, called on his Twitter account for Rouhani’s “hanging a thousand times until people’s hearts are satisfied.”Khamenei indirectly condemned such inflammatory statements in the meeting, calling it “wrong.” He said there is a difference between criticisms and insults.Iran shattered its single-day death toll record on Monday, and recorded consecutive daily infection highs on Tuesday and Wednesday — then again on Friday.A top health official stressed this week that the true number of deaths from the outbreak is likely 2.5 times higher.On Saturday, the Iranian health ministry put the official death toll from Covid-19 at 32,320, adding 335 casualties from the past twenty-four hours.Health ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari raised the total number of confirmed cases to 562,705.Khamenei added the government’s management of the pandemic is very important.“In some countries, such as the United States, the worst management has been applied. But we must try to pass this incident, which is related to people’s lives and health and their security and economy, with the best management,” he said.Iranian health minister Saeed Namaki said in the meeting that the pandemic could only be controlled by enforcing tighter restrictions.“We must curb the disease by enforcing regulations and tightening legal restrictions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fighting-coronavirus-trumps-other-concerns-says-iran-s-supreme-leader/story-DZfPtR7xjNTRyP76jjndYM.html
24-10-2020||World||No escaping from Wales: UK police to enforce travel ban||A police force in England says it will try to stop people from leaving Wales, which has started a 17-day lockdown to slow a surging rate of coronavirus infections.The Gloucestershire Constabulary will patrol routes from Wales and pull over drivers they believe are making long journeys. Travelers without a good excuse will be asked to turn around. If they don’t comply, officers will inform their Welsh counterparts so they can take action because Gloucestershire police don’t have the authority to fine people traveling from Wales, the department said.The situation illustrates the patchwork of coronavirus restrictions imposed by authorities throughout the UK, which has Europe’s deadliest coronavirus numbers, with 44,661 confirmed virus deaths. Some 1,756 of those occurred in Wales, which has a population of about 3 million.Under the UK’s system of devolved authority, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland have established their own public health rules. Meanwhile, the national government in Westminster has created a three-tiered virus alert system that applies to England alone.South Yorkshire on Saturday became the latest region to enter Tier 3 — the tightest level of virus risk restrictions in England — following Liverpool, Greater Manchester and Lancashire.But it is the Welsh government that has imposed one of the U.K.’s strictest lockdowns, including a ban on non-essential travel. Under rules that took effect Friday evening, Wales also closed most businesses and restricted high schools to online instruction.Another English police force, West Mercia, also said it will be working with their Welsh counterparts to “enforce, where necessary, the relevant rules for the area we serve.’’New infections are continuing to rise across Britain. Professor Neil Ferguson, whose modelling led to the U.K.’s original lockdown in March, told the BBC that the current situation was “worrying.’‘“We are in a critical time right now,’‘ he said. “The health system will not be able to cope with this rate of growth for much longer.”___Follow AP’s pandemic coverage at http://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-escaping-from-wales-uk-police-to-enforce-travel-ban/story-l8ghaI9gBD6UyGUT68ZJjM.html
24-10-2020||World||Thailand braces for more rallies as Prime Minister ignores calls to quit||Thailand is set for a fresh wave of street protests by pro-democracy activists with Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha ignoring their deadline to quit by Saturday.Free Youth and the United Front of Thammasat and Demonstration, two of the main protest groups, have vowed to stage mass gatherings until all of their demands, which include a rewriting of the constitution and reform of the monarchy, are met. There are at least two protests planned for Bangkok on Saturday and nine in other provinces, according to Free Youth.“If tonight passes and the government still ignores the demands of the people, we’ll step up the pressure so that these demands could come true,” the Thammasat group posted on its Facebook page on Saturday.The withdrawal of a state of emergency in Bangkok and the convening of a special session of parliament next week have failed to placate protesters. Government spokesman Anucha Burapachaisri on Saturday said a solution through the parliamentary process was the most appropriate because elected lawmakers represent all sections of society.Anucha declined to comment on the protesters’ deadline for the premier to quit, but Prayuth said this week the government and activists should “each take a step back” and “find solutions to the problems.”Parit Chiwarak, a protest leader who was re-arrested this week, said in a note from jail that “if Prayuth wants to see the country move forward, he would need to resign” as the public demanded.The youth-led protesters are calling for the constitution, drafted by a military-appointed panel after the 2014 coup, to be reworked, claiming it was instrumental in helping Prayuth retain power after the 2019 elections. The issue will be on the agenda of a special parliament session, Anucha said.On Saturday, an appeal court refused bail of five protest leaders including Parit, according to the Thai Lawyers for Human Rights.The prime minister has become “vulnerable” after failing to stem the protests, which may eventually pave the way for his ouster, said Christopher Ankersen, associate professor at New York University’s School of Professional Studies Center for Global Affairs.“It’s feasible that he could be removed from office either through a political machination of some kind within his own party, or via a military coup, an autogolpe, or some other route, such as a formal royal intervention,” Ankersen said. “Such a move could be used as a sop to the protesters, a way of forestalling real change, while addressing at least one of the main protest demands.”The protesters have broken long-held taboos about publicly criticizing the royal family, with demands for the monarch to no longer endorse coups, provide transparency in how funds are spent, and get rid of laws that stifle discussion of the royal family. The unprecedented targeting of the monarchy has also triggered rallies by pro-royalists, raising fears of clashes between the rival groups.King Maha Vajiralongkorn greeted some pro-royalist supporters at an event on Friday and he praised a man for holding up a royal portrait among the anti-government protesters, according to a video posted on social media. It was a signal that the king acknowledged the challenge to his authority by the protests, while showing his support to the pro-royalist movement, according to James Buchanan, a visiting lecturer at Mahidol University in Thailand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-braces-for-more-rallies-as-prime-minister-ignores-calls-to-quit/story-Pbf600AGeuDrjuOXgMTumM.html
24-10-2020||World||Italy mulls curfew, Covid-19 aid as Naples protest turns violent||The Italian government is expected to approve further virus containment measures as soon as Sunday and is mulling additional economic support even as the threat of tighter restrictions prompts protests.New infections soared above 19,000 cases Friday, just a day after Naples -- Italy’s hardest-hit city -- imposed a night-time curfew in a bid to contain the spread that contributed to violent protests. While Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte has repeatedly ruled out a new national lockdown, he is running out of options as less restrictive measures have failed to damp the latest spread. Patients in intensive care units surpassed more than 1,000 for the first time since the pandemic’s peak.The government may may also adopt new support measures to limit the economic impact of the virus, Finance Minister Roberto Gualtieri said. The government is mulling a 4 to 5 billion-euro ($4.7 to $5.9 billion) emergency decree to aid workers by extending furloughs and banning dismissals, according to people familiar with the matter.On Friday, Campania President Vincenzo De Luca called for a new national lockdown and said he will soon impose one in his region, which has Naples as the capital. “We are one step away from a tragedy, don’t want to see coffins on the streets,” he said.Within hours of De Luca’s announcement on Friday, protesters poured into the streets of Naples where some police vehicles were targeted by demonstrators and damaged by explosives. A television news reporter was also beaten.Interior Vice Minister Matteo Mauri called the protesters “urban guerrillas” and said the demonstrations were “not spontaneous but organized by soccer hooligans, criminals and political extremists,” the Ansa news agency reported on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-mulls-curfew-covid-19-aid-as-naples-protest-turns-violent/story-RK8jZxzBZQcRtArrkiUDIM.html
24-10-2020||World||Nations mulling Gilead’s Covid-19 drug should consider trial flop, too: WHO||Health officials reviewing Gilead Science Inc’s remdesivir against Covid-19 should consider all evidence, including a trial in which the medicine failed, before giving it the green light, the top WHO scientist said on Friday.U.S. regulators appeared not to have done so when approving the drug this week, Soumya Swaminathan told a news conference. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Thursday approved Gilead’s antiviral drug for treating patients hospitalized with Covid-19, making it the first and only drug approved for the disease in the United States.The FDA decision came a week after the release of the results of the World Health Organization’s Solidarity trial, which concluded remdesivir has little or no impact on a patient’s chances of surviving Covid-19.The FDA said its approval was based on three trials, including a 1,062-patient study by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease, which found that remdesivir reduced hospital stays to 10 days from 15 days, and helped reduce the risk of death in some patients who were receiving oxygen. The drug did not improve overall survival.“The Solidarity results do not refute these findings of benefit to patients,” the FDA said in a statement posted on its website.Remdesivir is also approved for treatment of patients with severe Covid-19 in Japan, Taiwan, India, Singapore, the United Arab Emirates and the European Union. Gilead is allowing generic companies to manufacture the drug for supply to 127 low-income countries.“We believe our results are very robust,” the WHO’s Swaminathan said, when asked about the FDA move. “We hope that people who are doing treatment guidelines in other countries, as well as regulators around the world, will take note of our study results, in addition to the other evidence.”For the remdesivir arm of the WHO’s Solidarity trial, 2,743 patients were given the treatment, compared to 2,708 in the control group. Gilead, which has raised the possibility of bias in the “unblinded” WHO study because patients and their doctors were aware of which treatments were being used, got initial data from the trial in late September, the WHO has said. “We have apprised FDA of the topline WHO Solidarity trial results and the draft manuscript” submitted to a publication, the company said. “However, at this time Gilead has not received the requested datasets from WHO for the Solidarity trial results.”The WHO also said on Friday that its formal guidelines on use of remdesivir for Covid-19 should be ready for release in three to four weeks, after a separate group within the United Nations health agency reviews data from the study.An independent WHO panel will convene next week to look at all evidence of the effectiveness of Gilead’s drug, Janet Diaz, the WHO’s top official for clinical care responses, said.“We would anticipate that the guidelines will be available within three to four weeks,” Diaz said. “What we’re doing now in the pandemic is to try to continue with that approach in a transparent and trustworthy way, but do it faster.” (Reporting by John Miller, Stephanie Nebehay and Michael Shields; Additional reporting by Deena Beasley in Los Angeles; Writing by Peter Graff and John Miller; Editing by Kevin Liffey, Andrew Cawthorne and Richard Chang)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nations-mulling-gilead-s-covid-19-drug-should-consider-trial-flop-too-who/story-jh1mM6HS9w0tF5pdHYPx8H.html
24-10-2020||World||Passengers board parked jet for dining experience||Hundreds of travel-starved diners ate lunch and watched seat-back films aboard two parked Singapore Airlines jets turned into pop-up restaurants on Saturday.With the aviation industry in deep crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic, airlines have turned to alternative ways to raise cash, from offering “flights to nowhere” to tours of aircraft.Singapore’s flag carrier, which has cut thousands of jobs and grounded nearly all its planes this year, offered passengers the chance to dine on board two A380 superjumbos -- the world’s biggest passenger jet.On Saturday more than 400 diners checked in at Changi Airport and went through the usual security checks before arriving at the aircraft for lunch.“The food is pretty amazing, it’s better than the one they serve during the flight,” Zhou Tai Di, a 17-year-old student in economy class, told AFP as he tucked into his soy sauce-glazed chicken with spicy fried eggplant and rice. Some settled in for a nap while waiting for their meals to be served, while others watched movies on the seat-back entertainment systems. About half the seats were left empty, in keeping with social-distancing guidelines.Calvin Teo, a 29-year-old civil servant and aviation buff, paid Sg$321 ($236) to be served a six-course meal in business class, saying he missed flying and hoped to recreate the experience.“Of course the feeling of actually flying will be better, because there’s the excitement of going to a new destination, to explore a new destination, and even though we can’t do it now due to Covid, this is a good substitute to recreate the feels of taking a long-haul flight,” he told AFP. The most expensive option is a Sg$642 eight-course meal in a first-class suite, while the cheapest costs Sg$53 and consists of a three-course meal in economy class.A limited number of diners were also able to tour the double-decker aircraft and take selfies with pilots in the cockpit. The tarmac meals proved surprisingly popular -- the airline announced six additional sessions after more than 900 lunch tickets sold out within 30 minutes of bookings opening earlier this month.The airline is also offering home deliveries of plane meals, but it has ditched plans for “flights to nowhere” -- short journeys starting and ending at the same airport -- following an outcry over the potential environmental impact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/passengers-board-parked-jet-for-dining-experience/story-FeHgs5sQSMeUyhpTI8SZrK.html
24-10-2020||World||US sets coronavirus infection record; deaths near 224,000||The US coronavirus caseload has reached record heights with more than 83,000 infections reported in a single day, the latest ominous sign of the disease’s grip on the nation, as states from Connecticut to the Rocky Mountain West reel under the surge.The US death toll, meanwhile, has grown to 223,995, according to the Covid-19 Dashboard published by Johns Hopkins University. The total US caseload reported on the site Friday was 83,757, topping the 77,362 cases reported on July 16.The impact is being felt in every section of the country — a lockdown starting Friday at the Oglala Sioux Tribe’s reservation in South Dakota, a plea by a Florida health official for a halt to children’s birthday parties, dire warnings from Utah’s governor, and an increasingly desperate situation at a hospital in northern Idaho, which is running out of space for patients and considering airlifts to Seattle or Portland, Oregon.“We’ve essentially shut down an entire floor of our hospital. We’ve had to double rooms. We’ve bought more hospital beds,” said Dr. Robert Scoggins, a pulmonologist at the Kootenai Health hospital in Coeur d’Alene. “Our hospital is not built for a pandemic.”In the southern Idaho city of Twin Falls, St. Luke’s Magic Valley Medical Center said it would no longer accept children because it is overwhelmed with coronavirus patients. Except for newborns, all under age 18 will be sent 128 miles (206 kilometers) away in Boise.Among those in northern Idaho joining Scoggins at a meeting of Idaho’s Panhandle Health District was board member Walk Kirby.“People are dying, they’re going to keep dying and catching this stuff,” Kirby said. “How many people won’t wear a mask? The same people that won’t get vaccinated for it.”Utah’s Gov. Gary Herbert proclaimed Friday to be “a record day for Utah — but not a good one” as Covid-19 cases reached an all-time high for the state.“Up until now, our hospitals have been able to provide good care to all COVID and non-COVID patients who need it,” he said. “But today we stand on the brink. If Utahans do not take serious steps to limit group gatherings and wear masks, our healthcare providers will not have the ability to provide quality care for everyone who needs it.”By public health order, masks are required in 21 counties, said Herbert, urging Utah residents to wear one whenever they are around someone outside their immediate household.The seven-day rolling average for new daily Covid-19 cases in the U.S. surpassed 61,140 Thursday, compared with 44,647 two weeks ago. The record was reached July 22 when the rolling average was 67,293 in the midst of a summer outbreak driven largely by surges of the virus in Florida, Texas, Arizona and California.The US surge mirrors a similarly widespread spike in Europe, where Rome, Paris and other major cities are reining in nightlife as part of the increasingly drastic measures undertaken to slow the spread of the pandemic. French authorities said the country had recorded over 1 million confirmed coronavirus cases since the start of the pandemic, becoming the second country in Western Europe after Spain to reach that number.The head of the World Health Organization warned that countries in the Northern Hemisphere are at a “critical juncture” as cases and deaths continue to rise.“The next few months are going to be very tough and some countries are on a dangerous track,” said WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus at a press briefing on Friday.Some of the latest developments in the United States:SOUTH DAKOTAIn South Dakota, the Oglala Sioux Tribe ordered a one-week lockdown of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in response to a surging number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Through the morning of Oct. 30, all non-essential travel is banned and non-essential businesses must close.The tribe posted on its Twitter page that there were 391 active Covid-19 cases as of Thursday on the reservation, which has about 20,000 residents.The lockdown comes as South Dakota surpassed 9,000 active coronavirus cases on Thursday and reported an all-time high of 973 new cases in one day.___FLORIDAThe top health official in one of Florida’s most populous counties discouraged parents from hosting birthday parties for their children, no matter the size.Dr. Raul Pino, a state health officer in Orange County, said half of the 30 attendees at a recent Sweet 16 party in the Orlando area came down with the virus. Last month, an Orange County high school closed for two weeks after students who had attended a birthday party tested positive.“Those parties will not only affect those people participating in that activity, but also everyone else they come into contact with when they leave,” said Pino. “We will continue to see consequences if we don’t act super-responsibly.”___TEXASIn Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott is sending more medical reinforcements to the El Paso area in response to a surge of coronavirus infections. The Texas Department of State Health Services and the Texas Division of Emergency Management will provide more medical personnel and equipment this week.El Paso County reported 3,750 new coronavirus infections this week, including 1,161 on Thursday. That number accounts for 17.5% of the 21,321 cases reported this week by the state’s 254 counties.___IDAHOEven as the health-care situation worsened in northern Idaho, a regional health board voted to repeal a local mask mandate. It acted moments after hearing how the Kootenai Health hospital in Coeur d’Alene had reached 99% capacity.Kootenai is the third-most populous county in conservative Idaho.The state is experiencing its largest coronavirus spike since the pandemic began, with new cases increasing statewide by 46.5% percent over the past two weeks. Gov. Brad Little, a Republican, has declined to take steps such as requiring masks statewide to slow the virus’ spread.Dr. Joshua Kern, vice president of St. Luke’s in the Magic Valley region that includes Twin Falls and Jerome, said Thursday during a virtual press conference that he and other medical professionals are scared.“The purpose of any intervention around coronavirus has been to prevent the hospitals from being overwhelmed, and here I am today saying the hospital is being overwhelmed,” he said.A day later on Friday, his hospital announced the move to send younger patients to Boise.__NEW JERSEY and CONNECTICUTFor a while, as new Covid-19 cases surged in the Midwest and elsewhere, the level of new cases remained low in the Northeast, which had been hit hard earlier in the pandemic. Several states, including New Jersey and Connecticut, imposed 14-day quarantine requirements for travelers arriving from dozens of states with higher rates of positive tests.This week, however, rates in New Jersey and Connecticut rose to the point where they qualify for their own quarantine restrictions.After some confusion, the Democratic governors of New Jersey, Connecticut and New York, where rates remain lower, decided to keep their travel rules in place, but not add each other to their quarantine lists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sets-coronavirus-infection-record-deaths-near-224-000/story-FYQ0n5l2qGQgpT5tL5bSyM.html
24-10-2020||World||Covid-19: Countries battle rising cases as WHO sees ‘exponential’ rise||Grim data highlighted the struggle for authorities around the world to bring the coronavirus pandemic under control Saturday, as the US reported 80,000 infections in a single day, France extended a curfew to two-thirds of citizens and Germany’s death toll passed 10,000.The World Health Organization had earlier warned of an “exponential” rise in infections threatening health systems’ ability to cope.But populations weary of social isolation and economic hardship have pushed back against fresh restrictions to slow the resurgent virus’ spread, including overnight clashes in hard-hit Naples between Italian police and hundreds of protesters.In the US, Covid-19 has become a central election issue ahead of a November 3 vote, with President Donald Trump on Friday promising attendees at a Florida rally that “we’re going to quickly end this pandemic, this horrible plague.”Meanwhile challenger Joe Biden matched Trump’s vow to make a vaccine available for free to all who want it “whether or not you’re insured” and said the Republican incumbent has “given up” on controlling the outbreak.Johns Hopkins University had earlier reported 79,963 new American cases in 24 hours, a new record, although the number of daily deaths has remained broadly stable since the beginning of autumn at between 700 and 800.Overall, more than 223,000 people have died from Covid-19 in the US.France on Friday followed Spain past the milestone of one million cases, while the government extended an overnight curfew designed to slow the spread to affect some 46 million people.“Whatever we do in the coming days and weeks, the toll will grow heavier,” Health Minister Olivier Veran told lawmakers.And after Germany recorded its 10,000th death from the coronavirus, Chancellor Angela Merkel told citizens that “the order of the day is to reduce contacts, to meet as few people as possible” in a weekly video podcast.In Poland, President Andrzej Duda tested positive for Covid-19, although an aide wrote on Twitter that he was “fine”.- ‘Close to capacity’ -WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had on Friday warned that “too many countries are seeing an exponential increase in Covid-19 cases and that is now leading to hospitals and intensive care units running close to or above capacity -- and we’re still only in October.”“We urge leaders to take immediate action to prevent further unnecessary deaths.”That message was echoed by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), whose director Andrea Ammon warned of a “highly concerning epidemiological situation”.But moves to reintroduce restrictions were met with protest in parts of the continent.In Naples, hundreds of demonstrators turned out after a call on social media to resist a new curfew in parts of Italy, throwing objects at police and setting rubbish bins on fire.The country is reeling from its worst post-war recession after a gruelling two-month national lockdown prompted by one of Europe’s worst outbreaks, and authorities have so far been reluctant to repeat the drastic quarantine restrictions seen then.Wales entered a full lockdown on Friday evening, a day after Ireland shut down, while Poland adopted a nationwide “red zone” lockdown mandating the partial closure of primary schools and restaurants.Only Sweden, which famously refused to lock down earlier this year, continued to stick to its guns despite a rise in cases.After Spain became the first European country to officially record a million Covid-19 cases earlier in the week, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said Friday the real number of infections was likely more than triple that number.- ‘We’re overwhelmed’ -Across the planet, Covid-19 has now claimed the lives of 1.1 million people and infected close to 42 million, with the WHO warning the northern hemisphere was at a critical juncture.Belgium has seen one of Europe’s deadliest per capita outbreaks and has found itself suffering some of the highest second-wave infection rates in Europe. “We’re losing. We’re overwhelmed. We’re bitter,” said Benoit Misset, head of the intensive care unit at the University Hospital in the city of Liege, where several of his staff are having to work despite being positive -- if asymptomatic -- themselves.Work has continued on the international quest to find a vaccine for the disease, with clinical trials for one candidate developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University resuming in the United States on Friday, six weeks after a test subject became ill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-countries-battle-rising-cases-as-who-sees-exponential-rise/story-nbF2DA9dBYw3UwVtWHDvHL.html
24-10-2020||World||Californians face biggest power shut-offs this year on wildfire risk||Californians are facing the largest mass blackout so far this year as the state’s biggest utility, PG&E Corp., prepares power shut-offs to prevent its equipment from igniting wildfires during ferocious winds.The company may pre-emptively cut power to 466,000 homes and businesses -- an estimated 1.4 million people -- across Northern California starting early Sunday, according to its website. The outages are poised to hit large swaths of the San Francisco Bay area, the Sierra Nevada foothills, the Central Valley and the Central Coast.The potential blackouts would be the latest blow for a state that’s been battered by extreme weather and has already seen a record 4.1 million acres scorched this year. PG&E has pre-emptively cut power four times in 2020 to prevent falling wires from igniting blazes in a region that’s tinder dry from heat and drought. The new round of outages would be the biggest by far, stretching across 38 counties.Winds starting this weekend are forecast to reach 70 miles (113 kilometers) per hour in the northern part of the state, with gusts expected to last through Tuesday morning. Weather extremes are colliding to make for particularly dangerous conditions, said Scott Strenfel, PG&E’s head of meteorology and fire science.California is facing “extremely high winds, extremely low humidity, extreme dry fuels due to the hottest average temperatures over the last six months, according to records that go back 126 years, and extreme drought across the territory given lack of rainfall,” Strenfel said in a statement.The blackouts may hit densely populated parts of the San Francisco metropolitan area, including portions of Oakland, Berkeley and Marin County -- cutting power to many residents as they are working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic. San Francisco, at relatively low risk of fires, is the only county in the Bay Area region not expected to be affected.PG&E isn’t the only utility warning of outages. Pacific Power, owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said Friday that it could switch off power for about 5,800 customers in Northern California and Southern Oregon on Sunday due to the gusts, according to a statement.Much of the US West is at risk from wildfires as dry weather and stiff winds turn hillsides, forests and scrub land into tinderboxes. In Colorado, two of the largest fires in state history have forced the closure of Rocky Mountain National Park and triggered the evacuation of nearby towns. And in Utah, Berkshire’s Rocky Mountain Power warned earlier this week it may cut power to about 1,800 customers in Sundance and Summit Park due to fire risk.More than 3.1 million people across California will be in high-risk zones, including the cities of Sacramento, Stockton, and Fairfield, the US Storm Prediction Center said in its long-range forecast.The looming outages come on the heels of a blistering heat wave that gripped California earlier this month, driving temperatures to record daily highs. In August, a freak lightning storm sparked more than 150 wildfires in 24 hours. Days before that, the state’s grid operator ordered the first rotating outages since the Enron-era energy crisis of 2001 as scorching weather sent electricity demand surging.PG&E began resorting to preventative shut-offs after its equipment caused some of California’s worst blazes, forcing the company into bankruptcy last year. PG&E emerged from Chapter 11 in July after having paid $25.5 billion to resolve fire claims.“They have a lot of work to do not just to restore their power but to restore the trust that they have failed to earn over the course of decades,” Governor Gavin Newsom said during a briefing Friday. “That is self-evident to anyone living in the Bay Area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/californians-face-biggest-power-shut-offs-this-year-on-wildfire-risk/story-LjKV0U3tP6DrSWxpFEBgjI.html
24-10-2020||World||In Asia next week, Pompeo expected to bolster allies against China||US Secretary of State of Mike Pompeo is flying to India next week to strengthen strategic ties with a nation that is locked in a military standoff with China, in Washington’s latest effort to bolster allies against Beijing.As part of an intensifying push back against China’s growing economic and military power in the region, Pompeo will also travel to Sri Lanka and the Maldives, two Indian Ocean countries struggling with a mountain of Chinese debt incurred to finance big infrastructure projects. Pompeo will conclude his trip, which comes in the final week before the US Presidential election, in Indonesia, which is also locked in territorial disputes with China in the South China Sea.“We’re looking forward to strengthening critical relationships with our friends and partners, emphasizing our deep commitment to the Indo-Pacific, and advancing our vision for long-term partnership and prosperity in the region,” said Dean Thompson, principal deputy assistant secretary at the State Department’s Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs.Washington has been ramping up diplomatic pressure on China, and President Donald Trump has made being tough on Beijing a key part of his campaign to secure a second term. Pompeo led a meeting of foreign ministers from India, Japan, and Australia this month in Tokyo, a grouping which has been named the Quad, and could be a bulwark against China’s growing assertiveness in the region.“This is more about real foreign policy than domestic politics,” said Greg Poling, maritime security expert at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. “Yes, Pompeo’s anti-China rhetoric is largely about the election, but State’s broader push to strengthen the Quad, tighten relations with Taiwan, heighten attention on the South China Sea and more, are being driven as much by the policy professionals as the politicians.” Next month, India hosts ‘Malabar’, the biggest naval wargames in years, with the other Quad members , an exercise that China has in the past opposed.India’s decision on expanding the exercises comes at a time when it is locked in a military stand-off on the disputed land border with China.Thousands of troops are in close proximity in the western Himalayas, where India says Chinese troops have intruded across its side of the de-facto border. Beijing denies any intrusion and says India has been building roads and other infrastructure in the disputed area, causing the crisis.Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Friday the United States was bullying countries to pick sides over their links to China, but such efforts would not succeed.During Pompeo’s trip, which Defense Secretary Mark Esper will join, India is expected to sign an agreement that will give it access to sensitive US satellite data to help improve targeting of missiles and drones, Indian officials said.“There is great further potential in our defence cooperation,” an Indian official said. In what will be the first visit by a U.S. Secretary of State to Sri Lanka in over a decade, Pompeo will advise leaders in Colombo to scale back dependence on China, which has invested billions of dollars building ports and highways but left the island nation in debt, Thompson said.“We urge Sri Lanka to make difficult but necessary decisions to secure its economic independence for long-term prosperity,” Thompson added. The island is a key part of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative but Colombo has in recent years sought to improve ties with India, United States, and Japan.Similar efforts are under way to push back against Chinese influence in the Maldives, tropical islands that lie on key shipping lanes.Pompeo’s visit to Indonesia comes amid an escalating US-China rivalry that is being vigorously contested in Southeast Asia, especially in the South China Sea, which China claims as almost entirely its own territory. The claim is opposed by many states in the region, including Indonesia.The State Department this week approved the potential sale of three weapons systems to Taiwan, including sensors, missiles and artillery that could have a total value of $1.8 billion.Taiwan, which China says is a renegade province, also claims large parts of the South China Sea.Washington asked Indonesia in July and August to grant landing and refuelling rights to its P-8 surveillance planes, which monitor Chinese military activity in the resource rich waterway.The request was rebuffed by President Joko Widodo, according to four senior officials. “There are commercial issues, security issues and diplomatic issues where the United States has already improved the relationship between the countries,” Pompeo said this week. “But there’s more that we can do.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-asia-next-week-pompeo-expected-to-bolster-allies-against-china/story-XBc6zr7nCqkxVh4wY2fnoL.html
24-10-2020||World||Asia becomes second region to exceed 10 million coronavirus cases||Asia surpassed 10 million infections of the new coronavirus on Saturday, the second heaviest regional toll in the world, according to a Reuters tally, as cases continue to mount in India despite a slowdown and sharp declines elsewhere.Behind only Latin America, Asia accounts for about one-fourth of the global caseload of 42.1 million of the virus. With over 163,000 deaths, the region accounts for some 14 per cent of the global Covid-19 toll.The Reuters tally is based on official reporting by countries.The true numbers of cases and deaths are likely much higher, experts say, given deficiencies in testing and potential underreporting in many countries.Despite the Asian spikes, the region overall has reported improvement in handling the pandemic in recent weeks, with daily caseloads slowing in places like India, a sharp contrast to the Covid-19 resurgence seen in Europe and North America.Within the region, South Asia led by India is the worst affected, with nearly 21 per cent of the reported global coronavirus cases and 12 per cent of deaths. This contrasts with countries like China and New Zealand that have crushed infections and Japan, where Covid-19 had been stubbornly entrenched but not accelerating.India is the worst-hit country in the world after the United States, although infections are slowing in the world’s second-most populous country. India is reporting more than 57,000 cases of the virus a day, viewed on a weekly average, with 58 new cases per 10,000 people in Asia’s third-largest economy, according to a Reuters analysis.India is averaging 764 Covid-19 deaths a day, the worst in the world and accounting for one in every 13 global pandemic deaths. The country has reported nearly 7.8 million infections, behind the US tally of 8.5 million, and nearly 118,000 deaths, versus 224,128 in the United States. Unlike the recent US surge, however, India’s slowdown saw the lowest daily caseload in nearly three months on Wednesday. But India’s infections may surge again, doctors fear, with a holiday approaching and winter bringing more severe pollution from farmers burning stubble, worsening the breathing difficulties that many Covid-19 patients suffer. India’s eastern neighbour Bangladesh is Asia’s second worst hit country, with nearly 400,000 cases, but daily infections have slowed to 1,453, less than 40 per cent of the July peak.Although the pandemic is slowing in Bangladesh, the world’s biggest apparel producer after China faces harsh recession as a second wave of Covid-19 hits key markets in Europe and the United States.Even if the country is making progress on controlling the disease, leaders of the key garment sector say international retailers are delaying orders or demanding steep price cuts, forcing them to lay off their workers. Some 1 million workers were furloughed or laid off. About one-third of those have been rehired since July, according to union leaders.In Southeast Asia, Indonesia surpassed the Philippines last week as the worst-hit nation with more than 370,000 infections.The world’s largest Muslim majority nation, Indonesia has struggled to get its outbreak under control. With the country due to host soccer’s Under 20 World Cup next year, the Government is racing to secure a supply of vaccines still under development, which some epidemiologists say means seeking a “silver bullet” solution before full vaccine efficacy and safety is known.The Philippines, which last week reported its biggest daily tally in a month, has put partial coronavirus restrictions around the capital Manila until Oct. 31 to check Covid-19. Despite Asia’s patchy record, a World Health Organization expert said on Monday that Europe and North America should follow the example of Asian states in persevering with anti-Covid measures and quarantine restrictions for infected people.Mike Ryan, head of the United Nations agency’s emergencies programme, said the global death toll from Covid-19 could double to 2 million before a successful vaccine is widely used and could be even higher without concerted action to curb the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asia-becomes-second-region-to-exceed-10-million-coronavirus-cases/story-vLz6JhhDOvi0OHOPXPus5K.html
24-10-2020||World||Australia explores lifting state border closures by Christmas||Australia is considering reopening state borders in time for Christmas and is also weighing plans to create alternative options to hotel quarantine so that more of its citizens can return from abroad.All states and territories except for Western Australia agreed to a framework that would end regional border closures before Dec. 25, according to a statement from Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s office.The details will be finalized by the next meeting of federal and state leaders, scheduled for Nov. 13. Work continues on efforts to increase the number of Australians allowed to return from overseas, with options such as quarantining at home or in university housing or with private providers.Australia is taking steps to kick-start its economy with Covid-19 cases having dwindled in the worst-hit state of Victoria, from a daily peak of over 600 cases to just a handful.The relaxation of rules on gatherings in Sydney and steps toward allowing people to cross state borders come as the U.S. and Europe battle with increasing infection rates and hospitalizations.“National Cabinet continues to work together to address issues and find solutions to the health and economic consequences of Covid-19,” Morrison said in the statement. “Australia has done well on both the health and economic fronts compared to most countries around the world.”There have been more than 27,000 coronavirus cases in Australia and some 905 people have died. Active cases are down to about 220 from 1,100 five weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-explores-lifting-state-border-closures-by-christmas/story-7b6vxuUDg9da3S2jyz1c5L.html
24-10-2020||World||US elections 2020: Work already underway for presidential inauguration||While much of Washington is twisted in knots over the upcoming election, there’s another contingent already busy trying to figure out how to stage an inauguration for the to-be-determined next president during a pandemic.Visitors to the US Capitol and the White House can already see preparations underway for the Jan. 20 ceremony, a date set by the 20th Amendment to the Constitution, for whoever emerges as the winner. And low-flying helicopters are swooping around town as part of beefed-up security precautions.Construction work is taking place with the mindset that it is easier to scale down, if the coronavirus makes that necessary, than to scale up, said Paige Waltz, a spokesperson for the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies.The committee has voted to hold the inaugural ceremonies on the West Front of the Capitol, a tradition that began under Ronald Reagan. The Architect of the Capitol is busy constructing the inaugural platform from scratch. The platform traditionally holds more than 1,600 people, including the president and vice president, members of Congress, Supreme Court justices, and the outgoing president and vice president. Bleachers above the platform hold 1,000 additional people. The view from the West Front stretches the length of the National Mall, where Americans from around the country gather to catch a glimpse of history.But in recognition that life has changed as a result of Covid-19, lawmakers are leaving all options on the table when it comes to safety precautions that could be taken. Will attendees be required to wear a mask? Or have their temperatures taken? Or social distance to the extent possible? Such precautions are being discussed, though no final determinations have been made with the ceremony still about three months away.Waltz said the six-member committee overseeing the inaugural ceremonies is “committed to traditional, inclusive, and safe ceremonies and will continue to monitor the situation and provide information as it comes available.”After the ceremony, the president and vice president will attend a luncheon in National Statuary Hall that includes speeches, gifts and toasts. The format used today began in 1953 when President Dwight D. Eisenhower and his wife and 50 other guests of the joint committee dined on creamed chicken, baked ham and potato puffs in the Old Senate Chamber.Then it’s on to the parade and inaugural balls. A Presidential Inaugural Committee, a nonprofit representing the president-elect, will be organized following the November 3 election. The committee oversees inaugural events held away from the US Capitol.In the meantime, the National Park Service is preparing for the construction of the reviewing and media stands used by the president-elect, his staff and family for the Presidential Inaugural Parade. It has closed a portion of Lafayette Park and the White House sidewalk to allow construction to begin.The Nuclear Security Administration, part of the Energy Department, has begun conducting low-altitude helicopter flights around the capital during the daytime. The department said the aircraft contain state-of-the art radiation-sensing technology, and the flights are part of standard preparations to protect public safety.For the Washington, DC, metro area, the inauguration has traditionally provided an economic boost as visitors fill local hotels and restaurants. The 2021 inauguration comes at a difficult time for the district. Visitor spending was down 80%, or $6.9 billion, from March 8 to October 10, compared to the same period last year, according to Tourism Economics. That translated to $313 million in lost tax revenue for the District of Columbia.Many of the region’s restaurants are shuttered, while hotel room demand was down nearly 5 million rooms, or 83%, from the same time period in 2019, according to STR Inc., which tracks the hotel industry.“Traditionally, a second-term inauguration is not as big as the first, and if we have a new president taking office, numbers are typically larger,” said Elliott Ferguson, president and CEO of Destination DC, the district’s marketing organization. “However, visitation to Washington, DC, during inauguration will depend on what people are able to do in the city based on Covid-19’s impact this winter, which remains to be seen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-work-already-underway-for-presidential-inauguration/story-dOTPdrjxy0PsEpMq01kO9L.html
24-10-2020||World||Facebook, Twitter chiefs to testify before Senate on November 17||The chief executive officers of Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. have agreed to testify on Nov. 17 before a Senate panel looking into restrictions their companies put an on article about the son of Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden.The Judiciary Committee on Thursday authorized subpoenas for both Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook and Twitter’s chief, Jack Dorsey. The committee announced on Friday evening that they would appear voluntarily.Senate Republicans and the Trump administration have been heightening pressure on the companies and other technology giants over allegations that they are biased against conservatives. At the same time, there is a growing willingness by members of both parties to confront the powerful technology companies and bring them to heel.Dorsey and Zuckerberg, who have been called to Washington to explain their content policies, are also due to appear before the Senate Commerce Committee next Wednesday, along with Alphabet Inc. CEO Sundar Pichai. The questions will focus on their liability protections for user content under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act.President Donald Trump and other conservatives claim the law enables the companies to silence their views and content.“I would say that big tech is not distinguishing itself,” Trump said at a campaign rally in Pensacola, Florida, on Friday night. “They don’t want to put something on, they don’t put it on. But you know what? Can I tell you what? People are wise to it.”Facebook confirmed that Zuckerberg would appear, but declined further comment. Twitter said that Dorsey would testify virtually and also declined to elaborate.Senate Republicans demanded to question the CEOs after their companies moved to limit the spread of a New York Post article on Biden’s son Hunter and what the Post said were his exchanges with a Ukrainian executive. The article said emails purportedly from Hunter Biden, and provided by allies of the president, show he introduced an executive at a Ukrainian energy company to his father when he was vice president.The paper claimed the communication contradicts Joe Biden’s assertion that he hadn’t spoken to his son about his business dealings. The emails didn’t say definitively whether Joe Biden actually met the executive. The Biden campaign said the former vice president’s schedules show that no such meeting took place.The details of the Post article haven’t been independently confirmed by Bloomberg News.The Judiciary hearing would mark the third congressional appearance in 2020 for Zuckerberg, after next week’s Commerce Committee testimony and a July hearing on antitrust before a House subcommittee.Zuckerberg and other technology executives face growing hostility not just on Capitol Hill, but in the Trump administration and among state attorneys general.Amid Republican complaints regarding the Post article, the Federal Communications Commission said last week that it would review the liability shield for Facebook and Twitter.And on Tuesday, the Justice Department, in the most significant antitrust case against an American company in two decades, sued Alphabet-owned Google, kicking off what promises to be a volley of legal actions against the search giant for allegedly abusing its market power.Google, which controls about 90% of the online search market in the US, is the “unchallenged gateway” to the internet and engaged in a variety of anticompetitive practices to maintain and extend its monopoly, the government said in a complaint filed Tuesday in Washington.Google called the government’s case “deeply flawed” and said it would actually hurt consumers because it would “artificially prop up” lower-quality search options and raise phone prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-twitter-chiefs-to-testify-before-senate-on-november-17/story-JovIvvVj4aQ1FvnO76xj5N.html
24-10-2020||World||Americans are learning to die with coronavirus: Biden||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Friday said Americans are not learning to live with COVID-19, but learning to die with it as the pandemic has dwarfed anything that the country faced in recent history and is not showing any signs of slowing down. More than 220,000 Americans have lost their lives, which is more than one-fifth of the total global death, Biden said in a major policy speech on the coronavirus, a day after the final presidential debate he had with the Republican incumbent Donald Trump.Biden, in his speech in his home state of Delaware, blamed the policies of Trump for the deadly spread of the virus that has had a devastating impact on the country’s economy.“President Trump said we’re rounding the corner, it’s going away, we’re learning to live with it.They are quotes. But as I told him last night, we’re not learning to live with it. We’re learning to die with it. This is a dark winter ahead,” Biden, 77, said.“Already more than 220,000 people in the US have lost their lives to this virus. Worse yet, a new study from Columbia University suggests that anywhere between 130,000 and 210,000 of those deaths were avoidable,” he said.“Covid-19 dwarfs anything we’ve faced in recent history and it isn’t showing any signs of slowing down.The virus is surging in almost every state. We passed 4.8 million cases. And when Trump was asked this week what he’d do differently to get the pandemic response right from the start his answer was and I quote, ‘Not much. Not much.’,” said the former vice president.Alleging that Trump does not have a plan to fight the coronavirus, Biden said the longer he is the President, the “more reckless” he gets.“We don’t have to be held prisoner by this administration’s failures. We can choose a different path. We can do what Americans have always done: come together and meet the challenge with grit, compassion, and determination,” he said.Revealing his plan, if voted to power in November, Biden said he would immediately put in place a national strategy that will position the country to finally get ahead of this virus and get back the lives.Biden said he will ask the new Congress to put a bill on his desk by the end of January with all the resources necessary to see how both the public health and economic response can be seen through the end what is needed.Biden said he will go to every governor and urge them to mandate wearing masks in their states. “And if they refuse, I’ll go to the mayors and county executives, and get local masking requirements in place nationwide,” he said, adding that as President he will mandate mask wearing at all federal buildings and all interstate transportation.“Because masks save lives,” he said, adding that he will put a national testing plan in place with a goal of testing as many people each day as they are currently testing each week. The Democratic presidential candidate said the vaccine would be free and freely available to everyone.Describing this as a Biden-Harris agenda, he said that it is going to take all Americans working together. “And that’s not hyperbole, all of us working together, watching out for one another. We’re all still going to have to wear a mask or practise social distancing a while longer. It’s going to be hard,” he said. “But if we follow the science and keep faith with one another, I promise you, we’ll get through this and come out the other side much faster than the rate we’re going now. Look, you all know this.The American people have always given their best to this country in times of crisis. And this time isn’t any different,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/americans-are-learning-to-die-with-coronavirus-biden/story-ftgcYpcoia7xGD0SxYzvUL.html
24-10-2020||World||U.S. breaks daily record for Covid cases with over 84,000 new infections||The United States broke its daily record for new coronavirus infections on Friday as it reported 84,218 new cases due to outbreaks in virtually every part of the country, according to a Reuters tally.The spike in cases comes less than two weeks before the presidential election on Nov. 3 and is hitting battleground states such as Ohio, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. On Thursday, the United States reported a near-record 76,195 new cases. The previous record was 77,299 new cases on July 16. At the time, hospitalizations for Covid-19 patients hit 47,000 and two weeks later deaths rose to an average of 1,200 per day.Now, hospitalizations are over 41,000 and deaths average nearly 800 per day. Sixteen states had record one-day increases in new cases on Friday and 11 reported a record number of hospitalized Covid-19 patients.Health experts have not pinpointed the reason for the rise but have long warned that colder temperatures driving people inside, fatigue with Covid-19 precautions and students returning to schools and colleges, could promote the spread of the virus.The United States has the most cases in the world at 8.5 million and the most fatalities with 224,000 lives lost. The United States has reported over the past week an average of 60,000 new cases per day, the highest seven-day average since early August.The Midwest has been the epicenter of the latest surge but infections are rising nationwide. The Northeast reported an 83% increase in cases in the past month. New cases have doubled in Connecticut, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and New Jersey in the past four weeks as compared to the prior four weeks, according to a Reuters analysis.Western states including Montana, New Mexico and Wyoming have reported a 200% increase in cases in the past four weeks when compared with the previous four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/u-s-breaks-daily-record-for-covid-cases-with-over-84-000-new-infections/story-DiPITlh4Z99Fs2LYhyhBRI.html
24-10-2020||World||US closely monitoring India-China border row, does not want it to escalate: Official||The US is closely monitoring the border row between India and China and does not want the situation to escalate, a senior Trump administration official has said.The official told the reporters during a conference call on Friday, ahead of the next week’s 2+2 India-US Ministerial in New Delhi, that the Trump administration was providing support to India through defence sales, joint military exercises and information sharing.“We as a government are covering the situation in the Himalayas closely, and understandably. We certainly want to ensure that the situation doesn’t escalate,” the official said.“These are all areas where we cooperate with the Indians on, and not just as it relates to the tensions in the Himalayas,” the official said.India and China are locked in a bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh since early May that has significantly strained the bilateral ties.Both sides have held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row. However, no breakthrough has been achieved to end the standoff.China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory on the southern bank of Pangong Lake in the last week of August.In response to a question, the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the US was having an ongoing dialogue with Indian about increased cooperation in Southeast Asia, and not simply about the South China Sea.“And we encourage their involvement. That cuts across development investments, it cuts across security cooperation, and then it also involves presence. So, we welcome greater Indian participation in Southeast Asia across all three of those areas,” said the official.The senior official’s remarks came in the midst of a growing global concern over China’s expansionist behaviour.The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China’s increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers.The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China’s growing assertiveness.China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. Beijing has also made substantial progress in militarising its man-made islands in the past few years.Beijing claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. But Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counterclaims. In the East China Sea, China has territorial disputes with Japan.The South China Sea and the East China Sea are stated to be rich in minerals, oil, and other natural resources. They are also vital to global trade.Although the US lays no claims to the disputed waters, it has challenged China’s growing territorial claims in the South China Sea by deploying warships and fighter jets to assert freedom of navigation and overflight patrols in the strategically vital region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-closely-monitoring-india-china-border-row-does-not-want-it-to-escalate-official/story-Lmv2ezXR3prEfQIzkFi3dI.html
24-10-2020||World||November 3 poll choice between super recovery and Joe Biden depression: Donald Trump||US President Donald Trump on Friday said this election for Americans is a choice between a “super recovery” by his administration and a “depression” by his Democratic challenger Joe Biden. Hitting the campaign trail from the battleground State of Florida, a day after the final presidential debate, Trump said “Biden proved last night that he’s not capable of being president of the United States”. “The country saw first-hand that this election is a choice between a Trump recovery , and I’ll call it because that’s what’s happening, it’s a Trump super recovery and a Biden depression. Because you will have a depression,” said Trump amidst applause from thousands of his supporters. The November 3 presidential elections, he said, is choice between optimism, patriotic vision for American success and Biden’s “dark, dismal, gloomy” vision.“It’s a gloomy vision. We’re about the American Dream. All about the American Dream. The greatest country in the world,” he said.Trump alleged that Biden is totally controlled by the radical, socialist Left.“This country will never be a socialist country. Never. One of the most stunning moments last night was when Joe Biden admitted that he wants to abolish the oil industry,” he said.And Biden’s running mate Senator Kamala Harris, he alleged, is a “super radical Left”.“She’s against fracking. If they get in they’ll end your energy independence. We have energy independence right now. They will end it very quickly,” he said.Trump said that during the debate, Biden outlined a plan to create socialized medicine, “raiding Medicare to fund his government takeover”. “Biden’s running mate, the most liberal member of the US Senate, and by the way Kamala will not be your first female President. She will not be your first female President,” he said. “It’s not the way it’s supposed to be. We’re not supposed to have a socialist, we’re not gonna be a Socialist nation. We’re not gonna have a socialist President, especially a female socialist President. We’re not gonna have it. We’re not gonna put up with it. It’s not gonna happen,” Trump said. “Socialist healthcare programs like the one supported by Biden and Harris always end up denying coverage to the sick and the elderly in order to reduce the soaring cost,” the President alleged. “Our opponents want to turn America into a Communist Cuba, into a socialist Venezuela. If you look at the ideology that these people are talking about, take a look at Portland with the anarchists all over the place,” he said. If Biden wins, he alleged, the radical Left will “transform this country into something that people will not recognize”. They want to “shatter” the middle class with trillions of dollars in new taxes and pack the Supreme Court with far-Left judges, Trump said. “If you want your grandchildren to grow up in a free nation where they can speak their minds and pursue the American dream, you must defeat sleepy Biden and the radical Left. You have to do it,” Trump said. Biden, he claimed, does not have a clue, but is surrounded by people who have got some problems. “You gotta reject the Left-wing fascism and vote for American freedom. Our country is set to be greater than ever before. Watch. Watch. We’re set,” he said. Referring to the comments made by Biden that America is entering a dark winter, Trump said his rival is “trying to scare people”. “He’s trying to get something cause he’s been such a failure at every level of government that this is something. But what they don’t remember is the swine flu and how bad it was. I bring that up whenever I can. But we’re not entering a dark winter. We’re entering the final turn in approaching the light at the end of the tunnel. That’s the way I look at it,” he asserted.Trump said he is working to make available for free to anybody that needs the antibody treatment that he received. He said he felt like a superman after being treated with that medicine.“You will get a vaccine that ends the epidemic or the pandemic, and it ends it and eradicates it. But without it, it goes away, but with it, it goes away faster, and it’s going to happen very, very soon. You’re going to have it very soon,” the President hoped.“But under Biden’s plan, Americans will be locked down for years. The cure will be worse than the problem itself,” Trump said.Biden, he said, will “trap” America in nothing but endless Middle East wars and other wars. “I did more in 47 months than sleepy Biden did in 47 years. That’s true,” Trump claimed.“A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe communities, great jobs, and a limitless future for all Americans. It’s a vote for the American Dream. Over the next four years we will make America into the manufacturing superpower of the world and we will end our reliance on China once and for all. That’s already started,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/november-3-poll-choice-between-super-recovery-and-joe-biden-depression-donald-trump/story-NPlvqXI9Tus6pTq4P2zk0K.html
24-10-2020||World||Kamala Harris calls president Donald Trump a ‘racist’||Democratic Vice Presidential nominee Kamala Harris called Donald Trump a “racist” and said his racism is a “pattern”, as she cited the President questioning the legitimacy of his predecessor Barack Obama. “People have asked me, Do you think he’s a racist?” Harris told a crowd at an outdoor rally at Morehouse College in the US state of Georgia. “Yeah. Yeah,” she said, answering the question, according to a report in The New York Times. “Because you see, it’s not like it’s some random one-off,” she said. “We’ve seen that pattern. Going back to him questioning the legitimacy of Barack Obama. Going back to Charlottesville,” she said, adding that Trump had said “there are fine people on both sides.”  Harris, Joe Biden’s running mate, said America needs a President who “acknowledges systemic racism, history of America and uses that bully pulpit and that microphone in a way that speaks truth with an intention to address the inequities and bring our country together.” The report said polls are showing Democratic Presidential candidate Biden tied with Trump in Georgia. With less than two weeks to go for the elections, Harris urged the crowd to honour civil rights leaders by voting. “It has to do with those men and women who shed blood on Edmund Pettus Bridge and so many other places,” she said. “We’re not going to let anyone mess with our right to vote.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-calls-president-donald-trump-a-racist/story-L8WoiEhH1Nk8vGT9rNcXCI.html
24-10-2020||World||Erdogan’s Turkey sole supporter of Pak for removal from Grey List at FATF Paris Plenary||Turkey was the only country out of 39 members of Financial Action Task Force (FATF) which spoke for Pakistan to be removed from the Grey List at the Paris Plenary meeting on Friday.The Pakistan-Turkey growing equation is development of a new found radical Islamic axis seeking to upstage the established order led by Saudi Arabia. Turkey led by Racep Tayyip Erdogan, who is trying to revive the Ottoman empire legacy for his political sustenance, along with Pakistani deep state are sending irregulars to Azerbaijan in the age old conflict with Armenia.According to diplomats based in Paris and Brussels, all the countries except Turkey were in favour of retaining Pakistan in the Grey List for the lack of compliance with all the deadlines expired. For the record Pakistan addressed only 21 out of 27 action plan items with another review looming in February 2021. The Paris Plenary was held between October 21-23.While in the meeting of International Cooperation Review Group (ICRG) before the Plenary, Turkey, China and Saudi Arabia spoke for Pakistan to be removed from the Grey List on technical grounds, only Turkey was left to support its new friend Pakistan in the Plenary.“Turkey has been fomenting trouble everywhere from Iraq, Syria to Libya and Azerbaijan. They, along with Pakistan, with ISI and military experience of organizing terrorism and Islamist insurgencies, are at the sharp edge of violence, instability and unrest in different parts of the world,” said a Middle-East watcher.Like Pakistan, Turkey is a pariah state at odds with Russia over Syria and Armenia-Azerbaijan, with US for buying Russian weapons, with EU over migrant issues and with India over its uncalled interference in Jammu and Kashmir. Istanbul has hardly any relations with Beijing even though the former being a major trade power. Pakistan depends on Turkey for defence cooperation and for making statement against India on the J & K issue.While Pakistan’s FATF Grey List case comes up for review in February 2021, all anti-India terrorists groups and mafia dons are based in that country, be it 1993 Mumbai blast accused Dawood Ibrahim, 2008 Mumbai massacre accused Hafiz Saeed and 2016 Pathankot air base attack accused Masood Azhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/erdogan-s-turkey-sole-supporter-of-pak-for-removal-from-grey-list-at-fatf-paris-plenary/story-LjYBAT94ILijqGkNthnllI.html
24-10-2020||World||North Korea says China dust could spread Covid-19, warns people to stay inside||North Korea has warned its citizens to stay indoors, saying seasonal yellow dust blowing in from China might carry the new coronavirus into the country. “As the new coronavirus infections continue to spread around the world, the need to deal with the yellow dust and take thorough measures has become more critical,” North Korea’s official party newspaper Rodong Sinmun said on Thursday. The claim that the virus that causes Covid-19 could spread to North Korea from the Gobi desert, 1,900 km (1,200 miles) away, appears unsupported. Two metres (6 feet) is a common social-distancing metric, although the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says droplets containing the virus can sometimes linger in the air for hours.The North Korean newspaper said citizens should refrain from outdoor activities and must follow prevention guidelines such as wearing masks when they go outside. North Korea has reported no confirmed cases of the coronavirus, a claim that health experts question. Pyongyang has imposed strict border controls and quarantine measures to prevent an outbreak. Analysts say an outbreak could be devastating for the economically and politically isolated country.State-run KRT television said on Wednesday the yellow dust and fine dust may contain harmful substances, such as heavy metals and pathogenic microorganisms including viruses.“People must pay attention to personal hygiene after returning from outside,” a news reader said. “Also, workers should avoid outdoor construction work even at reconstruction sites.” On Thursday, the Russian embassy in North Korea wrote on Facebook that North Korea’s Foreign Ministry had ordered all visitors to the country and its staff to wait out the dust storm inside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-says-china-dust-could-spread-covid-19-warns-people-to-stay-inside/story-HZM9UJHBkddigsDLlhAk0L.html
24-10-2020||World||Donald Trump no fan of Sacha Baron Cohen, says ‘to me he was a creep’||US President Donald Trump said Friday he has not been a fan of Sacha Baron Cohen -- even before a clip from the British comedian’s new Borat movie forced his lawyer Rudy Giuliani into an awkward explanation.Asked about the clip -- which shows Giuliani in a faked “interview” with an attractive and flirtatious young woman -- while speaking to journalists aboard Air Force One, Trump said “I don’t know what happened.”“But years ago, you know, he tried to scam me. And I was the only one who said no way. That’s a phony guy. And I don’t find him funny.”Trump said the incident happened about 15 years ago, meaning he was likely referring to Baron Cohen’s 2003 interview with him while playing Ali G, where the wannabe gangster pitches his latest business venture to Trump -- special gloves for eating ice cream. “To me he was a creep,” Trump said.While the plot of the new Borat film is under wraps, word of Baron Cohen’s latest outrageous ambushes on unsuspecting participants has spread like wildfire.On Wednesday Giuliani issued an angry denial after being tricked into a fake hotel room “interview” with a young woman.In the film, the encounter appears to leave the 76-year-old former New York mayor in a highly compromising situation, caught with his hands down his pants in the bedroom.Giuliani said Wednesday the scene was “a complete fabrication.”“I was tucking in my shirt after taking off the recording equipment. At no time before, during, or after the interview was I ever inappropriate,” he tweeted.“If Sacha Baron Cohen implies otherwise he is a stone-cold liar.”Trump made the comments after taking off from Pensacola, Florida on his way to West Palm Beach.The Republican president, former reality TV star and real estate mogul launched an intense last-ditch reelection push Friday in Florida.Polls show him well behind Democratic challenger Joe Biden ahead of the November 3 presidential election.jca-mjs/rma||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-no-fan-of-sacha-baron-cohen-says-to-me-he-was-a-creep/story-nJmiIfvpTFcHdpr27I9juK.html
24-10-2020||World||Working with like-minded partners essential to contain China, says US||Given China’s increasingly aggressive behaviour across the India-Pacific from the Himalayas to the South China Sea, it’s more important than ever that we work with like-minded partners such as India, said US State Department on Friday.Speaking at the Washington Foreign Press Center, a US administration official said that, “And as the United States, Japan, Australia, and India (QUAD) are getting together to cooperate on one issue or another, if there are other countries that want to participate in those discussions or those activities, the door is always open.”“Secretary Pompeo and Minister Jaishankar, along with their Japanese and Australian counterparts, met in Tokyo on October 6th for the second Quad meeting of foreign ministers. Given China’s increasingly aggressive behavior across the India-Pacific from the Himalayas to the South China Sea, it’s more important than ever that we work with like-minded partners such as India.” Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) is the informal strategic dialogue between India, USA, Japan and Australia. Earlier this week, India had announced the participation of Australia in the upcoming Malabar exercise alongside the US and Japan.Talking to media persons, the State Department official said the foundational concept behind the Quad is one of the vibrant democracies working together towards a common vision of a free and open India-Pacific region. The official further said that Quad is not an alliance and there’s no reciprocal obligation among the countries who are involved. “Well, on the Quad, I should tell you it’s not an alliance. You mentioned that - you said it was an alliance and I want to push back on that. There’s nothing about the Quad that is an alliance. It doesn’t have - it is not formalized. There’s no reciprocal obligation among the countries that are involved. It’s not an organization that solicits membership,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/working-with-like-minded-partners-essential-to-contain-china-says-us/story-JTy2tCPETxmw6cxTPdxEiO.html
24-10-2020||World||Always felt deeply connected to Indian American community, says Joe Biden||I have always felt deeply connected to the Indian American community because of the values we share which were passed down from my Irish ancestors who risked everything for a better life in America, said Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden.In an op-ed for Indiawest, Biden said he “always felt deeply connected to the Indian American community because of the values we share: duty to family and elders, treating people with respect and dignity, self-discipline, service, and hard work.”“For me, these values were passed down from my Irish ancestors who risked everything for a better life in America, and they have shaped me as a son, brother, husband, father, grandfather, and a man of faith and a lifelong public servant,” he said.He further talked about the stories he has exchanged with Indian American staff over the years, about their families’ sacrifice.“And I’ve seen how those shared values, that immigrant story, forged my lasting relationship with Indian American constituents in Delaware and with Indian American staff both in the United States Senate and in the Obama-Biden Administration, where we’d exchange stories of our families’ sacrifice and marvel that only in America would we be living their dream,” he said.On her running mate Kamala Harris, Biden said that she “is smart, tested, and prepared. But another thing that makes Kamala so inspiring is her mother, Shyamala Gopalan. We feel Kamala’s pride when she talks about her. She was from Chennai, where her father, Kamala’s grandfather, was active in the fight for Indian independence.”Slamming US President Donald Trump, he said “President Trump doesn’t share our values. As a result, today’s America doesn’t feel like the America of our dreams.”“We value education, courage, and resilience. But faced with the deadly pandemic, Donald Trump panicked. He is erratic. He doesn’t believe in science or respect experts like Dr. Fauci. His negligence has cost lives and livelihoods and the pandemic is worsening with Covid-19 cases and hospitalizations increasing across the country.”The final debate between Trump and Biden took place at the Curb Event Center at Belmont University in Nashville, Tennessee on Friday. The election is scheduled for November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/always-felt-deeply-connected-to-indian-american-community-says-joe-biden/story-XEZ5istb7J7MgsUt3Wq5aK.html
24-10-2020||World||Trump says virus spike ‘gone’ in Texas while El Paso surges||President Donald Trump downplayed the toll of the coronavirus during Thursday’s final debate with Joe Biden, and specifically mentioned tamping down the surge in Texas.“There was a very big spike in Texas, it’s now gone,” Trump said.But in the border city of El Paso, Covid-19 is the worst it’s been since the pandemic began.Health officials in the El Paso area reported 969 new coronavirus cases Friday, leading to more than 10,000 active cases in the region as figures soared over the past week to record highs. Hospitalizations increased by 107 over Thursday, bringing the total to 678 total, with 195 of those people in intensive care.At least 571 people in the area have died since the pandemic began.Local officials have tightened virus restrictions, cutting back capacity at non-essential businesses to 50 per cent, stopping visitations at facilities that care for the elderly, and banning home gatherings — the first major county in Texas to scale back since Gov. Greg Abbott loosened rules in September.The virus is taking a toll on the mostly Hispanic area in more ways than one, according to Salvador Perches, CEO of Perches Funeral Homes, which does business in El Paso and neighbouring Juarez, Mexico. Families are asking for bodies to be transferred across the border as the death tolls rise in the US and Mexico, Perches added, noting that he has added a refrigeration unit inside one of his chapels to accommodate the growing number of bodies.Over the last two to three weeks, Perches said he has seen an increase in requests for funeral services, not only due to Covid-19 deaths, but also untreated health conditions and suicides because of depression from isolation and job loss.“People can’t celebrate their loves ones, we can’t mourn,” Perches said.Dr. Hector Ocaranza, the city and county health authority, called the situation critical. An additional 500 medical personnel plus medical equipment sent by Abbott helps, but he said it is necessary for El Paso residents to “realize we are in a dire situation” and take personal responsibility to stop the spread.“The spike in El Paso has continued,” Ocaranza said, noting that other Texas metropolitan areas aren’t seeing the same surge. “El Paso, we are in a different situation and we continue to see the rise.”El Paso County Judge Ricardo Samaniego said because the county is isolated from other metropolitan areas, it is easy for the rest of the Texas to be blind to El Paso. He added that they have reached out to neighbouring cities in Texas and New Mexico in addition to coordinating with the Mexican embassy and Juarez mayor Armando Cabada, who recently tested positive to Covid-19, to mitigate the spread together.Samaniego said he will work with state leaders to revisit increasing restrictions in the county in two weeks if the latest restrictions don’t help as much as they hope.Covid-19’s resurgence throughout the US is again pushing some hospitals to the limit, and the nation is approaching a record for the number of new daily coronavirus cases. The seven-day rolling average for new daily Covid-19 cases in the US surpassed 61,140 Thursday, compared with 44,647 two weeks ago. The record was reached July 22 when the rolling average was 67,293 in the midst of a summer outbreak driven largely by surges of the virus in Florida, Arizona, California, and Texas.More than 17,000 people have died in Texas since the start of the pandemic.Cecilia Sobalvarro, 57, lives in El Paso and said it was difficult for her to not be with her brother and nephews when her sister-in-law died of cancer on Monday.“Us not being able to be there for her and to say goodbye over the phone, it is heart-wrenching and it takes a toll on you because we want to be there for her,” Sobalvarro added. “But of course we couldn’t.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-virus-spike-gone-in-texas-while-el-paso-surges/story-dpyjbVf1sEjtJc9UoFmyAL.html
24-10-2020||World||Some hospitals in crisis as US nears high for Covid-19 cases||The United States is approaching a record high number of new daily coronavirus cases in the latest ominous sign about the disease’s grip on the nation, as states from Connecticut to Idaho reel under the surge.The impact is being felt in every section of the country, a lockdown starting Friday at the Ogala Sioux Tribe’s reservation in South Dakota, a plea by a Florida health official for a halt to children’s birthday parties, and an increasingly desperate situation at a hospital in northern Idaho, which is running out of space for patients and considering airlifts to Seattle or Portland.“We’ve essentially shut down an entire floor of our hospital. We’ve had to double rooms. We’ve bought more hospital beds,” said Dr. Robert Scoggins, a pulmonologist at the Kootenai Health hospital in Coeur d’Alene. “Our hospital is not built for a pandemic.” Among those joining Scoggins at a meeting of northern Idaho’s Panhandle Health District was board member Walk Kirby.“People are dying, they’re going to keep dying and catching this stuff,” Kirby said. “How many people won’t wear a mask? The same people that won’t get vaccinated for it.”The seven-day rolling average for new daily Covid-19 cases in the US surpassed 61,140 Thursday, compared to 44,647 two weeks ago.The record was reached July 22 when the rolling average was 67,293 in the midst of a summer outbreak driven largely by surges of the virus in Florida, Texas, Arizona, and California.The U.S. recorded 71,671 new cases Thursday, with several states setting records across the Midwest and West.The surge in the United States mirrors a similarly widespread spike in Europe, where Rome, Paris and other major cities are reining in nightlife as part of the increasingly drastic measures undertaken to slow the spread of the pandemic. In the Netherlands, a helicopter flew a Dutch Covid-19 patient to an intensive care unit in Germany, the first such international airlift since the pandemic first threatened to swamp Dutch hospitals in the spring.The head of the World Health Organization(WHO) warned that countries in the Northern Hemisphere are at a “critical juncture” as cases and deaths continue to rise.“The next few months are going to be very tough and some countries are on a dangerous track,” said WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus at a press briefing on Friday.Some of the latest developments in the United States: South Dakota- In South Dakota, the Oglala Sioux Tribe ordered a one-week lockdown of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in response to a surging number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Through the morning of Oct. 30, all non-essential travel is banned and non-essential businesses must close.The tribe posted on its Twitter page that there were 391 active Covid-19 cases as of Thursday on the reservation, which has about 20,000 residents.The lockdown comes as South Dakota surpassed 9,000 active coronavirus cases on Thursday and reported an all-time high of 973 new cases in one day.Florida- The top health official in one of Florida’s most populous counties discouraged parents from hosting birthday parties for their children, no matter the size.Dr. Raul Pino, a state health officer in Orange County, said half of the 30 attendees at a recent Sweet 16 party in the Orlando area came down with the virus. Last month, an Orange County high school closed for two weeks after students who had attended a birthday party tested positive.“Those parties will not only affect those people participating in that activity, but also everyone else they come into contact with when they leave,” said Pino. “We will continue to see consequences if we don’t act super responsibly.”  Massachusetts- Massachusetts on Friday implemented a two-week shutdown of indoor ice skating facilities across the state in response to several Covid-19 clusters linked to ice hockey games and practices.There have been at least 30 clusters of Covid-19 , resulting in 108 confirmed cases, associated with organized hockey activities involving residents from more than 60 cities and towns, according to the state Department of Public Health.College and professional programs are exempt from the order.Texas- In Texas, Governor Greg Abbott is sending more medical reinforcements to the El Paso area in response to a surge of coronavirus infections. The Texas Department of State Health Services and the Texas Division of Emergency Management will provide more medical personnel and equipment this week.El Paso County reported 3,750 new coronavirus infections this week, including 1,161 on Thursday. That number accounts for 17.5 per cent of the 21,321 cases reported this week by the state’s 254 counties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/some-hospitals-in-crisis-as-us-nears-high-for-covid-19-cases/story-VftKPBFsUMzhXrhQFXqMFP.html
24-10-2020||World||People in China are travelling across the country amid global pandemic. Here’s why||Amid the ongoing global pandemic, people in China are travelling across the country not because travel restrictions have been eased as the Covid-19 wave ebbed in the country, but in search of vaccine shot. As the country is offering experimental vaccine shots in select places, reports claim that people who are planning to leave the country for education and business purposes are travelling to those places. China launched its emergency vaccine programme in July for essential workers. Now it has broadened the programme and Zhejiang’s Shaoxing residents aged between 18 and 59 can now apply online for inoculation, which will cost 400 yuan (60 dollars) for two doses, with an additional fee of 28 yuan per dose. China’s Zhejiang has become the first Chinese province to offer inoculation to non-priority residents. Zhejiang’s Yiwu is also offering voluntary vaccine shots. For these vaccine shots, which are still under trial, the applicants have to mention why they need emergency vaccine. China’s Global Times has, however, said the Covid-19 vaccine shots are “restricted to key groups with urgent need”. “Local residents who come to seek advice could leave their names and contact information and wait for further notice,” it said quoting a health worker from Jiaxing in Zhejiang.It added that the emergency use strictly follows the review procedure in China as well as WHO rules, and has been reported to the WHO for ratification, quoting Zheng Zhongwei, an official from the National Health Commission in charge of technology development.Three vaccine manufacturers in China, Sinovac, Sinopharm and CanSino, have been conducting clinical trials in Brazil, Turkey, Indonesia, the UAE, Egypt, Russia and Pakistan, recruiting hundreds and thousands of volunteers, Global Times said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/people-in-china-are-travelling-across-the-country-amid-global-pandemic-here-s-why/story-X7Rvta2VhvxGbTQJQOAlsL.html
24-10-2020||World||Quad aimed at promoting rules-based order in Indo Pacific region: US||Quad -- comprising Japan, India, Australia and the United States --- is not an alliance but a grouping of countries which are interested in strengthening a rules-based order in the Indo-Pacific region, the US has said.The four countries had in 2017 given shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the “Quad” or the Quadrilateral coalition to counter China’s aggressive behaviour in the Indo-Pacific region. “There’s nothing about the Quad that it is an alliance. It is not formalized. There’s no reciprocal obligation among the countries who are involved. It’s not an organization that solicits membership,” a senior administration official said during a conference call with reporters ahead of the next week’s 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue between India and the US. US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, and Defence Secretary Mark Esper are travelling to India to hold talks with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defense Minister Rajnath Singh. The visiting American officials would also be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi. To a query, the official said the Quad ministerial meeting that they had in Tokyo in October just demonstrated the strong ties among the Indo-Pacific democracies. “I would say it’s a grouping of countries who are interested in strengthening a rules-based order in which all nations are sovereign, strong, and prosperous. It’s an opportunity for us to carry out continued dialogue and to work towards mutually agreed-upon outcomes. “It’s a grouping of countries that’s driven by shared interests and values rather than binding obligations. That’s an example of effective multilateralism at its best,” the official said, requesting anonymity. As the US, Japan, Australia, and India are getting together to cooperate on one issue or another, if there are other countries that want to participate in those discussions or those activities, the door is always open, the official said. The cooperation of the US and India on the Quad along with Australia and Japan really reflect a convergence of common values and interests in the region, the official said. “We’re the two largest democracies in the Indo-Pacific region, and we have shared values and interests with all four countries. It’s not an exclusive grouping by any means. All four countries are interested and eager in welcoming other countries to the table for individual elements of cooperation that we do, some of them under the Quad framework but not all of them. That’s for sure,” the official said. “It is something that’s flexible and reflects our common values and interests, and I think is really for the long term,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quad-aimed-at-promoting-rules-based-order-in-indo-pacific-region-us/story-LEkNyiGv4CAJ3SI2XPdO7I.html
24-10-2020||World||2 onboard US Navy training plane killed in Alabama crash||A US Navy training plane that took off from Florida crashed Friday in an Alabama residential neighbourhood near the Gulf Coast, killing both people in the plane, authorities said. Zach Harrell, a spokesperson for Commander, Naval Air Forces, said both people in the T-6B Texan II training plane died, but they weren’t immediately releasing their names. No injuries were reported on the ground. Foley Fire Chief Joey Darby said responders encountered a “large volume of fire” with a home and several cars engulfed in flames. Firefighters were able to make “a quick stop on the fire,” the chief told local news outlets. The crash occurred southeast of Mobile, near the city of Foley and the town of Magnolia Springs. Darby called the neighbourhood a “heavily populated” residential area. No firefighters were injured, he added. The plane had flown out of Naval Air Station Whiting Field, about 48.28 kilometers northeast of Pensacola, Florida, Navy spokeswoman Julie Ziegenhorn said. The US Department of Defence and the Navy were set to handle the investigation, the Baldwin County Sheriff’s Office tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-navy-2-onboard-training-plane-killed-in-alabama-crash/story-dH9jaEbzHbFa3Lw2brz2XM.html
24-10-2020||World||Global Covid-19 tally crosses 42 million mark||The worldwide number of confirmed cases of coronavirus has surpassed 42 million, according to the latest update by the Johns Hopkins University on Friday (local time).Till now, as many as 42,024,647 people have been tested Covid-19 positive and 1,140,978 deaths have been reported so far.The United States has witnessed the highest numbers of deaths due to Covid-19 -- more than 223,750 - followed by Brazil, India, Mexico and the United Kingdom.The respiratory disease was first reported in the Chinese city of Wuhan last year. The World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the outbreak a ‘pandemic’ in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-tally-crosses-42-million-mark/story-zPiYMrDWEaPMGyuI6H7dJM.html
24-10-2020||World||White House race enters last mile||Having wrapped up their final debate, US President Donald Trump and rival Joe Biden began a sprint through the final 11 days of the race for the White House on Friday.Trump will hold two rallies in the battleground state of Florida, where Biden holds a thin 1.5% lead in the RealClearPolitics average of polls. He also plans to vote in person on Saturday in Florida.Biden will deliver a speech in his home state of Delaware on his plans for leading a recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic.With 11 days to go for the polling to end, more than 51 million Americans have already cast ballots - a pace that could lead to the highest turnout since 1928. The turnout by Friday morning accounts for 21% of the 240 million eligible voters and more than 36% of the total votes in the 2016 election, according to the South University of Florida tracker of early votes.On Friday, Trump believed he “did great” in the final debate. “It’s two different styles,” he told reporters of his disciplined performance in contrast to the first debate on September 29 in which he had constantly interrupted Biden and talked over him and the moderator. “I can do different styles.”The White House on Thursday released raw footage from an interview that Trump did with 60 Minutes reporter Lesley Stahl, breaking an agreement with CBS channel to keep material from the highly anticipated clash private until an edited version could air this weekend.The footage shows Stahl asking direct questions and refuting some of Trump’s answers on topics, including health care and the government’s response to the pandemic. “Look at the bias, hatred and rudeness on behalf of 60 Minutes and CBS,” Trump said in post on his Twitter profile, with a link to his Facebook page, where he posted the nearly 38-minute interview. The White House had kept a single-frame copy of the interview, in which only Trump is visible but Stahl can be heard asking questions. It shows Trump repeatedly asking Stahl and her employer, CBS News, to ask tough questions of Biden. CBS News blasted Trump’s “unprecedented decision” to disregard an agreement to keep the footage private, but said the move would not defer the show “from providing its full, fair and contextual reporting which presidents have participated in for decades”.On Thursday, the US sanctioned five Iranian entities for attempting to interfere in the US elections. Authorities suspect elements of Iranian government “disguised as news organisations or media outlets, have targeted” the election. “The Iranian regime uses false narratives and other misleading content to attempt to influence US elections,” treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin said. Top US national security officials on Wednesday warned of election interference attempts by Iran and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-race-enters-last-mile/story-TbimD7bBjqtxIlV6BgoccK.html
24-10-2020||World||Libya’s warring factions sign UN- brokered, ‘permanent’ ceasefire||The rival sides in Libya’s conflict signed a “permanent” ceasefire on Friday, a deal the United Nations billed as historic after years of fighting that has split the North African country in two. But scepticism over whether the agreement would hold began emerging almost immediately.The breakthrough, which among other things orders foreign mercenaries out of the country, sets the stage for political talks in November to find a lasting solution to the chaos unleashed after a 2011 Nato-backed uprising toppled and killed longtime dictator Moammar Gadhafi.Previous diplomatic initiatives to end the conflict have repeatedly collapsed - but the UN-brokered deal aims to cement a months-long lull in fighting and gives a boost to the political process. “I am honoured to be among you today to witness a moment that will go down in history,” Stephanie Turco Williams, the top UN envoy for Libya who led mediation talks this week, said at the signing in Geneva. She did, however, express some caution, noting that a “long and difficult” road remains ahead.It’s not clear how the cease-fire will be enforced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/libya-s-warring-factions-sign-un-brokered-permanent-ceasefire/story-hGY8XEU2LnCeawiuy5PoUL.html
24-10-2020||World||Astronaut votes from space||At least she didn’t have to wait in line. A US astronaut cast her ballot from the International Space Station on Thursday, making her voice heard in the presidential election despite being 408km above the Earth.“From the International Space Station: I voted today,” crew member Kate Rubins, who began a six-month stint aboard the orbiting station last week, said on Nasa’s Twitter account.The post featured a photo of Rubins, her hair floating in the zero-gravity environment, in front of an enclosure with a sign that reads “ISS voting booth”.Rubins and Nasa described the process as a form of absentee voting. A secure electronic ballot generated by a clerk’s office in Harris County, home of Nasa’s Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, was sent up via email to the ISS. Rubins filled out the ballot in the email and it was downlinked and delivered back to the clerk’s office.Rubins had cast her vote from the ISS during the 2016 election as well. “We consider it an honour to be able to vote from space,” she said in a video before she and two Russian cosmonauts launched from the Baikonur cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astronaut-votes-from-space/story-znQ8Glr9iXoN4TzYeHSyRJ.html
24-10-2020||World||Half measures will not save nature, warn world’s leading scientists||Bending the curve of nature’s rapid decline will require attacking the problem aggressively along several fronts at once, leading scientists warned on Thursday.From preventing the extinction of lions and polar bears to halting the destruction of life-sustaining primary forests, only a multipronged plan can stitch together a “safety net” for the natural world, they argued in a peer-reviewed commentary in Science. “It will not be enough to have, for example, an ambitious goal for reducing species extinctions if goals for ecosystems and genetic diversity are not sufficiently ambitious too,” co-author Piero Visconti, a researcher at the International Institute for Applied System Analysis said.The nature rescue plan from 60 experts is offered as a blueprint ahead of a biodiversity summit next year in China. Originally scheduled for this month, the COP15 negotiation of nearly 200 countries is tasked with setting new goals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/half-measures-will-not-save-nature-warn-world-s-leading-scientists/story-fbJP9HD4CAlZBk7GMoZhxK.html
24-10-2020||World||US Covid deaths projected to double by February end||Even if state-level governments in the US reimpose limited social distancing measures to halt the spread of Covid-19, the death toll could more than double by the end of February to 511,000, said projections released on Friday.Mask wearing could reduce that grim tally by nearly 130,000, researchers from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) found. Even if mask compliance was only 85%, lives saved compared to that baseline would still top 95,000, they reported in the journal Nature Medicine. In mid-July, IHME modellers accurately predicted 224,000 deaths by November 1.The EU’s disease control agency on Friday joined frantic health workers across Europe in sounding the alarm about the surge in coronavirus infections.Several countries in Europe are reporting infection rates higher than during the first wave of the pandemic in March and April, with Spain saying it has more than three million cases. Governments across the continent are slapping urgent new restrictions, with France extending a curfew to cover 46 million people and Ireland locked down again.The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control said all EU countries except Cyprus, Estonia, Finland and Greece fell into a “serious concern” category, as did the UK.In Britain, a government-led project said traces of the virus have been detected in sewage, providing an early warning for outbreaks in local areas or institutions across the UK.Pope Francis has been warned of potential exposure to Covid-19 after a Vatican diplomat was infected, Australian media reported. Archbishop Adolfo Tito Yllana had a meeting with Francis at the Vatican on October 6, less than two weeks before he tested positive in Australia.The World Health Organization is preparing guidelines on use of the drug remdesivir for Covid-19 and may release them in three to four weeks. The US has given approval for remdesivir to treat cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-covid-deaths-projected-to-double-by-february-end/story-VsUD7JKQXshNqJTZjZdvDL.html
24-10-2020||World||Xi takes jab at US in Korean War commemoration||Chinese leader Xi Jinping condemned “unilateralism, protectionism and extreme egoism” in a jab at the US during a rally on Friday to mark the 70th anniversary of China’s entry into the 1950-53 Korean War.China refers to the conflict, in which it sent troops to aid North Korean forces against a United Nations coalition led by America, as the “war to resist US aggression and aid Korea”.Although fighting ended in a stalemate, the war established China as a major player on the world stage and Friday’s commemorations closely fit with Xi’s drive to promote patriotism and the unquestioned leadership of the ruling Communist Party.“In today’s world, the pursuit of unilateralism, protectionism and extreme egoism leads nowhere,” Xi told government and party leaders, veterans and family members of those who served in what China calls the Chinese People’s Volunteers.“Arrogance, always doing as one pleases, acts of hegemony, overbearance or bullying will lead nowhere,” Xi said.The deputy White House national security adviser denounced China’s treatment of Uighur Muslims, saying there was no justification for the country maintaining “concentration camps” within its borders.Matt Pottinger made the remark in Mandarin in an online address to the UK-based Policy Exchange think tank.Meanwhile, a Canadian parliamentary panel has described the persecution of the Uighurs in Xinjiang as a “genocide”, asking the government to recognise it as such and to impose sanctions against officials responsible.The panel on human rights said it was “profoundly disturbed” at what it heard in testimony from witnesses and “convinced of the need for a strong response”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-takes-jab-at-us-in-korean-war-commemoration/story-LtTxBc5fdtnnLQly5RRuIO.html
24-10-2020||World||Joe Biden pledges free Covid vaccine for ‘everyone’ in US if elected||Democrat Joe Biden said Friday that if elected president he would mandate coronavirus vaccines be free for all Americans, part of a national strategy to “get ahead of this virus.”“Once we have a safe and effective vaccine, it has to be free to everyone -- whether or not you’re insured,” Biden said in a speech laying out his pandemic response plan just 11 days before the US presidential election. President Donald Trump, who trails Biden in the polls, has also stressed that a vaccine -- which he says will be ready in the coming weeks -- should be free.But Democrats led by Biden have hammered Trump for failing to lay out and implement a nationwide response to a pandemic that has now killed more than 223,000 Americans.“Covid-19 dwarfs anything that we’ve faced in recent history, and it isn’t showing any signs of slowing down. The virus is surging in almost every state,” Biden said in a speech in Wilmington, Delaware. “We’re more than eight months into this crisis and the president still doesn’t have a plan,” the 77-year-old former vice president said.“He’s given up. He’s quit on you. He’s quit on your family. He’s quit on America.”Biden said that if elected he would “immediately” put in place a national strategy “to finally get ahead of this virus, and get back our lives.”That would include consulting governors of all 50 states during the presidential transition. Were he to take office, Biden would urge Congress to pass a major bill outlining everything needed to combat the virus, implement a national mask mandate in federal buildings and interstate transportation and implement a national testing plan equivalent to a seven-fold increase over today’s testing level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-pledges-free-covid-vaccine-for-everyone-in-us-if-elected/story-HBiZ0sbdX9myoexIjIPuIM.html
24-10-2020||World||Astrazeneca cleared by US regulators to resume vaccine trial||AstraZeneca Plc, the U.K. drugmaker developing a Covid-19 vaccine with the University of Oxford, has been cleared by U.S. regulators to restart a trial halted in the country for more than a month on concerns about a volunteer who became ill.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration authorized the trial to resume Friday, according to statements from AstraZeneca and Oxford. The FDA reviewed data from global studies and decided it was safe to begin testing again, the partners said.The decision removes a significant impediment for the partners trying to get their coronavirus shot across the line. They are among the front-runners in the global quest for a vaccine, along with developers such as Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. Astra’s U.S. trial will test the shot on 30,000 volunteers, taking the total number of participants in advanced trials for the jab to 50,000, according to Oxford.“We should be reassured by the care taken by independent regulators to protect the public and ensure the vaccine is safe before it is approved for use,” Pascal Soriot, the drugmaker’s chief executive officer, said in a statement. This “allows us to continue our efforts to develop this vaccine to help defeat this terrible pandemic.”A representative for the FDA didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.Unprecedented SpeedTrials of the Astra-Oxford vaccine resumed weeks ago outside the U.S., in countries including the U.K., South Africa and Brazil. Symptoms that prompted the partners to pause the studies were unlikely to be linked to the shot, or there was insufficient evidence to say for sure, according to documents sent to participants. The safety reviews began after volunteers developed unexplained neurological symptoms including limb weakness or “changed sensation,” a document posted by Oxford shows.Tests to decide whether experimental Covid-19 shots are safe and effective are progressing at an unprecedented speed as drugmakers and governments look for a way out of the crisis. The virus has continued to advance, killing more than 1.1 million people worldwide.Results from the late-stage trials of the Astra-Oxford shot are expected later this year, and will depend on local rates of infection where the studies are taking place, according to Astra.The British pharmaceutical company faced a flurry of headlines this week when it emerged that a participant in the Brazil vaccine trial had died. It was quickly determined the volunteer was in the control arm of the study and hadn’t received the shot. Brazil’s health authority said an international committee had reviewed the event and the trial would continue.Another vaccine maker, Johnson & Johnson, said in mid-October that it would pause its trial to investigate an illness in a study participant. Operation Warp Speed head Moncef Slaoui said in an interview earlier this week that both the Astra and J&J trials could resume in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-cleared-by-us-regulators-to-resume-vaccine-trial/story-xgDrEvMUeVravpH4tilq2K.html
24-10-2020||India||Samajwadi Party announces support for JD(S) ahead of Karnataka bypolls||The Samajwadi Party has said that it will extend its ‘unconditional support’ to the Janata Dal (Secular) candidates in the upcoming Sira and RR Nagar assembly by-polls in Karnataka. While SP is not a substantial force in Karnataka, especially in Sira constituency, the Yadav community called Gollas (traditional cow-herders) is the second largest after the dominant Vokkaligas. SP is traditionally seen as representing the interests of the Yadav community.Gollas are about 15% of the 2.15 lakh electorate in the Sira constituency. All the three major parties including BJP, Congress and JDS have fielded Vokkaliga candidates as the community constitutes about 20% of the total voters. Since a three way division in the dominant Vokkaliga community is expected, all parties are wooing the Golla/Yadav vote.The Sira seat fell vacant after sitting JDS legislator B Satyanarayana succumbed to Covid-19. JDS has fielded his wife Ammajamma to cash in on sympathy while Congress has fielded former minister T B Jayachandra who had lost to Satyanarayana in a close contest in the 2018 assembly elections. BJP has fielded Rajesh Gowda a new entrant to the party whose father CP Mudalagiryappa was a three time MP representing Congress.The BJP in its effort to woo the Gollas/Yadavs had announced the setting up of a dedicated Kadu Golla (forest cow-herd) Development Corporation ahead of the announcement of polls. But this had not gone down well with a section of the Gollas as some of the Yadav sub sects had been left out of its purview.Announcing SP’s support to JDS its state president Robin Mathews said that SP would work towards ensuring the victory of JDS candidates in both Sira and RR Nagar constituencies. Mathews in the letter to state JDS president and former CM HD Kumaraswamy also conveyed “the best regards of Akhilesh (Yadav) ji to you...sure we can open a new chapter as the people of Karnataka are looking for change”.The ruling BJP is going all out to win Sira, a seat it has never won before with CM Yediyurappa son B Y Vijayendra who is also a vice president of the state unit camping there to ensure the party’s victory. Meanwhile, the JDS thanked and welcomed SP’s expression of support to its candidates in a seat which is likely to witness a close triangular fight. Voting will be held on November 3 and results would be declared on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-announces-support-for-jd-s-ahead-of-karnataka-bypolls/story-1pm2un2XI2PJbwY5dXBzMO.html
24-10-2020||India||Pollution tracks rising fire graph||Air pollution relented slightly in the national capital region, helped by stronger winds and marginally warmer day temperature on Saturday, although a sustained number of farm fires in neighbouring states meant the situation could take a turn for the worse at any point and the region’s 30 million people were largely at the mercy of weather conditions.The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) recorded till 4pm on Saturday was 345, down from Friday’s 366. The air quality continued to be in the ‘very poor’ category, a notch below what is considered ‘severe’ – a threshold beyond which exposure could be hazardous for those with vulnerabilities.The situation comes at a time when farm fires in Punjab and Haryana recorded their highest numbers yet – it was 1,676 on Thursday and 1,257 on Friday – according to satellite thermal imaging data from United States’s National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa). Farmers and environmental experts expect more of such fires, which send plumes of micro fine PM2.5 into the atmosphere before it descends and settles over cities, making their way into people’s lungs and leading to breathing difficulties and chronic illnesses.“About 50% of harvesting is done but another half is left. Though fires have been fewer compared to previous years, I think still they haven’t stopped completely because a large number of farmers do not have straw management machinery. We are expecting that harvest will be complete by November 15,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, Bharatiya Kisan Union general secretary, Punjab. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) model used by Central Pollution Control Board estimated that farm fires contributed roughly 9% to Delhi’s pollution on Saturday, although this estimated is difficult to make. “It’s very difficult to say if farm fires have peaked. If you compare last year’s data, peak is yet to come,” said Vijay Soni, scientist, IMD (air pollution).This now leaves the Capital at the mercy of how the weather – the wind speed and the wind direction – changes. “Air quality has improved in Delhi for two reasons — good mixing height and better wind speed. Wind speed was around 8-12kmph on Saturday, even though wind direction was northwesterly. Our models are showing slight improvement in air quality in the next couple of days owing to better mixing height,” Soni added.Union Ministry of Earth Sciences’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also credited Saturday’s improvement to weather conditions. “The boundary layer wind direction (the layer where surface friction plays a role in slowing the wind and changing the wind direction) is westerly and wind speed is low. Hence, pollutant transport towards the Delhi region was low,” Safar analysis showed. Environmental experts said the recurring problem underscores the flaw in focussing on pollution control measures only when the situation has already worsened. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said for results to show, agencies will have to work around the year, instead of focussing only on the winter phase of Grap. “The result of your work will be seen now. Last moment measures will not work. Winter action is only fire fighting,” Roychowdhury said, referring to Grap (graded response action plan – a set of curbs on activities such as construction and personal cars that become stricter as the air quality worsens). Northwesterly winds are what sweep the PM2.5 particles in from Punjab and Haryana. And since air moves in different ways in different layers, there are also complicated local wind patterns that determine what happens to construction dust, tailpipe emissions and gases from any other kind of fires generated in the city. This has two components: the wind speed and what is known as the mixing height of air and suspended particles above the ground. This height is primarily determined by temperature. When temperature increases, the air expands and pushes the mixing height further, giving pollutants closer to the ground more space to mix with the atmosphere. When the opposite happens, the pollutants get trapped closer to settlements, becoming more concentrated and, thus, raising pollution levels.Together, these local factors are used to calculate the ventilation index. Saturday’s ventilation index was 12,000 m2/s. A ventilation index below 2,350 sq metres/second is considered poor, and it effectively means local pollutants are being trapped. In Delhi’s worst bouts of air pollution recorded till now, it is these local pollutants that mix with pollutants from fires to create a deadly cocktail that is linked to drastically reduced life expectancy in the country.That situation might still play out, since temperatures are expected to only get colder. IMD data shows that on Saturday, the city’s maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording of Delhi, was 33.2 degree Celsius — a notch above the season’s normal. On Friday, the maximum temperature was 32 degree Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-tracks-rising-fire-graph/story-LS3noiPMhLUE7PTQdy18LJ.html
24-10-2020||India||Man beheads 65-year-old mother, runs away with severed head after denied money for liquor||A man allegedly beheaded his 65-year-old mother and ran away with the severed head after she refused to give him money to buy liquor, police said on Saturday.The incident was reported from a village in Nagarkurnool district of Telangana in the wee hours of the day, the police said.The 45-year-old man was caught near a tank in the afternoon with the chopped-off head found hurled into bushes, they said. A case has been registered and a complaint lodged by the man’s older brother, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-beheads-65-year-old-mother-runs-away-with-severed-head-after-denied-money-for-liquor/story-3OuDloeQfn7gCFebc7UBhI.html
24-10-2020||India||Centre sets up high-level committee to commemorate Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur’s 400th birth anniversary||The Centre on Saturday set up a high-level committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur. The mandate of the 70-member committee includes approval of policies, plans, programmes and supervision and guiding the commemoration, besides deciding broad dates for detailed programmes of celebration. The members of the committee include former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sitharaman, Hardeep Singh Puri, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, chief ministers of Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan. Other members include Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, Akali Dal leaders Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, former chief of Indian Army J J Singh, former chief of Indian Air Force Birender Singh Dhanoa, and sportspersons Milkha Singh and Harbhajan Singh.  Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla will be the member secretary of the high-level committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-up-high-level-committee-to-commemorate-400th-birth-anniversary-of-shri-guru-tegh-bahadur/story-tN8j6kZJ6xgZTjp5HcIblM.html
24-10-2020||India||Minor girl beaten up, thrown off terrace by 3 men in UP for objecting to harassment||A 15-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Mau district was allegedly thrown off from a terrace of a building by three men after she objected to their harassment, ANI reported on Saturday citing police officials. The girl suffered serious injuries and has been admitted to a hospital in Azamgarh, ANI said.The police have arrested accused men in the matter in connection with the crime. The girl and the men are residents of the same locality, the police said, stating that the incident took place on Friday when the girl was returning home. The minor also informed the police that the accused men beat her up before throwing her off the terrace.The two accused along with another friend of theirs, took the girl to the terrace by force after she resisted to their harassment, police said. A case has been registered against the three men on the basis of a first information report (FIR) lodged by the girl’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-girl-beaten-up-thrown-off-terrace-by-3-men-in-up-for-objecting-to-harassment/story-z63g1nAx8Qf7XdgIKjUbGM.html
24-10-2020||India||Rajnath Singh reviews army’s Trishakti Corps in Sukna, says ‘India’s borders are protected due to you’||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said India has always made an effort to maintain good relations with its neighbouring countries amid an ongoing border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. Singh was speaking in West Bengal’s Darjeeling as he started his two-day visit to the eastern state and Sikkim during which he will be visiting and interacting with troops in different forward areas.“India always wants good relations with all its neighbouring countries. We have always made an effort for the same,” Singh said. “But our jawans have had to sacrifice their lives from time to time to protect our borders, integrity and universality,“ the defence minister said at the headquarters of the Indian Army’s 33 Corps in Darjeeling’s Sukna.Mentioning the attack in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, during which 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed in June this year, the BJP leader said: “This time in Galwan, our 20 jawans of Bihar Regiment sacrificed themselves to protect our motherland.” “Due to brave soldiers like you, the borders of this country are protected. The entire country is proud of you,” he added.The defence minister also reviewed the preparedness of the Indian Army at Sukna. Singh arrived at the military base of 33 Corps, also known as the ‘Trishakti’ Corps, late on Saturday afternoon and was accompanied by Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane.Singh’s two-day visit comes as India and China are engaged in a standoff in Ladakh since early this year. On his visit to Sikkim, the defence minister will review troops deployed at the borders and assessing their preparedness against China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA).India and China have so far held several diplomatic and military level talks over the border tension, with no breakthrough so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-reviews-army-s-trishakti-corps-in-sukna-says-india-s-borders-are-protected-due-to-you/story-l3n5mPRqVyvhBa2ZZe02vO.html
24-10-2020||India||Kerala’s test positivity rate is now 12.21% with 8,253 new Covid-19 cases||Kerala’s coronavirus graph continued to rise steadily with a test positivity rate of 12.21 per cent on Saturday even as the government tweaked the strict protocol allowing close relatives to have a last glimpse of Covid-19 victims before their final journey. State Health Minister K K Shailaja said the government was forced to relax norms following a request from many religious bodies. She said only close relatives will be allowed to see the face and they will have to undergo a two-week quarantine after that.“We understand the plight of bereaved families. Situation warrants such restrictions. We are going through a critical phase and restrictions are necessary. We want people not to lower their guard during festivities,” she said. Earlier many religious bodies had asked the government to allow bath and religious ceremonies but the government said bathing or touching of the body cannot be permitted in the prevailing situation. The zip of the body bag would be opened a bit to show the face after maintaining six-feet distance. Other religious rituals can be performed without touching the body and it should be completed in a few minutes. Children below 10 and people who had crossed 60 won’t be allowed, said the new circular issued by the health ministry.For many relatives a “final goodbye” is important and they have been pleading with the government for it for some time. They said their grief and sorrow increased manifold due to missing the last journey of their kin. To help grieving relatives some of the crematoriums in the state have started live streaming the burial or cremation of the dead. Last week, the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation had started live casting of cremations in view of relatives unable to take part in the last journey. Some of the crematorium employees have also been trained to conduct religious ceremonies suiting their beliefs. On Saturday, the state reported 8,253 Covid-19 cases taking the total to 3,78,605. Out of these cases, 2,87,261 people have recovered 97,417 are active cases. In active caseload, the state is on third spot but its mortality rate is the lowest in the country at 0.4 per cent. With 25 fresh fatalities, the death toll has gone up to 1,280 in the state. After conducting 67, 593 tests, 8,253 people tested positive clocking a TPR of 12.21 per cent, statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-s-test-positivity-rate-is-now-12-21-with-8-253-new-covid-19-cases/story-LcIpEDcVKZ0rWvZPGVIvnO.html
24-10-2020||India||Smriti Irani enters electoral battleground in Bihar; invokes Durga, Laxmi||In a stinging attack on the opposition RJD in poll-bound Bihar, Union minister Smriti Irani on Saturday asserted that “riches acquired through the fodder scam” will find no takers among the self-respecting people of the state. The firebrand BJP leader, who addressed her first couple of rallies in the state, also invoked the imagery of Laxmi, the goddess of wealth, and remarked that people knew “she comes carrying the lotus and not the lantern”, an obvious allusion to the poll symbols of BJP and the RJD respectively. “When the self-respecting people of Bihar pray to Goddess Bhagwati, they seek the strength to earn their bread through hard work. They do not seek a share in wealth earned through chaara ghotala”, said Irani, in an apparent reference to RJD supremo Lalu Prasad who is in Ranchi, serving sentences in fodder scam cases. Prasads younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav, who has been named by the opposition Grand Alliance as its Chief Ministerial candidate, has been trying to woo the voters with his promise of 10 lakh permanent government jobs if the party came to power. The ruling NDA in the state, which is battling anti- incumbency as well as rebellion from the LJP headed by Chirag Paswan who has vowed to dislodge JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar from power, has been going all out to thwart the oppositions attempts to cash in on the situation. “The people of Bihar know well enough the Laxmi, the goddess of wealth, does not come holding the hand of the Congress”, Irani said referring the poll symbol of the national party which is a junior partner of the RJD in Bihar. “They are also wise enough to understand that Laxmi does not carry a lantern either. She always carries a lotus. So they are going to press the lotus button”, said Irani. She also charged the RJD with having presided over an “abduction raj”, an indirect reference to allegations of the party maintaining close links with gangs involved in kidnapping for ransom while it was in power from 1990 to 2005. The Union minister asserted that economic growth and peoples well being was ensured in Bihar only after the RJD- Congress combine was ousted from power. “They ruled Bihar for 15 years. The states annual budget stood at a meagre Rs. 23,000 crore and the per capita income was a measly Rs 8,000. The NDA has spent just as much time in power and the budget as grown by nearly ten times and the per capita income has shot up to Rs 40,000”, the Union minister said. She also underscored that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, billions of rupees were disbursed among the countrys poor without any leakage, “in contrast with the times when only 15 paise out of every rupee sent by the government could reach the people”. Iranis comment was in reference to a statement made by the late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. The Union minister, who holds textiles and women and child development portfolios, also spoke about the Modi governments other pro-poor measures like free health insurance cover under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana and financial assistance to farmers under the Kisan Samman Yojana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smriti-irani-enters-electoral-battleground-in-bihar-invokes-durga-laxmi/story-JCqXdIFxDYLHHMra2AixUL.html
24-10-2020||India||Unlike in UP, govts in Punjab...: Rahul Gandhi’s counter-attack on BJP ‘selective outrage’ jibe||In a counter-attack, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday slammed the BJP as he reminded the party of the gang rape of a woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras in a subtle taunt. Taking to Twitter, the leader accused the Uttar Pradesh government of blocking justice by denying that the victim was raped.“Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice,” Gandhi wrote on Twitter. “If they do, I will go there to fight for justice,” he said about the Congress-led governments in the two states. Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice. #HathrasHe was referring to the alleged gang rape of the 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras last month. The crime took place on September 14 and the woman succumbed to her injuries at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on September 29. After the victim’s body reached her village, the UP police and administration officials allegedly cremated the victim in the middle of the night in the absence of her family or without taking their consent, triggering outrage across the country.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had earlier in the day questioned the silence of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on alleged rape and killing of a six-year-old girl in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur, calling them out for their “selective outrage”.“A six-year-old child of a Dalit migrant labourer from Bihar is raped, killed and body half-burnt in Hoshiarpur, and it does not shake the conscience of the brother and sister, who rush to every other place which can help them politically,” Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said while addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters in Delhi.Watch: Punjab horror: BJP slams Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi over 6-yr-old’s rape-murder case “Why is the brother-sister pair not going and voicing horror in Hoshiarpur? Why not in Rajasthan? The selective cry of outrage that the Congress wants to show when it is elsewhere but not in their governed states is completely exposed,” she said.“Not a word from the tweet-friendly leader Rahul Gandhi. No tweets on this (Hoshiarpur rape case), no outrage on this, and no picnic on this. A woman heads the party. Does this kind of selective outrage suits the stature of their party,” Sitharaman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unlike-in-up-govts-in-punjab-rahul-gandhi-s-counter-attack-on-bjp-selective-outrage-jibe/story-NzbdQFPGIKaJRi7PjvUVvK.html
24-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Lawlessness is nature of RJD, says JP Nadda at Biharsharif rally||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda on Saturday lashed out at the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) over the promises of providing employment made by it.Addressing the public in Biharsharif, he said that under whom lawlessness existed in the state are now talking about jobs.“Lawlessness is the nature of RJD. They never sought forgiveness for what they did to the people of Bihar. This implies that they still have the same intentions. Nitish Kumar knew that good governance can not be achieved while in power with the RJD alliance. This is why he broke ties with them and came with BJP,” Nadda said.He further said that the results of this election would decide the future of the state urging voters to be more vigilant before casting their votes. “This election isn’t about any candidate but Bihar’s future. We must keep that in mind while voting. Since 2014 there’s been a shift in Indian election ethics. Now politics is based on the merit of work done not casteism, regionalism & other divisive bases of votes,” he said.The BJP chief also accused the Congress of prolonging the Ram Janmabhoomi temple issue and further went ahead to enlist the work done by the Centre during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Congress party through Kapil Sibal filed a plea to Supreme Court to not pass a judgment on Ram Janmbhoomi. Such diversionary tactics are Congress’ modus operandi. Only after Modiji came to power the SC began a daily hearing of the case & passed a unanimous verdict,” Nadda said. “During the corona pandemic Modiji did the job of providing 80 crore people, from March till Diwali and Chatth puja, five kilograms wheat/rice and per family one-kilogram pulses,” he added. Nadda was campaigning in Biharsharif for seven National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates in the Nalanda Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-lawlessness-is-nature-of-rjd-says-jp-nadda-at-biharsharif-rally/story-pcJgt5RmUBxDy8xB3JlxpO.html
24-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Ask your father’, says Nitish Kumar in indirect attack at Tejashwi Yadav and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Ask your father’, says Bihar CM Nitish Kumar in indirect attack at RJD’s Tejashwi YadavIn a fresh attack, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday took a subtle dig at the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) Tejashwi Yadav during a poll rally in the state. While speaking on the education system in the state, the Janata Dal(United) chief, without landing a direct hit, said: “Ask your father if there were any schools or colleges built during the RJD’s reign in Bihar”. Read moreNDA to form govt again in Bihar, BJP may get maximum seats: ABP-CVoter opinion pollThe National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will come back to power in Bihar, where it is up against the mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and several other parties, according to an opinion poll conducted by ABP-CVoter ahead of the assembly elections in the eastern state. Read moreDelhi schools not opening for now, says CM Arvind KejriwalThe political slugfest over Covid-19 vaccine distribution has become more visible as India has been fighting against the viral contagion, which has wreaked havoc on the Indian economy, infected more than 7.8 million and claimed 1,17,956 lives nationwide, for almost nine months now. Read moreIPL 2020: Will MS Dhoni play Chennai Super Kings’ remaining matches this season? CSK captain gives clear answerAfter suffering a 10-wicket win over Mumbai Indians, Chennai Super Kings find themselves in front of insurmountable mountain to make it through to the playoffs. Read moreRadhika Apte says she doesn’t believe in the institution of marriage, reveals why she got marriedRadhika Apte, who tied the knot with British musician Benedict Taylor in 2012, said that she is not a big believer in the institution of marriage. She only got married because it was ‘easier to get a visa’. Read moreAsus ROG Strix G15 review: The best-looking gaming laptop for its price, and moreAsus ROG Strix G15 has a lot going on especially with its flashy light strip. It comes with the 10th gen Intel Core i7 chipset, up to 2TB HDD and a 15.6-inch Full HD display. Read moreWatch: Woman thrashes policeman in Mumbai, video goes viral||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ask-your-father-says-nitish-kumar-in-indirect-attack-at-tejashwi-yadav-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XEjY9P3nhP2GfM3IfTFFwM.html
24-10-2020||India||Delhi airport starts Covid-19 testing for international departures||International passengers taking their flights from the Delhi airport can now get themselves tested for Covid-19 right before their departure, said Genestrings Diagnostic Center which operates the testing lab at the airport, on Saturday. The Covid-19 testing facility, which started operating on September 12 at the Delhi airport, was available only for arrival passengers till date. “The facility has now been extended to air travellers leaving India for other countries. Notably, international travel rules require passengers travelling from one country to another to produce COVID negative reports,” said a press release by Genestrings. The lab uses RT-PCR tests and provides reports within 4-6 hours. It means that the travellers should arrive at the airport 7-8 hours before their scheduled flight to take the test, the press release noted. “The test is available 24/7 and is priced at Rs 2400 as mandated by the Delhi government,” the release said. “As more people are now taking up international travel, Delhi Airport authorities felt the need to provide the testing facility to outbound passengers as well,” said Rajat Arora, Director, Genestrings Diagnostic Center. Genestrings Diagnostics has increased its manpower of lab technicians at the facility as the lab is expecting an increasing number of samples in the coming days, the press release noted. The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) started the Covid-19 testing facility on September 12 at the multi-level car parking area of Terminal 3 in collaboration with Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, which is a group company of Yashoda Hospitals. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-starts-covid-19-testing-for-international-departures/story-xy6aklS5yaL05XD1xuZHKO.html
24-10-2020||India||Congress hits back, says BJP politicising Hoshiarpur incident in view of Bihar assembly polls||The Congress on Saturday hit back at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Hoshiarpur incident, saying the ruling party was “politicising” the issue in the view of the assembly elections in Bihar. Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev attacked finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and her colleagues Prakash Javadekar and Harsh Vardhan for questioning the visit of the opposition leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to Hathras. “I hope that Nirmala Sitharaman ji will stop displaying her total insensitiveness to such a sensitive issue. Don’t politicise it,” she said, addressing a press conference at the Congress headquarters in Delhi. “The nation understands that you have suddenly woken up from your deep sleep because Bihar is in election mode. There is no second reason. Your party, your leaders and even Prime Minister Narendra Modi do not see beyond elections and that is why all of a sudden you have decided to make Hoshiarpur an issue,” Dev alleged. Earlier in the day, Sitharaman attacked Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for their “selective outrage” in cases of atrocities against women and questioned their “silence” over the alleged rape and killing of a six-year-old girl in Hoshiarpur in Punjab. “I am appalled, disgusted and disheartened to see that the finance minister, Javadekar and Harsh Vardhan having spent a lot of time and energy to raise the unfortunate death of a young girl in Hoshiarpur and question Congress leaders for visiting Hathras,” Dev said. “I would like to tell Nirmala Sitharaman Ji, you have repeatedly proved your incompetence in your own ministry and now as an insensitive woman minister too. There is a reason why many opposition leaders felt it was their prime duty to go to Hathras,” she added. In Hathras, the Congress leader claimed that police refused to file an FIR with the section of rape while in Punjab; the police not only immediately filed an FIR with POCSO and IPC sections within 36 hours but also arrested the accused. She said Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the director general of Police (DGP) are personally looking into the case. “The chief minister has insisted on exemplary punishment. The Punjab Women’s Commission and the Scheduled Caste Commission have taken cognisance and asked for a report from the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Hoshiarpur.” “Second reason, why people felt, it was necessary to stand by the family members of the Hathras rape victim, which may not be necessary in Punjab, is that the UP government left the Hathras victim over 10 days in a hospital and did not seek forensic report for 11 days, which is absolutely essential to be taken within 24 hours,” Dev said. “You left out the forensic evidence because it suited you, because you wanted to take the case to say that there was no rape. That has been proved again and again, but, Punjab government and Punjab police have sent the Hoshiarpur case to fast track with the strictest sections of POCSO, which has capital punishment,” she added. The Congress leader said the third reason why the leaders felt the need to go to Hathras is because the entire district administration of Hathras geared up, not to protect the victim and the family members, but to threaten them. “That’s why the opposition leaders felt it was their duty to go to Hathras. In Punjab, the chairperson of the Punjab Women’s Commission has already met the family, assured their full support,” she added. “Your own district magistrate in Hathras case threatened the family. Can anybody say that any person or any member of the Punjab administration had threatened this family? Another reason the Additional Director General of Uttar Pradesh claimed there was no rape in the Hathras case. Can anybody say that the Punjab Police or any officer in Punjab is denying rape? In fact, POCSO has been invoked. Uttar Pradesh had beaten up the media people. Punjab has not tried to hush up this case,” Dev said. “Apart from that it is disgusting, where were you Nirmala Sitharaman Ji, when BJP leaders in Hathras were rallying with the accused and victim shaming the Hathras’ daughter, who was killed so brutally, where were you, why were you silent?” “Most importantly and I want the nation to know this that Captain Amarinder Singh and the Punjab government ensured that the young girl, who unfortunately lost her life, was cremated with full respect, complete rituals in the presence of her family and not just her family, but, the entire village and the UP government cremated the Hathras victim in the dark of the night without a single member, even in her last moment, it deprived the victim of basic human rights.” Dev claimed that the Allahabad court had “given a tight slap on the face” of the UP government, the chief minister and the administration in condemning the manner in which the Hathras case was dealt with. “Can anybody say that in the Hoshiarpur case that the court feels a need to intervene? I don’t think so. That is the reason why Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi felt it was their duty to stand by the family which was being harassed by the chief minister and his government,” she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-back-says-bjp-politicising-hoshiarpur-incident-in-view-of-bihar-assembly-polls/story-RT6TfX6LlM3VAXnzDHahaL.html
24-10-2020||India||Delhi schools not opening for now, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that schools in the national capital, which have been shut due to the coronavirus pandemic, will not be opening for now. The message from the chief minister comes amid a rise in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi, where more than 348,000 people have contracted it and 6,189 have died so far.Kejriwal, earlier in the day, had pitched for free availability for Covid-19 vaccine for all Indian citizens, reasoning that everyone in the country has been troubled by the coronavirus disease. “The whole country should get a free Covid-19 vaccine. It is the right of the entire country. All the people are troubled by the coronavirus, so the vaccine should be free for the country,” Kejriwal said soon after inaugurating two flyovers in northeast Delhi.Also read | All citizens should get free Covid-19 vaccine: Delhi chief minister Arvind KejriwalAlready witnessing a rise in the number of active cases and fresh cases, the national capital is anticipating a spike in Covid-19 cases during the winter and ongoing festive season. Recording a surge in Covid-19 cases after 34 days, Delhi on Friday recorded 4,086 new infections and 26 deaths, taking the total number of confirmed infections in the city to 348,404. The toll from the disease rose to 6,189.The political slugfest over Covid-19 vaccine distribution has become more visible as India has been fighting against the viral contagion, which has wreaked havoc on the Indian economy, infected more than 7.8 million and claimed 1,17,956 lives nationwide, for almost nine months now. Also read | Covid-19: Countries battle rising cases as WHO sees ‘exponential’ riseEarlier this week, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) promised the distribution of free Covid-19 vaccine as part of its Bihar poll manifesto, which triggered an immediate action by the Election Commission amid criticism by opposition parties. Congress dubbed the move as political immorality on part of the BJP for using Covid-19 vaccine as election sop||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-schools-not-opening-for-now-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-nF2UjETaVZwJZFnvC9a2fJ.html
24-10-2020||India||India logs dip in day-on-day active Covid-19 cases, count below 7 lakh for 2 days||India’s active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to remain below 700,000 for the second consecutive day, with 80% of the total new cases being reported from 10 states.The active cases now comprise only 8.71% of the total positive cases of the country, suggesting that the disease has registered a downward trend.There has been a progressive dip in the day-on-day active cases during the past few weeks, with the country’s active Covid-19 caseload standing at 6,80,630 till noon on Saturday. “The declining trend of the active cases is complemented by the unbroken rising number of recovered cases. The total recovered cases have crossed the 70 lakh mark and stand at 70,16,046. The national recovery rate has further improved to 89.78%,” the Union health ministry said in a statement.Professor M Vidyasagar, from the Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad, who headed the 10-member government committee that recently made projections about Covid-19 cases and deaths in India, says in his report that the cumulative number of active cases could fall below 40,000 cases by end of February next year.“From about 10 lakh active cases that were reported around mid September, the current active case load has dropped to about 7 lakh, which is a drop of 30% in about a month. So, the numbers are declining.” “There is a caveat though that all Covid-19 appropriate precautions such as wearing a mask, maintaining hand hygiene and observing physical distancing must be observed without fail. Any form of laxity can result in resurgence of cases,” added professor Vidyasagar. The total number of Covid-19 cases in India are 78,13,542 as on date. “The continuous decline in active cases is a result of the successful test, treat and track strategy of the Union government that is being implemented in states. The change in the active cases across the states and Union Territories has been varied, indicating different stages in their fight against the global pandemic,” said a health ministry statement o Saturday. The number of new deaths reported in a day has also seen a sharp decline, from about 1,000 new deaths in a day about a month ago to 605 reported on Saturday. With that the total number of people having succumbed to Covid-19 in India so far stand at 1,17,946. “The current numbers seem to suggest there is a decline in the disease graph but as we have seen globally this disease have seen multiple peaks. Many countries are seeing the second wave of the disease, and with temperatures dropping and probability of intermingling of people high because of the festive season, it remains to be seen how the virus behaves,” said Dr Vivekanand Jha, executive director, George Institute for Global Health India. “This is a new virus and there is a fair amount of uncertainty involved,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-dip-in-day-on-day-active-covid-19-cases-count-below-7-lakh-for-2-days/story-jEIeQ4rUIuspa9tNsi29HM.html
24-10-2020||India||Why is the Congress silent on Punjab rape: Nirmala Sitharaman||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday questioned the Congress’s silence over the alleged rape and murder of a six-year old Dalit girl in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur this week while hitting out at the party’s “selective outrage” over crimes against women. The girl’s family is from Bihar.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said rape and crimes against women cannot be linked to politics. She questioned whether Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who visited the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman allegedly raped and murdered in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras to seek justice for her, will do so for the girl in Punjab, where the Congress is in power.Also Read: A day after 6-yr-old girl’s rape-murder in Hoshiarpur, 2 held“No rape should be politicised; it is despicable that rapes happen and justice is delayed in some cases. And all political parties together will have to make sure that the system responds and justice is served in time. But because we want our political games to be played, we are selective about voicing horror when it is in some states and remain in complete silence when it is in state’s governed by Congress,” she said.She said it is unfortunate that the demand for justice that was raised in the BJP-ruled state is missing when it comes to cases from Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Punjab.“The pretentious Congress has not said a word. The tweet-friendly Rahul Gandhi has not tweeted on the Hoshiarpur incident. There is been no outrage; no picnic either.”The BJP leader also questioned the silence of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) over the incident. “Did [RJD leader] Tejwasvi Yadav, who campaigned [for the Bihar election] with Gandhi not ask why he is silent. That child was from Bihar. Is RJD not answerable to that family,” she said.Also Read: Mission Shakti: Yogi Adityanath orders glass room in all UP police stations for women complainantsCriticising the RJD for not speaking up for women’s safety, she said, the party’s leaders have a poor track record. Citing a media report from January 2, 2008, she said, “In 2008, there were allegations against the RJD brothers for eve-teasing in Delhi so it does not affect them. During the jungle raj in Bihar, we know what the situation of law and order was; senior officials’ wives were not spared.”Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh hit out at BJP leaders Nirmala Sitharaman and Prakash Javadekar for their comments over the Hoshiarpur rape-murder case, dubbing their remarks as “political puffery” with no substance or basis to support their criticism.Singh rejected the BJP’s attack on his government as well as the Gandhis. Amarinder Singh said contrary to what these leaders were claiming, there was no comparison between the Hoshiarpur and the Hathras case. He pointed out that in the Hathras case, the Uttar Pradesh government and police “did not only fail” to initiate stern action but in fact was seemingly “trying to cover up” the matter to benefit the upper-caste accused.This, he said, was in sharp contrast to the prompt action taken by the Punjab Police, who immediately arrested the accused and is now preparing to file the challan within a week.The BJP government in Uttar Pradesh faced much criticism after the Hathras woman was cremated in the dead of the night without her family’s approval.Members of Parliament (MPs) from several parties, including the Congress and the Trinamool Congress were manhandled by the police when they tried to visit the woman’s family in Hathras.Referring to the MPs’ statements about the Hathras incident, the minister said, “The BJP stands with all those who want to give justice to the family in Hoshiarpur. When there was something in Hathras, 35 senior MPs of the party [Congress] from all over the country made statements on Twitter and wanted to go marching to Hathras asking for justice. Where are those 35 today?”The minister said while the BJP government is accused of clamping down on freedom of expression, incidents of police action against journalists are being reported from the Congress-ruled states of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh.“Many derogatory remarks were made about the PM [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] and the [Union] home minister [Amit Shah], has there been any action... There is so much being said about freedom of expression being under threat but it is only in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. The Congress DNA is to suppress freedom of expression.”Reacting to Sitharaman’s remarks, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said, “The RJD is sensitive to women issues. After all whose rule is there? Is Tejashwi Yadav responsible for everything? It seems BJP do not have any issue to highlight and they are trying to drag his name in anything. People of Bihar will teach them a lesson.”(With inputs from agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-the-congress-silent-on-punjab-rape-nirmala-sitharaman/story-heWHGR9OHSo4RU17UtQO9I.html
24-10-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah president, Mehbooba Mufti vice president of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration||National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah will be the president of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration and Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti the vice president of the six-party grouping, a senior leader said on Saturday.The announcement was made after a meeting of the members of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration at Mufti’s residence in Srinagar. NC vice president Omar Abdullah was also present at the meeting.“A document will be prepared within a month via which we’ll present facts behind the lies that are being propagated. It’ll be a tribute to people of J&K who are being slandered,” Sajjad Lone of the Peoples Conference was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The six parties --the National Conference (NC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Peoples Conference (PC), Communist Party of India Marxist (CPI-M), Peoples Movement (PM) and Awami National Conference (ANC) -- had come together earlier this month to form the alliance to peacefully seek the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status and fight for the rights of the people in the restive region.Also read | Centre must not see J&K parties as anti-national, says Chidambaram, welcomes People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration“We are anti-BJP, we are not anti-national,” Farooq Abdullah said after the meeting of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration on Saturday. “It’s not an anti-national Jamat, our aim is to ensure that the rights of people of J&K and Ladakh are restored. Attempts to dividing us in the name of religion will fail. It’s not a religious fight,” he added.CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami will the convenor of the alliance and Sajjad Lone has been named as the spokesperson. The leaders also adopted the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as its symbol. The alliance will come out with a white paper within a month on governance in Jammu and Kashmir over the past one year since the abrogation of Article 370, Lone told reporters after the meeting.Also read | People’s Alliance is dancing to Pak, China’s tune: J&K BJP chiefThe leaders of the six parties had held their first meeting on October 15 following the release of Mufti from detention. This meeting was held at Farooq Abdullah’s residence in Srinagar. Abdullah had said that the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration will push for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s constitutional position before August 5, 2019, when the region’s special status was revoked and it was split into two union territories.“We shall struggle for the restoration of what was snatched from Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh. Ours is a constitutional battle, we want the government of India to return to the people of the state the rights they held before August 5, 2019,” said Abdullah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-president-mehbooba-mufti-vice-president-of-people-s-alliance-for-gupkar-declaration/story-f5gBe89yiG7C5Uw2tWgnzM.html
24-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Districts in UP with most number of Covid cases showing high recovery rate and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttar Pradesh coming off Covid-19 peak, claim officials, set a new targetUttar Pradesh districts with the maximum Covid-19 caseload are now showing a high recovery rate and a low infection rate. At least 11 such districts have a recovery rate close to or above 90%, and experts say this will give time for a revamp of the health infrastructure if a second wave hits. Read moreBihar Election 2020: Katoria will see a contest between RJD and BJP againOne of the 243 constituencies in the legislative assembly of Bihar, Katoria is a part of the Banka Lok Sabha constituency and is reserved for candidates of Scheduled Tribes. Located in the eastern state’s Banka district, Katoria Vidhan Sabha constituency is hit by Maoist violence. Read morePune consumer forum directs logistics company to pay Rs 33,000 in compensationThe Pune district consumer forum has directed Messr Agarwal Packers and Movers company to pay Rs 33,000 as compensation to a consumer for deficiency of service. The applicant identified as Manish Thakur availed the services of the company to bring his household goods which comprised a television and a washing machine from Mumbai to Pune. Read moreCovid-19: Countries battle rising cases as WHO sees ‘exponential’ riseGrim data highlighted the struggle for authorities around the world to bring the coronavirus pandemic under control Saturday, as the US reported 80,000 infections in a single day, France extended a curfew to two-thirds of citizens and Germany’s death toll passed 10,000. Read moreAnt Group IPO pricing ‘history’s largest’, says Alibaba’s Jack MaThe mammoth dual listing for Chinese fintech giant Ant Group will be the world’s biggest, according to a pricing determined on Friday night, Alibaba founder Jack Ma said on Saturday. “It’s the first time that the pricing of such a big listing, the largest in human history, has been determined outside New York City” he told the Bund Summit in the eastern financial hub of Shanghai. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Virat Kohli has now belief they can do the job’ - Scott Styris explains what has changed for RCB this seasonRoyal Challengers Bangalore are enjoying a good season of Indian Premier League in 2020 in the UAE. The Virat Kohli-led unit had finished with the wooden spoon last season. RCB’s biggest problem had been their death bowling which had often left the team disappointed. Read moreDU NCWEB BA, BCom first cutoff list 2020 released at du.ac.inThe Delhi University on Saturday released the first cut- off list for Non- Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB) for BA and B. Com courses. The first cut-off for all the NCWEB colleges is accessible on the official website at du.ac.in. Read moreNeha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh’s wedding videos from gurduwara leaked online, watchNew videos from the wedding of singers Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh have been leaked on the internet. In the clips, the two are seen twinning in shades of peach and pink, as they get married at a gurudwara in Delhi. Videos from the ring ceremony were also shared online. Read moreMan shows compact setup inside SUV complete with bed and fridge, video wows peopleIf you are someone who gets excited thinking about long road trips, then this clip may speak to your soul. Shared on Instagram, the clip gives a detailed look of a travel setup inside a car. The video makes for a pretty interesting watch. Read moreTMC’s Nusrat Jahan dances & plays Dhak during Durga Puja celebrationsTrinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan was seen dancing during Durga Puja celebrations in West Bengal’s New Alipore. Nusrat was spotted in a red & white sari dancing with women. She was also seen playing the traditional drum or Dhak on Durga Ashtami. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-districts-in-up-with-most-number-of-covid-cases-showing-high-recovery-rate-and-all-the-latest-news/story-V44GbkK2L2eBENRPkKcqqI.html
24-10-2020||India||Pakistan quadcopter shot down by Indian Army in Jammu and Kashmir’s Keran sector||Indian Army troops shot down a Pakistan Army quadcopter along Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Saturday.According to the Indian Army officials, the Pakistan Army quadcopter was shot down at around 8 am today.“Indian Army troops shot down a Pakistan Army quadcopter around 8 am today along Line of Control in Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir. The Pakistani quadcopter made by Chinese company DJI Mavic 2 Pro model was shot down while it was flying over own position there,” an official told ANI.Indian Army has been on a high alert against Pakistani attempts to infiltrate terrorists or carry out Border Action Team (BAT) attacks by its special forces against Indian positions on the Line of Control.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane had recently said that Pakistan has been trying to continue with its nefarious designs of pushing terrorists into the Indian territory but such attempts are being foiled by the Indian troops deployed in the front.Pakistan has been trying to push across terrorists before the snowfall closes all possible routes of infiltration on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-quadcopter-shot-down-by-indian-army-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-keran-sector/story-LTwYS2WrpycQq8mov7SOnM.html
24-10-2020||India||PM Modi teaches India how to run from truth, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday took a fresh jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and accused him of running away from the truth, which he said has resulted in the loss of dignity and livelihoods of millions.“Our PM teaches India how to run from the truth. Millions of people have lost their dignity and livelihoods as a result,” Gandhi wrote in a tweet. Gandhi tweeted the jibe with a newspaper report which cited the indication of the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee that it may take years to regain India’s ‘lost GDP output’.Our PM teaches India how to run from the truth. Millions of people have lost their dignity and livelihoods as a result. pic.twitter.com/obssMjsi9LThe Congress leader has kept up with his attacks on the government in the run-up to the Bihar assembly elections. In a recent dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) election promise of 1.9 million jobs in Bihar, Gandhi on Friday said that it was similar to that of depositing Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of the people.Gandhi, in his election address, alleged that Prime Minister Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar broke the backbone of the farmers and medium and small businesses in the state. He said that Modi calls himself a nationalist but he has weakened the country over the last six years. “Hindustan is weak today. Its economy is suppressed, farmers oppressed and small shopkeepers restless. That is why China has intruded into Indian territory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-teaches-india-how-to-run-from-truth-says-rahul-gandhi/story-lgEqScr8jH7pOVxxZNLilJ.html
24-10-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh coming off Covid-19 peak, claim officials, set a new target||Uttar Pradesh districts with the maximum Covid-19 caseload are now showing a high recovery rate and a low infection rate. At least 11 such districts have a recovery rate close to or above 90%, and experts say this will give time for a revamp of the health infrastructure if a second wave hits.“A fall in fresh cases cannot be a time to relax but it is certainly an opportunity to upgrade the health infrastructure and also improve the medical manpower,” said IMA (Lucknow) former president PK Gupta.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Amit Mohan Prasad said the strategy adopted by the department – preventive measures combined with awareness campaign – checked the infection surge across the state.While the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the state increased to 92.47%, the case fatality rate has come down to 1.46%. There has been a fall of 40,000 in active cases in comparison to September 17, when the active Covid cases’ graph peaked to 68,235.Prasad said all the 75 districts witnessed a major surge in coronavirus infection but at different times, thereby helping in not spreading the health machinery thin. He added that quality health services were provided to patients in each district. After attaining the peak in all 75 districts, the Covid-19 infection is on a decline in the state, he said.Even as Covid-19 cases are on a decline, the state health machinery is working continuously to improve the recovery rate further and also bring down the fatality rate by increasing sample testing, surveillance, contact tracing and by providing quality service to patients in hospitals, he said.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Ensure death audit of Covid-19 fatalities, chief secretary tells officials“The world is talking about a second wave. And if it happens, we need to be prepared. This can be done by adding health infrastructure and training more staff in Covid management,” said Gupta.“The best time to train more medical staff is now, when cases are going down and load upon hospitals is reduced. In the next few weeks, if we can add more to the infrastructure and train more people across the state it will really help,” said association of international doctors’ secretary-general Abhishek Shukla.Also Read: Mission Shakti: Yogi Adityanath orders glass room in all UP police stations for women complainantsJhansi, considered the gateway to Uttar Pradesh, witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases in September. District magistrate (DM) Andra Vamsi said that following the multi-pronged strategy, the district was able to check the spread of infection and improve the recovery rate to 93.80%. Early detection and early admission helped in quick recovery, he said.Private hospitals were activated to provide treatment to patients and the district administration increased vigilance in areas that witnessed large gatherings of people including markets and public places, Vamsi said.Meerut DM K Balaji said to check the fatality rate, the district administration analysed the death of patients. Focus was on the reasons for deaths and on adopting the right strategy to check mortality. Hospitals adopted fresh strategies and treatment techniques to check deaths. The new treatment plan paid dividends in checking fatalities and improving the recovery rate, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-coming-off-covid-19-peak-claim-officials-set-a-new-target/story-TZXRxi9OpFDUoJOMZNUUBO.html
24-10-2020||India||India-US 2+2 dialogue to focus on regional security cooperation and defence information-sharing||The India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue next week will focus on regional security cooperation and defence information-sharing so that the two sides can operate more cohesively and seamlessly while dealing with regional challenges, senior American officials said on Saturday. The meeting will also focus on global cooperation, including public health collaboration to cope with Covid-19, economic cooperation, working together in the Indo-Pacific, and people-to-people ties, two senior US administration officials said during a background briefing. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh will meet their US counterparts Mike Pompeo and Mark Esper in New Delhi on October 27 for the third edition of the 2+2 dialogue. American officials have noted the decision by the US leaders to visit India in-person, amid the pandemic and just a week ahead of the presidential election, reflects the importance attached to ties with India. Also Read: Working with like-minded partners essential to contain China, says USOne of the officials said there is no reason to believe the US’s policy for India will change if there is a new administration after the November 3 election. “I think both parties are largely aligned on their interest in supporting and deepening the partnership,” the official said. India and the US are widely expected to sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), one of four so-called foundational pacts to facilitate sharing of classified satellite and sensor data, during the 2+2 meeting. “We’ve made significant progress towards concluding the last foundational defence enabling agreement...the BECA. This agreement will allow for expanded geospatial information sharing between our armed forces. We are also seeking to expand secure communication capabilities between our respective militaries as well as between our foreign and defence ministries,” the official cited above said. The US is enhancing maritime security across the Indian Ocean by coordinating and building capacity with regional countries, the official said. India’s decision to include Australia with the US and Japan in the Malabar naval exercise in November “signals not only a strategic convergence between the Quadrilateral partners but a recognition that regional security requires strengthening allies and partnerships and working multilaterally on issues of mutual concern,” the official added. Also Read: Always felt deeply connected to Indian American community, says Joe BidenThe US is also building greater military interoperability with India by increasing the sophistication of combined exercises, and it has placed a liaison officer at India’s Information Fusion Center for the Indian Ocean to enhance coordination and information-sharing between the navies. “We also hope to confirm two additional Indian liaison officer placements in the near term to expand counterterrorism cooperation,” the official said. The second administration official said it had become more important for the US to work with like-minded partners such as India in view of “China’s increasingly aggressive behaviour across the Indo-Pacific, from the Himalayas to the South China Sea”. The US side has already said the India-China border standoff in Ladakh is expected to figure in the 2+2 dialogue. The first administration official said the US administration is “covering the situation in the Himalayas closely” and it wants to “ensure that the situation doesn’t escalate”. The US is providing support, “whether through defence sales, exercises [and] information sharing”, to India, and “not just as it relates to the tensions in the Himalayas”, the official added. The first official also said the two sides have an ongoing dialogue about increased cooperation in Southeast Asia, not just in the South China Sea, and encourages India’s involvement in these regions. “And that cuts across development investments, it cuts across security cooperation, and then it also involves presence. And so we welcome greater Indian participation in Southeast Asia, across all three of those areas,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-2-2-dialogue-to-focus-on-regional-security-cooperation-and-defence-information-sharing/story-zvuNMZ6qQqKQoc56Y6u7lN.html
24-10-2020||India||‘6-yr-old Dalit girl’s rape, murder in Punjab doesn’t shake their conscience’: Sitharaman’s swipe at Rahul, Priyanka||Union minister finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday targeted Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra over the rape and murder of a six-year-old Dalit girl in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district and accused the Congress leaders of visiting “every other place which can help them politically.”“A six-year-old child of a Dalit migrant labourer from Bihar is raped, killed and the body half-burnt in Hoshiarpur and it doesn’t shake the conscience of the brother and sister who rush to every other place which can help them politically,” the BJP leader said about the crime in the Congress-ruled state.Sitharaman was referring to the Congress leaders’ visit to Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district earlier this month amid high drama following the death of a 19-year-old Dalit rape victim. Rahul and Priyanka met the family members of the victim and assured them of all support in getting justice for their daughter. They also slammed the state administration over its handling of the case.Union minister of environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar also hit out at Congress leaders, including the party’s national president Sonia Gandhi, for not visiting the grieving family in Hoshiarpur. He termed the grand old party’s delegation’s visit to the village in Uttar Pradesh a “photo op.” He said, “They don’t pay heed to the injustice done to women in the states ruled by their party, but visit Hathras and other places for photo ops with the victim’s family.”Also Read: Punjab CM calls for speedy trial, exemplary punishment for rape, murder of 6-year-old girl in HoshiarpurIn an apparent reference to Gandhi’s rallies in poll-bound Bihar, Javadekar said, “Instead of going on political tours, Rahul Gandhi should visit Tanda and Rajasthan and take cognisance of incidents of crime against women. The minister demanded strict action against the culprits.A man and his grandfather have been arrested for raping and setting ablaze the six-year-old girl, a day after her half-burnt body was recovered from their house at Jalalpur village in Tanda, police said on Thursday. The arrests were made on charges of murder, rape and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The victim’s father has alleged that Gurpreet Singh took the girl to his home where he allegedly raped her and that he and his grandfather Surjit Singh allegedly killed her and burnt her body. The half-burnt body of the girl was found from their house, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-yr-old-dalit-girl-s-rape-murder-in-punjab-doesn-t-shake-their-conscience-sitharaman-s-swipe-at-rahul-priyanka/story-7hJBD8cC555Wj1kbKcxsUJ.html
24-10-2020||India||Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis tests positive for Covid-19||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday he has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has gone into isolation. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader informed on Twitter that he is under medication and treatment according to the advice of doctors.Fadnavis is in-charge of the BJP’s poll campaign for the assembly elections in Bihar, which will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. “God wants me to stop for a while and take a break,” Fadnavis said. The counting of votes will take place on November 10.“I have been working every single day since the lockdown but now it seems that God wants me to stop for a while and take a break ! I have tested Covid-19 positive and in isolation. Taking all medication & treatment as per the advice of the doctors,” he wrote on Twitter.The BJP leader requested those who have made contact with him recently to get tested for the virus as well. “Those who have come in contact with me are advised to get covid19 tests done. Take care, everyone!” he said.Deputy chief minister of Bihar Sushil Kumar Modi had tested positive for Covid-19 just a few days ago. In a tweet, the BJP leader had said he has been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Patna and that he will be back soon for poll campaigning in the state.In its election manifesto released on Thursday for Bihar, the BJP promised to provide free vaccine for Covid-19 as soon as it was available for mass production, a promise that kicked-off a political storm in the nation with several other states following suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-devendra-fadnavis-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-5o1jI9kXMq90pxGddNLYtM.html
24-10-2020||India||ITBP broke myth that some countries have strong armies: MoS G Kishan Reddy||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), in developments that took place in the last few months, has broken the myth of some countries that they have a powerful army, Union minister G Kishan Reddy said on Saturday, in an indirect reference to the ongoing standoff between India and China in Ladakh.The minister of state for home was addressing the troops of the mountain warfare-trained border force on the occasion of its 59th raising day here.He did not take names but said while India believes in the philosophy of “vasudhaiva kutumbakam” or the world is one family, the culture of the country teaches it to worship both “shastra and astra” or sacred scriptures and weapons at the same time.“This has taught us that the enemy can raise its head anytime, anywhere and we should be fully prepared to face any possibility. The ITBP is an important pillar of that preparedness of the country,” Reddy said.“The armies of some countries had a myth that they were among the powerful armies of the world, but during the developments in the past few months, the ITBP has broken that myth,” he added.The country and its citizens are proud of the ITBP’s valour and dedication, the minister said.The ITBP is the designated force to guard the 3,488-km-long Sino-India Line of Actual Control (LAC) that runs from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh in the northeastern flank of the country.The Army and the border-guarding force are engaged in a military standoff in the Ladakh region for the past few months. The ITBP had sometime ago said it “fought the whole night” and gave a befitting reply to the Chinese PLA troops during a violent clash between the two sides on June 15-16.Reddy said the force not only mans the borders and ensures the internal security of the country, but also protects its economic interests.“India is surrounded by a hostile neighbourhood and our enemy, time and again, puts obstacles to stop our economic development. When you defeat these designs of the enemy, you ensure the country’s economic development,” he said.Reddy said the Narendra Modi government is “determined” to strengthen and “modernise” the force, and informed about certain sanctions given to it in the recent past.“I am happy to inform that the ITBP has been given the approval by the Ministry of Home Affairs to establish 47 border posts, uniform special clothing and mountaineering equipment for high-altitude locations, latest weapons are being provided and work is on to prepare priority border roads for the force,” he said.The minister said the Centre had approved a budget of Rs 7,223 crore for the force for financial year 2019-20.“I assure you that there will be no dearth of funds for the ITBP,” Reddy added.ITBP Director General (DG) Surjeet Singh Deswal also spoke at the event as he lauded the bravery displayed by the troops recently in Ladakh under “very challenging circumstances”.Deswal said he toured the Ladakh border front recently and himself honoured the gallant personnel, while adding that recommendations have been sent to the government for awarding gallantry medals to some of them who fought against the Chinese troops.The force has left no stone unturned to guard this border, faced with challenges of weather, low temperatures and oxygen levels and a difficult terrain, he said.Deswal said the force has finalised and sent to the home ministry a proposal for constructing “phase-2 of India-China border roads”.“A proposal has also been sent to the high-level empowered committee for the creation of 18 foot-tracks in Arunachal Pradesh. We hope that the work on this will begin soon,” the ITBP chief said.He added that the force is providing better vehicles, bullet-proof jackets and helmets, clothing and ration to its troops on the border.New systems for better communication have been installed, Deswal said.The ITBP was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression and it has a strength of about 90,000 personnel with 60 battalions on the ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbp-broke-myth-that-some-countries-have-strong-armies-mos-g-kishan-reddy/story-3JeJ9P6IWNegdS44XChDTJ.html
24-10-2020||India||‘Bihar should get vaccine, but other states are not in Pakistan’: Shiv Sena on BJP’s free vaccine promise||In its Saturday editorial in mouthpiece Saamana, Shiv Sena said Bihar should get Covid-19 vaccine but other states are not in Pakistan. Criticising BJP’s election promise of free vaccine to Bihar, the editorial asked if the non-BJP-ruled states in the country should now ask Russian President Vladimir Putin for vaccine against Covid-19.The NDA in its election manifesto for Bihar has promised free vaccine to all. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut earlier criticised the decision of including vaccine in the manifesto and said, “Earlier it was give me blood and I will give you freedom. Now it has become give me vote and i will give you vaccine.”Echoing the same sentiment, the editorial said Covid-19 vaccine distribution is the national role of the government. It will cost the Centre at least Rs 70,000 crore to vaccinate 130 crore people in the country. “Bihar is part of the country. The state has consistently demanded special status. But even though Nitish Kumar was the chief minister, the state remained backward. There is no doubt that Bihar should get the vaccine but other states are not in Pakistan. The issue of Covid-19 vaccine should not be included in Bihar’s election manifesto,” the editorial said.It also noted how after Nirmala Sitharaman released the election manifesto, states like Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh “rushed” to announce free vaccines.“What exactly is the policy of Bharatiya Janata Party? Who is their guide? The Prime Minister did not bring caste, religion, province, politics anywhere as he spoke on vaccine distribution. But now the BJP leaders have taken a strange role in the Bihar Assembly campaign,” the editorial said, taking a note that Bihar Assembly election 2020 is going to be the first major election activity on the country amid the ongoing pandemic. “Public meetings are being held. A huge number of people are gathering as leaders are flying in and out in helicopters. Social distancing rules are being flouted,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-should-get-vaccine-but-other-states-are-not-in-pakistan-shiv-sena-on-bjp-s-free-vaccine-promise/story-pwzn26ZKsozTaaBeb9zC1L.html
24-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Yogi Adityanath orders glass room in all UP police stations for women complainants and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mission Shakti: Yogi Adityanath orders glass room in all UP police stations for women complainantsChief minister Yogi Adityanath said the setting up of a secret glass room in police stations across the state would help women complainants speak freely to women police personnel. Read moreSmriti Irani attacks Congress for opposing farm acts, hits out at Robert VadraBJP leader Smriti Irani launched a scathing attack on Congress and accused it of using farmers and their issues for its benefit. Watch hereSet, aim, trick or treat! Man builds ‘candypult’ for Halloween, netizens love itAlong with spookiness in the air, Halloween comes with the joy of trick or treating and lots of candy. And keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic situation, people have come up with their own creative ways to enjoy trick and treating. Read moreIPL 2020, MI vs CSK: ‘Right from the second game,’ MS Dhoni explains what went wrong with CSK this season2020 has been a forgetful year for Chennai Super Kings. There were much expectations with the franchise of the 13th season of the Indian Premier League but the UAE hasn’t proved a happy hunting ground for the three-time champions. Read moreBorat Subsequent Moviefilm review: An audacious achievement by Sacha Baron Cohen, one of the bravest storytellers of our timesWhile Sacha Baron Cohen had been up to his antics for several months, the first rumblings of a potential Borat sequel arrived just a few weeks ago, when he was spotted running around Los Angeles in full costume. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-yogi-adityanath-orders-glass-room-in-all-up-police-stations-for-women-complainants-and-all-the-latest-news/story-lV4ElC4sjNDv2ZhU95h5ZO.html
24-10-2020||India||India-US 2+2 dialogue to focus on regional security cooperation, defence trade||The upcoming India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue will focus on four themes -- regional security cooperation, defence information sharing, military-to-military interactions, and defence trade, said the US State Department on Friday (local time).Speaking at a press conference, the department said that the 2+2 ministerial meeting will lay down next steps for the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership.“First, regional security cooperation; second, defence information sharing; third, military-to-military interactions; and fourth, defence trade,” one of the administration officials told reporters while informing about the themes that will be discussed in the 2+2 ministerial meeting.“Regional security cooperation is that we’re working to enhance maritime security across the Indian Ocean region by coordinating security cooperation and building partner capacity with regional countries,” one of the officials said.Speaking on the second theme, the official said: “We have made significant progress towards concluding the last foundational defence enabling agreement, the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement, or the BECA. This agreement will allow for expanded geospatial information sharing between our armed forces. We are also seeking to expand secure communication capabilities between our respective militaries as well as between our foreign and defence ministries, and that too figures prominently on what we are trying to accomplish in the information-sharing space.”As per the US State Department, with respect to military-to-military engagement, both India and the US are working to build greater interoperability by increasing the sophistication of their combined exercises.“Over the past year, we have placed a US liaison officer at the Information Fusion Centre, Indian Ocean Region. That is India’s maritime domain awareness fusion centre that they host. And an Indian liaison was placed at US Central Command, which both of these have enhanced coordination and information sharing between our navies. We also hope to confirm two additional Indian liaison officer placements in the near term to expand counterterrorism cooperation,” the official further said.“We are also looking to increase mil-to-mil cooperation in emerging technologies. We held an inaugural Defence Cyber Dialogue in September, this last September, and are looking, we are looking to have a defence space dialogue in the coming year, most likely in early 2021,” the official added.Stressing on the defence trade, it said the US is seeking to advance sales for several other defence platforms, to include fighter aircraft and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles(UAV).US Secretary of State Michael R Pompeo and Secretary of Defence Mark T Esper will have a packed schedule during their India visit.They will participate in third India-US 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue along with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on October 27 and will also have bilateral meetings with their counterparts.They will also be meeting National Security Agency(NSA) Ajit Doval and will jointly call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-2-2-dialogue-to-focus-on-regional-security-cooperation-defence-trade/story-xnqWhtAMhaG9ghFmyTAdQJ.html
24-10-2020||India||‘Symbols of Gujarat’s prosperity’: PM Modi inaugurates three development projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated three development projects in Gujarat on Saturday and congratulated the state for the “marvellous” work the state has done in the irrigation sector. All these three projects are symbols of Gujarat’s prosperity, the prime minister said in his online address.Inaugurating Kisan Sarvoday Yojana, under which farmers will be able to avail power supply from 5am to 9pm for irrigation purposes, Modi said, “Farmers will get day-time power supply. Those who know about agriculture are aware that farmers get electricity only at night. But now this will change for Gujarat farmers. But there should be more focus to save water. One drop, more crop should be our mantra. If we waste water as we will be getting water throughout the day, then the purpose will be defeated.”Dahod, Patan, Mahisagar, Panchmahal, Chhota Udepur, Kheda, Tapi, Valsad, Anand and Gir-Somnath districts have been covered under the scheme for 2020-21. The rest will be included in a phased manner by 2022-23.Inaugurating the second project, which is Paediatric Heart Hospital attached with UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre in Ahmedabad, the Prime Minister said, “Nowadays children are also affected by heart diease. This hospital will cater to not only Gujarat but also to the rest of India.”On Saturday, Mount Girnar got a ropeway, which is the fourth ropeway in the state. “The project was stalled for years. This will create employment opportunities for youth. Once we provide ease-of-living and ease-of-travelling to tourists, we will be able to convert several circuits in Gujarat global tourist spots,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/symbols-of-gujarat-s-prosperity-pm-modi-inaugurates-three-development-projects/story-LlfcWymDcV6GbpSsPa7KuI.html
24-10-2020||India||Missing businessman withdraws Rs 5000 from ATM, erases phone details: Police||Gautam Pashankar (65), a city-based businessman, was reported missing since Wednesday as told by family members to the police on Thursday. The family members submitted a “note” to the police that is suspected to be written by Pashankar.Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “His last known location is from inside the city. There was an ATM transaction. He wiped his phone clean by formatting it. He withdrew Rs 5,000.” However, his son Kapil Pashankar denied knowledge of any ATM transaction made on his father’s card.“He left the two phones in the car and the driver brought them back. I do not know of any ATM transaction. Unfortunately, whatever CCTVs we have, they do not cover the footpath. So which direction he has gone, it does not cover. The CCTV that could have helped, the one used for traffic challans, that is dysfunctional due to wiring disrepair caused by metro work, we were told. Whatever our worse times were, it was five years back, not now. We were Pune’s biggest automobile dealers; we are known for it. Today whatever we are doing. I do not understand what led to his decision. We have repaid all our loans to the tune of Rs 150 crores. Not even a single loan is active. There was one individual from whom he had borrowed money, he had repaid that as well. On that day, only Rs 10 lakh was remaining to be returned. I confronted that person and asked him. And he told me that the transaction is over,” said Kapil.The police have released a photograph of the businessman from the location where he was last seen. “These are pictures from Thursday the way he was last seen. We urge people to reach out to us if they find or have seen anyone matching this description,” said sub-inspector SP More of Shivajinagar police station who is conducting the search.The police on Thursday have called several people who had come in contact with Pashankar, including his driver who dropped him near his home. “The note claims that he intends to head outside the city to end his life. He has blamed himself for his recent decisions that he said has affected his family and children,” said PSI More. A complaint has been lodged by Pashankar’s son Kapil. A missing person’s case has been registered at Shivajinagar police station.“His phone is switched off,” said a police official.The missing man is survived by his wife, daughter, son, and grandchildren.The Pashankar family has auto showrooms and petrol pumps in the city. The man had allegedly reached near his home on Wednesday after which he went missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-bizman-withdraws-rs-5k-from-atm-erases-phone-details-police/story-RRPuPVrc8OxZxEh0bhrjdJ.html
24-10-2020||India||2+2 to review accomplishments, lay down next steps for India-US global cooperation: Official||The 2+2 India-US ministerial in New Delhi next week would review the accomplishments and lay down the next steps for the global cooperation between the two largest democracies in the world, a senior Trump administration official has said.The last major diplomatic engagement of the Trump administration days before the November 3 presidential election, the two-day meeting, involving four top cabinet ministers from India and the US, is expected to lay the foundation for the next four years of this relationship irrespective of who comes to power.Speaking on the conditions of anonymity, senior administration officials from the State Department and the Pentagon asserted that there was a bipartisan support in the US on its relationship with India.“The 2+2 ministerial will serve as a capstone to review our many accomplishments as well as lay down next steps for the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership,” a senior administration official told reporters during a conference call organised by the Foreign Press Center in Washington DC.Broadly, they intend to focus on four major themes at this year’s 2+2: global cooperation, which includes public health collaboration and work in the Indo-Pacific; economic cooperation, which includes partnership on energy and in space; people-to-people ties; and defense and security ties.Noting that on the US-India economic cooperation, they are working together towards economic recovery and getting bilateral trade back on track, the official said the US International Development Finance Corporation has made commitments to support more than $500 million in investment projects in India and has recently assigned a managing director in Mumbai, who will help expand their investments in India and in the region.The official said that joint efforts to develop and produce Covid-19 vaccines have taken off at a remarkable pace.More than half a dozen American companies and institutions are working on vaccine research with Indian partners like the Serum Institute of India, the official said.US Government’s health and development agencies, including the CDC, the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, and USAID, have provided technical assistance and training to Indian partners on a significant scale, including at the state and local levels.Global cooperation also includes high-level engagements, the official said, adding that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, along with their Japanese and Australian counterparts, met in Tokyo on October 6 for the second Quad meeting of foreign ministers.“Given China’s increasingly aggressive behaviour across the Indo-Pacific from the Himalayas to the South China Sea, it’s more important than ever that we work with like-minded partners such as India,” said the official, adding that the US is also looking forward to working with India during its upcoming term on the UN Security Council to address these challenges and the other pressing issues before them.Another senior administration official said that the defence relationship with India right now is currently at its best in recent memory.“The progress we’ve made since India became a major defence partner in 2016 is remarkable. We held the inaugural 2+2 ministerial in 2018, Prime Minister Modi visited the United States in 2019, and President Trump visited India in February this year, just to name a few symbolic highlights,” said the official.During the 2+2, the two countries are working to enhance maritime security across the Indian Ocean region by coordinating security cooperation and building partner capacity with regional countries.India announced just this week that it was inviting Australia, which along with the US and Japan, to the Malabar naval exercise in November. The last time Australia participated in Malabar was in 2007, more than a decade ago.“This invitation signals not only a strategic convergence between the Quadrilateral partners but a recognition that regional security requires strengthening allies and partnerships and working multilateral on issues of mutual concern,” said the official.Noting that information sharing, which figures prominently in defence cooperation, the official said that the two countries have made significant progress towards concluding the last foundational defence enabling agreement, the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement, or the BECA.“This agreement will allow for expanded geospatial information sharing between our armed forces. We are also seeking to expand secure communication capabilities between our respective militaries as well as between our foreign and defense ministries, and that too figures prominently on what we’re trying to accomplish in the information-sharing space,” said the official.With respect to military-to-military engagement, India and the US are working to build greater interoperability by increasing the sophistication of combined exercises.The passing exercise between the Indian Navy and the U.S.S. Nimitz Carrier Strike Group this summer is just one example. The recent refuelling of one of Navy’s P-8 aircraft in Port Blair is another example, the official said.Over the past year, the US has placed a liaison officer at the Information Fusion Center-Indian Ocean Region. And an Indian liaison was placed at US Central Command, which both of these have enhanced coordination and information sharing between the navies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-2-to-review-accomplishments-lay-down-next-steps-for-india-us-global-cooperation-official/story-JLQ7ttLsb9ExXPp4iNeW6M.html
24-10-2020||India||EC asks authorities to ensure free, fair elections in Bihar||The Election Commission (EC) has asked the authorities in poll-bound Bihar for expediting the search-and-seizure operations to ensure free-and-fair Assembly polls in the state, an official said.The directions were issued by the poll panel on Friday during a meeting with the observers of the 78 Assembly constituencies going to polls in the first round of the three-phased Bihar polls on October 28, Additional Chief Electoral Officer (ACEO) Sanjay Kumar Singh said at a press briefing here.Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora and two other election commissioners, Sushil Chandra and Rajiv Kumar, held the meeting online.The EC reviewed the overall poll preparations, be it the issue of training or providing facilities to the elderly people, Singh said.During the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, various agencies had seized cash and banned items valued at Rs 35.27 crore in Bihar.The amount is expected to rise further during the Assembly polls, officials had said.Meanwhile, Friday was the last date for withdrawal of nominations for the third phase of elections on 78 seats on November 7, Singh said.Talking about Thursday’s seizure of Rs 8.5 lakh in cash from a vehicle near the state Congress headquarters, Sadaquat Ashram, the official said it was “not a raid by the Income Tax department”, rather the poll panel’s expenditure observers had received a tip-off that cash was being taken out from a vehicle near Sadaquat Ashram.Acting on the tip-off, a flying squad intercepted and searched the vehicle and seized Rs 8.5 lakh in cash, Singh said, adding that Rs two lakh were seized from a person sitting in the vehicle while the remaining amount was kept hidden in it.The Income Tax department’s investigation wing has been informed about the seizure, which will take further action in this regard, Singh said.Reacting to the seizure from the vehicle, Congress’s Bihar in-charge Shakti Sinh Gohil said, “There was no raid at the Congress headquarters in Patna.” Somebody was caught outside on the road leading to the Congress office with Rs two lakh in cash, he said, adding that there were three other persons, each carrying Rs two lakh in cash.“We have nothing to hide,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-asks-authorities-to-ensure-free-fair-elections-in-bihar/story-rUg9pP596a1tl9tdHoofcN.html
24-10-2020||India||Phase-3 trial of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to begin in few days||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed the second phase of clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. The civic body will soon start third phase trials after the first batch of volunteers complete 28 days since their first vaccination.200 healthy volunteers participated in the second phase of the trial of the vaccine candidate named COVISHIELD. Both King Edward Memorial (KEM) and BYL Nair hospitals, that are conducting the trials, will now submit their reports to the data safety monitoring board, Central Drugs Standard Control Organization to seek approval for the stage III of the trial. “With the approval, we will be able to start the third phase of the trial once the first set of volunteers complete 28 days of the first vaccination. As per ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), the third trial can only be conducted on volunteers after a gap of 28 days,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.On September 26, the first dosage of the second phase of trial was given to three volunteers between ages 20 and 45 years at KEM hospital. On October 23, they completed 28 days of their first vaccination.The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine formulated at the University of Oxford.Meanwhile, BMC has also written to SII if they want to include more volunteers for the second phase of the trial. “As we have achieved our target of 100 volunteers, we have asked SII if they want us to include more volunteers. So far, we haven’t received any response. However, we have kept additional volunteers on standby,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair hospital.Also Read: Bharat Biotech to submit revised Phase 3 clinical trial protocol to DCGI by next weekHowever, Kakani said that they wouldn’t wait further for a response from SII and start their third phase trial. “We can’t wait any further as we need to provide the third dosage to the first volunteers who have completed their 28 days of waiting period,” he said. In August, when ICMR selected the two Mumbai-based hospitals to run clinical trials for the vaccine, they were instructed to enrol 160 volunteers at each hospital. Later, the number of total volunteers was reduced to a total of 200 - or 100 each - for conducting the second phase of the trial. Also Read: ‘Covid-19 vaccines to be ready by June’, says Kiran Mazumdar-ShawAs per ICMR, every volunteer is covered by life insurance worth Rs 1 crore in the event of death due to any side effect of the vaccine administered in the trial. Also, they get Rs 50 lakh medical insurance to cover the cost for treatment of any possible adverse effect from the vaccination.In the second week of September, both hospitals had to halt the trial after a participant developed an adverse reaction in the United Kingdom. Later, the drug control general of India granted permission to run the second and third phases of the trial. However, both civic hospitals had to receive final approval from their ethics committees before starting with the screening of the volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-3-of-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-to-begin-in-the-next-few-days/story-7ns7CN0K619j8ApX2VAlaO.html
24-10-2020||India||Kisan Suryodaya Yojana a new dawn for farmers in Gujarat, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated three projects, including Kisan Suryodaya Yojana for the farmers in Gujarat on Saturday. He will also inaugurate the Paediatric Heart Hospital attached with UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre in Ahmedabad, a mobile application for telecardiology at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, and a ropeway at Mount Girnar near Junagadh in Junagadh district.Under the agri scheme, farmers will be able to avail power supply from 5am to 9pm for irrigation purposes. The project was recently announced by chief minister Vijay Rupani. The state government has allocated a budget of Rs 3,500 crores for installing transmission infrastructure under this scheme by 2023. Dahod, Patan, Mahisagar, Panchmahal, Chhota Udepur, Kheda, Tapi, Valsad, Anand and Gir-Somnath districts have been covered under the scheme for 2020-21. The rest will be included in a phased manner by 2022-23.The UN Mehta Institute that Modi inaugurated will become India’s biggest hospital for cardiology. It will also become the biggest single super-speciality cardiac teaching institute in the country and one of the biggest single super speciality cardiac hospitals in the world, the Prime Minister’s office said on Friday. The ropeway at Girnar, the third project, will initially have 25-30 cabins with a capacity of 8 people per cabin. It will cover a distance of 2.3 kms in just 7.5 minutes. The ropeway will also provide a scenic view of the Girnar mountain.“Boosting the tourism potential of Gujarat! A Ropeway at Girnar would also be among the projects launched tomorrow. Thanks to the ropeway, tourists can get a spectacular view of the area surrounding the Girnar mountain,” Modi had tweeted on Friday. Here are the highlights from PM Modi’s address >> On the Kisan Suryodaya Yojana, PM Modi termed farmers getting three phase power from 5 in the morning to 9 in the morning instead of night “a new dawn.” “I would like to congratulate the Gujarat government that this work is being done by preparing a completely new capacity of transmission, without affecting the other systems, he said. >> “Under this scheme, laying of about three and a half thousand circuit kilometers of new transmission lines will be done in the next 2-3 years,” the Prime Minister said adding that the scheme will also be implemented in more than a thousand villages in the coming days. More of these villages are in tribal dominated areas, he said. >>Modi hailed the state government’s work in the health sector. “In the last two decades, Gujarat has done unprecedented work in the field of health. Be it is a network of modern hospitals or medical colleges, a lot of work has been done in order to connect every village with better facilities,” he said. >>After inagurating the ropeway at Girnar, the Prime Minister more and more devotees and tourists will now visit the destination.”The rope-way started today is the fourth ropeway of Gujarat. To see Ambaji in Banaskantha, three more ropes in Pavagadh, Satpura - they are already working,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-virtually-inaugurates-key-development-projects-in-gujarat/story-RQ5dVerPi3nEIpp44oNJjO.html
24-10-2020||India||Mathura’s Banke Bihari temple to reopen for devotees from October 25||Banke Bihari temple in Mathura will be reopened for devotees from Sunday while adhering to Covid-19 guidelines and maintaining social distancing.“Banke Bihari Temple will be reopened for devotees from 25th October. However, online registration for entry is mandatory. We will ensure all Covid-19 guidelines and social distancing norms are followed,” said Munish Sharma, Manager, Banke Bihari temple administration.The temple was closed for devotees since March 22. On October 15, on the order of the court of Civil Judge Junior Division, the temple was re-opened for devotees. However, following large crowd at the temple, temple manager Munish Sharma ordered the temple to be closed again from October 19. During the late-night hearing on Friday, the court has ordered the re-opening of the temple from Sunday and asked the authorities to ask devotees to adhere to Covid-19 norms.Uttar Pradesh reported 2,298 new Covid-19 cases, 3025 discharges and 40 deaths in the last 24 hours, said the state’s health department on Friday. Active cases in the state stand at 28,268. A total of 4,30,962 discharged so far, death toll 6,830.According to the state health department, 34 new Covid-19 cases reported taking the total number of active cases in the district to 400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mathura-s-banke-bihari-temple-to-reopen-for-devotees-from-october-25/story-1z7kH62q6YO6ZgAOtMOExI.html
24-10-2020||India||Arunachal CM confident of Indian army in case of Chinese intrusion||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu has said the times now are different from 1962 and the people of the state and the Indian Army will never fall back no matter how many times China tries to claim the territory as its own.Khandu was speaking at a programme on Friday at Bum La, a pass on the Indo-Tibet border in the northeastern state, to honour a soldier who died fighting in the 1962 India-China war.“This is not 1962, but 2020, and things are different now. Right from Jammu and Kashmir to Arunachal Pradesh, we are fully prepared. If required, the people of Arunachal will not hesitate to stand behind the Indian Army,” he said.China does not recognise Arunachal Pradesh as an Indian state but as a part of southern Tibet, a claim that has been rejected outright by India.Speaking on the changes in the last six decades since 1962, the chief minister said infrastructure development along the border areas has received a major thrust under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“The development of border areas, specially roads, is important. It is being done in full speed in Arunachal Pradesh and we will soon witness several such infrastructural revamps in the state,” he said. Khandu was at Bum La to pay tribute to Subedar Joginder Singh on his 58th death anniversary. He recalled the supreme sacrifice of Singh, who laid down his life fighting the Chinese army in the 1962 Indo-China war.Singh, who was a subedar in the 1st battalion of the Sikh Regiment, was commanding a platoon at Bum La in the then North East Frontier Agency, now Arunachal Pradesh.“Fighting against all odds, Subedar Singh attained martyrdom on this day during the 1962 India-China war. The people of Arunachal salute his bravery and will always remember the supreme sacrifice he made for the nation,” Khandu said.Though heavily outnumbered, Singh had led his troops against a Chinese assault and defended his post until he was wounded and captured. He died of his injuries while in Chinese custody and is believed to have single-handedly killed several Chinese soldiers and created history in the annals of the Indian Army.He was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra, the highest military gallantry award of the country, in 1962.Kulwant Kaur, Singh’s daughter, inaugurated a newly-built war memorial in her father’s name at the programme.The memorial has been built by the Arunachal Pradesh government just below the famous IB Ridge to commemorate Singh’s heroic defence against the People’s Liberation Army of China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-cm-confident-in-indian-army-in-case-of-chinese-intrusion/story-P5AZxTrH4mhO04WFlaClAO.html
24-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: ‘Not promising 1 crore jobs,’ Tejashwi Yadav releases RJD’s manifesto||Amid the ongoing slugfest over NDA’s vaccine promise ahead of Bihar Assembly elections 2020, Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav, who is the chief ministerial candidate of Mahagathbandhan, released the party’s election manifesto on Saturday and said he will not promise one crore jobs. “I am promising 10 lakh jobs. I could have also promised one crore jobs just for the sake of promise. But I am not doing that because this will become a reality in the first meeting of the Cabinet.This will be the first time in the country that 10 lakh employment opportunities will be created at one go. This figure is what we require in the state’s workforce at present,” Tejashwi said.Also Read: ‘PM is most welcome in Bihar but…’: RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav at poll rally“People used to make fun that from where we will generate employments. Now, you must understand there is a difference between earning and employment. Here we are talking about government jobs,” Tejashwi Yadav said, explaining that there are employment opportunities for teachers, professors, junior engineers, doctors, nurses lab technicians. “ We need more police for the law and order of the state. Manipur is a smaller state but it has more police per lakh population than Bihar,” Tejashwi said. “This is not a manifesto. This is our pran (resolution),” the RJD leader said releasing the 17-point manifesto which also includes promises of farm loan waiver and regularisation of all ad hoc workers. राजद का संकल्प-समग्र विकास एकमात्र विकल्प!आओ मिलकर कदम बढ़ाएँतेजस्वी संग नया बिहार बनाएँ! pic.twitter.com/OIVTfdxkVyThe BJP has promised 19 lakh jobs apart from free vaccine promise. Taking a swipe at the figure of the promise, Tejashwi said, “ Who is the CM face of the BJP? Nitish Kumar. Was he able to provide jobs? He already surrendered and said he couldn’t give more jobs. Then how will BJP offer 19 lakh jobs? Whom are they fooling?”Elections to Bihar’s 243 Assembly seats will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. Counting is scheduled to be held on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-not-promising-1-crore-jobs-tejashwi-yadav-releases-rjd-s-manifesto/story-52wgb2T2Jkm1l8GYiJOOqN.html
24-10-2020||India||For second consecutive day, active Covid-19 cases remain below 7 lakh-mark||A day after India’s active caseload fell below 7 lakh-mark for the first time in the last two months, 53,370 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, health ministry data showed on Saturday. The total tally stands at 7,814,682 and the number of active cases stands at 6,80,680. A total of 650 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, which has pushed the total death toll to 1,17,956 The fall in the active cases is being considered as a significant milestone in India’s ongoing fight against Covid-19.Poll-bound Bihar has less than 20,000 active casesAccording to health ministry data, 24 states and UTs at present have less that 20,000 active cases. The list includes, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim, Chhattisgarh, Ladakh, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Puducherry, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha and Rajasthan.New cases and new recoveriesAccording to health ministry’s data released on Friday, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha continue to contribute the maximum number of new cases.  #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCorona10 States and UTs are contributing 81% of the high number of daily Recoveries (nearly 74,000).The top 3 States account for half of the new discharged patients.These States also have more than 48% of the Active Caseload of the country. pic.twitter.com/RY4bP9WXsVMaharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh account for 81 per cent of the new recovered cases. On Friday, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan interacted with officials of Uttar Pradesh to review the Covid-19 situation in the state and said the next three months are going to decisive in determining the situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-second-consecutive-day-active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-7-lakh-mark/story-xcjFYVK4WwkmRKYtLexpyN.html
24-10-2020||India||Monsoon to withdraw completely by October 28, dry weather to set in over India: IMD||The monsoon is likely to withdraw completely in the next 2-3 days as the northeast monsoon is likely to commence over peninsular India by October 28. This would mean mostly dry conditions in the rest of the country.Conditions are favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from remaining parts of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, north and the central Arabian Sea, Odisha and north Maharashtra during next 24-hours. Similar conditions will prevail over parts of West Bengal, Sikkim, Odisha, Telangana, north-eastern states, Andhra Pradesh and most parts of Maharashtra during the subsequent two days.Also Read: Delhi: Health threats imminent as AQI deteriorates to ‘severe’ categoryWith the likely setting in of north-easterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over the Bay of Bengal and extreme south peninsular India, the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around October 28. Simultaneously, the northeast monsoon rains are also likely to commence over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh, and adjoining areas of Karnataka and Kerala around October 28, India Meteorological Department said in its Saturday morning bulletin. The normal date for monsoon withdrawal is October 15. Its withdrawal has been delayed by almost a fortnight.The depression, which had formed over the Bay of Bengal has moved north-north-eastwards, weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area, and lays centred over central Bangladesh. Under its influence, moderate to heavy rain is likely over south Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, and Tripura.Meanwhile, air pollution levels remained high on Saturday in entire northwest India. Baghpat, Panipat, Ghaziabad, Ballabgarh, Faridabad, etc remained in the “very poor” category. This is mainly due to a reduction in wind speed across the northwest region. “Wind speed has reduced in the entire north-western region and stubble burning has also increased. Moisture levels are rising in the morning hours leading to further accumulation of pollutants and a shallow fog like situation. At Palam the visibility had reduced to 700 metres on Friday,” Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi, said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-withdraw-completely-by-october-28-dry-weather-to-set-in-over-india-imd/story-DhpCfoaWIh6olx1UYhUD3I.html
24-10-2020||India||Election commission pulled up by HC, told to hold Suar assembly by-polls||The Allahabad high court has directed the Election Commission of India (ECI) to conduct by-polls on the Suar assembly seat in Rampur district of Uttar Pradesh and begin the poll process forthwith. By-polls for seven other constituencies in UP are scheduled on November 3. The Suar seat had fallen vacant after the Allahabad high court on December 16, 2019 annulled the election of Samajwadi Party (SP) candidate Abdullah Azam Khan, the son of senior SP leader Azam Khan, on the ground that he was underage and not qualified to fight the poll in 2017.Subsequently, the state assembly had on February 27, 2020, notified the seat as vacant.Allowing a writ petition filed by one Shafeeq Ahmad of Rampur, a division bench of justice Shashi Kant Gupta and justice Pankaj Bhatia said, “The Election Commission of India has not been able to justify as to why and under what circumstances, by-election has not been held on the aforementioned constituency despite the vacancy having occurred in December 2019 and duly notified long back by the state assembly on February 27, 2020. Thus, the election commission has failed to perform its constitutional and statutory duty to hold the by-election for the aforementioned constituency within the time prescribed under Section 151A of the Representation of People’s Act”.Also Read: ‘Thakur village’ signboard sparks tension in UP’s Meerut areaThe court further observed that the will of the people is supreme in a democracy and it cannot be lightly interfered with.“The will of the people is supreme. It cannot be lightly interfered with. The election commission, under no circumstance, can frustrate the will of the people. This court, which is a custodian of the Constitution, cannot be a silent spectator in a case of this nature where the election commission has failed to exercise its powers in a manner which has the effect of destroying or making erosion into the democratic set up, which is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution,” the court said.Also Read: UP cops gather evidence of Kerala scribe’s role in Hathras violence incitement plotThe petitioner had requested the court to direct the ECI to conduct by-polls on Suar seat. The petitioner contended that while the election was set aside by the high court in an election petition, no interim order was passed by the apex court in the appeal pending before it.Besides, a vacancy was also duly notified by the state assembly. Hence in this backdrop, there cannot be any justification for the election commission to not hold the by-election.“By not holding the elections, the election commission has failed to perform its constitutional duty and suppressed the voice of the people who deserve to be represented through an elected representative,” the counsel for the petitioner argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-pulled-up-by-hc-told-to-hold-suar-assembly-by-polls/story-hSoP2mVD40Ao5YkTHqLyYI.html
24-10-2020||India||Puri Jagannath temple doors to be plated with 2500 kg silver donated by Mumbai devotee||For the first time in the last several decades, the wooden doors of 12th century Jagannath temple, including the ones guarding the sanctum sanctorum, would be silver-plated with 2,500 kg of the precious metal donated by a Mumbai-based devotee of the Lord.Temple administrators and members of the temple managing committee said a 17-member committee formed to approve the design and other modalities of the silver-cladding work would meet on October 27 for further action.“The gates of Kaalahaat dwar, Jaya-Vijay dwar, Beharana dwar, Satpahach dwar, West Bhog Mandap dwar, Narasingh Temple dwar, Bimala Temple dwar and Mahalakshmi Temple dwar will be clad with silver sheets made out of over 2,500 kg silver donated by a Mumbai-based devotee. The existing doors were worn out and will be replaced with the ones made from Burma Teakwood imported from Malaysia. The devotee is also donating the wood needed for the doors,” said temple administrator (development) Ajay Jena. The silver valued at Rs 15.32 crore would be kept in a strong room till the carving of the 8 doors is complete. In the initial stage, three main doors- Jay Bijay dwar, Kaalahaat dwar and Beherana dwar will be clad with silver.The wood of these doors has been damaged due to wear and tear and the servitors were having a difficult time in locking them. While the Jay Bijay dwara is the main entrance leading to the sanctum sanctorum, the Kaalahaata dwara is the door of the sanctum sanctorum. The Beharana dwara is the door through which devotees exit after having a darshan of the three deities.Also Read: Odisha to bring special law for managing 11th century Lingaraj templeMeanwhile, the temple management is yet to take a decision on whether the Nagarjuna Vesha of the three deities, scheduled to be held on November 27, can be thrown open to the public. During ‘Nagarjuna Vesha’ the deities are depicted as warriors with the war weapons and Sudarshana Chakra. As per mythology, the Nagarjuna Vesha is celebrated to commemorate the killing of Sahastrarjun by Lord Parsuram. This would be the first Nagarjuna Vesha in the 21st century. The last one was held in 1994.Also Read: Odisha engineer worked as MGNREGS worker after losing job, rescuedThe temple has been shut since March after Covid lockdown was announced. Over 400 temple servitors were found infected by Covid further delaying its reopening. Early this month, the proposal of a Sri Jagannath temple managing committee to arrange online darshan of the deities was met with stiff opposition from the servitors. The servitors had argued that many secret services are being performed daily in the sanctum sanctorum which outsiders should not witness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-jagannath-temple-doors-to-be-plated-with-2500-kg-silver-donated-by-mumbai-devotee/story-zUaB66F4nJrlcKPo57uwnO.html
24-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: ‘We didn’t leak information,’ CBI, NCB, ED tell Bombay high court||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Enforcement Directorate (ED) which are probing different angles in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case did not ever leak any information “at any point of times”, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh informed the Bombay High Court as it was hearing a public interest litigations filed against media trial in reporting Bollywood actor Sushant Singh’s death. He was found dead in his Mumbai residence on June 14.The petition over the television channel coverage of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death was filed by a group of retired police officers who had claimed that the sensitive information was being broadcast. Also Read: Bombay high court says journalists have lost their neutralityThe petitioners questioned the source of these information asking whether the investigating agencies were leaking out these sensitive details. The agencies, in their affidavits, said they are aware of their responsibilities. “We know our responsibilities and there is no question of leaking information by any of the agencies,” the ASG added.While the CBI is investigating the circumstances that led to the death of the Bollywood actor, the NCB is probing a drug angle and the ED is investigating the money-laundering charges against Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty. The investigations are going on.A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni was hearing final arguments on public interest litigations seeking that the media be asked to be restrained in its coverage of the probe into the actor’s death.“The media was neutral then (in the past). It is now highly polarised….This is not a question of regulation, this is a question of checks and balances. People forget where to draw lines. Do it within lines,” the judges hearing the case said. The hearing will continue next week.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-we-didn-t-leak-information-cbi-ncb-ed-tell-bombay-high-court/story-P5mF5DDDhaWqvWRYw6TL5M.html
24-10-2020||India||India - US relations is independent of political parties in power: Tharoor||India and the United States will give extraordinary importance to their relations despite the fact that which political party is in power in both the nations, said Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. Speaking at the Public Affair Forum of India’s (PAFI) national forum of India 2020, Tharoor said: “India-US relationship has reached a level where whether it’s Republican or Democratic administration in the US, or whether it’s BJP or Congress government in India, both countries will give extraordinary importance to the relations for two obvious reasons which include we have absolute geopolitical compatibility there are no major issues in which our interests are opposite and of course the secondary is a fact that as long as we both are functional democracies we have an interest in ensuring up each other in our respective roles.”Tharoor’s remark comes ahead of the US Presidential elections, which will take place on November 3.Stressing that India has been more of a “rule taker” than a “rule maker” at the United Nations, he said the country needs to fix its domestic issues, including that of the economy, and have “moral authority” if it wants to be a rules contributor to the world.“Now we have unfortunately been going through a few very bad years domestically in terms of crumbling social cohesion, the eruption and uncontrollable spread of the coronavirus pandemic, the border troubles with China, the economic collapse after demonetisation, unemployment figures worst recorded in the history in these years, everything is wrong,” he said.He asserted that India must use its capacity to demand constructive changes in global governance.On being asked that Indian-American people do not send money back home for charities, Tharoor said, “I have seen members of American-born generation sending out in large numbers to support and even contribute to a number of originations and charities that are working in India, for example, Pratham and ASHA and they raise money without any difficulty and they do so in significant numbers from Americans.”“My own children grew up in America from the age of five and still live there. They both contribute very generously to Indian causes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-relations-is-independent-of-political-parties-in-power-tharoor/story-ZzAtMstx540PopV8auy55K.html
24-10-2020||India||Prez, PM’s 2nd special plane takes off for Delhi, will land today||The second of the two Boeing 777 aircraft extensively modified for President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi travel will arrive in national capital Delhi on Saturday, people familiar with the matter said.The first aircraft, also configured to give the dignitaries some generous office space and meeting rooms landed in Delhi on 1 October. The two aircraft - Boeing 777-300 ERs - had joined Air India’s fleet in 2018 and had been sent to a Boeing facility in Dallas for customisation.The two planes have missile defence systems that are touted to be on a par with the US President’s Air Force One, two identical Boeing 747-200B series aircraft that are scheduled to be replaced in 2024. The two upgraded Boeing 747s are expected to cost the Pentagon a whopping $4.6 billion (Rs 34,044.6 crore) by the time they are ready to fly the next President.The new long-haul aircraft, which can fly non-stop to the United States, is India’s first set of dedicated aircraft for the three dignitaries. So long, the government would requisition the Air India’s planes every time any of the three dignitaries had to travel abroad. The state-run airline ended up configuring the plane for VVIP travel, creating space for a make-shift office and sleeping area for the prime minister after removing the seats from one portion of the aircraft.The two aircraft were earlier scheduled to be delivered in August but the date had to be pushed due to what were described as “certain operational issues”. They will be flown by pilots drawn from Air India as well as the Indian Air Force.The planes come equipped with self-protection suites (SPS) consisting of aircraft infrared countermeasures, advanced integrated defensive electronic warfare suite and counter-measures dispensing system to protect them from inbound missiles.The US Defense Security Cooperation Agency, which had notified Congress about its decision to sell the defence system earlier this year, had put its cost at about $ 190 million. It had explained its decision, underlining that the sale would improve India’s capability to deter regional threats and facilitate “a more robust capability into areas of increased missile threats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-pm-s-2nd-special-plane-takes-off-for-delhi-will-land-today/story-NiHlm9XYhRXKdCO6aV0OaM.html
24-10-2020||India||Decisive three months ahead in determining India’s Covid-19 situation: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday said that the next three months are going to be decisive in determining the situation of Covid in the country and urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour during the coming festival and winter season.Addressing a review meeting with officials of the Uttar Pradesh government, Vardhan said, “Appropriate measures are being taken to combat Covid-19. But the next three months are going to be decisive in determining the situation of Covid in the country. If we take adequate precaution and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in the coming festival and winter season, we will be in a better position to fight corona.” He asserted that the state needs to focus on increasing testing, surveillance, contact tracing, and early diagnosis to keep fatality rate low.“For a big state like Uttar Pradesh, it becomes important that maximum thrust is given to simple precautionary measures which are effective in preventing the Coronavirus to a large extent like wearing mask/face cover especially in public spaces, and following hand and respiratory etiquettes,” Vardhan said.The Union Minister further appreciated the efforts of Uttar Pradesh in vaccinating those children who were left out of immunisation due to Covid-19.He also informed that as of date Uttar Pradesh has Covid-19 fatality rate of 1.46 which is less than the national average, while the recovery rate of the state (92.2 per cent) is also more than the national recovery rate. The positivity rate is 3.44 per cent.Vardhan informed that in the last three months, the country has seen significant improvement in the Covid parameters.“The number of active cases are less than 7 lakh and the doubling rate has increased to 97.2 days, as of now. The journey which started from having just one lab, we have come a long way in now having nearly 2000 labs in the country. The number of total tests conducted across the country have surpassed 10 crore. This is a positive indication that we are moving in the right direction,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decisive-three-months-ahead-in-determining-india-s-covid-19-situation-harsh-vardhan/story-zA6iwcKWWY4vBhR1Gv5LlI.html
24-10-2020||India||Delhi: Health threats imminent as AQI deteriorates to ‘severe’ category||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) on Saturday deteriorated to the ‘severe’ category, which is likely to affect people’s health, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee data (DPCC).The AQI in Alipur was at 432 while it stood at 427 and 409 in Mundka and Wazirpur, respectively.According to experts, the severe category affects the health of people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. An AQI between 0-50 is marked good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101-200 is moderate, 201-300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor and 401-500 is considered severe.Amid the rise in pollution levels, people are having problems with breathing and some children have started facing throat problems due to contaminated air.Recently, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) submitted before the Delhi High Court that it has issued directions to implementing agencies including State Pollution Control Boards, construction agencies, municipal bodies, traffic police and transport department of Delhi and NCR for strict action against air polluting activities.On Friday, a plea sought filed in Delhi High Court sought directions to the Delhi government and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to issue fresh orders and instructions at the earliest putting a strict ban on bursting firecrackers and burning of effigies to prevent further air pollution.It also sought directions to the Department of Environment, Delhi Government, and the Union Ministry of Environment to come up with eco-friendly ways of celebrating Dusshera.The petitioners urged the court to direct appropriate departments to take immediate and appropriate steps to ban burning of effigies and fire-crackers in Delhi on the festival of Dussehra in light of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-health-threats-imminent-as-aqi-deteriorates-to-severe-category/story-vUvnk0ZXwswLNYqmUfpcaL.html
24-10-2020||India||Amazon says won’t appear before JPC||US-headquartered online retailer Amazon has refused to appear before Parliament’s joint committee on the data protection bill next week, which could amount to a breach of parliamentary privilege, panel chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said on Friday, indicating that action may be taken against the company.Facebook’s policy head for India Ankhi Das, meanwhile, appeared before the panel on the issue of data security on Friday, and was questioned by members on revenue and advertising models, the hiring process as well as “neutrality” within the organisation. It was given two weeks’ time to submit written replies to the questions. The panel has summoned officials of Twitter on October 28, and Google and Paytm on October 29 as part of its investigation into issues of data protection, artificial intelligence and privacy.“The panel is unanimous in its opinion that coercive action can be suggested to the government against the e-commerce company. Amazon has refused to appear before the panel on October 28 and if no one on behalf of the e-commerce company appears before the panel it amounts to breach of privilege,” Lekhi said.After Amazon was asked to attend the meeting on October 28, it replied on October 8 to the panel’s letter expressing inability to attend as there is no regular transportation from the US to India, because of which the company’s representatives can’t come from California, said two members of the panel who did not wish to be named.According to another functionary aware of the matter, Amazon wrote to the committee that it would be unable to attend due to risks associated with travel during the Covid-19 pandemic. “Owing to the current circumstances and the risks associated with travelling, our subject matter experts who are based overseas will not be able to appear for the deposition. We will therefore have to decline the request for the deposition,” the company’s letter to the committee said.“Unlike many other entities who seek time or request an alternative schedule for deposition, Amazon did not ask for any such relaxation. They simply conveyed that they can’t come,” said one of the members cited above.In response to a query from HT, Amazon said: “We have the utmost respect and regard for the important work being done by the JPC on the PDP Bill and have already offered our written submissions for consideration of this august Committee. We will continue to engage in any way the JPC considers fit. The inability of our experts to travel from overseas due to travel restriction and depose before the JPC during the ongoing pandemic may have been misconstrued and led to a misunderstanding and we will work with the JPC to set the record straight.”Several MPs in the meeting suggested to Lekhi to write back to Amazon and explain the importance of the committee and the consequences it could face if it did not appear before the panel.“Amazon should know that it is not an option. Parliament rules are absolutely clear that if an entity is asked to appear before the panel, it is mandatory. This is a committee formed by members from both houses of Parliament,” said an MP.“It was also suggested that the panel should inform the ministries of commerce and information technology about Amazon’s stand over the issue of deposition because if any action is to be taken against the company, the government has to decide it,” said the MP.Facebook said in a statement that it backed the efforts towards data protection.“We deeply appreciate the opportunity to discuss data regulation issues with the Hon’ble Members of Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill. We believe that India’s data protection law has the potential to propel the country’s digital economy and global digital trade, and we wholeheartedly support this effort. That is why we deeply appreciate to be a part of this discussion and will continue to work alongside governments and regulators to find the right solutions which not only protect users’ privacy but are also interoperable with other major global privacy regulations,” the Facebook statement said.According to people aware of the details, the panel sought a detailed written submission to a set of 20-25 questions on the specifics of the company’s policy on taking down pages; on the advertising model that they follow across the globe; and in which country the social media platform pays the highest tax. The company, represented by Ankhi Das and Bhairav Acharya, who are part of Facebook’s policy team in India, was asked questions on whether the company has a “hiring bias”.“They were asked if it is true that about 90% of their employees have contributed to the Democrats. If that is so, is that the reason why handles that posted New York Post’s news report on Hunter Biden were blocked. They were also probed on the hiring policy and if there is a bias that is reflected in the appointments being made in India and other countries as well,” said a person aware of the details.There was an uproar last week after the New York Post’s stories based on alleged emails from Hunter Biden detailing his financial relationships with the Ukrainian natural-gas company Burisma and a Chinese energy firm were prevented from being shared online. Biden’s father Joe Biden is in the race for president.The social media company was summoned to discuss the issue of the alleged misuse of its platform in the wake of claims that it did not apply hate speech rules to certain BJP politicians, and about the company’s policy on privacy and data protection.The company defended its position and maintained that it would not be in India’s best interests to insist against cross-border transfer of data, according to people in the know, who added that Facebook said in recent times a large number of start-ups had come to India and if there was no international data transfer these firms would have to leave the country.Facebook told the panel that in most European countries, parental consent is needed to open an account for children below the age of 13 but in India that figure is 18, which needs to be brought down, said the people cited above, adding that on questions over Facebook’s alleged attempt to manipulate elections in the US, the social media giant denied every allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazon-says-won-t-appear-before-jpc/story-7XMVHQbDWLOFU4pWBWJA7H.html
24-10-2020||India||BJP demands arrest of Mehbooba Mufti for ‘seditious’ remarks||The Jammu and Kashmir BJP on Friday demanded the arrest of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti for her “seditious remarks” wherein she said she would only hold the national tricolour when the flag of the erstwhile state is restored.The BJP said “no power on earth” can either hoist the state flag again or restore Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.Addressing reporters for the first time since her release from 14-month detention following the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year, Mehbooba said she will only hold the national tricolour after the flag of Jammu and Kashmir is restored.In an act seen as defiance, the flag of the erstwhile state was prominently placed on a table in front of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president along with that of her party during the presser. Also watch | ‘Will raise tricolour when...’: Ex-J&K CM Mufti’s fresh attack on Centre“I request Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to take cognisance of seditious remarks of Mehbooba Mufti, book her for the seditious act and put her behind bars,” Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina told reporters.“We will sacrifice every drop of our blood for our flag, country and motherland. J-K is an integral part of our country, so only one flag can be hoisted in J-K and that is the national flag,” he said.Raina said the party will not tolerate such “nefarious designs” aimed at instigating the people of Kashmir.“I warn leaders like Mehbooba Mufti not to instigate the people of Kashmir. We will not allow anyone to disturb peace, normalcy and brotherhood. In case anything wrong happens, she will have to face the consequences,” he said.If Kashmiri leaders are feeling insecure in India, they can go to Pakistan and China, he added.During her presser, Mehbooba accused the BJP of “looting” the dignity of the people of Jammu and Kashmir.“We had acceded to a liberal, democratic, secular India. Let me tell them we are not comfortable, we are incompatible with today’s India where minorities and Dalits are not safe and where they tried to disrespect us by looting our dignity,” she said.Referring to the Centre’s move to abrogate Article 370 on August 5 last year, Raina said no decision taken by the government can be reversed.He said Article 370 gave rise to separatism, terrorism and was instrumental in killings of thousands of people.“As the government has permanently scrapped Article 370, no power on earth can restore it. No power on earth can hoist any flag other than the national flag in J-K,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-demands-arrest-of-mehbooba-mufti-for-seditious-remarks/story-xKQm7bLAGtPCOOyZpAeJ4L.html
24-10-2020||India||Scare on Delhi-Goa flight over ‘terrorists’ on board||Panic broke out on board a Delhi-Goa flight when a passenger got up from his seat and screamed that there terrorists were on board the plane. The man, who was later identified as a resident of Delhi’s Jamia Nagar, also claimed to be from the Special Cell, Delhi Police’s anti-terror unit.The man was detained soon as the flight made a priority landing at Goa airport on Thursday. Senior police officers said the man was diagnosed to be mentally unstable and sent to hospital for treatment. HT is not naming the passenger due to his mental health issues.The incident took place at 3.15pm on Air India flight AI-883. According to the officers of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), that secures the airports, when the flight was about to land in Goa airport, the man got up and shouted: “There are terrorists in this flight”.As other passengers panicked, flight crew tried to intervene. When they asked the man to sit down calmly, he told them he was from the Special Cell of Delhi Police. An official aware of the incident said the man did not turn violent on the plane and was calmed down by the crew.The matter was reported to the chief pilot, who alerted Goa Air Traffic Control (ATC) and requested priority landing, citing an emergency. The flight was given a priority landing slot by the ATC, which informed the Airport Operation Control Centre (AOCC) that in turn alerted the CISF and Goa police.“Soon, as the flight landed safely at Goa airport, the CISF commandos detained the man at the aero-bridge itself. He was escorted to the Dabolim police station by the CISF staff and the members of Air India’s security staff,” said a senior CISF officer, who did not wish to be named.Air India declined to comment on the matter.Pankaj Kumar Singh, superintendent of police, (south Goa), said the man did not seem to be mentally fit.“He was travelling alone. When we tried to question him on his act, he did not seem to be fine. We got him medically examined and he was sent to the Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour (IPHB) in Bambolim, Goa on doctor’s advice. No case has been registered against him so far,” Singh said.During the initial investigation, the police found that the man had been under treatment for schizophrenia for the past three years.“We contacted his family members, who told us that he had been staying alone for past few months. They said he had studied business administration after which he slipped into depression and is being treated for schizophrenia. They also said that he had stopped taking his medicines recently..,” said a south Goa police officer who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scare-on-delhi-goa-flight-over-terrorists-on-board/story-fDnQLNSJxtO8Budqer3SYL.html
24-10-2020||India||Parliamentary panel quizzes Facebook on its revenue, profit, tax payouts in India||A parliamentary panel on Friday quizzed social media giant Facebook about the quantum of their revenue, profit and tax payouts in India and asked what portion of their earnings were being used for data security in the country, sources said. Facebook India’s policy head Ankhi Das appeared before the Joint Committee of Parliament on Data Protection Bill, 2019 chaired by BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi. She was questioned for two hours and asked some tough and searching questions by the panel members from across the political spectrum, sources said. During the meeting, a member suggested that the social media platform should not draw inferences from the data of its users for commercial benefit of its advertisers or for electoral purposes, they said. The MPs also sought to know the revenue Facebook generates from India and what percentage of the revenue is spent on safeguards for data protection, sources told PTI. India is the biggest market for Facebook in terms of its users. The panel also asked how much tax the social media giant pays in India, they said. During the meeting, concerns were also raised about the allegations that majority of the employees of the social media giant in the United States were inclined towards one specific political party of the country. Meawhile, Facebook said that the data protection law has potential to propel the country’s digital economy and global digital trade. “We deeply appreciate the opportunity to discuss data regulation issues with the Hon’ble Members of Joint Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill. We believe that India’s data protection law has the potential to propel the country’s digital economy and global digital trade, and we wholeheartedly support this effort,” a company spokesperson said. Last month, Facebook India head Ajit Mohan had appeared before the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, on the alleged misuse of social media platforms. The panel had called Facebook to hear about a report published in the Wall Street Journal claiming that the social media platform ignored applying its hate-speech rules in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-quizzes-facebook-on-its-revenue-profit-tax-payouts-in-india/story-9eJpAnlEapLPdwoA1SuudM.html
24-10-2020||India||Punjab bills offer little on ground||Three out of four bills passed by the Congress-led Punjab government on October 20 to negate contentious central legislations on how farmers do business are unlikely to invalidate the laws already passed by Parliament, and amount to not much more than a political message at this stage, analysts say. Last month, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government signed into law three bills amid protests by farmers groups -- The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. The laws allow agribusiness to freely trade farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming. A crucial change is that traders, agribusinesses and supermarkets can buy produce from any market, rather than buy only in notified markets where they are licenced to operate. These rules have frightened some farmers, who fear that the reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers growers an assured price, and leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before. The Punjab government has brought three parallel laws, which say that none of the central legislations will apply to Punjab. A fourth bill, The Code of Civil Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, is unrelated to the Centre’s reforms. It seeks to exempt agricultural land of small farmers, not exceeding 2.5 acre, from Section 60 of The Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. With this, banks won’t be able to auction land of small farmers who default on farm loans to recover dues. The three Punjab bills are not laws yet, and require the assent of the Governor, which he is unlikely to give. The Governor has three options, according to Subhash Kashyap, former secretary general of the Lok Sabha. If the Governor doesn’t give his assent, he can withhold the bills indefinitely. “There is no time frame by which the Governor must take any action [on the bills],” Kashyap said. The Governor can also send the bill for the President’s “consideration”, which means these bills will be vetted by the law ministry to see if they violate any central laws or constitutional provisions. “More Congress-ruled states may follow suit [in passing counter-bills], but given the politics around the issue, it is extremely unlikely that any governor will give assent to these bills. This reminds one of former President Giani Zail Singh, who withheld bills, such as the Postal Bill, indefinitely,” Kashyap saidFarmers organisations say the bills offer nothing substantial. “The Punjab bills fail to conceptually counter the imposition and facilitation of corporatisation of our farming systems; in fact they validate the concept,” said Avik Saha, the convener of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, spearheading the farmers’ protests. Let’s look at the specific provisions of the three bills. The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to amend to Sections 1(2), 19 and 20 of the Centre’s Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, apart from adding three new Sections, namely 4, 6 to 11. The bill’s preface lays down the context. It says “the direct consequence of this central Act would be to introduce several other infirmities and distortions operating to the grave detriment and prejudice of agriculture and communities associated with it…”The bill has 11 provisions. Notably, Section 2(1)(b) gives legal protection to MSPs but only to wheat and paddy. It also prescribes punishment of three years in prison in case any trader “compels or exerts” pressure on farmers to sell below MSP. “This is not a full victory because farmers still haven’t got anything in hand. It is a victory of principles,” said Yogendra Yadav, national president of Swaraj India. Farmers, anyway, are offered MSPs for rice and wheat under the present system and it will be difficult to prove that a farmer has been compelled to sell below MSP. “What the Amarinder Singh government could have done, had it wanted, is to give a legal backing for all 23 commodities to say that if these commodities are sold below MSP, the government would start procuring these commodities at MSP,” Yadav said. Therefore, by limiting the legal right to MSP to rice and wheat, the bill offers nothing new. If the Centre withdraws MSP for rice and wheat, the bill has nothing to state that the MSP will be borne by the Punjab government. The second bill, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks to amend Sections 1(2), 14 and 15 of the Centre’s Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020. It brings the whole of Punjab under the ambit of the Punjab Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act and states that Punjab government reserves the right to levy fees in any market, including those set up outside the APMC. The Centre had passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 to take out a host of items, such as pulses, potato, onion, etc, from the purview of the Act to allow traders to build up stocks for future sales. To counter this, the Punjab government passed the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 and amended section 1(2) and section 3(1A) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 to maintain “status quo ante as on June 4, 2020”. It further states that the Punjab government reserves the right to impose stock limits and decide which commodities will qualify to be categorised as essential. “We have passed the bills to check the shortcomings in the farm laws enacted by Parliament last month. We have done our best to address the concerns of farmers and other stakeholders. However, we understand these bills require assent from the President to take shape of laws, and we are not very sure about that. We may have to approach the Supreme Court to implement the bills passed by the state assembly,” Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Punjab’s food and civil supplies minister, said.Other states are likely to follow the Punjab model, but experts say it may not lead to much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-bills-offer-little-on-ground/story-v9q9diTe0BZES4HL0wpTrI.html
24-10-2020||India||HC grants Sivasankar protection from arrest||The Kerala high court on Friday refrained the Enforcement Directorate and Customs from arresting chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar till it takes a final decision on his anticipatory bail petition on October 28 in the gold smuggling case, even as the two central agencies opposed his bail plea.The ED alleged the senior IAS officer was aware of the smuggling activities of the main accused in the case, Swapna Suresh, a former United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate employee. There were also attempts to bail her out after the gold — hidden in a bag camouflaged as a diplomatic baggage of the UAE consulate in the state capital — was seized. He also helped the main accused in money laundering, the probe agency said. The Customs argued that a person served notice under section 108 of the Customs Act — which gives the agency power to summon a person to give evidence and produce documents — cannot move an application for anticipatory bail. It also alleged that Sivasankar pretended to be ill last week and got himself admitted to two hospitals to avoid being grilled by the probe team. This is the first time that both the agencies pointed to Sivasankar’s direct role in the alleged smuggling case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-grants-sivasankar-protection-from-arrest/story-jlXExZ7wlXrc7cNXBBD0dI.html
24-10-2020||India||Navy tests anti-ship missile from corvette||Amid the ongoing border tension with China, the Indian Navy on Friday released two short videos to demonstrate its combat readiness on the high seas, with the images showing a frontline corvette launching an anti-ship missile and sinking the target vessel with precision. The anti-ship missile, an Uran, was launched from INS Prabal to knock off the target warship in the Arabian Sea, officials familiar with the developments said. “AShM (anti-ship missile) launched by #IndianNavy Missile Corvette #INSPrabal, homes on with deadly accuracy at max range, sinking target ship. #StrikeFirst #StrikeHard #StrikeSure,” the Indian Navy tweeted along with the 15-second video clip showing the missile being launched. The second clip showed the target sinking after being hit.The navy did not reveal when the missile firing took place but officials said the images were from earlier this week. INS Prabal is deployed in the Arabian Sea along with a raft of warships, including aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, and other assets of the navy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-tests-anti-ship-missile-from-corvette/story-tEi3blcEt90695greI4WJJ.html
24-10-2020||India||‘Extremely sorry state’: Court after Goa says no lab to test seized narcotics||Peeved by his continued incarceration and denial of bail despite the drugs he was accused of possessing not even being tested by the laboratories that the Goa Police relies on, Nigerian national Michael Okafor has approached the Bombay High Court’s Goa bench, seeking to direct the state to operationalise the state’s forensic laboratory. It was set up back in 2013.Agreeing with the petition, the Bombay High Court’s Goa bench has pulled up the Goa government for the “sorry state of affairs”, which it said affected “the rights of the accused persons to speedy trial, which is one of the facets of Article 21 of the Constitution of India”.“The laboratory was to be operational in Goa in 2013. At present the laboratory can only test for ganja and charas. A majority of substances that are usually seized by the Goa police in narcotics raids include Ecstasy, LSD, MDMA and cocaine. They cannot be tested in the state and samples are sent to the CFSL Laboratory in Hyderabad and it takes more than a year to receive the report,” advocate K Poulekar, who argued the case for the Nigerian, said.“Given these delays the trial takes four to five years to complete which is around half the sentence. And if they are acquitted after the trial, who will give them their life back?” Poulekar said.Okafor was arrested on October 19 last year with substances suspected to be LSD of a quantity little less than one gram. The high court took serious cognisance of the repeated delays in setting up the laboratory.“It is quite unfortunate that though the NDPS Act came into force in 1985 and there are several prosecutions launched under this Act in the state of Goa, till date there are no proper facilities for testing the seized materials. As a result, the prosecutions are delayed, the suspects by default are released on bail, and then flee from justice.“Thus the very operation of the NDPS Act is frustrated on account of non availability of proper facilities in the state of Goa itself. This is an extremely sorry state which should have been redressed by the authorities with greater sense of urgency and responsibility,” the High Court bench of Justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar said.It is high time that some effective steps are taken by the state government to set up a full fledged laboratory in Goa itself, where such drugs and psychotropic substances can be tested within a reasonable period, the court said.The High Court has also hinted that they delay in operationalising the lab could be deliberate in order to enable the accused persons to avail of ‘default bail’, citing the long delays in receiving lab reports.“There is absolutely no explanation as to why since the establishment of the GFSL in 2013, no efforts were made to procure the standard samples all this time. There is no explanation as to why procurement of such standard samples which, we were informed would cost the state government an amount hardly Rs 25 lakh or thereabouts took so long and still taking so long. For the present at least, we would not like to accept that this delay is deliberate and for extraneous considerations. However, if such a position continues, further probes will become necessary,” the high court said.The court directed the government to make the lab operational within a period of three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extremely-sorry-state-court-after-goa-says-no-lab-to-test-seized-narcotics/story-5qg08mB5wAD5QKfjub0cxK.html
24-10-2020||India||DU V-C role in focus as DU staffing row simmers||A day after the Union education ministry disregarded Delhi University (DU) vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi’s appointments to the posts of pro-vice chancellor, registrar, and director of South Campus, PC Jha, the removed registrar who was backed by Tyagi, claimed the V-C’s decisions were in compliance with the DU Act. In a letter addressed to Birendra Kumar Singh, deputy secretary in the ministry of education on Thursday, Jha wrote, “It is informed that PC Jha, in addition to his responsibilities as director of South Campus, is acting as registrar as an interim arrangement and Geeta Bhatt has been appointed as pro vice-chancellor in place of PC Joshi. The honourable vice-chancellor, professor Yogesh K Tyagi, has taken [the] decision in due compliance with the Act, Statutes, and Ordinances of Delhi University,” The ministry had on Thursday said Tyagi’s orders during his leave of absence on medical grounds were not valid. The ministry also acknowledged Vikas Gupta, who appointed by acting V-C Joshi as the registrar, and said that if Tyagi wanted to join office, he must submit a proper medical fitness certificate High-voltage drama has been unfolding at the university since Tuesday with two factions of the university supporting two registrars, two pro-vice chancellors, and two directors of South Campus, resulting in an executive council meeting that cleared Gupta’s appointment as the new registrar being questioned. On Friday, Gupta visited the Viceregal Lodge at DU and met Jha, who is “working” from the V-C’s office. “We wanted the rooms of the pro-VC and registrar to be unlocked. The ministry has already issued the orders, we only wanted these directions to be implemented. But they were reluctant and maintained they are appointed by the vice-chancellor,” Gupta said. Referring to Friday’s meeting, Jha said, “Gupta and I spoke cordially. He asked how we could resolve the ongoing deadlock and we conveyed that he should speak to the vice-chancellor, who has the only authority on the matter. The offices have been sealed as per V-C ‘s orders, who has asked us to work from his office. Whenever the vice-chancellor asks us to hand over the office, we will.” The Viceregal Lodge houses the office of the DU vice-chancellor along with other executive officials of the varsity, including the registrar and pro-vice chancellor. The offices of the registrar and pro-VC have been locked for two days as per directions of the VC, Jha said.Despite repeated attempts, pro-V-C Joshi and removed pro-V-C Bhatt, did not comment on the matter. Meanwhile, Suneet Kashyap, joint officer on special duty (OSD) at the V-C office, wrote to Sanjeev Singh, director at DU computer centre, alleging that password of the official email of the pro-VC had been changed.“The password of the official email of the pro vice-chancellor of university of Delhi was changed on the night of October 22, 2020 and had become inaccessible to the present pro vice-chancellor Geeta Bhatt. You are directed to immediately convey the password of official email ID to present pro vice-chancellor,” Kashyap wrote. Some senior officials claimed Tyagi had already joined work when Jha was appointed as interim registrar and Bhatt as pro-VC. “The vice-chancellor had sent an e-mail to secretary, higher education and other officials on October 19, saying he would like to attend the meeting on Evidence of the Parliamentary Committee on the Welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes scheduled on October 20 via video link. Why would he do so if he wasn’t working?” a senior DU official said.But former executive council member AK Bhagi, said, “In August, the ministry had sent a letter, saying Joshi would be in charge of all duties and appointments till the vice-chancellor joined office. It was mentioned in the letter that the VC would have to inform the ministry when he joined his office. This is not possible that a person can be on leave and discharge his duties simultaneously.” According to government official in the know of the developments, there were serious concerns about the leadership of the vice-chancellor as recruitments had been slow during his tenure and issues such as the recent spat raised questions. The slow pace of recruitment had come up before a parliamentary panel, the official said.“There has been concern about his health and whether he can perform the key role if he is not fully well. It is learnt that the vice-chancellor has not attended his office for a long time. These issues were discussed and there is a serious concern and in the ministry on these aspects. A suitable course of effective action will be taken,” the official quoted above said. Attempts were made to contact the vice-chancellor to get a response but he did not respond to calls or messages.The ministry can possibly approach President Ram Nath Kovind, who as visitor can appoint or remove the heads of central universities, with the concerns. The ministry is considering all aspects, said another official when contacted, without elaborating further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-v-c-role-in-focus-as-du-staffing-row-simmers/story-REJK4dqhhhmpPI32JHXKDL.html
24-10-2020||India||Won’t hoist tricolour until J&K flag is allowed: Mehbooba Mufti||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday said members of her party would not raise the Indian tricolour unless they are allowed to raise the flag of Jammu & Kashmir , the right to which had been conferred on the erstwhile state by the now-defunct Article 370 of the Constitution.In her first interaction with the media after her release from 14 months in detention, Mufti said she had no interest in fighting elections unless the special status of Jammu & Kashmir is restored. Flanked by three senior party leaders, the PDP president placed the party flag and the flag of the former state on a table in front of her.Mufti said the relationship of J&K with the national tricolour was not independent of the erstwhile state flag. Pointing towards the flag in front of her, she said: “When this flag comes in our hand, we will also raise that (Indian) flag as well.”Mufti said J&K’s flag had been taken away by “dacoits.”Also watch| ‘Will raise tricolour when...’: Ex-J&K CM Mufti’s fresh attack on Centre “They themselves desecrated the Constitution...What do they expect from us? Our flag is this {pointing towards the erstwhile J&K flag} and our relations with the country’s flag have been established by this flag,” she said.On August 5, 2019, the state was divested of its special status and limited autonomy with the nullification of Article 370 by Parliament, which approved constitutional changes proposed by the government. The state was bifurcated into two Union Territories -- Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh -- with effect from October 31. In the early hours of August 5, hundreds of political leaders and workers -- including three former chief ministers Mufti, Omar Abdullah and his father Farooq Abdullah -- were detained. The Abdullahs were released in March this year, and Mufti was freed in the second week of October.Since then, the leaders have come together -- along with four other parties in Kashmir -- to forge an informal alliance that aims to work for the restoration of the region’s special status.Roughly two weeks ago, Farooq Abdullah stoked a controversy in a television interview when he wished for the restoration of Article 370 with the help of China, which opposed the reorganisation of the region.The government has promised that the Union Territory of J&K will have its own elected legislature, but the PDP president said that she was not interested in contesting elections.“Let me tell you, I have no interest in elections unless what has been taken from us is returned. Unless the Constitution under which we used to contest elections is returned, I won’t take part in elections,” Mufti said.She added that the central government had desecrated the Constitution of India to push the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) manifesto promise of doing away with Article 370. “It was the Indian Constitution that had safeguarded our special status and gave the powers to the constituent assembly of J&K whether to keep the special status or do away with it. It was J&K’s constituent assembly which had decided to keep this special provision,” she said.“After revocation of Article 370, they brought many laws into J&K only to provoke people. The people of J&K are expendable for them.”Addressing the national leadership, she said: “I want to tell people in Delhi you can’t forget Kashmir problem. It’s there and you can’t close your eyes.”Reacting sharply to Mehbooba’s statement over “not raising tricolour”, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said that “the so-called politicians of Kashmir sometimes tend to be more dangerous than apparently identified separatists.”“Mehbooba Mufti claims to be a mainstream politician but she has reservations in carrying the tricolour. We have maintained for last several years that Kashmir’s so-called politicians sometimes tend to be more dangerous than apparently identified separatists,” the Union Minister told news agency ANI.Mufti went on to say that her role will not be restricted to the restoration of Article 370, it will go beyond it. “About the final resolution of the Kashmir dispute, we will perform whatever is our role,” she said, adding that young Kashmiris had paid with their lives for the cause of the erstwhile state.“It’s time for political leaders to give their blood. The fight is not just mine or any particular party’s or of the alliance [of local political parties] alone. We request people to unite with us” .Mufti called it a political fight that will be fought peacefully. “They say you can buy land in J&K; we’ve abrogated Article 370. Then they said they will give free vaccines. Today, PM Modi had to speak of Article 370 for votes. This government has failed to solve the issues of this nation,” she said. Political expert and retired professor of law who formerly taught at Central University of Kashmir, Sheikh Showkat Hussain said, “ Now whatever be her [Mehbooba] posture, ordinary Kashmiris remain sckeptical unless those who talk of Gupkar Declaration prove their credibility and seriousness relating to the restoration of the pre August 2019 amendments, “ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-t-hoist-tricolour-until-j-k-flag-is-allowed-mufti/story-z86NFMMw1ZGjOrmtCqVLAO.html
24-10-2020||India||India, US may discuss LAC row at 2+2 meet||The military standoff in the Ladakh sector between India and China is set to be on the agenda of the India-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue to be held in New Delhi next week, a top American diplomat said. The two sides are also finalising their discussions on several agreements, including the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), ahead of the meeting between the defence and foreign ministers of the two sides, principal deputy assistant secretary for South Asian affairs Dean Thompson said at a briefing early on Friday. “Certainly, I think the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) will... probably be discussed at some point, and we’re watching the situation closely. I think both sides have expressed a desire to de-escalate violence,” Thompson said during the briefing that he addressed along with assistant secretary for East Asian and Pacific affairs David Stilwell. Asked whether BECA, which will facilitate sharing of classified satellite and sensor data, and other agreements will be signed during the 2+2 meeting on October 27, Thompson replied: “We’re in the process of finalising a lot of the discussions right now, and so I know that BECA and other agreements are in the works. “I’m not going to, I think, commit to anything right this minute, but we do expect to have several items highlighted as we go through the trip.” It is widely expected that BECA, described as one of four foundational agreements for sharing of sensitive information and logistics and sales of advanced military hardware, will be signed during the 2+2 meeting. External affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh will meet their American counterparts Mike Pompeo and Mark Esper for the third edition of the dialogue that will consolidate diplomatic and security ties, including institutionalised intelligence-sharing and efforts to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific.Thompson said: “The 2+2 format is reserved for our closest friends and partners and reflects our belief that the US and India are stronger, more secure and more prosperous when we work together. The 2+2 discussions will focus on global cooperation, on pandemic response, and challenges in the Indo-Pacific, economic, space and energy collaboration, people-to-people ties, and defence and security cooperation.” In all his meetings in New Delhi, Pompeo will look for “opportunities to expand the US-India partnership in support of our mutual interests during these challenging times”, Thompson added. Pompeo and Esper will also meet national security adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The India-China standoff in Ladakh sector has entered its sixth month and tens of thousands of troops mobilised by both sides are now set to remain deployed along the LAC through the harsh winter. Military commanders of the two sides are expected to hold another round of talks by next week to try and take forward the stalled disengagement and de-escalation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-may-discuss-lac-row-at-2-2-meet/story-l2b6nUPRIVJiKdg2eI0YsK.html
24-10-2020||India||China builds new structures near LAC, relocates troops. India reads a message||Even as India and China discuss disengagement from friction points in Ladakh at the military-diplomatic talks, the People’s Liberation Army is constructing new structures and relocating troops and equipment to occupied Aksai Chin in Tibet as well as Xinjiang with no intention of backing off from the 1,597 km of Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh at least this winter.Senior military officials said they had noticed construction of a huge structure spread across 3 lakh square feet - almost the size of four football fields - has been noticed around 10 kilometres from the LAC in occupied Aksai Chin across Gogra-Hot Springs area.According to a retired army chief, the humongous facility could be used for housing troops, artillery, rocket regiments and tanks as the barrels of tanks and guns are known to freeze and go brittle in sub-polar conditions. Given that the structure is very close to the LAC, it could also be used for setting up hospital facilities to treat PLA troops suffering from acute mountain sickness and high-altitude pulmonary edema. Both can prove fatal if not treated properly.New deployment of vehicles and equipment under camouflage has also been picked up in Xinjiang, 82 kilometres from the LAC.The Indian side has also spotted relocation of troops and equipment around a PLA camp 92 kilometres inside Aksai Chin and movement of a large number of PLA vehicles in the Tibet region across Ladakh’s Demchok. It is also very clear that PLA intelligence is watching the Galwan region and the Kongka La area from positions 8 to 20 km from the LAC in Aksai Chin.The PLA is building a new road between Hotan and Kanxiwar in Xinjiang, some 166 km from the India-China border to provide an alternative route to Aksai Chin for the troops and equipment. The Chinese air supplies for the LAC stand-off are getting dropped off at the Hotan air base, 320 km from LAC as the crow flies, through Y-20 planes, widely acknowledged to be a copy of Russian IL-76 transport aircraft.The PLA activity is not limited to Ladakh. Some 60 km from the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh, people familiar with the matter said, counter-space jammers had been deployed to ensure that PLA activity is not picked up by an adversary through satellites. It is understood that PLA has deployed Russian S-400 missile systems in depth areas around Nyingchi city across Arunachal Pradesh to cater to any aerial threat.The net assessment of PLA posture is that China is consolidating its positions with bases and storage depots being set up in Golmud, which is connected to Lhasa through trains with a dual use airport used for both civilian and military purposes in Qinghai province.While Beijing says that it is committed to disengagement and de-escalation from the Ladakh LAC as agreed upon by foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Wang Yi in Moscow on September 10, the PLA is apparently showing no sign or desire to adhere to the commitment.As a result of China’s reluctance to take a step back, the Indian Army has been on alert with its troops proactively patrolling within its limits with the XIV Corps Command taken over by Lt Gen PGK Menon of the Sikh Regiment. With snow ready to fall in contested points on Gorga-Hot Springs, North and South Pangong Tso, it will be a long winter for the deployed troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-spots-movement-across-lac-china-is-building-new-structures-relocating-troops/story-DIe6zUzawUyTwEBrakZ45K.html
24-10-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti gets back to work, holds first meeting of PDP after release from detention||Peoples’ Democratic party (PDP) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti held her first party meeting in Srinagar on Thursday nine days after her release from a 14-month detention on October 13.The meeting was held at the Fairveiw Guest House, her official accommodation and was attended by top PDP leaders including former ministers and legislators. Thursday’s meeting was significant as the PDP president is now trying to revive her party especially after dozens of former legislators and ministers left to join the Apni Party led by former PDP minister Altaf Bukhari. “It was an important meeting in which the party president reviewed the political situation of the last 14 months. The leadership also discussed the party’s core politics and organisational issues,” said a senior party leader who attended the meeting.Also watch| ‘Will raise tricolour when...’: Ex-J&K CM Mufti’s fresh attack on Centre Another PDP leader said that many issues related to Kashmir politics were discussed in the meeting. “It was after more than one year when the party president was able to meet the party leadership and everyone felt encouraged by her presence.”PDP leaders said that Mufti assured them that the party would emerge as a strong political force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehbooba-mufti-gets-back-to-work-holds-first-meeting-of-pdp-after-release-from-detention/story-reTe8OBaCk3iBWIgBNYCvM.html
