25-10-2020||City||Grit and inspiration: Delhi govt school students ace NEET JEE||New Delhi: Tamanna Goyal, 20, a resident of Shahbad Dairy, wanted to study medicine after being inspired by her mother, who works at a private clinic for a Rs 6,000 a month. Goyal, who graduated from the Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Rohini’s Sector 11 Rohini cleared the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) this year and ranked 173rd overall and 11th in the EWS (Economically Weaker Sections) category. “Though the way the health care workers were treated during the Covid-19 pandemic and the risks they were exposed to briefly did make me question my choice, eventually, I knew I had to serve as a doctor,” she said. Goyal was among the 20 students from Delhi’s government schools who cleared the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and NEET entrance tests and met chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and education minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday. Goyal said she was “excited to meet the CM and deputy CM.” “During our interaction, the students were each talking about their journey in front of top officials of the education department. It made me very emotional and reminded me of my own struggles and I broke down. The CM and deputy CM encouraged me to excel. Several other students have been inspired and approached us for our notes and guidance,” said Goyal, who wishes to study at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Around 569 students from Delhi government schools, of whom 379 are girls, qualified for NEET this year, 443 cleared the JEE Mains and 53 cleared the JEE Advanced, becoming eligible for admissions to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) across the country. Of the 1,597,433 candidates who registered for NEET this year, the government said around 85-90% students appeared for the exams. Of 858,000 applicants for JEE Mains, 635,000 had appeared for the engineering test from September 1 to 6. Kejriwal and Sisodia congratulated the students and their parents for their performance despite the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. “Our contribution to the service of the nation must not stop. This is a long journey and many people have worked hard to reach this stage. Our dream is ‘Shikshit Rashtra, Samarth Rashtra.’ We will only be able to strengthen our nation through a strong education system... I would also like to request you all to guide your juniors, take responsibility for at least 10 children from families just like you, and explain to them the significance of NEET-JEE. When you become a doctor or an engineer, please work with all honesty and dedication,” Sisodia said. Kejriwal praised the students for their achievements, since many of them did not take coaching for the medical and engineering entrance exams. “It is a general perception that no one can clear NEET-JEE exams without coaching. I took coaching, my son and my daughter took coaching, but the students sitting here clearing the exams without coaching is commendable. Every child sitting here is a diamond, equipped with so much raw intelligence. This is not the end, this is a single innings and you have to go a long way,” he said. The CM also requested the Delhi education department to start providing coaching to NEET-JEE aspirants. “I also want to request the education department to start providing coaching to the aspirants so that more and more school students qualify for the exams and the existing students also perform well,” he said. Himanshi, a former student of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Nand Nagri, ranked 1,181st in NEET. “It has been challenging — especially during the pandemic. But the toughest phase is when you think to yourself that you will not be able to crack the exam. Once we get past that phase, we can always succeed. I wanted to be a doctor because if we can save a life, there is nothing more that we can want from your life,” said the teenager, whose father works as a driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/grit-and-inspiration-delhi-govt-school-students-ace-neet-jee/story-jPmv6kEUqpBtSeEO72nSXK.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Despite economic slowdown, registration of new vehicles up by 28% on Dussehra in Mumbai||Despite the economic crisis amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the registration of the new vehicles on the occasion of Dussehra saw a significant rise in the city and across Maharashtra, as compared to the registrations last year during the festival.A total of 599 new vehicles were registered across city’s four Regional Transport Offices (RTO) on Sunday over last year’s registration of 469 on the day of Dussehra. The city has witnessed 28% rise in registrations of vehicles this year.Registrations of the new four and two-wheeler vehicles are done at Tardeo, Wadala, Andheri and Borivli RTOs. Tardeo office registered 160 new vehicles on Sunday against 41 last year on Dussehra, while Wadala saw the registration of 170 vehicles against last year’s number of 42. At Andheri RTO, 241 registration were reported against last Dussehra’s number of 192. However, the Borivli transport office has been the exception to the trend as it registered only 28 vehicles as opposed to 194 vehicles registered last year.Among the new vehicles registered, two-wheelers’ number was significant with six at Tardeo, 127 at Wadala, 150 at Andheri and 21 at Borivli.Transport experts have attributed the rise in the registration to non-availability of local trains in the wake of the lockdown imposed amid Covid-19 pandemic. “People are buying more two-wheelers because of the non-availability of local trains and the Covid situation. They have no choice, apart from buying individual mode of transport. This could be harmful in the future as pollution levels could rise. But there is no alternative available for them in the current situation,” said transport expert AV Shenoy.“There has been an increase in vehicle registrations in nearly all the RTOs comparing last year’s Dussehra. The rise appears to be high because there was a significant dip in vehicle registrations the previous year,” said senior RTO official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-economic-slowdown-registration-of-new-vehicles-up-by-28-on-dussehra-in-mumbai/story-hm2uWTsiLd0CEzAvRVuMrI.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC comes up with SOP after 3 gas leak incidents in Mumbai||Following three incidents of a mysterious gas leak reported in Mumbai over the past one year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has now mobilised agencies like fire brigade and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to collect air samples if such incident is reported in future. The BMC has prepared a standard operating procedure (SOP) to chalk out roles of different response agencies during a gas leak. The SOP is yet to be finalised by the municipal commissioner.In the past one year, three incidents of the mysterious gas leak have been reported in Mumbai, putting Mumbaikars in a frenzy, as its source has still not been identified. The only aspect which is common between all three incidents is that majority of the complaints which poured in are from the same set of areas (Chembur, Ghatkopar, Bhandup, Vikhroli, Mulund), the eastern suburbs. During the probe of these incidents, there were some key decisions made that stated that all companies dealing with hazardous materials should intimate about their functioning to the disaster management cell and fire brigade. Secondly, the transportation of the chemicals needs to be informed beforehand to the concerned authorities depending on their locations and that there should be specific timings for the transportation of hazardous chemicals within the city. A strict tracking and monitoring of vehicles carrying such materials were also decided. All of this is being included in the new SOP.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (disaster management), said, “The NDRF has the equipment to collect air samples, however, the fire brigade will procure the same equipment to be ready for another such gas leak. The samples could be tested which would narrow down our search. As per complaints, the gas leak has not stayed for more than 15 minutes in the air which is why it has been difficult to detect the source of the leak.” For starters, the plan is to set up these sample collecting units one each in the island city, eastern and western suburbs.Rakesh Kumar, director of CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-NEERI), said, “Since it’s not a continuous foul smell, it’s difficult to detect its source. But there should be a mapping of all residential and commercial pockets in areas where these complaints are frequent. Then, we need to map all smaller storage where chemicals are kept to find out if any illegal activities are being carried out.”Despite the denial of leakage by several petrochemical factories located in Chembur, a probe set up into finding the source of the gas leak by the BMC stood inconclusive. The probe panel included experts from IIT, Fire Brigade, NDRF, University Institute of Chemical Technology (UICT) and petro-chem representatives.There are multiple theories behind this mysterious gas leak. One of the most prominent theories is that a tanker carrying chemicals to or from one of the several petrochemical factories in Chembur could have leaked while it was passing through the eastern suburbs. A senior official from the Mumbai Fire Brigade said, “There is a chemical odorant (ethyl mercaptan) that is added to cooking gas so that it’s easy to detect leaks since the gas is otherwise odourless. The odourant is transported through vehicles which could have leaked accidentally. There was another speculation of gases emanating from sewer lines which is unlikely.”The first such incident was reported in September last year wherein 47 complaints were made to the disaster management cell. Following that in June, a similar incident was reported and a pharma company in Govandi was believed to have been the source, but it was soon ruled out following an investigation by the fire brigade department in the firm’s premises and the nearby areas.On October 17, BMC received seven complaints about foul odour, akin to a gas leak, from parts of Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Govandi and Bhandup, Mulund, Bhandup, and Powai. However, the BMC could not find the source of the leak and categorised it as an ‘unknown foul smell’. During all three incidents, authorities had alerted the petrochemical factories, mostly located in Chembur, to check their premises but no leak was reported by them. Experts and BMC officials have finally hinted that a sample collection of the foul smell is the only hope to detect the source of the mysterious gas leak incidents in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-comes-up-with-sop-after-3-gas-leak-incidents-in-mumbai/story-bHq7MrHaBTXrHI8W0XXDPI.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Two booked for robbery at Mumbai’s Bandra||In a day light robbery, a Ghatkopar resident was thrashed by two men at Bandra (West) on Saturday at 3pm. The robbers assaulted the victim and threatened him at knife point and took away his wallet and mobile phone on the busy SV Road at Lucky Hotel junction. Bandra police arrested one of the accused and are looking for his accomplice. The arrested accused is identified as Jitu Badan, 27, a resident of Vile Parle. According to police, the complainant, Kumar Siddhi Koli, was accosted by the accused at the bus stop near the hotel. Badan and his accomplice stopped Koli, flashed a knife at him and demanded that he hand over his valuables. An officer from Bandra police station said, “When Koli tried to flee, the accused grabbed him by his shirt and started threshing him. Thereafter they took his mobile phone and wallet, and fled from the spot.” Koli approached Bandra police, following which a case was registered under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, and Badan was nabbed. Police recovered the wallet from Badan. The other wanted accused allegedly has the knife and the complainant’s mobile phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-booked-for-robbery-at-mumbai-s-bandra/story-3lWq1IaEnd8rabHeHCAaHP.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Lower courts need to grant bails to reduce pendency in courts, avoid overcrowding in prisons, say experts||Over a period of time the golden rule of jurisprudence of bail — bail is a rule and jail an exception — has almost been reversed when it comes to lower courts. Legal experts feel this is because the magistrates and judges of lower courts fear criticism from higher judiciary as well as on social media. As on October 25, 4,228,774 cases were pending in Maharashtra courts of which 2,944,123 are criminal cases. The numbers also portray the grim situation in prisons. “The data collected regarding prison population in India represents a grim scenario. It indicates that 67% of the prison population is awaiting trial in India. Inconsistency in bail system may be one of the reasons for over-crowding of prisons across the country, giving rise to another set of challenges to the prison administration and state,” reads the report of the law commission of India dated May 2017.In its conclusion, the commission clearly stated, “Unnecessary pre-trial confinement should be minimised. Confinement is detrimental to the person accused of an offence who is kept in custody, imposes unproductive burden on the state, and can have an adverse impact on future criminal behaviour, and its reformative perspectives will stand diminished.” “It must be noted that 78% of the convicts are in prison for offences punishable with imprisonment of 7 years and above; whereas 57% of the undertrials are in prison on an average for 3-6 months,” reads the report. More than three years since the report, there has been hardly any changes in the lower judiciary — especially magistrate’s courts — which are still reluctant in exercising their power under section 437 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) which deals with bail. Former Supreme Court judge justice BN Srikrishna said, “As far as law is concerned, ‘bail but not jail’ is the rule. This should be the rule. Bail is a conditional order. I allow you to move around and not send you to jail provided you will attend the court, not tamper with evidence. Bail is not a punishment. In giving bail, the courts should access the facts such as if the accused can run away or tamper evidence or if he or she will not take part in the investigation. The judges ought to follow this rule. Otherwise, it’s unfair.” “It has to be seen when a person can be granted bail,” said former Supreme Court judge justice Arjan Kumar Sikri. “If you don’t grant bail, it is a human rights issue. If he is entitled to bail, and if he remains inside the prison for even a day or two, you have deprived him of his personal liberty. One has to be very sensitive in deciding these applications and they have to do their duties fearlessly. If you feel a person is entitled to bail you should not shy away from doing that. This is the ethos of our constitution and Criminal Procedure code,” said justice Sikri. Narrating his experiences as the judge of the Apex court justice Sikri said, “It has been seen that many times, particularly when either the cases are controversial or delicate or political in nature or where there can be an outburst, the tendency in the lower courts is why should we do it, let the person take it from the high court or Supreme Court.” Justice Sikri further said that the jurisprudence of bail is that the person is not to be treated as guilty. He further explained that at this time what is to be seen is if the person will participate in the investigation, will not flee, and will not try to win over or terrorise the witnesses. “If these things are taken care of, the person should be given bail. Of course, there are exceptions where the charges of very serious or grave in nature such as murder,” he added. However, justice Sikri said that judges do come under pressure from not only media but also social media. “The judges are given protection so that they can perform their task fearlessly, objectively and impartially, and there should be independence. Once these are safe guarded, they should not fear. High courts have to step in and provide a clear picture to lower judiciary that ‘do not worry, we are not going to take action unnecessarily’,” said justice Sikri while suggesting that high courts come forward and play the role of a guardian. Former Bombay high court judge justice Abhay Thipsay, who began his career first as a magistrate, said, “People are afraid of giving bail. There have been instances where actions have been taken rightly or wrongly on judges for granting bail. There is no reverse example. There is a need to create a reverse fear, whereby a judge needs to answer on why a person is kept under detention for such a long time.” Thipsay said, “Sometimes bail orders are suspected, and it affects the career of the judges. But sometimes, absolutely without any evidence, if a judge keeps on remanding an accused for months together without granting bail to the accused, the high court has to play a role. Also social media brings added pressure these days.” Two former judges of Bombay high court who refused to be named opined that lower judicial officials are reluctant in granting bail for several reasons. One of the factors is fear of adverse remarks in their annual report card or a discreet enquiry against them. They also said that opinions reflected on social media bring added pressure on them. Judicial officials also expressed fear that there can be a reverse effect on the person if he is not granted bail and kept in jail with hardened criminals. Further, not granting bail not only results in overcrowding in prisons but also adds additional burdens on the higher judiciary as the accused would ultimately have to move further up for his release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lower-courts-need-to-grant-bails-to-reduce-pendency-in-courts-avoid-overcrowding-in-prisons-say-experts/story-1KJk8vkDUvKcsrxgnhp2AJ.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: Arrested accused wanted to mobilise youth through photo exhibitions on mob lynchings||Ahead of the Bhima Koregaon incident in January 2018, one of the accused – Arun Fereira – had suggested holding photo exhibitions for students on the subjects of mob lynching and Hindu militant uprising. According to a charge sheet filed earlier this month by the National Investigative Agency (NIA), this was to mobilise the youth. The NIA charge sheet, running into 10,000 pages, was filed against eight accused who were arrested by the agency. The accused include Dr Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha, Hanybabu Musaliyavirtil Tarayil, Fr Stan Swamy and three members of Kabir Kala Manch – Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap, Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor. The agency has also shown one of the members – Milind Teltumbde as wanted in the case. Previously, Maharashtra Police had arrested nine accused – Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut, Soma Sen, Surendra Gadling, Rona Jacob Wilson, Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Arun Fereira and Vernon Gonsalves. In the charge sheet, the NIA had added several letters recovered from the accused discussed strategies to mobilise more support from student organisations from Mumbai, Pune and Delhi through various activities. A letter dated December 23, 2017, addressed to ‘Comrade Prakash,’ stated that “as instructed by CC in previous letters, we have ramped up our campaign to engage with students across a much wider spectrum”. The letter further appreciated the efforts made by Fereira for engaging with student unions. “Arun [Fereira ] is engaging with various student unions on a regular basis and has come up with many creative initiatives to propagate our agendas,” the letter allegedly mentioned. It added that Fereira had suggested holding photo/cartoon exhibitions on the subjects of mob lynching and Hindu militant uprisings. “This can be organised with the help of Umar across many schools and colleges across Mumbai, Pune and Delhi, and gradually in more cities,” read the letter. In another letter dated September 25, 2017, addressed to ‘Comrade Surendra’ by Prakash, the author mentioned strategies of infiltrating student groups in detail. “We must intensify protests using students. State forces will be soft against students, which will gradually put the state at a disadvantage while acting against us,” the letter stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-arrested-accused-wanted-to-mobilise-youth-through-photo-exhibitions-on-mob-lynchings/story-TFdW59jap6BmT7PXoCvNhI.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||NCB arrests 5 including TV actor Preetika Chauhan in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) busted another module of drug supply and arrested a total of five people including television actor Preetika Chauhan and a Tanzanian national on Saturday from Mumbai. Chauhan was arrested while buying drugs in Versova while the Tanzanian national was held with cocaine from south Mumbai. The three other arrested are drug peddlers from whom NCB has seized charas, MDMA and methamphetamine. All five arrested accused were produced in the court on Sunday and granted judicial custody till November 8. Chauhan was involved only in consumption of drugs while others are interconnected with each other for distribution. Chauhan has worked in TV serials like Savdhaan India and Devo Ke Dev Mahadev. Following a tip-off, NCB officers in plain clothes were deployed at three places — one in south Mumbai and two places in Versova — on Saturday. In the first trap, NCB officers nabbed Bruno John Ngwale from Mohammad Ali Road in Masjid Bunder area and seized 4 gram cocaine from him. After an inquiry, the second team of NCB laid a trap in Versova and arrested Rohit Hire and seized 4.4 gram ecstasy, 1.88 gram MDMA from him, said NCB officers. After questioning Hire, another NCB team intercepted a vehicle and seized 325 gram marijuana, 32 gram charas, and 0.5 gram methamphetamine along with ₹12,990 cash, and arrested drug supplier Deepak Rathod, added the officer. After questioning Rathod, NCB officers laid a trap near Machhimar in Versova and nabbed Faisal Shaikh with 99 gram marijuana. Chauhan was also nabbed from the spot while buying drugs from Shaikh. During inquiry, Shaikh revealed that he had sourced the contraband from Deepak Rathod, a resident of Versova. NCB officials are probing every possible link of the accused in the case including suppliers, peddlers and consumers. Further inquiry is going on, said an NCB officer. This comes in the wake of the ongoing drug investigation after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. NCB registered a case against Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others and arrested a total of 24 accused so far including Chakraborty and her brother Showik. Many Bollywood celebrities also came into NCB’s radar during the probe. Actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Rakul Preet Singh and Sara Ali Khan were questioned in NCB office last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-5-including-tv-actor-preetika-chauhan-in-drugs-case/story-HzjXv1eQ6IL5M55Jb01X8L.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||2 arrested by Mumbai Police for illegally transferring ₹97.16 lakh from co-operative bank’s account||Amboli police recently arrested two men for allegedly illegally transferring ₹97.16 lakh from Mogaveera Co-operative Bank’s account. The accused managed to get user name and password of a bank official from the Kandivli branch, and used them to transfer ₹97.16 lakh to another account. The arrested accused, identified as Vineet Singh, 32, a resident of Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Rohit Singh, 33, a resident of Nallasopara. An officer from Amboli police station said, “On September 28, staff from the bank’s IT department informed the assistant general manager (AGM) that he has noticed six suspicious transactions which occurred on September 27 through which ₹68.85 lakh was transferred.” The IT department further informed him that these transactions had occurred through the bank’s account number and not from any customer’s account. “During an internal inquiry, the bank came to know that someone had used the user name and password of their Kandivli branch’s staff,” the officer said. On September 28 and 29, two more illegal transactions were made. A total of eight illegal transactions were done to withdraw ₹97.16 lakh from the bank, after which bank officials approached Amboli police and filed a complaint against unknown persons.“Following the bank’s complaint, we registered a first information report (FIR) under section 420 [cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property] of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 66 (c) [punishment for identity theft], 66 (d) [punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource] of the Information Technology (IT) Act,” said the police officer.During the investigation, police discovered that Rohit’s bank account was used in the crime, following which a police team reached Nallasopara and arrested him. Later, police found out about Vineet’s role in the crime, and he was subsequently arrested from UP. “We are investigating about how they got their hands on the user name and password of the bank employee, and where they transferred all the money to,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-arrested-by-mumbai-police-for-illegally-transferring-97-16-lakh-from-co-operative-bank-s-account/story-fzhMcznAiGFFAXAWBcf4FK.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Covid-19 CFR at 4%, lower than August||As Mumbai crossed 10,000 Covid-19 deaths on Friday, the Covid-19 cumulative case fatality rate (CFR) now stands at 4%, which is considerably less than the city’s peak at 5.6% in July and August, but still more than in March and April (3.2% to 3.6%), the initial months of the pandemic outbreak. Experts say a drop in CFR is a good sign, but it needs to go below 0.5% or at least below 1%. Mumbai’s CFR is highest in the state and much above the state’s 2.63%. Officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the civic body is focusing on reducing CFR. The relatively lower cumulative CFR in March and April has been attributed to non-reporting of many Covid deaths by hospitals in the first few months. Later in June, and July, BMC and the state government reconciled these death figures and added over 1,000 deaths to the cumulative toll, in various phases. Dr Shashank Joshi, a senior member of the Maharashtra government’s task force set up to control CFR, said, “I have always been concerned about our CFR. We have to aim to get our case fatality rate below 0.5% and 1%.” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department, said, “We are closely monitoring fatalities. After launching Mission Save Lives, the death rate has come down, but we are doing more.” On June 30, BMC launched Mission Save Lives, a nine-point programme to curb fatality due to Covid-19 in the city. Mumbai crossed 1,000 deaths on May 25, with a fatality rate of 3.2%. Mumbai’s deaths crossed the 2,000-mark on June 12, with a CFR of 3.6% and 5000 on July 8, with a CFR of 5.6%. Dr Joshi said, “There was some non-reporting of deaths in the earlier months. [If we add those numbers now] the CFR will come up to 4% or 5% even for those months. I don’t think our mortality has changed much. It has remained more or less on the same plateau.” Going by month-wise data of number of deaths after reconciled figures from June, CFR in March was around 9%, in April, May and June it was over 5%, and in July and August it was over 4%. According to BMC data from October 9, given out in a presentation called ‘Raise 2020’, the civic body over time, reduced preventable deaths in Mumbai, by improvement in hospital availability, and clarity in patient treatment. Also, BMC observed that deaths in patients below 60 years of age also have reduced. Dr Joshi said, “We need to aggressively destigmatise Covid. In Mumbai, people are treating themselves and going to doctors late which lead to high chances of death. The tests are not done on time. It is time that we seriously took care of Covid, especially in the vulnerable groups.” According to BMC, the most prevalent co-morbidities in patients who have died due to Covid-19 are hypertension and diabetes. Dr Joshi said, “At least 15% of the city’s population has hypertension and 30% has diabetes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-covid-19-cfr-at-4-lower-than-august/story-pa2IXcPEGgdldOzEgco4KM.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Bhima Koregaon case: After initial arrests, CPI (Maoist) leaders began looking for moles||Soon after the arrest of the first set of members of the CPI (Maoist) by Maharashtra Police in June, based on information gathered through several leaked letters, the core members decided to probe if moles had infiltrated the group. The charge sheet filed by the National Investigative Agency (NIA) includes a letter written on July 4, 2018, by ‘Chandrashekhar’ to ‘Comrade VV’ discussing strategies and steps to be taken after the first arrests made in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. On June 6, police had arrested five accused – Sudhir Dhawale, lawyer Surendra Gadling, activists Mahesh Raut and Shoma Sen and Rona Wilson. “However, the point of great concern is how exactly was it leaked? By whose intelligence? We need to put efforts to understand the full scale of this breach, including methods used by intelligence agencies. We also need to critically review our MO structures to periodically screen out any moles that may have infiltrated our ranks,” read the letter, which also mentioned steps which need to be taken for reviewing the internal structure as well as communication channels and for further damage control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-after-initial-arrests-cpi-maoist-leaders-began-looking-for-moles/story-DlPbWAs427sbKetKYy6OHI.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police arrest 10th accused in TRP scam||The crime branch of the Mumbai Police on Sunday arrested the 10th accused Abhishek Bhajandas Kolawade alias Amit alias Ajit, who worked as a vendor for television channels, as part of its investigation into allegations of rigged television rating points (TRP). Kolewade was wanted as an accused and the Mumbai crime branch was searching him for the last 10 days. He changed his name and was staying in Karnataka and later Goa.Kolawade surrendered before the crime branch on Sunday evening on the advice of his advocate KH Giri. Kolawade used multiple mobile numbers registered using forged documents, including two in the name of arrested accused Umesh Mishra, said inspector Sachin Vaze of the crime branch.“Earlier, we had arrested his close associate Harish Patil from Chandivali in Powai who was also working as a vendor, and Ramji Varma and Dinesh Vishwakarma, former employees of Hansa Research Private Limited. After questioning them, we learnt that Kolawade used to make payments to them for rigging viewership figures in favour of television channels,” the said crime branch officer.“Kolawade will be confronted with Varma and Vishwakarma for further leads in the investigation. Varma, Vishwakarma and Patil are in police custody till October 26,” said Vaze. Meanwhile, the crime branch has summoned CEOs of Maha Movie channel, Sandeep Varma and Amit Dave to be present at the crime branch office on Monday to join the investigation, said a crime branch officer.“During the inquiry, we learnt that Patil had registered seven companies under various addresses in Mumbai, all in his name. It appears all seven companies were dummy firms and were used for financial transactions by channels. We are investigating the veracity of these companies and their links with channels and their financial transactions,” said Vaze. The authenticity of the seven firms was in doubt since the crime branch had found that a firm owned by Patil, named Capslock Digital Solution Private Limited, was a dummy entity. “We found there was no company registered to the given address,” said Vaze.One of the five suspected channels had deposited money in Capslock Digital Solution, and Kolawade had withdrawn the amount and distributed it to others, including the arrested accused Umesh Mishra. The money was later given to households where barometers were installed, to increase TRP, added the crime branch officer. The alleged TRP scam came to light after the ratings agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a police complaint alleging certain channels that it suspected were rigging TRPs to attract advertisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-arrest-10th-accused-in-trp-scam/story-TpXel8kd5wUsiUPBksv0MN.html
25-10-2020||Noida||Noida: PVVNL lodges over 800 power theft cases in six months||Since April this year, the power discom Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has lodged 814 electricity theft cases in Gautam Budh Nagar at its exclusive anti-theft police station in Sector 63. PVVNL (Noida division) chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said the FIRs in these cases were lodged under sections 135 and 158B of the Electricity Act, 2003. “We withdraw the FIRs once the offenders pay the fine imposed by PVVNL,” he said. He also said after the establishment of power theft police station, the raiding team does not need to send a requisition for police force in advance, particularly raiding the areas falling under rural feeders. “We immediately take the force available at anti-theft police station and conduct raids. Section 135 of the Act is imposed against a person who taps or makes any illegal connection or tampers a meter or uses electricity in an unauthorised manner. A case under Section 158B is lodged against a person who illegally connects any meter with another’s electric line or connects it to any line for the purpose of communicating without licence or maliciously injures any meter,” he said. He said after the establishment of this anti-power theft police station, there was a big rise in the revenue recovery of the PVVNL. “Since April 1 (fiscal 2020-210), we have collected revenue of over ₹50 crore,” he said. Arun Kumar Singh, SHO of power anti-power theft police station, said, “While over 600 cases are registered under Section 135, the remaining cases have been lodged for illegal connection. We have already filed the charge-sheet in more than 100 cases.” He said that since the establishmen of anti-power theft police station in September this year, over 1,500 cases of power pilferage had been registered there. The Uttar Pradesh government decided to set up exclusive anti-electricity theft police stations in every district of state to address cases of power theft. Of the 75 such police stations, 63 are operational. The government has also raised the number of enforcement teams from 33 to 88 to launch a crackdown against those involved in power pilferage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-pvvnl-lodges-over-800-power-theft-cases-in-six-months/story-x2oDNVvoUPRhVX4cisycAL.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Fire at south Mumbai mall extinguished after 56 hours; cooling operations on||The fire at City Centre Mall in south Mumbai’s Mumbai Central was extinguished at 5.08am on Sunday, more than 56 hours after it started, according to the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB). The fire was reported in a shop on the second floor of City Centre mall at 8.53pm on Thursday, as level 1 (small) fire. It soon spread to other floors and MFB declared it a brigade call — level 5 — at 2.42am. The mall is a ground-plus-three-storey structure with around 300 to 400 shops on each floor. An official from MFB said, “Since there are many combustible items in many shops in the mall, such as mobile phone batteries, chargers and wires, cooling operations were underway on Sunday. But the fire was extinguished at 5.08am.” On Saturday, a sixth fireman was hospitalised at BYL Nair Hospital due to suffocation while fire-fighting. Earlier on Friday, five firemen including a deputy fire officer were admitted due to suffocation.After midnight on Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Mumbai Police evacuated around 3,500 residents living in the adjacent 55-storey Orchid Enclave due to thick smoke from the fire. On Saturday night, MFB gave a go ahead to these residents to begin moving back into their homes. However, MLA from Mumbadevi constituency, Amin Patel, said, “Residents were still scared and did not move in on Sunday. They will begin to move in on Monday morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-at-south-mumbai-mall-extinguished-after-56-hours-cooling-operations-on/story-RGC3Bn8ob6IOMGkzmWJ86O.html
25-10-2020||Noida||Two fire incidents in Noida, no casualty||Noida: Two incidents of fire were reported in the city over the past 24 hours. However, no casualties were reported in either of the incidents, fire officials said.On Sunday morning, a call was made to the fire department around 5.15am about a massive fire at a printing ink manufacturing firm in A block of Sector 63.“The ink contained a solvent which is highly flammable. The drums in which the ink was kept were bursting due to the pressure which made the fire worse. The three buildings surrounding the firm were also at very high risk of getting burnt. It took 12 fire tenders nearly two hours to bring the fire under control and keep the damage to a minimum,” said Arun Kumar Singh, chief fire officer (CFO). He said that the manufacturing unit was not operational at that hour and there wasn’t many staff members present at the scene. “Nobody was hurt. There were two vehicles on the premises that were also brought out safely. The origin of the fire is yet to be known,” said the CFO.In a separate incident that took place on Saturday night, several shanties in a Bhangel slum were gutted.“Being a congested area, the fire spread quickly. However, it was contained within two hours with the help of four tenders. There were no casualties in this incident as well. All the residents were pulled out without any harm,” said Singh.Though the official cause of the fire is unclear, locals alleged that it started from an earthen lamp that was kept in one of the shanties. “There was a diya (earthen lamp) kept for the puja in one of the huts. The fire started from that hut. Many huts were burnt down,” said Haresh Kumar, a resident of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-fire-incidents-in-noida-no-casualty/story-1T7IR6FpaHvWAzajiWBk1J.html
25-10-2020||Noida||GB Nagar to complete 400K Covid-19 tests by end of October||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration is en route to complete, and most likely will exceed, 400,000 tests by the end of the month. By Sunday, when it tested 3,452 daily samples, 382,023 samples had been tested in the district.District magistrate Suhas LY said, “From testing just 597 people in March, we ramped up testing to 110,205 in September. Till October 23, we have conducted 133,321 reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, besides 243,873 rapid antigen tests. As a result of this increased testing, we are witnessing a continuous reduction in positivity rate and cases of new infection.” The DM said his administration has also set up an integrated Covid-19 control and command Centre, which works as the nerve centre of Covid-19 battle in the district. “It is manned by people from health and other departments and is equipped with modern equipments for communication and decision making. We are continuously focussing on improving our surveillance and contact tracing as that is the key to early detection of cases. Also, through continuous monitoring of the containment zones as well as other areas, we are trying to keep the number of cases and the positivity rate low. Surveillance has also been ramped up,” Suhas said. Suhas also said that till a vaccine for Covid-19 arrives, the administration has to focus on non-pharmaceutical interventions like enforcement of social distancing norms, hand washing practices and wearing of masks by the people. “As things open up more and more, it is necessary that people understand and voluntarily adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” the DM said. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that there are four ICMR-approved laboratories in the district. “While the labs in Child PGI and Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) are under the state government, the labs in National Institute of Biology (NIB) and National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research (NICPR) are owned and controlled by the central government. It is really commendable that the same set of labs, which used to test around 1,300 samples daily in May, are now testing over 3,000 samples in a day in October,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-to-complete-400k-covid-19-tests-by-end-of-october/story-HPfYo7kLrBV8xamp1VDfvO.html
25-10-2020||Noida||After pandemic woes, Noida’s apparel industry banks on Spring-Summer ’21 collection orders||Noida’s apparel industry is high on expectation with a revival in overseas markets. The Spring-Summer collections 2021 -- between February and June --- is expected to fetch the industry at least ₹15,000 crore, according to industry analysts, higher than the ₹10,000 crore of a usual year, considering the lag throughout the year. Around 600 garment export units had closed and the units in Noida suffered a collective loss of over ₹3,000 crore after the outbreak.The industry has been seeing green shoots of late, recording a rise in exports in September after several months of continuous fall on the back of the coronavirus disease Covid-19 pandemic that hit many clients, and the domestic industry itself with a 68-day national lockdown that started in the last week of March.Lalit Thukral, the president of Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC), said that there was a 90% fall in orders in April this year, which gradually reduced over the last six months. “It eventually recorded a 10% rise last month over the same period last year, which indicates that the apparel sector is now on a growth-recovery path. Apparel exports in September this year was $1.19 billion, compared to $1.07 billion in 2019,” he said. “For the Spring-Summer collections ’21, we expect to bag orders of at least ₹15,000 crore. Till the date, against this expectation, we have received orders of around ₹5,000 crore. But, it will certainly get a big momentum from November as most of the overseas buyers are finalising the orders.” Thukral, who is also the vice-chairman of bi-annual India International Garment Fair (IIGF), said that 65th edition of IIGF is virtual and was inaugurated by union textile minister Smriti Irani on October 15. “This month-long fair is aimed to help Indian apparel and accessories exporters, who will showcase their latest designs and apparel for Spring-Summer 2021 here. It is expected that 10,000 buyers will be connecting and networking with over 200 participants in the entire span of the fair this time. The one district one product (ODOP) program of Uttar Pradesh is also associated with this virtual garment fair. Total participants from UP are around 70, of which 66 are from Gautam Budh Nagar district, whose district product is apparel,” he said. He said that more than 1,500 buyers registered themselves at this fair. “It’s just beginning and we hope that more than 4,000 buyers would visit the fair. We expect to get more orders as compared to last edition’s physical fair, where participants get around $200 million orders,” he said. Another exporter, Manoj Sahu, who runs a garment export company in Noida, also said that the exporters have high hopes from the upcoming Spring-Summer Collections season. “The apparel sector witnessed a major setback of over ₹10,000 crore in the last six months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, but now there seems to be some optimism as apparel exporters are looking forward to the international festive season to bounce back. Several positive steps taken by the state and Centre, have resulted in this growth last month. Also, the pandemic has indirectly encouraged apparel exporters, to venture into a new area and diversify into medical textiles,” he said. Sahu further said that among the major commodities of export, which have recorded positive growth during September 2020 with respect to September 2019 are carpet (42.89%), handicrafts excluding handmade carpet (21.40%), jute manufacturing including floor covering (18.62%), cotton yarn/fabrics/made-ups and handloom products (14.82%), and readymade garment of all textiles (10.21%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/after-pandemic-woes-noida-s-apparel-industry-banks-on-spring-summer-21-collection-orders/story-h6meldC0bdmt0d0Q2zoIIL.html
25-10-2020||City||Police suspect wife’s involvement in Ludhiana man’s murder||In a twist in the Focal Point murder case, police are now probing the role of the 30-year-old victim’s wife in the case.Police have already booked two of his friends, Nand Ram and Lovlish Kumar, who were drinking alcohol with the victim, Ginni Sharma of Ishwar Colony, on the night of the murder.The cops have now found out that the victim had strained relations with his wife, Preeti. It was the second marriage for both but Ginni had found out only recently that Preeti’s first husband was alive and living in Delhi. She had earlier lied to him that her first husband had died of snake bite. The police raided her house in Ludhiana but she had already left the place. On suspicion that she may have fled to her home in Panipat, a team has been dispatched to Haryana.The murder had taken place last Wednesday. Inspector Mohammad Jamil said that Preeti’s involvement cannot be ruled out as of now but things will be clear once they track her down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-suspect-wife-s-involvement-in-ludhiana-man-s-murder/story-NZCnaSNxHup3Y3r5WjhMXN.html
25-10-2020||City||Covid cases cross 20k mark in Ludhiana, 1 more succumbs||A 53-year-old woman from Dana Mandi in Machhiwara succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking Ludhiana’s fatality count to 828. As many as 55 persons tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 20, 022. A total of 18,945 persons have recovered so far, while 246 cases are still active. On a positive note, however, the rate at which the district has been adding new cases to its tally has considerably slowed down. While in early September, Ludhiana was adding 1,000 cases to its tally in every three to four days, the district’s journey from 18,000 cases (October 1) to 19,000 took a whole 16 days. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the lag shows that the contagion is on a decline. “It has been possible because residents adhered to social distancing protocols and wore masks to keep the virus at bay,” he said.Sharing details, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that more and more patients are recovering from the virus day by day. He added that efforts are on to keep people safe from the virus in the festive season.Speaking on the new infections, he said that a total of 66 patients tested positive in the last 24 hours, of which 55 are from Ludhiana while 11 are from other states and districts. He further said that 3, 436 samples were sent for testing on Sunday and the results are expected shortly. Besides, 39 persons were sent for home quarantine, the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-cases-cross-20k-mark-in-ludhiana-1-more-succumbs/story-vqq1zqxnUSHCRrC1mEbLNL.html
25-10-2020||City||24-yr-old succumbs to head injuries, two days after clash in Ludhiana’s Majri village||Two days after a clash between two groups in Majri village, a 24-year-old man succumbed to his injuries at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, on Sunday. The victim, identified as Ravi, 24, a labourer, had suffered severe head injuries in the clash. Police have lodged a murder case against the rival group members following his death.A member of the rival group, who was identified as Manpreet Singh, had suffered bullet injuries in the clash. He is currently admitted at the ESI Hospital in the city.As per information, Manpreet Singh, 25, an electrician, and his friend Sukhpal Singh, an auto driver, had got into an argument with Ravi, Mintu, Laddi, Iqbal Singh at a gym a few days ago and had been nursing grudges against each other ever since.Sadar station officer office (SHO), inspector Jagdev Singh said that on Friday night around 9pm, Sukhpal and Manpreet were returning to their village from Ludhiana city in Sukhpal’s auto. On reaching Rangiya village, the duo stopped for juice at a roadside vend. There they ran into Mintu, Iqbal and Ravi and got into a verbal dual.Sukhpal and Manpreet left the spot after a while but the others started chasing them on their bikes. On reaching near Bhalwan da Dhaba near Majri village, Mintu called his brother Laddi, while Sukhpal and Manpreet also called their accomplices. Manpreet’s group allegedly attacked Ravi with baseball bats, inflicting head injuries. Meanwhile, Laddi opened fire and the bullet pierced through Manpreet’s shoulder.Cross-FIRs of attempt to murder were registered against both groups. But following Ravi’s death, the police added sections of murder in the case. Sukhpal, Mintu and Iqbal Singh were arrested on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/24-yr-old-succumbs-to-head-injuries-two-days-after-clash-in-ludhiana-s-majri-village/story-NpmbXhGRwraFEuw4ZawjUJ.html
25-10-2020||Bhopal||‘26% of Covid-19 deaths take place within 24 hours of hospitalisation’: Centre’s report||As many as 26 percent of deaths among Covid-19 patients take place within 24 hours of hospitalisation, suggests a report from the ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW). Through a circular dated October 23, 2020, sent to all the collectors and chief medical and health officers (CMHOs) across the state by commissioner of health services, Dr Sanjay Goyal, the officials in the districts have been asked to work on the challenges and action plan as incorporated in the ministry’s report dated October 12, 2020 based on a review meeting held by secretary, ministry of health and family welfare with secretaries in health departments of various states.The Centre’s report also stated, “This needs urgent attention of hospital-wise analysis mortality. State is to ensure early case identification and prompt shifting of patients to hospitals.” “State is expected to maintain the increasing trend of testing till positivity goes below 5 percent”, the report stated and further suggested increasing the number of tests through reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) on patients who test negative on rapid antigen tests but have symptoms of the disease. The report also stated, “There are about 16 percent of patients in ICU/oxygen supported beds. State should review its oxygen supply plan.” Also read: ‘Should be ashamed’ - Uddhav Thackeray’s 7 bitter attacks on BJP, CentreHead of department of pulmonary medicine at Bopal’s People’s College of Medical Science and Research Centre, Dr Sanjay Tandon said, “The data in the report suggests late arrival of Covid-19 patients at hospitals which should be a matter of concern. There may be several factors behind it inter alia like lack of awareness, illiteracy, fear of isolation, social taboo, cost of treatment (in case of paid treatment), etc.” He said another factor behind the late arrival of patients at hospitals and identification of patients could be a section of people having nurtured the false belief that they couldn’t be affected by the disease. “There are a large number of people on streets and in markets seen moving around without wearing masks. It’s a horrible situation. People are also relying on unscientific methods of treatment at homes like drinking hot water, brew of herbs, inhaling steam, etc. There is no proven fact that a Covid patient can be cured with hot water etc,” he added. Dr Tandon said, “since it’s pandemic time, there is no harm in treating such patients as Covid patients who have clear symptoms of Covid but their tests have come back negative. The treatment is not an expensive one. It can save several lives.” Head of chest disease department, Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences, Indore, Dr Ravi Dosi said, “Testing needs to be increased and people with Covid symptoms have to be identified and treated early to reduce the number of deaths. There is a need for mass awareness campaign to ensure people wear masks and maintain social distancing which is found missing.” Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “As per the death analysis done by the government in the month of May, more than 31 percent of deaths among Covid patients took place in the first 24 hours and 60 to 70 percent in the first 3 days. There has been a regular analysis by the government of the Covid situation. But it’s unfortunate that the government’s action doesn’t suggest that it is serious about its own analysis or about the advisories from the Centre from time to time. Also, the government continues to fail in sharing data on the breakup on RAT and RT-PCR tests on people. There have been cases wherein people were found Covid positive even after RAT showing a negative result.” Commissioner, health services, Dr Sanjay Goyal said, “We can’t say that the situation is alarming. There is a constant improvement in terms of Covid cases and deaths. The fact is the situation in Madhya Pradesh is far better than that in several other states. However, besides a mass awareness campaign to identify and treat patients early, our major focus is on strengthening our infrastructure and enhancing the quality of treatment. We have succeeded on both fronts.” As per the health department bulletin released on Saturday, as many as 1,004 new Covid-19 cases were identified within the past 24 hours taking the tally of total cases in the state to 166,298. There were 20 more fatalities during the period to take the death toll to 2,875 with the overall death rate registered at 1.72 percent. With the recovery of 1,268 patients during the period, as many as 151,946 patients have recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. Around 31,695 Covid-19 fresh tests have been conducted during the period to take the tally of tests to 2,75,0620.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/26-of-covid-19-deaths-take-place-within-24-hours-of-hospitalisation-centre-s-report/story-jxh7TpmfMp9bxlsdwRsbMK.html
25-10-2020||Gurugram||Man arrested for ATM card frauds in Gurugram||The police on Saturday arrested a man from Manesar, alleged to be part of a four-member gang that duped people by switching their ATM cards. About 50 stolen cards were recovered from the suspect, who is from Palwal, the police said. According to police, the suspect, Shakeel Khan, was traced following an investigation into a case lodged on October 22 based on a complaint by a Ritu Devi. Devi, who lives in Bilaspur and works in a private company, had alleged that her ATM card had been swapped by an unidentified person and had illegally withdrawn ₹27,000 from her account. A case of fraud was registered against the unidentified person on Friday after a preliminary investigation at Bilaspur police station. Khan was arrested at around 9.30 pm on Saturday from Binola flyover. “The suspect and his associates would go to different ATM kiosks across the city and swap people’s ATM cards with similar ones on the pretext of helping them with their transactions. He used to get hold of the people’s PIN (personal identification number) while pretending to help them with the transaction, and would withdraw money later,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). According to Gururgam police records, online banking frauds, including swapping of debit and credit cards, account for more than half the cyber crime incidents registered in the city this year. In 2018, of the 4,137 complaints lodged, 2,321 pertained to online banking fraud and cheating through credit or debit cards or through smartphones. A further 450 complaints were related to Facebook abuse/harassment, another 289 were of internet fraud and 251 were of data theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-arrested-for-atm-card-frauds-in-gurugram/story-jIKWG9BdZwk6cf01heX0NL.html
25-10-2020||Gurugram||At least 20 arrested in police crackdown on IPL betting rings in Gurugram||Cracking down against unauthorised cricket betting rackets across the city, the crime branch of Gurugram Police arrested at least 20 people in separate cases for allegedly making bets on Indian Premier League (IPL) matches on Saturday. Since the start of the tournament last month, raids have been separately conducted at four locations – Sushant Lok, Sector 40, DLF Phase 4 and Manesar – and all suspects nabbed were booked under relevant sections of the Public Gambling Act.The alleged bookmakers had been on the police’s radar since the tournament began on September 19. According to Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, Gurugram, typically such operations mushroom whenever a domestic or international sports league is telecast. This year, however, the start of sports tournaments, which usually took place in the summer, was delayed due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. With the IPL ongoing, unauthorised betting operations which had been dormant due to Covid-19, have now come back to life, Sangwan said.In most cases of betting on cricket matches, the modus operandi is largely the same. Police officers said that during a match, the suspects are connected via a ‘live line’ where one of their ‘contacts’ is physically present at the match location, who informs them over the phone about the odds. The ‘local’ bookie takes bets from punters — a person who places the bets. There is an entire chain of ‘bookies’ who communicate over the phone. The odds keep changing as the match progresses, officers added. Sangwan said, “We are cracking down on all such authorised activities and more arrests are likely to take place on Sunday. Probe so far has found that these bookies bet on all such sporting activities and organise betting sessions from residential areas. They mostly use WhatsApp for communication and have a nexus with bookies at several locations across the city. We are trying to bust the whole chain.“Since this is a bailable offence, several accused return to gambling after they are released from jails. It is yet to be established, however, if the suspects in these four cases have a common link or whether they were running independent operations. Five FIRs have been registered at respective police stations,” said the ACP.Police officers said that on Saturday, the crime branch had received a tip-off about two bookmakers operating from a flat in DLF Phase 4, who had taken bets on a match between the Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) and the Delhi Capitals (DC). Police formed a raiding team and arrested the suspects, who are Delhi residents, while they were taking bets over the phone as the match was screened on a LED screen. Twenty Five mobile phones, six notebooks, eight laptops and dozens of pens were recovered from them. On Sunday, acting on a tip-off, the same crime unit arrested six persons from a society in New Developing Sectors. Police said the suspects were operating a book on an IPL match and recovered three phones, a notebook and a laptop. A crime branch official from Sector 40 said, “In one of the raids, the bookmaker on the phone was communicating that the odds were 39 paise for a bet on the team batting first, which means that a person, placing ₹100 on that team at that point of time would receive ₹139 if it wins. The odds keep changing.” The third raid was conducted after the police received “secret information” that a similar operation was being run in Sushant Lok. Four phones, along with an LED TV, a laptop and ₹20,000 in cash were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/at-least-20-arrested-in-police-crackdown-on-ipl-betting-rings-in-gurugram/story-lXZE1aAAECkVSk6YxVgleM.html
25-10-2020||Gurugram||MCG redesigns Kaman Sarai car park due to litigation||After being stuck for nearly a year, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to redesign its multilevel parking project at Kaman Sarai, said officials on Sunday.In November last year, the foundation stone for constructing the project was laid. However, with the main office of the Congress party and a few shops coming in the way of the project, MCG had sent eviction notices to shop owners and Congress party in December, stating that the land belonged to the civic body and had been illegally encroached upon.Subsequently, the members of the Congress party had met with deputy commissioner, Amit Khatri, regarding the matter and also stated that they will approach Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on the issue.MCG officials said that a month later, the political party and shop owners had approached the local court and got a stay in the matter.“We are redesigning the project in such a manner that the multilevel parking will be built on the land available to us so that we can start construction on an immediate basis. The approval of the design project will also be done internally within the MCG and hence, necessary formalities will not take too much time as such,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG.Originally, the project was designed so as to accommodate 2,000 vehicles, with the aim of reducing congestion at nearby Sadar Bazaar, and making the market a no-vehicle zone. Landmarks such as Sadar Bazar, Gurugram bus depot, Civil Hospital and post office are located in close proximity to Kaman Sarai. Located in one of the oldest parts of the city, Kaman Sarai is a mix of residential and commercial establishments.With the MCG unable to reclaim nearly 8,000 square metres of land due to the litigation, the agency has now reduced the total capacity of vehicles by nearly half, to around 1,100 vehicles. The new project is estimated to cost Rs 175 crore and is being built on around 7,000 square metres land. The facility will have three basement floors reserved for parking, while seven floors above the ground would be leased out for commercial purposes, including space for a multiplex, from which MCG is expecting to recover its construction cost, within a five-year period.A senior MCG official privy to the matter said that the civic body hasn’t completely ruled out reclaiming the land currently occupied by the Congress and a few shops, to expand the multilevel project.“We weren’t sure how long the litigation process would go on till, hence, we have decided to build the project on whatever land is available to us currently. Eventually, we are hoping to get the land back, demolish the illegal structures, and expand the parking facility,” said the official.Parking is a major issue in the city, as there are only one multilevel parking facility and 43 sanctioned parking lots. Each year around 30,000 vehicles are registered in Gurugram.Besides Kaman Sarai, MCG is also constructing a multilevel parking facility at Sadar Bazar.Captain Ajay Singh Yadav, former cabinet minister and senior Congress leader, said that the move to redesign the project and leave Congress office was a positive decision by the government. “This is a historic office of the Congress and it has remained in existence when Haryana was formed in 1966. We appreciate this decision as tallest Congress leaders have visited this office,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-redesigns-kaman-sarai-car-park-due-to-litigation/story-fO6C7Cts8cBw6EoNlPktKN.html
25-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Three mobile phones, drugs found in Bhondsi Jail||Authorities of Bhondsi Jail on Saturday recovered three mobile phones, along with their batteries and chargers, and about 800 grams of marijuana from the barracks inside the jail complex. They also recovered three 4G SIM cards and as many headsets concealed in three packets, the police said.The jail authorities filed a complaint on Saturday in the matter at Bhondsi police station. According to the complaint, a routine check of all the barracks was being conducted by jail officials at 6.30am. During the checking, three packets were found on the roof of and behind barrack number 7, the complaint said. Preliminary probe suggested that the packets, containing the phones and other items, had been thrown from outside and flung across the boundary wall of the jail complex, the police said. “The packets contained three smartphones, three batteries and chargers, three 4G SIM cards and three headsets. We are questioning inmates to ascertain if they had any knowledge of the incident,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). Several instances of mobile phones and drugs being flung across the boundary wall of the jail complex have been reported in the past. According to the police, the mobile phones are used by the inmates to make extortion calls and contact their henchmen and aides to run their operations. “An FIR has been registered in the case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Prisoners Act at Bhondsi police station. Efforts are on to trace the locations from where the mobile phones and other items had been purchased,” Sangwan said. The easy access of mobile phones and narcotics among jail inmates had come under the scanner after the police had arrested Dharambeer Chautala, who was posted as deputy jail superintendent of Bhondsi Jail, on July 23. Chautala, along with an associate, Ravi, was caught supplying mobile phones and narcotics to inmates. The police had recovered at least 11 SIM cards and 230 grams of hashish from their possession. A special investigation team was formed to probe the matter, following which two more aides of the accused duo were arrested. The probe had also found that one 4G SIM card was sold for over Rs 20,000 to the inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-three-mobile-phones-drugs-found-in-bhondsi-jail/story-hZZVgN1FsFT3VoWLBIscJM.html
25-10-2020||Gurugram||Slight improvement in air quality, sudden spike could land Gurugram in ‘severe’ zone||Air quality in the city remained in the ‘very poor’ category for the third consecutive day on Sunday, recording an air quality index (AQI) of 317 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. The air quality on Sunday improved marginally from the previous day, when the city recorded an AQI of 325, which is also in the ‘very poor’ category. The level of ultrafine particulate matter, having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 225.23 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Sunday, as per the data recorded by the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. The level was almost four times the permissible limit of 60µg/m³.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in the lower end of ‘very poor’ category on Monday. Experts attributed the high pollution levels to low wind speed, which is restricting the dispersal of pollutants. “Due to low wind speed, pollutants are not being dispersed. Stubble burning is also taking place rampantly and pollutant particles are being carried forward to other areas from the plains,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist. An official with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the wind speed was expected to improve after October 27, which would subsequently improve the dispersal of pollutants. “Due to low wind speed in the Delhi-NCR, coupled with other factors, dispersal of pollutants has been weak and air quality has been poor. Once the wind speed picks up, we can expect some improvement,” said the official.On Sunday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 33.7 degrees Celsius, a marginal increase from Saturday’s 32.2 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 11.2 degrees Celsius, the same as the previous day. Both the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to rise by a degree on Monday, as per the IMD forecast. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, a clear sky will prevail on Monday. Shakti Singh, nodal officer for Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) implementation in Gurugram, said agencies in the city are collecting around Rs 1 lakh per day in fines every day from those violating the norms and causing dust pollution. He said that more than Rs 7 lakh had been collected from offenders as penalties, from October 15 to 24. “The fines imposed are expected to go up since we have been conducting extensive patrolling. We have been conducting night patrolling regularly to keep a check on activities that lead to dust generation. Besides, complaints addressed to us through various platforms are also being addressed to curb pollution generating activities,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/slight-improvement-in-air-quality-sudden-spike-could-land-gurugram-in-severe-zone/story-X2m5LXB0MWis3S9rCXfhqI.html
25-10-2020||City||52 govt schools in Ludhiana district get funds to install RO systems, water coolers||Over 50 schools in the district are set to have potable water facility as the state government has released funds for the same.The state education department has sanctioned a grant of Rs 31 lakh to the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) office here to get water coolers and reverse osmosis (RO) systems installed at 52 government high and senior secondary schools. A sum of Rs 60,000 has been sent to each of these schools.According to the official list, of the 52 schools that will get the facility, 47 are in rural areas, while five lie in the urban part of the district. The five urban schools are — Government Senior Secondary School, Kundanpuri; Government High School (GHS), Dhandari Kalan; GHS Chaawni Mohalla and GHS Kamran Road.This is the first time that the authorities have sent funds for installation of RO systems in schools, as earlier it would be either to construct new rooms or toilets. As per the list, 23 are senior secondary schools and 29 are high schools.The move will help schools provide safe drinking water to the students. Last year, water samples of many schools had failed the purity test and there was a dire need to get ROs installed in government schools.At GHS Sehjomajra in Macchiwara, 158 students are studying in Classes 6 to 10. They drink water from the tap which comes from submersible pumps installed in the schools. Headmaster Kanwaljit Singh said, “We have received the funds from the SSA office and will start the process of installing RO with a water cooler for the students.”District education officer (elementary) Rajinder Kaur said, “We have received the grant and disbursed the same to the selected schools. This facility will help these institutions provide filtered drinking water to the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/52-govt-schools-in-ludhiana-district-get-funds-to-install-ro-systems-water-coolers/story-TFBU5cAcRkdgdVt95QfPqM.html
25-10-2020||Noida||Special drive to repair potholes in Greater Noida till November 7||GREATER NOIDA: As part of its special drive to repair the city’s roads, the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has repaired at least 290 patches which had developed potholes, officials said.The authority had started the drive on October 7 with an aim to repair potholes. The target was to repair all potholes across the city in a month’s time. Officials said the work will continue till November 7. Under this drive, the authority has geo-tagged locations where repairs were needed, and also took pictures of each patch that has been repaired, officials added.The total length of the main roads, which are 45 to 132 metres wide, is 206 kilometres in Greater Noida. Total length of internal roads, which are less than 45 metres wide, is 594 kilometres.“We have done tagging and also taken pictures, with an aim to maintain transparency in repair work. After the month-long drive, the authority will reserve three days every month to repair potholes found on any city road,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.He added that Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays in the second week of every month will be designated to address issues regarding potholes. To make the special drive successful, the authority has hired a private agency – Dev Yash Projects and Infrastructure Limited – as a consultant for the repair works. The agency has been empanelled so that it can repair any pothole, said officials. Officials said the authority has started this new system of a single agency repairing all potholes in the city so that the work gets completed in a time-bound manner and with transparency. Earlier, individual work circles had to issue tenders for small works after which road repair was to be done, said officials.“But now, since a single agency is to repair all potholes, there will not be any delay in the work, which commuters complain against, unlike earlier. Earlier each circle officer, in his respective circle, was handling road repairs, in a total of eight work circles of the city. But the results were not as per expectations. So, the new system of a single empanelled agency was introduced,” said a GNIDA official, not authorised to speak to the media.The authority has divided the city into two major parts – Greater Noida West and Greater Noida East – for better administration and smooth functioning. In Greater Noida West, at least 60 patches have been repaired and in Greater Noida West, 230 patches have been repaired to offer smooth commutes, said officials. Officials said any resident can call at 120-2336046,47,48, 49 and file a complaint about potholes.“The authority has been claiming for a long time that all potholes will be repaired. And now there is this new system. We hope that all patches will be repaired now,” said Sanjiv Kumar, a resident of sector 1, Greater Noida West.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/special-drive-to-repair-potholes-in-greater-noida-till-november-7/story-V4e9bLCmvzvLtthxMM2BnO.html
25-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Eight nabbed for selling refurbished vehicles after reporting them stolen||Noida: At least eight persons were arrested by the Noida police on Sunday for allegedly fabricating documents of commercial vehicles bought cheap, reporting them as stolen and then reselling them as refurbished trucks, while defrauding finance companies,According to the police, the gang has been active for the past few months.“People working with finance companies are a part of the group. They would access data of customers who were unable to pay their installments (for commercial vehicles) on time. The gang would coerce them into selling their vehicles to the gang for cheap. Then the gang would report the vehicles as having being stolen,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Police said the gang allegedly has a contact in Bhatinda, Punjab who would provide them with fake documents for the vehicles.“They would change the engine or chassis number and then resell these vehicles. They would obtain the documents from Punjab. This way they were defrauding finance companies as well as unsuspecting buyers who were purchasing these refurbished trucks,” said Singh.He said that the suspect in Punjab is absconding, along with three other accomplices. The fake RCs for the vehicles were usually obtained for ₹1.5 to 3 lakh while the suspects earned a profit of ₹5 to 10 lakh on each vehicle, said police.They were nabbed on Sunday following a tip-off from Morna. The police also recovered five trucks from them, along with several sets of fake documents and tools used to change vehicle identifiers.Police said that most of the suspects, including the absconding ones, have a criminal history. They suspect at least 20-25 more vehicles to have been modified or reported stolen while they are searching for all cases in which the suspects have been involved.The suspects were booked for IPC sections for cheating, forgery, counterfeiting and concealing evidence. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-eight-nabbed-for-selling-refurbished-vehicles-after-reporting-them-stolen/story-XFCsRiF61OsxmMCSAqbt5M.html
25-10-2020||City||Noida: Rape victim’s father goes to police station with pistol, demands justice||The father of a seven-year-old girl who was allegedly raped on October 21 went to the Surajpur police station on Friday brandishing a countrymade pistol and demanding justice and monetary compensation.The girl was allegedly lured by the suspect on the pretext of offering sweets, and then raped in a flat in the building where she resided with her family. The suspect, Sonu Verma (25), was visiting a friend in the same building when he saw the girl.Verma was nabbed on the same day. However, in the evening when a police team took him for scene recreation, he tried to grab a sub-inspector’s pistol and flee from the spot. He was injured in his leg during this attempt and then taken in custody again after which he was sent to jail.On October 23, the girl’s father, a 35-year-old truck driver, reached the Surajpur police station with a pistol.A police official said that the girl’s father was in a poor state of mind and was asking for several things, including monetary compensation for his daughter and a chance to face the suspect himself for destroying their life. The pistol was eventually taken from him and he was calmed down.“The family is undergoing counselling, including the father. The girl is doing better health wise. We are trying to fast track the case so that a charge sheet is filed soon and the financial aid process can start. We are trying to help them out as much as possible,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women and children safety. Family members allege that the girl’s father was stressed.“They don’t have a lot of money and he is very scared with the state of affairs. He didn’t mean anyone harm but only wanted to make sure that they get justice for their daughter,” said his brother-in-law.Police also said that the incident of bringing the pistol to the police station is being investigated.“We understand the problem (father’s situation), but the act (of bringing a pistol to the police station) in itself was wrong. A probe in the matter is underway and necessary action will be taken soon,” said DCP, zone 2, Harish Chander.“The compensation process starts as soon as the FIR is registered. Then the medical examination report is taken into account along with the charge-sheet. For most of the POCSO cases, a compensation of Rs 3 lakh is given to the family which comes from the state government. The entire process takes about 2-3 months,”said DPO, Atul Soni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-rape-victim-s-father-goes-to-police-station-with-pistol-demands-justice/story-DQ8diCFKiFZmARkPBFqeCN.html
25-10-2020||City||NGO stages symbolic protest over inadequate fogging in Ludhiana||Protesting against the municipal corporation (MC) and district health department over inadequate fogging being done in the city, the members of Yuva NGO burned their effigies to mark the occasion of Dussehra in the Haibowal area on Sunday.The members rued that corruption in government departments and the lackadaisical approach of authorities in providing proper health facilities to the residents were the real demons of the society and, they needed to put an end to these instead of burning effigies of Ravana every year.Leading the group of protesters, Kumar Gaurav said,”Over 650 cases of dengue have been reported in the city till now but, proper fogging hasn’t been done yet. The authorities are making hollow claims that fogging is being done but, the situation is completely different at the ground level. Recently, mayor Balkar Sandhu also caught few employees of the civic body who were stealing fuel allotted for fogging but, this is just the tip of the iceberg. Corruption is prevalent in each branch of the MC.”“Illegal buildings are being constructed in the city with no check by the authorities. The MC is putting the lives of the residents by not conducting proper fogging drives. Rather than burning Ravana’s effigy of Ravana every year, we should work on eradicating the corruption from our system,” said Gaurav. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Regular fogging is being done by the corporation to keep the residents safe from diseases like dengue and chikungunya. I am personally keeping a check on the corrupt practices being adopted by MC staff and, surprise checking is also being done to catch the corrupt officers and improve the working of MC.”Despite attempts made to reach MC medical officer Vipal Malhotra, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ngo-stages-symbolic-protest-over-inadequate-fogging-in-ludhiana/story-difXYnWvILx7ZGMBSuS3cL.html
25-10-2020||City||Desire to have girl child drives factory worker to kidnap 2-year-old||The police claimed to have solved the kidnapping of a two-year-old girl within 24 hours with the arrest of a factory worker on Sunday.The accused told the police that his wife bore him a boy, but he wanted a girl instead. So, he kidnapped the two-year-old from Kailash Nagar and took her home.The arrested accused has been identified as Raghwinder Kumar, 26, of New Kailash Nagar of Basti Jodhewal. The police have rescued the girl from his possession and handed her over to her parents.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh stated that a mason, Matadin Ahirwar, from Kailash Nagar informed the cops that a bicycle-borne man had kidnapped his two-year old-daughter Sidhi outside their house. The girl was playing in the street at the time of the incident.Caught on camera The crime was captured by the CCTV cameras installed at a hosiery factory nearby.The ACP said that the police have initiated investigation and lodged an FIR under sections 363 and 365 of the IPC against the accused.“We had formed 10 special teams for the task and screened at least 300 people. The police have scanned all CCTVs installed in the area. During the investigation, the police traced Raghwinder to his house in Kailash Nagar and rescued the girl from his possession,” said the ACP.The accused told police that he had lost his one-and-a-half-year-old daughter five years ago. After his daughter’s death, his wife left him. Three years ago, he married again and his wife delivered a boy. The accused added that to fulfil his desire of having a girl child, he kidnapped the two-year-old girl.The ACP added that the police will present the accused in the court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/desire-to-have-girl-child-drives-factory-worker-to-kidnap-2-year-old/story-lh4JDJLvPAWR6vBw87tHnI.html
25-10-2020||City||State medical education minister inaugurates advanced orthopaedic institute in Ludhiana||Medical education and research minister OP Soni inaugurated an advanced orthopaedic institute at a private hospital situated on Chandigarh Road on Sunday.Soni saw the demonstration of robotic/computer navigation knee replacement and hip systems. He said that he was happy that the people of Punjab, Himachal, and Haryana would benefit from the expertise of the orthopaedic team.He added that because of such centres of excellence in Punjab, a reverse trend was being witnessed with patients even coming from the USA, UK, and Canada to get their knee or hip replacements done here. He congratulated the team comprising Dr HS Gill, Dr Manmohan Singh, Dr SD Abrol, and Dr Rohit Singla and said that along with the technology and machines, what also matters is the experience, knowledge, and skills of the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/state-medical-education-minister-inaugurates-advanced-orthopaedic-institute-in-ludhiana/story-1mvHLbm4kiztCrZ1R4dn5L.html
25-10-2020||City||Four injured in collision between car, mini-truck in Ludhiana||Four persons, including a woman, suffered multiple injuries in a road mishap after their car crashed into a mini-truck on the national highway near Sahnewal on Sunday afternoon.The impact of the collision was so strong that the mini-truck overturned on the road after the accident. The commuters passing by informed the police and rushed the victims to the hospital.ASI Bhupinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police have learnt that both the vehicles were over-speeding. The mini-truck driver applied the brakes, but the car driver lost control of the vehicle and collided with the mini-truck from behind.Due to the mishap, the flow of traffic remained affected for at least two hours. Later, the police removed the vehicles from the road and restored the traffic movement.The ASI added that the truck driver has sustained minor injuries whereas the three car occupants — an elderly man, a youngster and a woman — suffered severe injuries. The injured persons are admitted to a private hospital at Sherpur Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-injured-in-collision-between-car-mini-truck-in-ludhiana/story-LuLgjUcCGZQMJAFeXXP3cK.html
25-10-2020||City||Ludhiana district health department gets cracking to prevent second Covid wave||As the first wave of coronavirus disease appears to be receding, the district health department is gearing up for the second wave, which according to health experts could be witnessed during the winter season.Doctors have been put on standby and the health department employees have been asked to rebuild the infrastructure within a 48-hour notice. Private hospitals too have been told not to shut their Covid units.Sharing details of the preparations, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said instructions have been issued to the civil hospital to share the details of expenses to be incurred in installation of heating systems at Covid care centres.“The pandemic has taught us many lessons so we have to be proactive. Now, our infrastructure is in place and we only need a 48-hour period to get back into action. Our doctors and paramedical staff have worked tirelessly and saved many precious lives. The cases now are on the decline and hopefully the situation of the second wave will not arise,” said Dr Bagga.The civil surgeon urged people to abide by the government guidelines to prevent the second wave to the Covid-19.“Hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing of masks are the best measures to curtail the second wave. Elderly people are advised to stay at home while those going out for work should follow the government guidelines,” said Dr Bagga.On the other hand, senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who is member of the task force constituted to curtail the spread of Covid-19 in the state, said if people continue to violate government guidelines then a second wave is expected to arrive by the end of November.Meanwhile, the district health department today visited Dussehra committees to ensure that the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Centre and the state government are being complied with.Organisers were directed to ensure their staffers were provided PPE kits, face masks, hand sanitisers, soap and sodium hypochlorite solution for frequently sanitising all touched surfaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-district-health-department-gets-cracking-to-prevent-second-covid-wave/story-Nvrgbiklfjx2Q3yzUAdjQJ.html
25-10-2020||City||Covid norms go for a toss during political gatherings in Baroda||People in Haryana’s Baroda assembly constituency have been gathering in large numbers to attend political meetings and rallies without following Covid-19 norms even as the state continues to register ample infections daily. The BJP, INLD, Congress and Loktantra Suraksha party leaders have been holding meetings and rallies in villages of the constituency, which is going to polls on November 3. People in the constituency wait to get a glimpse of their leader and nobody follows social distancing or wears masks.Haryana’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dhruva Chaudhary, said political parties should educate their cadre to implement government guidelines for the pandemic. “The party workers and politicians should wear a face mask and wash their hands regularly,” he added.A doctor from Rohtak’s PGIMS, on condition of anonymity, said such large gatherings could emerge as super spreader of the virus and people should not take it lightly. “Politicians should refrain from organising big rallies. A large number of people attend the public meetings and rallies and mostly nobody wears a face mask. It is the responsibility of every politician to adhere to safety guidelines and then pass these instructions to their followers,” the doctor said.Rakesh Sharma, a resident of Bhanderi village in Baroda, said no one is talking about the Covid-19 pandemic as a poll issue and it looks like the virus has disappeared, especially from this rural constituency. “Politicians and their followers have been going around freely without wearing face masks and putting the lives of people at risk. If any politician gets infected, he/she will go to a private hospital in Gurugram and Delhi but the villagers will have to visit civil hospitals, where facilities or treatment are abysmal,” he added. He said people from other areas of the state are coming to Baroda and no one is keeping tab on their health status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-norms-go-for-a-toss-during-political-gatherings-in-baroda/story-TwqApRpKH7N5lrWf4yHubK.html
25-10-2020||City||RSS celebrates foundation day, Dussehra under Covid norms||The 95th foundation day celebrations of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) remained a low-key affair as no major events were held due to the Covid pandemic.Moreover, the swayamsevaks were asked to perform ‘shastra’ puja at home.Yashdeep Puri, Sarabha wing’s publicity chief, said all the programmes followed the guidelines laid down by the government. In uniform, the volunteers participated in the celebrations wearing masks.The programmes were started with shastra puja, followed by surya pranam, yogasana, pranayama. Then several games, including tug of war and running, were played.The RSS was established in Nagpur on the day of Vijaydashmi in 1925 by Dr Hedgewar.Addressing the volunteers, the speakers hailed the services rendered by the former during the coronavirus pandemic. A swayamsevak is always ready to serve the country in times of calamities, one of the speakers said.During these difficult times, the volunteers gave priority to indigenous products to strengthen the economic front of the country, the speaker said adding that the country is moving towards self-reliance.“During Diwali, Indian lamps have a special significance in our culture. Lamps made of clay and dung are good for human health as well as nature. No foreign equipment can replace them,” said Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rss-celebrates-foundation-day-dussehra-under-covid-norms/story-7i7foNnEsHBROakGGRLqQN.html
25-10-2020||City||‘Evil’ goes up in flames amid heavy security, contained gatherings in Ludhiana||Even amid toned down Dussehra celebrations due to Covid pandemic, the festive fervour came alive during Ravan Dahan, which was organised at different venues across the city on Sunday.As opposed to the large crowds witnessed at Ravana Dahan programmes last year, the gatherings at different venues were limited. However, the police department faced a tough time managing the rush of visitors outside the Dussehra grounds. Heavy police force was deployed outside the Ravan Dahan venues.While many people gathered outside the grounds, some watched the burning of Ravana effigies from the rooftop of their houses as entry to the grounds was restricted by the police department and organising committees. Many visitors were seen violating social distancing norms and not wearing face masks.Heavy rush in markets Heavy rush of visitors was seen in the markets, especially outside confectionery shops, as residents greeted each other by distributing sweets on the occasion of Vijayadashmi.Ravana Dahan was organised at Daresi ground, Upkar Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Aggar Nagar, Haibowal, Chandigarh road, Partap chowk among other areas.The city’s tallest effigy of 35-feet was burned at Daresi ground. Residents were also seen taking selfies with the Ravana effigy and uploading the pictures on social media. Height of the effigy was reduced by all the committees as earlier over 90-feet effigies were erected at Daresi ground every year. The Vaishno Dramatic Club, Jagraon burnt a ‘Covid’ effigy along with Ravana with the hope that the deadly virus would vanish along with all other evil.Only 8 committees organise Ravan Dahan Dussehra committees including those in Focal Point area, Model Town extension, Dugri and Jamalpur, did not organise Ravana Dahan citing the contagion risk and difficulty to manage the gathering. Only eight major organising committees took permission to conduct the annual event this Dussehra. Last year, nearly 80 committees had organised the effigy burning ritual.Members of Shri Ram Lila Committee, Daresi, Dinesh Marwaha and Kamal Bassi said, “Ravana Dehan was organised at Daresi as per the guidelines issued by the district administration. The ‘Dola yatra’ of Lord Rama was also carried out in old city areas. Limited gathering of people of allowed and the event was broadcast live through local cable operators. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, police chief Rakesh Agrawal, MLA Surinder Dawar and senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra also participated in the event. Most residents supported the committee and stayed at home. The attendees were stopped from collecting the burnt remnants of the Ravana effigy to avoid unnecessary gathering at the spot.”Congress leader and councillor Seema Kapoor’s husband Sunil Kapoor said, “Ravana Dehan was organised in Aggar Nagar and Rajguru Nagar areas in a simple manner with no rush of residents. Barricading was done to avoid large gathering and volunteers along with the police were deputed at the spot.”Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “Dussehra was celebrated at different locations in the city with heavy police deployment to avoid gatherings. The organising committees and residents supported the police and the festival was celebrated in adherence to all the norms and guidelines issued by the government.”No outdoor celebrations for many Even as some Dussehra committees telecast Ravana Dahan live through local cable operators and social networks, residents in many parts of the city missed out on the outdoor celebrations as their respective organising committees refrained from burning effigies this year.One of the residents of Model Town extension, Harpreet Singh said, “As always, my daughter was excited to see Ravana Dahan in person. But there was no such event in our area this year. These restrictions were also necessary due to the risk of virus spread.”Vinay, a resident of Dhai Marla Colony near Daresi, said, “We used to go for Ravana Dahan at Daresi ground every as the venue is just 100 metres from our house. But this time, we decided against attending the celebrations due to the Covid pandemic. Festivals bring cheer, but the revelry should not put lives at risk.”Mini effigies burnt in streets, vacant plots To celebrate the occasion, children and adults were seen burning home-made miniature Ravana effigies in their localities, including Model Town Extension, Dugri, Haiboal, Jamalpur, among other areas.A Haibowal resident, Gopal Verma said, “Children in the area had prepared a small effigy which was burnt in the street to mark Vajayadashmi. It is important that we understand the gravity of the situation and keep everyone around us safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/evil-goes-up-in-flames-amid-heavy-security-contained-gatherings-in-ludhiana/story-HMl93smC9BF8uHrAqxeY8O.html
25-10-2020||City||Applications invited for temporary cracker sale licence in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police commissionerate has invited applications for issuance of licences for selling firecrackers on temporary basis.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that the police will issue licences to 37 shops at six locations, including Grain Market in Salem Tabri, Pakhowal Road near Sidhwan Canal, Model Town Extension, GLADA ground Dugri Phase 2, GLADA ground at Chandigarh Road, Humbran Road near fire brigade office and Lodhi Club road.The police chief added that the applicants can avail the application forms from October 27 to 28. They can submit the applications from October 29. The police will conduct a draw of lots on November 3. The traders can start selling firecrackers from November 6 till Diwali.He said the temporary licences are being issued on the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/applications-invited-for-temporary-cracker-sale-licence-in-ludhiana/story-lzHKIu4OuL9vrN1eYk0MnL.html
25-10-2020||Kolkata||BJP central leaders try to end tussle between Bengal president, youth front chief||Two days after the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh dissolved all the district committees of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the state youth front headed by Lok Sabha member Saumitra Khan, the party’s central leaders are trying to end the tussle between the two. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and national secretary Arvind Menon – both leaders look after the organisation in West Bengal – are in touch with Ghosh and Khan, state leaders aware of the developments said. Khan is known to be close to Mukul Roy, national vice-president of the BJP who left the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in 2017 and played a key role in the BJP’s electoral success in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Roy made thousands of TMC workers and many leaders, including Khan, defect to the saffron camp. The new BJYM district committees were formed over the past five weeks. On Thursday, Khan even appointed three vice-presidents and four secretaries of the new state committee. On Friday, Ghosh dissolved all the district committees and empowered the BJP’s district presidents to take over till further decisions are taken. On Saturday, an aggrieved Khan left the BJYM WhatsApp group, saying he would resign from the BJP. He, however, returned to the group after a few hours and uploaded a video message on his Twitter handle. “It is true that we will fight to establish a BJP government in Bengal next year. It is also true that I was aggrieved. But I am not going to leave the party because of one person. The party is our family. I am honoured that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have shown us a path. For BJYM workers, the only task now is to carry on agitation relentlessly,” Khan said in the video without naming anyone. He also wished BJYM members on the occasion of Ashtami, the second day of Durga Puja. Khan came under limelight on October 8 when the BJYM organised the ‘Nabanna Chalo’ (march to the state secretariat) agitation in protest against lack of employment opportunities in Bengal and law and order problems. This was the BJP’s biggest agitation in recent years. BJP leaders, who did not want to be quoted, said Ghosh dissolved the committees following differences with Khan over appointment of some office bearers who were earlier in the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Ghosh wrote the order on his personal letterhead as Lok Sabha member from Midnapore and not on the party’s letterhead. Khan was the sitting TMC Lok Sabha member from Bishnupur constituency in Bankura district when he joined the BJP before the 2019 polls. He retained the seat and was appointed as president of the state BJYM about two months ago. “Due to some reasons, till any further announcements, all district presidents of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and respective district committees are being dissolved from today. Till further announcements their duties will be taken up by the respective district presidents of the Bharatiya Janata Party,” said the organisational announcement signed by Ghosh on Friday. On Thursday, Shankudeb Panda, also a former TMC leader, was appointed as the state vice-president of the BJYM by Khan. Two others, Digvijay Singh and Avishek Singhania were also made vice-presidents and four persons, including actress Rimjhim Mitra, were appointed as secretaries. Neither Ghosh nor Khan made any statement on this issue on Sunday. Party leaders said the differences had been brewing since the first week of September when Khan published a list of members in the BJYM’s new state committee. Ghosh declared the list null and void and wanted changes to be made. Khan had to publish a new list in which Prakash Das, a youth leader known to be close to Ghosh, was named as the Morcha general secretary. “A section of central leaders of the BJP wanted Shankudeb Panda, who is known to be close to Mukul Roy, to be the Morcha general secretary,” a state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity. He said Vijayvargiya, who also wanted Panda’s induction, had a discussion with Ghosh but the latter was not willing to budge. BJP leaders said Ghosh had reservations about former TMC leader Anupam Hazra as well. Hazra, the former TMC Lok Sabha MP from Bolpur, defected to the BJP in March 2019 and was defeated by TMC’s Mimi Chakraborty at Jadavpur Lok Sabha constituency. He was first made a vice-president in the BJYM in September. This decision too was changed and Hazra was recently appointed as a national secretary of the BJP in place of Rahul Sinha. An aggrieved Sinha has distanced himself from the party since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bjp-central-leaders-try-to-end-tussle-between-bengal-president-youth-front-chief/story-5OY2dHWW3qNW6NxdLDmGDP.html
25-10-2020||City||Palampur man found dead in Baltana||A 35-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances at a park in Baltana on Sunday. Police said the deceased was identified as Abhishek Kumar, a resident of Behlana, Chandigarh, and originally hailing from Palampur in Himachal Pradesh. The body, that had no injuries, was sent to the Dera Bassi civil hospital for autopsy. Police have notified his family in Palampur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palampur-man-found-dead-in-baltana/story-RVBWREyZ5VxuA1KeFM9bBP.html
25-10-2020||City||6 weeks on, Punjab Police yet to release Rs 4.57 cr to Father Anthony’s firm||Even six weeks after the Mohali additional district and sessions court orders, the state crime wing of Punjab Police is yet to release around Rs. 4.57 crore to Jalandhar-based Father Anthony Madassary’s firm Sahodhya.Last year, Father Anthony had accused the Khanna police of misappropriating Rs 6.6 crore after a raid at his house in Partapura on March 29 and filed an application in the district and sessions court, Mohali, to get the money back.The priest had claimed that police had recovered Rs 16.65 crore from his house but showed only Rs 9.66 crore on paper, while misappropriating the remaining amount.A special investigation team (SIT) of the state crime unit probing the case had found that Rs 14.5 crore was recovered from the priest’s house. The SIT had recovered around Rs 4.5 crore after the arrest of some accused including two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) - Rajpreet Singh and Joginder Singh.Rs 4.57 crore was recovered from the arrested accused. Other accused are yet to be arrested and the remaining amount is also still to be recovered.“A separate financial SIT was constituted, which has been investigating the matter as to how much amount was lying in the FMJ house at the time of the occurrence, and the SIT’s report is still awaited. Due to this, the currency notes may not be released to the applicant,” the state responded to court.On September 11, Mohali additional district and sessions judge, while allowing the application of Sahodhya, had ordered that the prosecution will prepare a detailed inventory of the currency notes after taking proper and legible photographs of the notes as per the recovery memos of different accused.It added that Sahodhya will give undertaking to the prosecution that it will refund the amount to the court if in future it is proved that they are not owner of the amount.“Sahodhya will furnish the bank guarantee equivalent to the disputed amount, with the investigating officer (IO). The IO will deposit the amount in the account of Sahodhya in shape of an FDR with directions to the bank to not release the said amount to the applicant till furnishing of an NOC from the income tax department pertaining to the amount,” the court order read.Father Anthony confirmed the development over phone and said that it has been nearly one-and-a-half month but police have not deposited the amount. On furnishing the bank guarantee equivalent to the amount, he said that that is to be done after police deposit the money.“My advocate has contacted the police, but the matter is still pending,” he added.Assistant inspector general of police, state crime unit, Manmohan Sharma, didn’t respond to calls and messages but a senior official from the state crime wing, on condition of anonymity, said that the process might be delayed as the money is lying with different police districts. “It will be released to the firm as per the court orders,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-weeks-on-punjab-police-yet-to-release-rs-4-57-cr-to-sahodhya/story-ZXIQa9hHtkJrOFWJLrPCYJ.html
25-10-2020||City||Fleeing BMW injures ASI at Mohali naka, three arrested||A man and his two aides were arrested after he hit an assistant sub-inspector with his BMW car, leaving him with a fractured leg, in Phase 3B2 on Saturday night.The accused have been identified as Anmol Singh of Zirakpur and his aides, Abhay Singh of Chandigarh and Akashdeep of Patiala. While Anmol was in the BMW, the other two were in their respective Maruti Suzuki Swift cars. “The three men were creating ruckus in the Phase 3B2 market. When cops tried to stop them, they tried to speed away in their cars. In his attempt to flee, Anmol hit ASI Charan Singh, who was deputed at a nearby naka and had tried to intercept his car,” said Rajeev Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Mataur police station.The ASI suffered fracture in his leg and was admitted at the civil hospital in Phase 6. The fleeing men were intercepted at another check post and arrested.They have been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused were produced in a court on Sunday and sent to judicial custody. In a similar incident on October 5, five men were arrested for hitting a constable after he stopped them from creating commotion and passing lewd comments at women at the Phase-3B2 market. A patrolling team comprising head constable Jaspal had spotted the men in a Tata Safari (PB10-CK-2925) and confronted them for their behaviour. Constable Jaspal had suffered minor injuries in the melee. All accused are residents of Fatehgarh Sahib and Rupnagar and jobless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fleeing-bmw-injures-asi-at-mohali-naka-three-arrested/story-BB7kUsZcOjlqL8BR2TWVkN.html
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Air quality in 12 Haryana cities dips to ‘very poor’ as farm fires increase||The air quality in 12 cities of Haryana turned ‘very poor’ on Sunday as the number of farm fires due to paddy stubble burning witnessed a steady increase, according to official data.The residents of Ambala, Bahadurgarh, Dharuhera, Faridabad, Fatehabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Panipat and Yamunanagar were exposed to ‘very poor’ air quality.According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of five cities—Faridabad, Fatehabad, Jind, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar—was worse than 349 in Delhi. The AQI in Panchkula was ‘satisfactory’. The index value of five cities with very poor air quality went past 350. For example, the AQI of Fatehabad was 360, Yamunanagar 355, Jind 354, Kurukshetra 352, and Faridabad 350. The AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, 101 to 200 moderate, 201 to 300 poor, 301 to 400 very poor and 401 to 500 severe. The AQI of seven cities Bhiwani (265), Karnal (238), Manesar (275), Rohtak (296), Sirsa (244), Sonepat (237) and Ballabgarh (290) was ‘poor’ in last 24 hours. Also, the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) detected 213 new Active Fire Locations until Saturday, increasing the total number of farm fires to 3,773 since September 25 when the monitoring began in the state.Karnal district is leading with 731 farm fire incidents followed by Kurukshetra 675, Kaithal 653, Ambala 479, Fatehabad 304, Yamunanagar 264, Jind 254, Hisar 107,and Sirsa 101 and Palwal 58. Focus on pollution hotspotsGovernment sources say since October 15 various steps were implemented in the National Capital Region (NCR) districts of Haryana. The focus is on the identified pollution hotspots in the NCR districts and towns like Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonepat, Panipat and Bahadurgarh. The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has issued directions for night patrolling by teams constituted at district-level in the NCR towns. The use of diesel generator sets has been banned—barring essential/emergency services—in Faridabad and Gurugram towns. The HSPCB has directed that large construction projects, including highways and metro will have to provide undertaking to the HSPCB that they will adhere to the prescribed dust management norms. The industries in red and orange category have been asked to submit an undertaking that they will use only authorised fuel and not operate without adequate pollution control measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/air-quality-in-12-haryana-cities-dips-to-very-poor-as-farm-fires-increase/story-PO439pJbeaAdW16xKsupuM.html
25-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC seeks reply from state government on Nov 5 on salary cuts||Rajasthan High Court has sought a reply from the state government on the issue of pay cut of government employees by November 5. The high court has also ordered that the amount deducted or to be deducted from the government employees’ salary should be deposited in a separate account.The order was given by Judge Dinesh Mehta on a petition by All Rajasthan State Government Employees’ Joint Federation. Advocate Kuldeep Mathur, on behalf of the Employees’ Joint Federation, said that the state government has ordered a deduction from the salaries of government employees, including members of the federation.The government does not have the right to deduct any part of the salary of employees as there is no such provision in the service rules nor the Pandemic Diseases Act-1897 that empowers it to take such steps.On Friday, the high court withdrew the order banning pay cuts. A day before, Rajasthan HC had stayed the state government’s decision to deduct one-day salary of government teachers, in a civil writ petition filed by an individual.Four different cadres under All Rajasthan State Government Employees’ Joint Federation had filed four applications in the high court against the government’s decision to cut the salaries of the employees. The hearing in the five other petitions regarding the same issue will be held on November 3.In September, the federation had also launched a five-phase stir to protest against the state government’s decision to deduct salaries of the employees as the cabinet had earlier decided to deduct two day’s remuneration of officers belonging to all-India and state services and a day’s salary of other employees from that month. The government had said that this was being done to mobilise resources for Covid-19 relief fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-hc-seeks-reply-from-state-government-on-nov-5-on-salary-cuts/story-jWfpSusQ8FcJioUMdLZsbM.html
25-10-2020||City||Self-styled godman booked for murder bid on Panchkula woman||A self-styled godman was booked for attacking a woman with a sharp-edged weapon after accusing her husband of theft in Barwala village on Sunday.The victim, Mandeep Kaur, 39, is a resident of Shiv Nagar, Barwala village.She complained to the police that the accused, Baba Ganga Sagar Giri, 65, had a religious organisation in her neighbourhood.On Sunday, she was returning from a temple, when she found Giri arguing with her husband and accusing him of stealing washing powder packets. When she intervened, he attacked her with a sharp-edged weapon and threatened to kill them, Kaur alleged.Neighbours took her to a local hospital, where her condition is stated to be stable, and the police were informed. The accused, who has yet to be arrested, was booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/self-styled-godman-booked-for-murder-bid-on-panchkula-woman/story-jShhn5d9VD9FiPTAtGfjCK.html
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||35-yr-old man found dead day after being detained by Amritsar police||AMRITSARA 35-year-old man was found dead in Sultanwind village on Sunday, a day after he was allegedly tortured and detained by the commissionerate police of Amritsar.The body of Sarwan Singh, who had been working as a labourer, was found from the shrubs of Pati Mansoor Ki of the village at around 7am. His family members allege that Sarwan was thrashed to death by the police of Sultanwind police station.Police, however, deny the charges saying Sarwan was called to the police station on Saturday in connection with a complaint of a stolen phone, but he was released immediately after his questioning.The deceased’s cousin, Kabal Singh, alleged: “On Saturday morning, Sarwan was at his work in Pati Mansoori Ki area where a house was being constructed. In the meantime, three policemen came and started thrashing Sarwan. After this, he was taken to Sultanwind police station. He was made an accused in stealing of a mobile phone. Despite Sarwan’s request that he had not stolen any mobile phone, the police kept torturing him.”He said, “Sarwan didn’t come back to the home on Saturday. On Sunday morning, we got information that the body of my cousin was laying in the shrubs. When we reached the spot, we found that the body had several injury marks.”Sarwan’s father Suchha Singh said: “We doubt that after killing my son, the cops dumped his body. We want action against cops responsible for thrashing my son.”He said they will also protest outside the police station if they don’t get justice.Sultanwind station house officer (Parneet Singh Dhillon said: “A woman, Sonia, had complained that Sarwan had stolen her mobile phone from her house. Acting on the complaint, one of the assistant sub-inspectors had called Sarwan to the police station. Sarwan was questioned and he was handed over to his mother and some dignitaries of the village on Saturday. Now, the family members are claiming that he was found dead. No policemen had thrashed Sarwan.”“A board of doctors has been formed to conduct the post-mortem. We will take action as per the autopsy’s report,” he said. Sarwan was unmarried and he is survived by his father, mother and a brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/35-yr-old-man-found-dead-day-after-being-detained-by-amritsar-police/story-LSrxmJ9Mxhm2OjnoGRRXeK.html
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Eight deaths, 532 more cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded eight deaths and 532 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union Territory to 91,861.Officials said 355 people tested positive in Kashmir and 177 in Jammu. Five fatalities were reported in Kashmir and three in Jammu, which took the UT’s death toll to 1,438. The number of patients who have recovered from Covid reached 82,858 in Jammu and Kashmir after 639 people (376 in Kashmir and 263 in Jammu) recovered. The recovery is 90%, the highest so far. There are 7,565 active cases in Jammu and Kashmir. Of the total deaths so far, 960 were reported in Kashmir and 478 in Jammu. For the past week there has been a continuous drop in active cases.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases were recorded in Jammu district at 102, and in Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 124 people tested positive.Srinagar tops the case tally with 18, 665 cases and 344 deaths followed by Jammu district with 16,905 cases and 249 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-deaths-532-more-cases-reported-in-j-k/story-JKYK0MV1NLYpsFCvkzF5UO.html
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Light snowfall in upper reaches of Kashmir||Fresh snowfall was reported in the upper reaches of Kashmir following a dip in the temperature. The meteorological department has predicted dry weather in the UT till the first week of November but has not ruled out the possibility of light snow fall in the upper reaches of the Valley. “There will not be any change in the dry weather though it will be cloudy and there is a possibility of light snow in upper reaches,” said a senior MeT official.Officials said snow fall was reported in upper reaches of north and south Kashmir. The upper reaches of Gulmarg had already experienced light snowfall two weeks ago.Over the last two years Kashmir has been witnessing snowfall early in November, which damages apple trees. However, this time the horticulture department had already issued an advisory to apple growers on how to safeguard their orchards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/light-snowfall-in-upper-reaches-of-kashmir/story-l4Cr8Hxtc8oOTeBUweVmaL.html
25-10-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Covid-19 deaths cross 200-mark||The district’s death toll due to Covid-19 crossed the 200-mark on Sunday after two more patients succumbed to the viral infection. As per the data from the district health department, among those who died, 148 patients (74% of total deaths) had pre-existing comorbidities. Gurugram’s Covid-19 death count now stands at 201. Of the total fatalities, men accounted for 150 deaths, while the rest were women. As per the data, with 55 deaths (of which 13 were women), the highest number of fatalities occurred in the age group of 61-70 years, followed by 42 deaths (including nine women) in the 71-80 years age group. Between ages 51 and 60 years, 32 patients (including 11 women) succumbed to Covid-19. Another 23 people who died were in the 41-50 years age group, eight of them being women. In the 31-40 years age group, 19 people died (including four women), while 23 (including four women) in 81-90 years age group succumbed to the virus. Four deaths were recorded in the 11-20 years age group, while two people died in the 91-100 years age group, shows the data. Of these 200 deaths due to the coronavirus disease, the percentage of non-comorbid deaths stands at 26.02%. Diabetes (10%), cancer (6%), and hypertension (4%) were found to be the three most common comorbidities, according to the health department data. Roughly 1.5% of deaths were of patients who had liver disease and neurological disease each. Around 1% of the patients who died suffered from some kidney ailment. On Sunday, Gurugram reported 366 new positive cases. The number of active cases in the district now stands at 2,871 (up from Saturday’s 2771). Of the active cases, 2,666 are mild or asymptomatic cases under home isolation, while another 14 mild cases are at government Covid care centres. Another 178 cases are ‘moderate’ cases, who are displaying either symptoms of pneumonia or require oxygen support at secondary health care facilities, while 13 patients are currently receiving tertiary care at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. On the brighter side, the district also witnessed 264 recoveries on Sunday. Gurugram’s chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav said that the district’s fatality rate stood at 0.7% on Sunday. “The average positivity rate of the district is around 7.9%,” said Yadav. He said that cases had risen this week and more cases were expected in the coming week. “Cases have been rising in the past few days due to the festive rush. Cases are likely to rise further from the next week. The weather is also changing which may have an impact,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-covid-19-deaths-cross-200-mark/story-PWaGx56wfLlFWylc0vna0N.html
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Rajan Sushant floats new political outfit in Himachal||Former Lok Sabha member Rajan Sushant launched Hamari Party Himachal Party, a new political outfit, on Sunday. Launching the new party, Sushant said, “The party will emerge as an alternative to the Congress and BJP. Our party will contest elections in all four parliamentary seats and 68 Vidhan Sabha seats. The political structure will be streamlined over the next six months.”Sushant accused the current regime of compromising the state: “Poor fiscal management of the present regime has pushed the state into a debt trap. The per capita debt has increased to ₹80,000. Unemployed in the state has been continuously increasing but the government has no plans of creating more job avenues. Himachal Pradesh is rich in resources but the government has failed to utilise them to generate income,” he said.“ Both the Congress and BJP have hoodwinked the public. Our regional party has both leaders and workers who hail from Himachal,” he said, adding “The chief ministers in the state are no different than subedars as they are ruled by an emperor in Delhi.”He said during his tenure at the Lok Sabha he had raised the state’s voice in the parliament. Sushant promised to provide employment to two lakh youngsters if voted to power. “I promise to not get into political gimmickry like the Congress and BJP,” he said.In a veiled attack on former chief minister Shanta Kumar, “Leaders who talk about high-principle politics and write a letter every third day supporting the National Pension System (NPS) should give up pensioner benefits and amenities provided by the government to them,” he said.Who is Sushant? Born in 1955, Rajan Sushant, has a bachelors degree in ayurvedic medicine from Jalandhar. He was jailed as a student for opposing the Emergency.He became the youngest member of the Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly in 1982. The four-term former member of the Assembly was also minister of state for revenue in the Prem Kumar Dhumal government from 1998 to 2003. He has led many agitations and movements such as Shah Nahar, Daily Wagers, and Nurpur College.Many land reforms were also introduced during his tenure as revenue minister, the major being translation of rules from Urdu to Hindi and English, issuing kissan passbooks, and digitisation of land records. He won from the Kangra Lok Sabha seat in 2009 as a BJP candidate but quit the saffron party after a fallout with the party leadership in 2014.He later joined AAP and became its state convener. He contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election as an AAP candidate from Kangra only to secure the third position. He unsuccessfully contested the 2017 assembly election as an independent candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rajan-sushant-floats-new-political-outfit-in-himachal/story-DfIAwbjaFuXrOALzDLXBVI.html
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-BJP leader Gill says no to politics, will fight for farmers’ rights||BATHINDAA day after quitting as the BJP state Kisan Morcha in-charge, Tarlochan Singh Gill on Sunday said that he will soon join farmers’ protest against the central farm laws.A 56-year-old resident of Moga, Gill said he would not join any political party and continue working for farmers’ rights.Farmers are being used only as an electoral tool by the politicians, he said.Gill also lambasted the recent bills passed by the Punjab assembly as he said it was just eyewash to confuse stakeholders of the agriculture sector.“I spent nearly three decades in the BJP but the party has backstabbed the interests of the farming community by paving way for the corporate sector in the rural economy. The central laws pose a serious threat to the interests of farmers of Punjab and Haryana and I cannot stand with a party that has anti-farmers vision,” he added.Gill, who remained active in municipal council politics in Moga district, expressed displeasures with the Congress government.“By tabling bills, the Congress has expressed its non-serious attitude towards farmers. The bills have no meaning before the central laws. Opposition parties supported the bills that propose MSP for wheat and paddy, which is already bought by the central agencies on the assured rates. There is no mention of cotton, maize and other crops sown in the state. Moreover, provision of jail term to those buying below MSP would only lead to an atmosphere of distrust between a farmer and a trader,” said the leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-bjp-leader-gill-says-no-to-politics-will-fight-for-farmers-rights/story-BlDzigm6dsN8DlcrRE6FiI.html
25-10-2020||Chandigarh||Uncertainty over wheat sowing looms large in Abohar villages||Prolonged waterlogging in low-lying region has increased salt concentration in the soil, making it impossible to sow rabi crop BATHINDAAfter widespread damage to standing cotton crop due breach in a drain in August, farmers in Abohar belt of Fazilka district are worried about sowing wheat as prolonged waterlogging in the low-lying region has increased salt concentration in the soil.Fields in nearly 10 villages were inundated after the catchment area of the Aspal drain in Fazilka, Muktsar and Ferozepur districts witnessed heavy rainfall on August 21 and 22. Due to heavy inflow of rainwater, the drain breached its banks near the Seeto Gunno area of Abohar and it led to flooding in the adjoining areas.Nearly 21,000 hectare land in Abohar region remained submerged for about 40 days and it led to considerable damage to kharif crops, mainly cotton.Farmers like Sandeep Kumar of Dutarwali village said it has become a challenge to plough marshy fields. “Though water has been drained out from the fields this week, a white layer or ‘shora’ or efflorescence has surfaced all around. I doubt if wheat seeds could germinate in the fields with a high concentration of salt. It will be a serious economic setback to farmers if the existing adverse soil condition does not allow wheat sowing,” he said.Punjab Agricultural University has advised commencing wheat sowing after October 25.Nirmal Singh of Raipura rues lack of much support from the state authorities. “My cotton crop on six acres was completely damaged while it is impossible to harvest paddy on other four acres land as the machines cannot enter the wet fields. Since fields in Raipura and Sardarpura were filled with water, there is no scope to sow wheat. Four families pooled nearly Rs 2 lakh to dewater our 50 acres land and we have left with no resource for the next season after complete loss of kharif crops,” he added.Another farmer, Kulwant Bishnoi, suffered an estimated loss of Rs 25 lakh after cotton and rice on 52 acre land was submerged.“As the groundwater table is very high in the area, it is unlikely that fields will get any respite in the next few days. Traditionally, wheat sowing in the semi-arid belt begins in the first week of November and we are keeping fingers crossed for the season ahead,” he said.Dutarwali sarpanch Surinder Kumar Bishnoi said 2,200-acre farm area in their village was almost submerged for 40 days.“The drain had caused havoc in the area earlier also but the authorities concerned did not come forward with a solution. As the government provided ample support to drain out water, it should now release compensation to the affected farmers without any delay,” he said.Fazilka agriculture officer Sarwan Singh said farmers in a sizeable area may be unable to sow wheat due to adverse conditions while a large area may witness late sowing if the situation improves in the next week three weeks. From the coming week, the department experts will start issuing wheat sowing advisory on the basis of soil and water testing of the affected areas, he added.“Our field assessment said 17,000-hectare cotton area and nearly 4,500 hectares under paddy cultivation was affected. The revenue department is undertaking ‘girdwari’ of the affected area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/uncertainty-over-wheat-sowing-looms-large-in-abohar-villages/story-dtkvJlujqh3fXPEEI8X49I.html
25-10-2020||City||4 workers injured as boiler explodes in Ludhiana dyeing factory||Four workers were injured after a boiler exploded in a dyeing factory in Geeta Colony of Tajpur road in the wee hours of Sunday. While two of them are in a critical state, two others have suffered minor injuries. The impact of the explosion was so strong that the tin roof of the factory collapsed. Damage was also reported in nearby buildings.Factory workers Nagmani, 35, and Mohammad Babar, 27, who were critically injured, were rushed to a private hospital. According to doctors the two workers have suffered multiple injuries on their torso and legs.Two others--Manoj Kumar, 25, and Amarjit 27, have suffered minor injuries. Locals in the area said the blast took place around 5am when most of them were asleep. They woke up on hearing the sound of the explosion and rushed towards the factory, where they saw smoke billowing out of the building.By then, the labourers had rushed out of the building and narrated the incident to them. The locals immediately sounded the police and called an ambulance.Factory owner Ajay Kumar said the boiler blast took place due to the high temperature of the machine. He claimed that labourers in the night shift had turned on the boiler and dozed off. “They did not check the temperature and due to extreme heat, it exploded,” Kumar said while maintain that the incident took place due to the negligence of workers.Tibba station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Davinder Singh said no causality has been reported and the police are waiting for the statement of the injured to lodge an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-workers-injured-as-boiler-explodes-in-dyeing-factory/story-1vfnjAE47VAIqcOyfay2UL.html
25-10-2020||Bhopal||Cong MLA resigns from MP assembly, joins BJP in run-up to bypolls||The Congress’s Madhya Pradesh (MP) unit received a setback on Sunday in the run up to the upcoming bypolls after its sitting lawmaker Rahul Lodhi (36), who represents Damoh constituency in the state’s Bundelkhand region, resigned from the assembly.Lodhi joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) immediately after his resignation was accepted by pro-tem speaker Rameshwar Sharma .BJP’s MP unit chief Vishnu Datt Sharma, who represents the Khajuraho constituency in the Lok Sabha, welcomed Lodhi to the party.The Congress dubbed Lodhi’s resignation a BJP game plan, as it predicted that the ruling party would face rout in the bypolls for 28 seats, which will be held on November 3.Also read | Election Commission seeks response from Kamal Nath over ‘item’ remark“Lodhi had offered to resign on Friday. However, I had asked him to give it a thought and discuss his proposed move with his family members and party leaders. He refused to relent and resigned on Sunday. I have accepted his resignation,” Sharma said.In 2018 assembly polls, Lodhi had defeated the BJP candidate Jayant Malaiya (72), who was also the outgoing finance minister in Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led cabinet, by 798 votes and made his debut as an elected lawmaker.“I failed to get any work done in my constituency during the 15-month rule of the Congress. I am impressed by the BJP’s development agenda. Congress leaders have forgotten about their dignity, which is evident from the way they are targeting their counterparts in the BJP.”Kamal Nath, a former MP CM and the head of the MP Pradesh Congress Committee (MPPCC), hit out at the BJP.“The BJP doesn’t believe in democracy, public mandate, and ethics. It has converted politics into a thriving commercial activity. The ruling party is aware that it’s going to face a massive defeat in the upcoming bypolls. The BJP’s lust for power is evident. I am appealing to the public to give a befitting reply to the BJP for its brand of dirty politics,” Kamal Nath alleged.The BJP responded to Kamal Nath’s allegations.“Congress MLAs felt neglected and humiliated during their government’s 15-month misrule, where more attention was paid by Kamal Nath to industrialists and celebrities than his own lawmakers. The depressed Congress legislators are impressed with the BJP governments’ development agenda at both the Centre and the state under the able guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister for Home Affair Amit Shah and MP CM Chouhan,” said Vijesh Lunawat, who is the vice-president of the BJP’s MP unit.Earlier on March 10, 22 Congress legislators had resigned from the assembly in an act of rebellion against the then CM Kamal Nath, leading to the collapse of the 15-month-old state government.Three more Congress lawmakers had resigned from the assembly in July and joined the BJP.Lodhi is the 26th Congress legislator to join the BJP.All 25 former Congress lawmakers, including 12 who are ministers in the Chouhan-led government, are seeking re-election to the state assembly on BJP tickets in bypolls slated to be held on November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/cong-mla-resigns-from-mp-assembly-joins-bjp-in-run-up-to-bypolls/story-rXGFTvlBqLg56kv41Q9CJM.html
25-10-2020||Dehradun||Delayed Mahakumbh work to be monitored through CCTVs||The Kumbh Mela administration has decided to install closed-circuit television cameras (CCTV) cameras at all the major construction sites for Mahakumbh 2021. The decision has been taken in order to monitor the construction work that is still pending while the time is running out -- only three months are left of this year and the mela is set to begin in January 2021.According to officials, monitoring through CCTVs will assist them in ensuring time-bound completion of the work. They said some sites had reported slow pace of work and laxity by those involved in construction work. In this regard, a monitoring committee has been set up to assess, monitor and check the progress of all Kumbh-related work. The committee reports on a daily basis to the mela administration officer in-charge. Mela officer in-charge Deepak Rawat has routinely been inspecting the construction sites to gauge the progress of the works. “On sites where construction work has not been found satisfactory, directives have been given to carry out work under the closed-circuit cameras, so that these can be monitored virtually. By December-end, we have to ensure all permanent nature work gets completed. Through on-site physical and virtual monitoring, we are assessing the progress of Kumbh project,” said Rawat, while inspecting Sukhi rivulet, where construction of a 44-metre-long bridge is going on at Bhoopatwala. Meanwhilem public work department secretary R Sudhanshu has assured that there will be no compromise on the quality of work. The Mela administration had sought additional time from the Irrigation department of Uttar Pradesh to extend the Ganga canal closure from a fortnight to a month this year. Ganga canal closure from October 14-November 15 has expedited the construction work. Also, the nodal agencies are working in two shifts to meet the deadline. Photo caption: Kumbh work underway at a bridge site in Kankhal, Haridwar HT PHOTO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/delayed-mahakumbh-work-to-be-monitored-through-cctvs/story-X9KtsTzaCdZCW1zqlqcnCM.html
25-10-2020||Dehradun||Char Dham shrine portals to close for winter months beginning November 15||In keeping with the tradition of announcing dates of closing of the portals of the Char Dham shrines on the day of Dussehra, the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said on Sunday that this year, the portals of the Badrinath temple will be closed for the winter months on November 19. Likewise, the portals of Gangotri will be closed on November 15 (Govardhan Puja, next day of Diwali)) and portals of Yamunotri and Kedarnath shrines on November 16 (Bhaidooj). The additional chief executive officer of the Board, B D Singh, said the auspicious time for closing the portals of the Char Dham shrines is arrived at through astrological calculations by local temple bodies and priests. Also read | Religious tourism may get boost as Uttarakhand eases curbs“In case of Kedarnath and Yamunotri, it is a tradition that their portals close on Bhaidooj, which falls on November 16 this year,” he said Singh said portals of Badrinath will close at 3.35 pm on November 19, those of Kedarnath at 8.30 am on November 16 and those of Gangotri at 12.15 pm on November 15. Besides these Char Dham shrines, the portals of Tungnath temple will be closed on November 4 The four Himalayan pilgrimage sites of Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath -- collectively called the Char Dham, located in Garhwal Himalayas -- are among the most revered pilgrimages in the Hindu tradition and attract hundreds of thousands of pilgrims each year. It is believed that every Hindu should undertake Char Dham pilgrimage at least once in a lifetime to avail the blessings of gods adorning the shrines. Traditionally, the Char Dham pilgrimage begins from the west from Yamunotri, proceeding to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Last year, a record 2.9 million pilgrims visited Char Dham compared to over 2.7 million pilgrims the previous year. This year, so far over 135,000 pilgrims have visited the shrines since July 1. After relaxations under Unlock 5.0 with the exemption of mandatory negative Covid-19 report, the number of pilgrims visiting these shrines has increased. Char Dham shrines were opened to people in the state on July 1. They have been open to people from other states since July 25. Given the increase in pilgrim influx, the Char Dham board earlier this month increased the number of pilgrims who can visit the shrines now. The number of pilgrims allowed daily has been increased to 3,000 for Badrinath, 3,000 for Kedarnath, 900 for Gangotri and 700 for Yamunotri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/char-dham-shrine-portals-to-close-for-winter-months-beginning-november-15/story-v3pNeRp8VhnNFVSIbil3qI.html
25-10-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 and Kanjak puja: Home chefs to cook up Navratri delights||Amid the coronavirus outbreak, Navratri celebrations are subdued and too much #WorkFromHome has made people turn to home chefs, to help them cook up a delight for Kanya Pujan — where they worship nine girls on Ashtami (the eighth day) or Navmi (the ninth day) day of the fasting period. Most working individuals feel that seeking help from home chefs is a comfortable option in these times.Amita Garg, a Gurugram-based home chef, who has been preparing Navratri delicacies since last five years, says, “This year, people who are busy juggling work and home, and are unable to find time to prepare bhog for Kanjak, are placing orders with us for home delivery of food. There is a sense of trust and faith since they know that we prepare our food keeping in mind utmost hygiene, and they know that I too fast during Navratri.” The bhog includes halwa poori and chhole, that is offered to young girls worshipped as Durga incarnations. “Some customers have even requested us to add in titbits such as chips or chocolates, so we’ll include those as well in the packets that we will make for Ashtami and Navmi,” adds Garg.For Teena Ahluwalia, a lawyer based in Delhi’s IP Extension, chefs like Garg are helpful in the time of need. “I’ve immense work pressure, which has increased manifold during Covid times. While I try to make bhog for kanyas on Ashtami and Navami, it’s not going to be possible with my schedule this year. Home chefs make great Navratri food, and from their home kitchens that are sanitised, so I will be asking one to make and deliver it to my place on the day of the puja,” says Ahluwalia, adding that ordering in from home chefs is a safer option since it assures quality as well as safety, which is paramount during this time.Another home chef Abhilasha Jain, a Gurugram resident who specialises in vegetarian food, says orders for vrat (fasting) food picked up amid the pandemic. “A lot of working women placed orders for Kanjak bhog with us. This year, people didn’t want to risk the safety of young girls by calling them home for puja. So, I was asked to deliver the bhog at 7 in the morning to their homes, so that they can in turn drop the packages to the homes of young girls,” she says, adding that for people who have to go to their offices, Jain had the option of packing the bhog in steel boxes that people could safely deliver to the Kanjaks on their way to work.Abha Bhhakoo, a resident of Dwarka, agrees that the provision of having home chefs cook for Kanjaks eased her work. She says, “I’ve certain commitments because of which I wasn’t able to make the food myself. So I’ve asked a home chef to make it for me. Plus, it may not be safe to ask young girls to come home for the puja, so I plan to get the bhog packed in cute tiffin boxes, which can be delivered to the girls at the comfort of their homes. This way we will continue the tradition, and yet not put their health at risk.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-and-kanjak-puja-home-chefs-to-cook-up-navratri-delights/story-dlMqqlQoxCHVXLRCTsCAIN.html
25-10-2020||City||Punjab and Haryana high court takes suo motu notice of accused’s details shared on Facebook||Chandigarh Taking suo motu notice of the Ludhiana Police sharing personal details of an accused in a car theft case on Facebook, the Punjab and Haryana high court has sought a personal affidavit from the Ludhiana police commissioner.The bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh warned that if an affidavit was not filed, the commissioner would be summoned to the court. The high court acted on the plea of a Ludhiana man, who had approached it on September 8, seeking a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and directions to the police to remove all his personal details from social media platforms, shared by the department upon his arrest.Last week, when the case was taken up again, the youth told court that police have now removed his details and that the matter be disposed of now. The court, however, did not entertain his request.“...though learned counsel for the petitioner submits that he wishes to withdraw this petition as the respondents have removed posts from Facebook and other social media platforms and therefore the petitioner does not want to pursue the petition; however, since this is an issue which would be affecting the public at large, this court, while taking suo motu notice of the matter, directs that an affidavit by the commissioner of police, Ludhiana, shall be filed in court, after which the petitioner may be allowed to withdraw the petition,” the bench observed. The FIR came to be registered on July 21, under police station division 5 of Ludhiana. After his arrest, the commissioner’s office and the local police uploaded his photographs, name, father’s name and address etc on social networking sites, including Facebook. After this, social media users started criticising and abusing him in their posts. Some even reached his house, abused his parents and instigated locals to throw the parents out of the city, his counsel Sandeep Kumar had told court.‘LIVES THREATENED DUE TO POLICE ACTION’ “It is settled law that everyone is presumed to be innocent, until and unless proved guilty after due trial. There is no provision in the CrPC to upload photographs of any accused/ convicts on any social media or to display them at any public place stating to the effect that such persons are culprits/accused,” Kumar had told court. He added that the threat to the life of petitioner and his parents persisted as some people were coming to their house, spitting on their door and abusing them loudly.Kumar added that the father had submitted a representation before police on August 21 to remove all social media posts but no action was taken. The petitioner has suffered and is continuously suffering huge losses and defamation due to the social media posts. Now, even if he is acquitted in the FIRs, still he will not be accepted in society and no one would employ him. His personal, professional and social life is destroyed, Kumar had told court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hc-takes-suo-motu-notice-of-accused-s-details-shared-on-fb/story-NVy6rm4sfARvd4q3Lq3lWL.html
25-10-2020||Delhi||Man dies as cluster bus rams his bike, runs over him in Delhi’s Seelampur||A 40-year-old man died when a speeding cluster bus ran over him after ramming his motorcycle from behind, in Delhi’s Seelampur on Saturday night. Police are searching for the bus driver who fled the spot after the accident. The incident took place around 9.15 pm when Rajkumar Shama, a driver, was on his way home on his motorcycle. On reaching the Seelampur flyover, that was inaugurated on Saturday, Sharma took the slip road. Witnesses told the police that as soon as Sharma entered the slip road below the flyover, a speeding cluster bus hit his bike from behind. Also read | India had most deaths in road accidents in 2019: Report“Sharma fell on the road and the bus ran over him. He died on the spot. The driver jumped out of the bus and managed to escape. The bus was ferrying passengers from Kashmere Gate to Anand Vihar. Locals called the police and reported the matter. The body was shifted to a hospital and Sharma’s family was informed,” said a senior police officer. Sharma is survived by two sons and a wife. Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said a case for causing death due to negligence and for rash driving has been registered against the driver. “We have identified the driver and a search for him is underway,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-dies-as-cluster-bus-rams-his-bike-runs-over-him-in-delhi-s-seelampur/story-bjk9IgSJ2jPke9bxE1OSAP.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Dussehra: Maharashtra CM Thackeray to address Sena’s annual rally today||Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will address the party’s annual rally on Sunday on the occasion of Dussehra. Thackeray is likely to hit out at the Opposition in his speech at the event, which will be held at Savarkar Memorial in Dadar, Mumbai.The live streaming of his speech is set to reach about 20 million people in Maharashtra, said Sanjay Raut, chief spokesperson of the Sena and a Rajya Sabha (RS) member.This year’s Dussehra rally is significant because this is the first time a Sena chief is also the Maharashtra CM. Besides Thackeray, his family members, other Sena leaders and members of the Maharashtra legislative assembly (MLAs) from Mumbai will be present at the event.“Last year, I had said that the next Dussehra rally will be addressed by a Sena CM. This year’s Dussehra rally has an extraordinary importance. Our chief, who is also the Maharashtra CM, will address millions of Sainiks today,” Raut told media persons on Sunday.Over the past few months, the Opposition has targeted CM Thackeray and the Sena over the alleged death by suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14. He has been in the line of fire after actor Kangana Ranaut weighed in on the role of the Mumbai Police in the probe into Rajput’s death. Earlier, the CM was also attacked following the lynching of two Hindu seers in Palghar on April 16.Thackeray had said that he would remove the “mask of CM” at an opportune time and speak on these issues. Raut said the Dussehra rally could be the “perfect stage” for the Sena chief to dwell on these topics.“I cannot comment on what exactly Uddhav ji will speak about, but he will definitely speak on these topics. He has said in the past that he would take off the mask of CM and speak. The Dussehra rally is the perfect stage for it. Uddhav ji is fully prepared.... He will also give directions to the party and the state as it is a Sena-led coalition government also comprising the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress,” Raut added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-thackeray-to-address-sena-s-annual-rally-today/story-tqLDHdqAbUBslBcGLk8OeL.html
25-10-2020||Jaipur||Man held in Rajasthan’s Barmer on suspicion of spying for Pakistan||Rajasthan Police’s special branch has detained a man (28) from Barmer district on suspicion of spying for Pakistan, officials said on Sunday. The accused, Roshan Din, works as a JCB driver in the Bharat Mala Project on the India-Pakistan border in Barmer, police said. “The accused was in touch with an ISI (Inter-Services Intelligence) agent. He shared confidential details about the movement of security forces’ vehicles in the border area. He was paid for the tip-off, which he had shared via video calls,” said Umesh Mishra, additional director-general of police (ADG), intelligence, Rajasthan Police. Also read: Four held for robbing jewellery worth Rs 90 lakh last weekMishra said Din has been brought from Barmer to Jaipur, where central and state agencies are questioning him to obtain more details, which may lead to his arrest and registration of a case under the Official Secrets Act (OSA), 1923. Another police official, who didn’t want to be named, said Din was on the radar of the criminal intelligence department (CID) for over six months. “So far, it has been found that the accused used to send audio recordings to a Pakistani agent. Some pictures of movement of border forces were also sent by him to Pakistan. His interrogation is in progress,” the official said. Din has relatives in Pakistan and he has visited to the neighbouring country to meet them several times. “During his visit to Pakistan, the ISI had lured him by offering money. He recently got Rs 10,000 from an ISI agent.” This is the third case of espionage reported from Barmer in the last four months. On August 27, a man (40), identified as Mushtaq Ali, was arrested on charges of sharing confidential information about border areas with Pakistani agencies. Ali allegedly used to share confidential information via social media at the behest of a Pakistani handler. Ali’s father Khandu Khan was also arrested in Barmer August 9 in a narcotics and fake Indian counterfeit note (FICN) racket case. On September 8, Meera Khan (38), who is allegedly an aide of Ali, was arrested on charges of espionage. Khan had allegedly shared information with Pakistani agents before the Pulwama attack and Balakot air strikes, which were carried out in February 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/man-held-in-rajasthan-s-barmer-on-suspicion-of-spying-for-pakistan/story-7rIRSx0LRnHbicaZXlWUNJ.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Fire at Mumbai Central’s City Centre mall doused after 56 hrs, cooling operations still on||The fire at the City Centre Mall in Mumbai Central in south Mumbai was extinguished at 5.08 am on Sunday, after 56 hours the blaze had started, according to Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) authorities. However, cooling operations are still in progress. “There are many combustible items in shops at the mall such as mobile phone batteries, chargers and wires. Cooling operations are on. But, the fire was put out at 5:08 am,” an MFB official said. Also read: 250 firefighters, 228 tankers: How Mumbai mall fire was dousedThe fire had broken out at a shop on the second floor of the City Centre Mall at 8.53 pm on Thursday, as level 1, or a small blaze. The fire spread to other floors and the MFB declared it a brigade call, or level 5 blaze, at 2.42 am on Friday. The three-storey mall houses around 400 shops on each floor. Earlier on Friday, five firemen, including a deputy fire officer of MFB, were admitted to a hospital due to suffocation. On Saturday, another fireman was admitted to Nair Hospital due to suffocation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-at-mumbai-central-s-city-centre-mall-doused-after-56-hrs-cooling-operations-still-on/story-lCrYxJ1MQsuklh97aM8oyH.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: New plant species discovered in northern Western Ghats||Researchers from India and Italy have discovered a new plant species of the Sahyadri globe thistle, Echinops sahyadricus, from the Rajgad Fort area in Pune district, which is located in the Sahyadri hills in the northern Western Ghats of Maharashtra.The newly discovered species, under the genus Echinops (spiny thistle) and an erect branched flowering herb with stout stems, is endemic to western Maharashtra and found only on a few open hilltops in the northern Western Ghats.The discovery by the Mumbai-based botanist Sushant More from Sathaye College, Vile Parle, Mumbai, in collaboration with Fabio Conti from the University of Camerino, Italy, and Harshal Bhosale from the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), Mumbai, was published in the Nordic Journal of Botany last Friday.Also read: Centre’s panel issues advisory for forest staff during Chandrapur tiger captureThe new species is distributed from Salher in Nashik District, which is located in the north and south of Kolhapur district, in the northern Western Ghats and grows mostly on open mountain slopes from 800 to 1400 metres (m) above sea level. It grows during monsoon – between June and September -- and flowers bloom in November. The fruiting occurs in December.“The importance of this discovery highlights the hidden treasures of the Western Ghats in Maharashtra and infrastructure projects such as road widening and construction activities along these forts could affect the population of the species,” said More.Researchers said the new species was unique due to the size of its composite inflorescence because a large number of small flowers clustered together. “They measure up to 9 centimetres (cm) in diameter, which is relatively large compared to other Echinops species around the world,” said More. “There are about 130 species of Echinops in the world, out of which five species are found in the country and two in Maharashtra alone. This species is named after the Sahyadri hills,” he added.The new species is similar to other species found in the country such as Indian globe thistle (Echinops echinatus) and the great globe thistle (Echinops sphaerocephalus). “However, we can distinguish the new species based on its unique size, inflorescence, arrangement of phyllaries (spine-like bracts) around the floret (smaller flowers making up the main flower head) and type of leaves surface,” said More.In India, Echinops are distributed across the Himalayas and neighbouring areas, while a species is endemic to Rajasthan. The new species is endemic to Maharashtra. However, the Usnakantaka (Echinops echinatus Roxb) is found across Indian sub-continent, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Myanmar in dry open scrublands.In October, three new odonate species of Reedtail damselflies (Protosticta species) were discovered from across three states in the southern Western Ghats. Last week, a tiny and colourful fish species inhabiting streams and water rich in oxygen, Schistura, a freshwater loach, was discovered from the Sahyadris.“All these findings show that the Western Ghats have potential from both the floral and faunal point of view and need to be protected,” said Rajendra Shinde, botanist and principal of St Xavier’s College in Mumbai.In early October, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had directed the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) to declare the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), spread across 4 lakh square (sq) kilometres (km) in Western Ghats, spanning across six states, by December. The notification has been pending for the past six years.Of the proposed 56,825 sq. km, all the six states have proposed that over 6,000 sq km be further reduced from the notification, an affidavit by the MoEFCC submitted before the NGT had stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-new-plant-species-discovered-in-northern-western-ghats/story-xYzo17LNW3hckQf7ntMDFN.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||250 firefighters, 228 tankers: How Mumbai mall fire was doused||The fire that had been raging since Friday at a mall in south Mumbai was finally extinguished on Sunday morning. The cooling operations are, however, still underway. Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said the fire at the City Centre Mall was extinguished at 5.08 am, 56 hours after it started. “Since there are many combustible items in many shops in the mall, such as mobile phone batteries, chargers and wires, cooling operations are still going on,” a fire official added. The fire broke out in a shop on the second floor of the mall in the Nagpada area at 8.53 pm on Thursday, as a level 1 (small fire). It soon spread to other floors and the Mumbai fire brigade declared it a brigade call – level 5, an event in which the chief fire officer is required to be present – at 2.42 am on Friday.Over 250 firefighters and 228 tankers were deployed to bring the blaze under control. “The mall is spread on a huge area, with around 400 shops on every floor. The major problem which we are facing is that the fire flames are falling from the ceiling, owing to which we are unable to move without restrictions to douse the blaze,” an MFB official had said on Saturday. He had also pointed to the risk of explosion due to the presence of mobile batteries, chargers, and power banks. As many as six firemen, including a deputy fire officer, were hospitalised in the city’s Nair Hospital due to suffocation. “Prima facie, we have found that there were sprinklers, but we will investigate if there was adequate fire safety equipment and if they were functional,” the MFB said. After the fire escalated to level 5 on, around 3,500 people from a neighbouring residential building were evacuated and rushed to safety as thick smoke had engulfed the 55-storey building premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/250-firefighters-228-tankers-how-mumbai-mall-fire-was-doused/story-h6Yv7M3wAJ3r6eYonuYN7M.html
25-10-2020||Delhi||Dussehra’s eco-friendly avatar: Delhi-NCR residents say won’t burn effigies but will cut cake||Every year, huge effigies and firecrackers mark the victory of good over evil in Delhi-NCR, as part of the grand celebrations for Dussehra. Needless to say it adds to the already poor AQI, and increases noise pollution as well. But in Covid-19 pandemic, quite a few denizens will usher the spirit of this festival in eco-friendly ways.Burning Ravana, digitally With restricted Ramlila celebrations in Delhi-NCR, to curb the impact of Covid-19, quite a few locals have in mind to avoid crowded places and have thus come up with an innovative solution to witness Ravana dahan. Akanksha Pandey, a homemaker from north Delhi, says, “At home all these months, my husband and I have been teaching our 5-year-old daughter about our mythology. But, we don’t feel it’s safe for her to go in a crowded place to witness Ravana dahan. So, we have decided to make a digital Ramlila story with voice overs from her grandparents, at the end of which we will burn an effigy of Ravana on the computer screen! We want our daughter to know about our culture, and we also want her to grow up with eco-friendly values, celebrating all festivals in a green way.”An effigy, you can eat too!“Instead of using plastic, paper or crackers, I’ll be baking a Ravana cake, and cut it to celebrate Dussehra this year,” says Prabhkeen Kaur, a baker based out of Hari Nagar. “Over the last few years, I saw people making Ravana effigies from plastic and that cause so much pollution in my locality. So I’m taking the green route this year. Plus, it’s the need of the hour, with the pandemic having taught us the values of a clean and healthy environment,” she adds. Soon after she had put a photo of her Ravana effigy cake online, people have been requesting her to bake it for them, too. Kaur feels the cake serves an important purpose; letting her and her family stay safe at home and yet revel in the festive fervour. She says, “Instead of noise and air pollution, if you can let good emerge triumphant with a symbolic cake, so why not!” Learn and make your own Ravana effigy  A green lifestyle needs to be passed on to our children, and celebrating festivals like Dussehra in an environment-friendly manner is therefore of great significance. This is what made members of The Stagecrackers, a Gurugram-based group organise a Ravana effigy-making class for youngsters, via a mobile app. “Pollution in Delhi is a widespread issue, and we want to teach our children about keeping their environment safe,” says Nidhi Lamba, the founding member of the group, and a resident of Gurugram’s DLF Phase 2, adding, “Because of the pandemic, parents aren’t keen to partake in Dussehra celebrations physically. So, we are organising an online class for kids to make the faces of Ravana at home from simple, recyclable materials. This will keep them engaged and also help them learn about the relevance of the festival of Dussehra.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dussehra-s-eco-friendly-avatar-delhi-ncr-residents-say-won-t-burn-effigies-but-will-cut-cake/story-zoAuulvD2mPbHXv11CSPUJ.html
25-10-2020||Delhi||Ramlila 2020: Ravana might be scared of Rama, but for corona there’s sanitiser!||Rama, Lakshmana, Hanuman battle Ravana, but with social distancing. Delhi’s long-standing Ramlila traditions have found new moulds this year, in the wake of government restrictions on large gatherings. With few guests and even fewer actors, many Ramlila committees in the city are braving the pandemic to perform live in front of the audience for a few days, this year. 6 feet ki doori, Ravana ko bhi zaruriYash Chauhan, director of Delhi’s Sanskriti Kala Sangam, says they’re going to perform in Karkardooma on Dussehra, reducing their Ramlila program, that usually spanned across days, to a mere three-hour-long dance drama. “Safety of members and guests is paramount,” insists Chauhan, adding, “We also decided to go digital this year, and recorded our Ramlila scenes both indoors and on the banks of Yamuna, which we are telecasting on our social media. We did this because we want least public interaction. We’ve choreographed everything keeping distance in mind, we’ll be performing live on Dussehra.”Shri Ramlila Committee at Indraprastha is also going live for three days with a digital telecast. “We’ve booked the Ipex Bhavan in Patparganj and humne 200 logo ki gathering ke liye prepare kara hai. There is a gap of six feet between chairs, aur hum poori Ramlila sirf teen ghante mein dikhayenge. People were keen on not breaking the tradition, so we have reduced the number of artistes as well,” says Suman Prakash Gupta, the committee’s director.Rama ho ya Ravana, everyone needs a sanitiserBackstage as well, actors are adhering to safety measures. “Before we started preparing, we all underwent a Covid-19 test, and then only we started rehearsing,” says Abhishek Sharma, who is performing with Shri Azad Ramlila Kala Kendra in Maujpur, since the first day of Navratri. “We are checking the temperature of all artistes and guests who are coming to see the show. Backstage bhi hum masks pehente hain aur scenes ke beech mein sanitiser use kar rahe hain. Ram ho ya Ravan, is waqt sanitiser ki zarurat toh sabko hai,” he chuckles. Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra’s (SBKK) annual dance drama, Shri Ram is also adhering to all the guidelines issued by the concerned authorities for Covid-19 prevention. “At the entrance we are doing thermal screening of each and every visitor, and also giving them hand sanitisers. Everyone has to wear a mask for the entire duration of the performance! Also, people are being seated with a gap of one seat between them and the first row has been kept at a distance of 10 feet from the stage. All the actors and staff were tested before we premiered the show on October 17, and all have tested negative. Hence the show goes on,” says Shobha Deepak Singh, director, SBKK. In Delhi’s Vinod Nagar as well, Kamdhenu Ramlila Committee has been performing in front of an audience of 200 people. Kids under 10 and guests over the age of 60 are not allowed! And all entrants are being provided sanitisers and masks, right at the gate. “We maintain a distance of one foot while performing. Plus we are acting in a way that the audience thinks there is contact but there is no physical contact between actors. We are also sanitising all props before and after use,” says Himanshu Visht, who is playing the titular role of Rama. When Rama said, ‘Corona se bachne ke liye samay samay pe haath dhoye’ Separate make-up rooms, thermal scanning, free masks, social-distancing, Gurugram’s one of the oldest Ramlila is taking place after months of uncertainty, and with all the safety norms in place. Raj Saini, from Durga Ramlila, says, “Kalakaar ka utsah thoda kam hain iss baar, kyunki kalakar ka utsah tabhi badta hai jab samne baithne wale darshak dher saari taliyon se samman karte hai. Earlier there used to be 1,200-1,500 people in audience, which has now reduced to 400 people. The distance between audience and artistes is 15 feet. We tried a performance with face shields on, but in vain because of the fog it creates while talking. Since we are performing in the Covid era, this time the character of Rama will say: ‘Jis tarah se yeh rakshas is prithvi pe hai, jinka main sarvanash karne aaya hoon, issi tarah se aaj ke yug mein corona hai, usse bachne ke liye apne ghar par rahe aur samah samah pe haath dhote rahe.”‘Ravan bhi corona ka nash karna chahta hain’“Jisko pakda woh kaal ke panje mein phas gaya, jisko dabaya woh rasatal zameen mein dhas gaya,” says Aditya Meena aka Ravana from Durga Ramlila in Gurugram, which has been running since 19 years. Before he enters the stage, he tells us: “I was motivated to play Ravana this year... I used sanitiser on the stage kyunki Ravana bhi corona ka nash karna chahta hai! Isliye usne stage pe sanitiser use karke logon ko jagrook kiya. People started clapping and cheering. Every year we used to hug everyone, but now one has to maintain social distancing even from family members, especially with the elderly. Even during rehearsals, we maintained social distancing. And for one month we wore masks to practise... Saans lene mein bahut dikat hoti thi (It was too difficult to breathe with the face mask on while we were rehearsing for the show).”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ramlila-2020-ravana-might-be-scared-of-rama-but-for-corona-there-s-sanitiser/story-ZTWuXeTWGaqFegU647y1sJ.html
25-10-2020||City||SGPC task force, Sikh outfits protesting over missing ‘saroops’ clash at Golden Temple, 15 injured||At least 15 persons were injured when a clash between the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force and members of some Sikh organisations protesting over the missing Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ episode turned violent in the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar on Saturday. The incident took place when task force tried to evict the protesters staging an indefinite sit-in in front the SGPC headquarters, Teja Singh Samundri Hall. Many of those leading the protest were held captive inside the SGPC office and thrashed by the task force personnel. The Sikh outfits, including the Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee, have been protesting since September 14 seeking justice in the missing saroops episode for which SGPC staffers were held guilty by a probe committee. How it unfoldedIt started early morning when Sukhjit Singh Khose, one of the protest leaders, locked the gate of the Teja Singh Samundri Hall after he claimed to have been humiliated by the SGPC employees. He along with his aides sat on the side gate blocking the entry to the head office for hours. When SGPC additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhoora along with other staff objected to it, the two had a verbal spat, said the eyewitnesses. Around 1pm, the SGPC staff forcibly took Khose inside and thrashed him badly. Thereafter, the SGPC personnel carrying sticks and kirpans tried to evict the protesters numbering 10 to 15, leading to a scuffle in which Sarbjit Singh, a gurdwara body employee, sustained deep injuries near his chest. He was hospitalised and was being operated upon by doctors. SGPC additional secretary Bijay Singh also got injured.Then the SGPC staff forcibly the protest leaders Balbir Singh Muchhal, Dilbag Singh, Manjit Singh Chabhal, Bibi Manjinder Kaur and Paramjit Singh Akali to a room and beat them up badly. They were held captive for four hours. To protest the move, their supporters gathered at the gate and started raising slogans.Police turn up after hours A police team turned up at the spot hours after the clash. Also, the SGPC employees attacked the journalists present at the spot to stop them from covering the incident. A reporter of a vernacular newspaper was slapped and his smartphone was snatched. They forcibly took a TV cameraman inside the office and kept him captive for several hours. He was released after the journalists staged a dharna outside the head office and lodged a police complaint. The SGPC officials claimed it was the protesters who attacked their employees first. “The activists were violating the maryada of the Golden Temple. They crossed their limits when they blocked the entrance to the SGPC head office and used objectionable words against our employees,” said gurdwara body general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami. The SGPC staff thrashed and injured another group of Sikh activists who came in support of the protesters. Later, the car of SGPC additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhoora, who was seen directing the SGPC task force at the time of the clash, was attacked by unidentified persons with sharp-edged weapons when he was returning him. His driver was injured even as Bhoore had a narrow escape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-task-force-sikh-activists-protesting-over-missing-saroops-clash-at-golden-temple-15-injured/story-XOmFe2QGazpBvjUFVsnUaL.html
25-10-2020||Election:||RJD stresses job pledge, vows farm loan waiver||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) released its manifesto for the upcoming Bihar assembly elections on Saturday, reiterating its pledge to provide a million government jobs if elected to power even as it indicated that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s promise of generating 1.9 million jobs was a strategy to “fool” voters.The RJD’s 17-point manifesto, running into 20 pages, also announced the waiver of farm loans, higher minimum support price for farmers, better health care facilities, 22% of the state budget allocated for education (as compared to a little over 20% in 2020-21), regularisation of ad hoc workers in some sectors and plans to develop smart villages.“We have talked about issues such as employment, women’s empowerment, agri industry, education, smart villages, panchayati raj institute, poverty, community development, and health care services,” Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial face of the opposition alliance led by the RJD, said at the party office after the release of the manifesto.“If we had to make fake promises like the BJP did... we would have promised to give five million or 10 million jobs,” he said. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar has been raising doubts about our promise of providing one million jobs. So how will his future government fulfil ally BJP’s declaration of 1.9 million jobs? Who are they fooling?” he asked.In its 11-point Sankalp Patra (document of pledges), the BJP pledged to generate 1.9 million jobs, expand the minimum support price regime, and recruit 300,000 teachers, among others. It also promised free Covid-19 vaccines for Bihar whenever they are approved.Reaching out to the youth, the RJD’s manifesto pledged to waive fees needed to apply for government jobs and also promised 85% reservation in public service for the state’s students. It also talked about the concept of “equal pay for equal work” along with providing ₹1,500 unemployment allowance a month to those up to the age of 35 years.“This is not a manifesto but our party’s pledge to bring about a change...Every sector has been taken into consideration while preparing this; it will make the state happy and prosperous,” Tejashwi Yadav, 31, said.He also spoke about developing smart villages with concrete roads and free computer centres in every panchayat. For the betterment of health infrastructure, a dialysis centre — free for the poor — was promised in each district. On the education front, apart from increasing budgetary allocations, the manifesto promised speedy hiring of teachers at government schools and a focus on e-learning.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/rjd-stresses-job-pledge-vows-farm-loan-waiver/story-N9yonKCQxX8y74aOGCVXfL.html
25-10-2020||Election:||Bihar election candidate shot dead, two held||Janata Dal Rashtrawadi party leader Sri Narayan Singh, was shot dead at Hathsar village in Bihar’s Sheohar district, and two people have been arrested in connection with the case, officials said Saturday.The incident took place under Purnahiya police station when the candidate and his supporters were campaigning for the upcoming Bihar elections, the officials said.The leader was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries, officials said. “The candidate and his supporters were attacked while they were campaigning. The attacker posed as supporters. Injured were taken to a hospital and two people have been arrested investigation Is going on...Around five to six people were involved in the firing,” Sub-Divisional Police Officer Rakesh Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-election-candidate-shot-dead-two-held/story-ZTu6DmgECBPi4AtTnRGgyN.html
25-10-2020||Election:||Ahead of first phase of Bihar polls, barbs fly thick and fast||With days left before assembly elections kick off in Bihar, top leaders from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the opposition Grand Alliance (GA) are trying to add more firepower to their campaigns. Seventy-one assembly seats go to the polls in the first of three phases on October 28.Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is seeking a fourth straight term, addressed a poll rally in Alauli assembly seat — associated with Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan — but refrained from speaking anything either against the party or its president, Chirag Paswan, who has been attacking him regularly and decided to fight the polls independently after breaking away from the ruling NDA.Ram Vilas Paswan, a Dalit icon who died on October 8 at 74, had started his political innings in 1969 from Alauli. The reserved seat includes Paswan’s birth place, Saharbbani village, in the Khagaria district.The constituency is witnessing a three-cornered contest between the Janata Dal (United), the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the LJP. Kumar’s party has fielded Sadhna Sada, RJD has given ticket to Rambriksha Sada while Chirag’s LJP has put Ramchandra Sada on the seat that will go to vote in the second phase on November 3.Taking a swipe at the RJD, Kumar said: “Those who neglected education, health and roads construction and spent time in encouraging ‘jungle raj’ are today talking about development...its nothing but a joke.” Chirag Paswan, however, continued his tirade against Kumar by saying that, if elected to power, the LJP will launch a probe into the JD(U) ‘Saat Nischay’ (seven resolves) Scheme, and prosecute officials and the CM if they are found responsible for corruption. Addressing a rally in Chenari, Paswan said Kumar failed in governance and the state was facing its worst ever crisis in health care, farming and employment sectors.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda took a dig at the RJD and Tejashwi Yadav’s poll promise of one million jobs. “Lawlessness is the nature of RJD. They never sought forgiveness for what they did to the people of Bihar. This implies that they still have the same intentions. Nitish Kumar knew that good governance cannot be achieved while in power with the RJD alliance. This is why he broke ties with them and came with BJP,” Nadda said during a rally at Biharsharif.Union minister Smriti Irani, too, addressed a rally at Munger where she reminded people of the fodder scam. “Bihar’s self-respecting people don’t pray to God for a chance to get money in fodder scam. While praying to goddess Laxmi, they find that she neither comes by holding ‘haath’ of Congress nor brings ‘Lalten’. She comes by sitting on ‘Kamal’,” she said.Asaduddin Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen party, which is contesting elections in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party, also addressed a rally in favour of RLSP candidate Birendra Kumar Singh from Bhabua. “Atrocities, poverty and unemployment were the fate of people here during 15 years of rule of RJD and NDA each. Bihar was the only state in the country where 48,000 patients were left on mercy of a single doctor. Here, education system had completely collapsed and youth go to Rajasthan, Delhi and Mumbai to complete their education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/ahead-of-first-phase-of-bihar-polls-barbs-fly-thick-and-fast/story-Fnn7dsCKP0eGkFwk5CexoI.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to soon begin Phase-3 of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine trial||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed the second phase of clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. The civic body will soon start third-phase trials as the first batch of volunteers of the second phase completed 28 days since their first vaccination on Friday. On September 26, the first dosage of the second phase of trial was given to three volunteers between 20 and 45 years old at KEM Hospital. As many as 200 healthy volunteers participated in the second phase of the trial of the vaccine candidate, Covidshield. Both, King Edward Memorial (KEM) and BYL Nair hospitals, which are conducting the trials, will now submit their reports to the data safety monitoring board under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (the national regulatory body for medicines made in India) to seek approval for the Phase-3 of the trial. “With the approval, we will be able to start the third phase of the trial as the first set of volunteers completed 28 days of the first vaccination. As per ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), the third trial can only be conducted on volunteers after a gap of 28 days,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital, also confirmed that they are soon to start the third phase of the trial. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine, formulated at the University of Oxford. Meanwhile, SII has suggested the civic body to include 50 more volunteers for the first phase of the trial, following which, both the hospitals have written to ICMR seeking approval. “As we have achieved our target of 100 volunteers, we have asked ICMR if they want us to include more volunteers. So far, we haven’t received any response. However, we have kept additional volunteers on standby,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair hospital. However, Kakani said that BMC is unlikely to wait any further for ICMR’s response and will start the third-phase trial. “We can’t wait any further as we need to provide the dosage in the third phase to the first set of volunteers who have completed their 28 days of waiting period,” he said. In August, when ICMR selected the two Mumbai-based hospitals to run clinical trials for the vaccine, they were instructed to enrol 160 volunteers at each hospital. Later, the number of total volunteers was reduced to 100 each for the second phase of the trial. As per ICMR, every volunteer is covered by a life insurance worth Rs1 crore in the event of death owing to any side-effect of the vaccine administered during the trial. They are also covered under a medical insurance of Rs50 lakh for the treatment of any possible adverse effect from the vaccination. In the second week of September, both hospitals had to halt the trial after a participant developed an adverse reaction in the United Kingdom. Later, the Drugs Control General of India granted permission to run the second and third phases of the trial. However, both civic hospitals had to receive final approval from their ethics committees before starting with the screening of the volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-soon-begin-phase-3-of-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine/story-F8MIsQWW5Q120ZgzpMCbCP.html
25-10-2020||City||Operations to douse south Mumbai mall fire continue for over 48 hours||Forty-eight hours after a fire broke out at Mumbai Central’s City Centre Mall, efforts were on to douse the blaze on Saturday. The Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) said that the fire is under control but there are isolated spots where smaller flames continued to break out owing to minor explosions of mobile batteries and chargers that were stored inside the mall. On Saturday at 7.05pm, 55-year-old firefighter Chandrashekhar Sawant was rushed to in Nair Hospital after he complained of suffocation. On Friday, five firemen, including a deputy fire officer, were hospitalised due to suffocation. However, no civilian injuries were reported in the incident. The fire was reported in a shop on the second floor of the mall at 8.53pm on Thursday, as a level 1 (small fire). It soon spread to other floors and the Mumbai fire brigade declared it a brigade call – level 5, a rare event in which the chief fire officer is required to be present – at 2.42am. More than 250 firefighters are at the spot since Thursday night to douse the blaze and have utilised 228 tankers for freighting. “The mall is spread on a huge area, with around 400 shops on every floor. The major problem which we are facing is that the fire flames are falling from the ceiling, owing to which we are unable to move without restrictions to douse the blaze. Our risks are very calculated, and so the operations are taking time. Also, there is a huge presence of mobile batteries, chargers, power banks, all which have high potential to explode,” said an MFB official. The MFB said it has yet not found any fire safety violations inside the mall yet as a part of its investigations into the cause behind the blaze. “Prima facie, we have found that there were sprinklers, but we will investigate if there was adequate fire safety equipment and if they were functional. Currently, the focus is on dousing the fire and the task is getting difficult as some shops where the mini blasts are taking place have closed down shutters,” the MFB official said. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), too, said that it did not find any structural violations that jeopardised fire safety. Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “We have checked our records and a few alterations were made, for which the permissions were issued by BMC. We will match the plan with the actual spot after the fire is doused. But we will issue a notice to the owners of the mall for verifying the documents.” On Saturday around 1am, Shiv Sena legislator and cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is also the city’s guardian minister, inspected the site. “Just visited the location of the fire incident at the City Centre Mall. I’ve been taking updates on it constantly. Thankfully till now there is no injury to human life. Our brave jawans of Mumbai Fire Brigade have worked along with technology like fire dousing robots successfully,” Thackeray tweeted. On Friday, around 3,500 residents of the nearby Orchid Enclave, a 55-storey building were vacated to safety, after thick smoke engulfed the building premises. “Now, we don’t mind if the residents wish to go back to their homes. But the direction of the smoke may change anytime due to wind pattern. The smoke is very thick and hence we have suggested the residents to stay where they are for the next one or two days till we are done with cooling operations,” the MFB official said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/operations-to-douse-south-mumbai-mall-fire-continue-for-over-48-hours/story-589vAIAtiXyIReBbzt6ohM.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Republic TV owners named as accused in TRP case||The Mumbai Police crime branch named the owners of Republic TV, News Nation and Maha Movie and some of their staff as accused in the case of alleged manipulation of television rating points (TRP). The matter came to light on Saturday when the Mumbai Police crime branch, in their remand plea filed before a magistrate’s court seeking extension of custody of two persons arrested in the case, which HT has seen, mentioned that the owners of the TV channels have been named as accused, though the names were withheld.When asked who the owners of the three channels were, Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime) said, “We have not named anyone specific yet.” The development came on a day Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was asked to attend the hearing for proposed chapter proceedings initiated against him by Mumbai police. Goswami’s lawyer attended the hearing and requested his client be exempted from physically appearing for the hearing. The police accepted the request and kept the next hearing of the matter on November 7. “On Saturday (October 24) Goswami was asked to appear and submit his version on the police’s say (opposing his previous version). But he did not appear for the second time. He would now have to appear before me on November 7,” said ACP Jambavdekar. When contacted by HT, Republic TV’s lawyer did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/republic-tv-owners-named-as-accused-in-trp-case/story-hhf8laHP0YsVqXWVhKNQnO.html
25-10-2020||City||Social activist Anjali Damania files complaint against NCP leader Eknath Khadse in Mumbai for ‘using derogatory language’ against her||Social activist Anjali Damania has filed a complaint against former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse at Vakola police station for allegedly using derogatory words against her on Friday at an event in which he was being inducted into the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). She said that despite warning Khadse, he continued his tirade and used “inappropriate words” against her at the public forum. “I have been asking Khadse to desist from using inappropriate words, but he continues to target me with such language. This time, I am determined to pursue the case to its logical end till Khadse is put behind bars,” said Damania, who along with couple of her colleagues visited Vakola police station on Saturday and demanded the officers to register a first information report (FIR) against Khadse. Khadse said that the complaint was lodged at the behest of former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, whose only intent he said was “cutting the newly-inducted NCP leader to size”. Khadse has been blaming Fadnavis for his defection to NCP. Meanwhile, Manjunath Singe, deputy commissioner police (DCP), zone 8, assured Damania that they would first study the complaint filed by her before registering an FIR. Damania said she will also seek an appointment with NCP chief Sharad Pawar to explain her side and wondered how the veteran leader kept quiet when Khadse targeted her in his presence during the event. In 2017 too, Damania had lodged a case against Khadse at Vakola police station for using “derogatory words” against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-activist-anjali-damania-files-complaint-against-ncp-leader-eknath-khadse-in-mumbai-for-using-derogatory-language-against-her/story-hG2uCTcqo1blUhnQUS13FM.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body collects ₹10.8L as fine in October for violations of Covid norms||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMCC) jurisdiction has collected more than ₹10.8 lakh as fine for not following Covid norms in the first 20 days of October.From the month of April to September, the civic body collected more than ₹35 lakh as fine. Of the total ₹10.8 lakh, ₹5.86 lakh was recovered from 1,172 people for not wearing mask. Around 1,444 people were fined ₹2.88 lakh for not following social distancing and 63 shopkeepers were fined ₹1.26 lakh for not ensuring that the customers were following social distancing.Besides, the APMC area had a special team scrutinising the Covid norms among people. Within 20 days in October, ₹1.32 lakh was recovered from APMC market alone. This included 142 people without mask who had to pay up ₹71,000, 269 people who had to pay up ₹53,800 for not following social distancing and ₹8,000 from four traders for not ensuring the Covid norms in their shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-collects-10-8l-as-fine-in-oct-for-violations-of-covid-norms/story-ZkNuHGrYjHlhFAlmHlLqDN.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli blood banks in need of plasma donors||Nearly 94 per cent of the 52,000-plus total number of Covid cases in Kalyan-Dombivli have recovered. However, not even one per cent of those recovered have donated their plasma till date.As per the data with Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the three blood banks in Dombivli have collected 429 plasmas till October 19. From the donated plasma, a total of 846 bags were prepared and 815 of these have already been issued for therapy.As on October 19, the stock of plasma bags available with the three blood banks in Kalyan Dombivli was only 31.According to the Maharashtra state government records, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KMDC) has recorded 52,500 Covid cases.Dr Pratibha Panpatil, KDMC epidemic officer, said, “Earlier, people hesitated to donate plasma due to lack of awareness. Now-a-days, most youngsters are voluntarily doing it but the response is still low.One major reason for this is the criteria for donation i.e. not every recovered patient can donate the plasma. There are criteria for age, the count of antibody and also previous medical condition of the recovered patient.Panpatil added, “There is a shortage of plasma in Kalyan-Dombivli. So, the blood banks are ready to accept donors anytime. People should make it a point to come forward and donate,” added Panpatil.The KDMC, along with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and social media group – It’s All About Kalyan – initiated an online plasma collection drive in September. This saw merely 50 donors.Jaydeep Hajare, an advocate who initiated the drive, said, “The drive was aimed at preparing a bank of plasma so that a Covid patient can reach out to the blood banks and get the desired plasma within a short time. Even though 50 people have registered through the drive, we have managed around 100 donations till now. However, this needs to increase in the coming days to save the lives of Covid patients,” added Hajare.Even today, several Covid patients’ relatives search for matching plasma for 3-4 days continuously. Sumant Mahale, 32, lost his 64-year-old father, a retired railway employee a month ago after battling the virus for 23 days.Mahale said, “I had to search for donors for five days and finally I found one that matched my father’s blood group. But, it was too late for the therapy. There was no plasma in blood bank and we had to call up random donors through our contacts. This was very challenging.”Thirty-six-year old Rahul Gaikwad, a Dombivli-based doctor who survived Covid-19 virus after a week-long hospitalisation, has donated his plasma twice after his recovery. He is now planning to do it again for the third time just to pass on a message to other recovered patients to come forward and donate their plasma to help treat the Covid patients in need.Gaikwad said, “I have worked in the frontline, treating a number of Covid patients in Dombivli since the beginning. When I contracted the virus and recovered, the only thing I had in mind was to help others recover. It takes only 45 minutes to donate and it does not harm the donor in anyway.”He added that there was lot of stigma attached to the donation due to which people don’t come forward.The plasma donation has also helped a few. Atul Angre, 46 a civil engineer from Thane, said, “Both my father and mother were hospitalised with Covid infection while I was home quarantined with other family members. I could not go out when doctor told me plasma was required for their treatment. Luckily, I got plasma through patients who donated it at blood banks for my parents’ treatment. My father survived while my mother succumbed to the illness as she had other health issues too.”How to register:** Donors have to share their name, blood group and address so that they can be contacted.** The details can be registered at the link https://forms.gle/t3pBb6kTrZCj87b8A.** For details call 0251-2211373 or 9323042121.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-blood-banks-in-need-of-plasma-donors/story-fFE6b4J7HkbZIb6SM9vHGI.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Kalyan-Dombivli commuters can pay fares online from today||Commuters taking the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Transport (KDMT) ring route bus from Kalyan Station can pay their fares through online payment mode from Sunday morning.The KDMT has digitalised bus fares for five ring route buses to avoid contact during ticketing. The service will be extended further on other routes.“Changing the mode of payment from cash to digital is to avoid any contact between conductors and passengers, and curb the spread of Covid-19 infection. Since we have resumed buses within and outside the city limits, online payment service is a must,” said Milind Dhat, general manager, KDMT.On Friday, the KDMT officials and committee members finalised on how the online payment would function by giving a demo of the online payment system.“We will provide a uniform QR code to the conductors which the passengers can scan through online payment modes and make their payment,” added Dhat.The KDMT, which was completely shut during the initial months of lockdown, has resumed services on 15 routes including Kalyan-Panvel and Dombivli-Vashi routes.On Sunday, which marks Dussehra, the online payment mode will be inaugurated on one route, the Kalyan ring route that covers Kalyan station - Murbad Road - Birla College Road -Duragadi Chowk - Lal Chowki - Shivaji Chowk – Kalyan station. Later on, it will be enabled in all other routes.“We are planning to increase the number of buses and its frequencies as there is a requirement due to the lockdown relaxations. In order to make sure there is no contact while making payment of fare, we decided to go digital,” added Dhat.Sumit Patil, 29, who takes the KDMT bus from Kalyan to Panvel for work, said, “Paying the fare by cash is very risky as there will be some contact. Most of the passengers have smart phones and they can make the payment online. This is a good move by the transport body and should be imposed effectively.”Presently, the KDMT has 137 buses out of which only 52 are running as many buses are to be repaired. Out of these 52, twenty are given to the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation for Covid duty. The rest are for common public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-commuters-can-pay-fares-online-from-today/story-DVLEQBCXAE9tCjo7mZu1OI.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Sales tax officer attacked with knife in Navi Mumbai||Two men brutally attacked a 39-year-old sales tax officer in CBD Belapur on Thursday evening while stealing his phone. The victim suffered injuries on his neck and is currently recuperating following the attack.The incident took place at around 8.30 pm on Thursday when the officer, Mahesh Binawade, was returning to his Belapur residence from his office. Binawade, who often takes the bus, was walking along the jogging track near CBD circle when the two men accosted him. According to CBD Belapur police, at least one of the men was armed with a sharp knife. The two threatened Binawade and demanded his phone. When Binawade resisted, one of the accused slashed him on the neck with a knife and attacked again on his head.“After injuring Binawade, the men snatched his phone worth ₹2,000 and his wallet before fleeing the spot. We have registered a case of causing hurt while committing robbery against the unidentified persons,” said a police officer.Although injured, Binawade managed to reach home and told his wife and other family members about the attack.As Binawade was heavily bleeding, he was rushed to MGM Hospital in the locality where he underwent a surgery and remained unconscious for a day, according to his family members. “He was unconscious after the surgery. He is still under observation at the hospital,” said Devidas Gore, Binawade’s relative.Gore narrated the incident to the police and lodged an FIR as Binawade was not in a condition to talk after reaching the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sales-tax-officer-attacked-with-knife-in-navi-mumbai/story-1mtzCBa2qfDxHuIrw3TutI.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||JNPT conducts clean-up drive, spreads awareness||The Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) concluded a fortnight-long beautification and clean-up drive by planting. As a part of Swachh Bharat Mission, JNPT carried out a plantation drive led by Sanjay Sethi, chairman, JNPT, for a greener and sustainable future. The port observed the fortnight with several innovative programmes to raise awareness about cleanliness.Under Cleanliness Fortnight, JNPT undertook sanitisation and cleanliness drive at various locations in the port. Disseminating the message of Swachh Bharat widely, JNPT installed banners and signage boards at strategic locations to spread awareness amongst people within and outside the port.JNPT also carried out various online training session and a series of webinars for its employees mainly aimed at creating awareness and to inculcate the importance of clean environment and better sanitation. Various competitions like essay writing and slogans were also conducted for JNPT employees online. Innovative campaigns were carried out through JNPT social media platforms to inculcate the importance of a clean environment and better sanitation.Sethi said, “Coming together for a cleaner tomorrow, JNPT has been implementing proper cleaning for all at its facilities on a regular basis. JNPT will continue to remain a socially-conscious organisation. It will make efforts towards building a clean and sustainable port and become a green port.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/jnpt-conducts-clean-up-drive-spreads-awareness/story-RUlZpqQGZvCbnTBuMgvWYP.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||NCB arrests one more accused in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested one more accused, Sahil Mazhar Ali, an alleged drug supplier, in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. NCB conducted searches at Ali’s residence in Jai Bhim Nagar in Dapodi area, Pune and recovered 7.2 gram round-shaped black sticky substance purported to be charas. Ali’s name cropped during interrogation of South African National Agisilaos Demetriades, a brother of a Bollywood actor’s girlfriend. Demetriades was arrested with a small quantity of drug from Lonavala on October 18. NCB then raided Ali’s residence and summoned him for questioning at NCB’s Mumbai office on October 23. “Ali’s statement was recorded under section 67 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act wherein he revealed that he supplied cocaine to drug peddler Agisilaos Demetriades. Ali also said that he had purchased LSD and MDMA from Demetriades,” said an NCB officer. Ali is a part of the chain of drug peddlers and was also in touch with several other drug peddlers and suppliers in the city. After his role and involvement in drug supply was clear, he was arrested in the case, the officer said.He supplied cocaine and cannabis to Demetriades, who was connected with arrested accused Kaizan Ibrahim, Sandeep Gupta, Anuj Keshwani and accused Dwyane Fernandes, and they were further linked to Deepesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda who were linked with Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, said the officer.The agency has so far arrested 24 people including Chakraborty, her brother Showik, Rajput’s house manager Miranda, domestic help Sawant, and drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar and others. Chakraborty was granted bail by the Bombay high court (HC) on October 7 while her brother is still in jail.On October 15, NCB arrested Jai Madhok, a management professional and drug peddler and distributor of cocaine and hashish. Madhok’s name came during various statements of drug peddlers recorded in the SSR case.Madhok was involved in cocaine and hashish consumption as well as distributing drugs along with Dharma Productions’ former executive producer Kshitij Ravi Prasad and Ankush Arenja, both were earlier arrested in connection with the case. Madhok has direct links with Nigerian nationals and procured cocaine for himself and distributed to his friends.Last month, NCB recorded statements of actors Rakul Preet Singh, Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan. Apart from that, Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash’s statement was also recorded. The agency is probing into the drug angle related to Rajput’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-one-more-accused-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case/story-JayKB3Z7wF7TqzmfKIS3SM.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||India had most deaths in road accidents in 2019: Report||A total of 151,113 people were killed in 480,652 road accidents across India in 2019, an average of 414 a day or 17 an hour, according to a report by the transport research wing of the ministry of road transport and highways. India continued to have the most road fatalities in the world, followed by China, a distant second at 63,093 deaths in 2,12,846 road accidents in 2019, the report revealed. The United States of America (USA) reported the most road accidents at 2,211,439, and witnessed 37,461 deaths in 2019.According to the report, speeding was the leading cause of deaths, while, in terms of vehicles, two-wheelers were involved in most road fatalities.Across states, most road accidents were reported in Tamil Nadu (57,228), followed by Madhya Pradesh (50,669), Uttar Pradesh (42,572), Kerala (41,111) and Karnataka (40,658) accidents. Maharashtra ranked sixth with 32,295 accidents, but saw the second-highest number of fatalities (12,788), after 22,655 in Uttar Pradesh.Among cities, Delhi retained its first rank with 1,463 deaths, followed by Jaipur (1,283), Chennai (1,252) and Bengaluru (768). Mumbai ranked ninth with 447 people being killed in road accidents in 2019. The report stated that national and state highways, which account for just five per cent of the total roads in the country, saw the most deaths — 61% of the total.Two-wheelers were involved in 37% of the road deaths in the country, followed by pedestrians at 17% and light vehicles (comprising cars, jeeps and taxis) at 16%. A total of 56,136 people riding two-wheelers lost their lives, while 25,858 pedestrians died in 2019, stated the report. The report stated that speeding accounted for most road accidents and deaths (ranging between 63% and 73% for accidents and between 62% and 70% for deaths) on all categories of national highways. In 2019, like in previous years, young adults in the age group of 18-45 years accounted for nearly 69.3% of road accident deaths, while those in the age group of 18 – 60 accounted for 84.3%. Interestingly, it wasn’t curved roads that took the most lives — 96,624 people lost their lives on straight roads, while curved roads saw 20,141 deaths. “Traditionally, for any accident or crash, the major causes could be ‘driver/human’, ‘road infrastructure’ or ‘vehicle-related factors’. Sometimes, there might be combinations of these factors which might lead to accidents. Among these major factors, ‘driver/human’-related factors or errors dominate,” said Nagendra R Velaga, associate professor (transportation systems engineering), department of civil engineering, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay. Examples of such human/driver factors include — rash driving, fatigue/sleep deprivation (particularly for long-haul truck drivers), speeding (due to certain reasons like time pressure or time constraints to reach the destination), on-board distractions (eg: using digital devices such as mobile phones while driving), driving under influence of alcohol and drugs, among other, said Velaga. “Advanced technologies and artificial intelligence can control some human errors or driver factors (for example, camera-based speed-detection system). However, I strongly feel that it is the individual’s responsibility to respect their own life use required and appropriate precautionary measures (use seatbelt and helmet, follow traffic rules, and do not use phone while driving, avoid rash driving and drunk driving),” added Velaga Former chairman of the Supreme Court (SC) committee on road safety, retired justice KS Radhakrishnan, said speeding is the major cause of accidents, especially on straight roads and highways, where control on speed is minimal. On curved roads, speeding is less, due to which accidents are less. “Condition of roads, traffic violations, drink and drive, among others, are also major contributors to high number of fatalities and accidents,” said Radhakrishnan. Radhakrishnan, whose committee conducted 250 meetings with the government, national highways authority, state traffic departments and international agencies, to curb accidents, said, “The meetings are heading in the right direction,” said Radhakrishnan. “The fine in India is not a deterrent,” said Radhakrishnan adding, “However, the average person here will not be able to afford heavy fines. The government will just end up seizing licences.” To bring down fatalities, Velaga said, “In addition to national-level policies and legislation, regional or local-level control strategies or measures are required. Strong enforcement is also required.” Velaga also said, “Causal and impact analysis of accidents/crashes is required for state, regional and local level. More focus on research related to human/driver factors may be needed to understand the exact of factors influencing the crashes and suitable remedial measures.” Commenting on the report, Piyush Tewari, CEO and founder, SaveLIFE Foundation said, “There is an urgent need for full implementation of the road safety provisions in the motor vehicle (amendment) Act 2019, including implementation of child safety provisions. Additionally, identifying risk factors specific to the safety of children and creating a plan to mitigate them should be prioritised by all state governments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/india-had-most-deaths-in-road-accidents-in-2019-report/story-pikRXxsS4hptNVvf6J2g9O.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC upholds life term of man for raping a 3-and-half-year-old girl||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday upheld the life term given to a 27-year-old from Sinnar in Nashik district for raping a three-and-a-half-year-old girl in September 2014.After scrutinising the evidence on record, the division bench comprising justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik concluded that the trial court had rightly convicted Sudam Shelke. The bench also affirmed the life imprisonment handed down to him, saying he did not deserve leniency.According to the prosecution, the incident took place on September 12, 2014 when the girl, who was playing outside her house, could not be found. The family launched a search and her grandmother found the child crying in a nearby Bajra crop field. The girl had to be taken to hospital as she had injuries in her private part. The next day the child narrated the ordeal to her family, following which the police was informed and an offence was registered.Shelke was arrested on September 17 and was subsequently prosecuted for sexually assaulting the child. The prosecution examined 11 witnesses that proved him guilty. On January 18, 2016, an additional sessions judge at Nashik convicted him for raping the child and sentenced him to life imprisonment.Shelke then filed an appeal before HC challenging the conviction. The bench dismissed his appeal after noticing that the evidence on record showed that the convict had given his cell phone to the girl for playing sometime before the incident, the survivor’s grandmother had seen him running out of the Bajra field and his motorcycle was found lying nearby.Besides, the court also took note of the fact that blood stains were found on an under garment of the accused and the DNA report specifically showed that blood group of the DNA extracted from the blood stains found on his underwear matched with blood group of survivor.HC also rejected the argument advanced on his behalf that non-examination of the survivor was fatal to the prosecution case. The bench said the girl was hardly 3 years and 8 months old at the time and added, “There can be no infirmity in the prosecution case only because of non-examination of the victim.” The HC bench also found no merit in the convict’s submission that his complicity in the crime was ruled out as he had not sustained any injury on his private part. He maintained that he should have suffered some injury, especially because the victim was only 3 years and 8 months old.In this regard, HC said, the trial court had correctly relied on relevant medical jurisprudence that in young children there are few or no signs of general violence caused by resistance, for the child usually has no idea of what is happening and also it is incapable of resisting. In such cases, complete penetration is not possible, especially when the perpetrator is a grown up man, but slight penetration is sufficient to attract section 376 (sexual assault) of the Indian Penal Code.“We are in agreement with the view of the trial court that no benefit can be given to the accused merely because he has not sustained any injury on his private part,” the bench said while dismissing Shelke’s appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-upholds-life-term-of-man-for-raping-a-3-and-half-year-old-girl/story-LbGwxCro89WU8bcFjOphzO.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Teachers cannot be forced to report to school: Maharashtra education department||After receiving several complaints from teachers associations about teachers being called to school every day, the Maharashtra education department has clarified that teachers can continue working from home. In a circular issued by the office of the deputy director, Mumbai region, schools have been told to teach online. “Complaints have been received by this office from teachers who allege that they are being called to report from various parts of the city even as trains are not functioning regularly. Schools should note that the work done by teachers for online education should be calculated as their official work hours and their salaries should not be deducted,” states the circular. A teacher from a Kandivli-based school said, “The school is asking us to physically report to work every day. Teachers have to spend ₹2,000 each day to travel from Thane and beyond. Sometimes we only conduct online classes from the school which we can conduct from our homes too,” she added. As per the current guidelines, teachers can be called to school once or twice a week if needed by the principal. However, teaching work has to continue online. Teachers suffering from hypertension, cardiac ailments, etc. and those over the age of 50 years are exempt from physically attending the school.Several teachers groups, such as Shikshak Parishad and Shikshak Bharati, had also complained about several schools forcing parents to submit answer sheets of solved papers as part of the exams. “So far, the education department has not declared any specific guidelines about the conduct of exams. Schools should thus continue only online activities,” the circular further states. The department has warned schools of action if they do not comply with the rules. “Strict action will be taken against principals and managements of such schools,” states the circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-cannot-be-forced-to-report-to-school-maharashtra-education-department/story-DpzKvdU4t8X34HHcfcmVBK.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Independent Mumbai MLA who had pledged support to BJP joins Sena||After Eknath Khadse’s move to the ruling Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has suffered one more jolt on Saturday as an independent member of the legislative Assembly (MLA) Geeta Jain, who had earlier declared support to the party, switched loyalty to the ruling Shiv Sena.A BJP rebel, Jain was elected from Mira-Bhayander near Mumbai. A former mayor of the city, she contested as an independent candidate after BJP denied her a ticket for the 2019 Assembly election. She defeated sitting BJP MLA Narendra Mehta. She had pledged support to Devendra Fadnavis after getting elected. On Saturday, she joined Sena. However, there are doubts whether the move would be beneficial for her as provisions of anti-defection laws do not allow independent MLAs to join a political party on the floor of the legislature.Jain was welcomed into the party by chief minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray at his Bandra residence, ‘Matoshree’.“Uddhavji assured me that he would speed up developmental work in my constituency,” said Jain. She said she took this step as the BJP has been neglecting her despite pledging support to the BJP after the 2019 Assembly elections. “The BJP was not calling me for their events and neglecting me. I met every senior leader, but all I got was just assurances from them and no action,” rued Jain.Soon after the results, she met former chief minister Fadnavis and extended support to the BJP. Since the BJP got 105 seats and wanted to form the government, it was seeking help from various parties and independents.According to her supporters, after winning the Assembly elections last year, the BJP should have handed over the reins of the party to her in Mira-Bhayander. However, the party still favoured Mehta due to which he still holds sway in this constituency.Meanwhile, officials from the state legislature said an independent MLA cannot join a party after election.Also, there is no provision of affiliated or associated MLAs of a political party in the anti-defection law, which is currently in practice.“The provisions under anti-defection law clearly said that an elected member of the House (Parliament or state legislature), who has been elected as such otherwise then as a candidate set up by any political party, shall be disqualified for being a member of the House, if he/she joins any political party after such elections,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.“There is a practice going on about affiliated or associated MLAs who give their support to a political party, but don’t become a member of the legislative party. In this case as well, there is no provision available in the anti-defection law and the practice is going on for years unofficially,” he added.The speaker of the Assembly has the powers to decide on disqualification of an independent MLA. If an independent MLA declared joining a political outfit then his or her statement may become a ground for a filing petition on violation of anti-defection law before the Speaker and it is upon the latter to decide action to be taken, the official said.The BJP said Jain’s joining of Sena will not make any difference to the party. “She was an independent legislator and she is free to join anyone. It does not matter to us,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/independent-city-mla-who-had-pledged-support-to-bjp-joins-sena/story-fRIW9w9Ghld7JED7gFb9WI.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching case: 38 accused sent to judicial custody||Dahanu judicial magistrate MV Jawale on Saturday remanded 38 accused, arrested in connection with Palghar lynching case, in judicial custody. All the accused were arrested by the Maharashtra criminal investigation department (CID) in the past 24 hours. Earlier on October 22, 32 accused were remanded in judicial custody by the same court, said Amrut Adhikari, counsel for the accused. The accused are from Gadchinchale, Divshi in Dahanu and Khanvel and other villages of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli. More arrested accused will be produced before the court on Monday, said Adhikari.CID had, on Wednesday, named 208 new accused in the April 16 lynching case and arrested 50 of them. So far, 355 people have been arrested and 11 minors have been apprehended in connection with the case. Of them, 28 accused and nine minors have been released on bail as the CID did not name them for their involvement in the lynching. The bail hearing of another 62 accused will be heard on November 3 by Thane special sessions judge PP Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-case-38-accused-sent-to-judicial-custody/story-rPkgwNSx66f6KuT5asW9YJ.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Domestic violence calls drop with relaxation of lockdown in Maharashtra||When lockdown restrictions were at their strictest, the state women and child development (WCD) department’s helpline recorded a surge in the number of callers on its helpline for domestic violence. Between April and September, the helpline (181) received 26,164, of which 6,590 were reporting domestic violence. Experts say this is just a fraction of the actual situation as an estimated 86% of women who experience intimate partner violence do not report it or seek help, according to the National Family Health Survey. Globally, the Covid-19 pandemic created situations in which there was more domestic abuse and the lockdown made it harder for victims and survivors to get away from their abusers or report the crime. Lawyer and co-founder of the not-for-profit women’s rights organisation Majlis, Flavia Agnes said, “In India, men often beat up their wives to take their frustrations out. During the lockdown, when men lost their jobs and got stuck inside four walls, they started abusing their wives. As police were focused on Covid duty and courts were closed, nothing could be done about it,” she said, adding that cases of sexual abuse also saw a spike but few of these were placed on official record.In April, the WCD helpline (181) received an average of 180 calls daily, reporting domestic violence. By September, when some relaxations were introduced, the daily average of calls regarding domestic violence had dropped to 95. Data from the National Commission of Women shows that between March 25 and May 31, 1,477 complaints of domestic violence were reported across the country, which is a higher number than the complaints received in the corresponding period in the past 10 years.Since the lockdown, 7,055 cases of domestic violence have been filed at various police stations across Maharashtra.The surge in intimate partner violence has been attributed to the psychological stress felt by many during the lockdown, particularly those who have suffered job losses and economic hardship. Sneha, a Marathwada-based non-government organisation (NGO) for women’s rights, has counselled more than 700 women survivors of domestic violence during the lockdown. Mumbai-based psychiatrist Dr Sagar Mundada said, “We are receiving relapsed cases of domestic violence. After repetitive counselling, several men have stopped hurting their wives. But in the lockdown, their anxiety triggered their habit of beating up their wives.”Experts pointed out that the recorded cases of violence against women are not reflective of the on-ground situation because these crimes are underreported. Even in pre-pandemic scenarios, the National Family Health Survey (2015-2016) estimated that 86% of women who experienced violence at home did not report it or seek help. During the lockdown, reporting these crimes became even more difficult than in other times. State WCD secretary IA Kundan said, “We have observed that many women who were victims of domestic violence couldn’t approach police stations due to the lockdown. Also, many women didn’t even get the opportunity to call at the helpline in the presence of family members.”For construction worker Aditi Salvi, 34, the lockdown meant no work, which in turn forced her to leave Mumbai and return to Latur in April, with her two children and husband, who is also a construction worker. Soon after, Salvi was subjected to violence at home. “I was being blamed for the pandemic and my husband along with my mother-in-law started beating me up. Due to lack of money, I stopped recharging my phone and therefore couldn’t get a chance to call the police. One day, I ran away and took shelter in my neighbour’s house who finally called 181,” Salvi told HT. Salvi has chosen not to file an official police complaint, but had she wanted to, the process could have been daunting. Sudhir Mishra, a coordinator at Sneha, said that often, police refused to register domestic violence cases because they were overwhelmed by their Covid-related duties. “They didn’t have the time to look into domestic violence cases. This led to women continuing to live under the same roof with their abusive families, who subjected them to repeated violence,” said Mishra. HD Yashod, commissioner, WCD, said,“We have 34 senior protection officers at district level and 358 junior protection officers at taluka level who are working full time in prevention of domestic violence and relief services.”Of the 6,590 calls that the WCD’s helpline received regarding domestic violence, 3,448 received general family counselling; 363 were given medical care; 1,973 received psychological counselling; and 532 were sent to short-term shelter facilities. In an effort to provide support to survivors, all 37 one-stop crisis centres were functional during the lockdown period. “To prevent and address cases of domestic violence, we also started the ‘Mala Bolayache Aahe’ helpline. Round the clock, we coordinated with police control rooms across districts and shared contact numbers of protection officers and social workers across the state,” said Kundan. Women helpline records 16K Covid-19 related calls Since April, the state’s WCD helpline has received more than 26,000 calls, of which 61.8% were related to Covid-19. In April and May, the helpline recorded the most calls, averaging 500 daily. On some days, the helpline received over 1,000 calls, most of which were queries about Covid-19.“In the initial days of the lockdown, we got calls seeking ration or queries about hospitals. Many also called asking about symptoms of Covid-19 and what steps to follow,” said state WCD secretary IA Kundan. “We directed the women to the concerned departments according to their needs. We simultaneously coordinated with police and NGOs to help the callers,” said Kundan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/domestic-violence-calls-drop-with-relaxation-of-lockdown-in-maharashtra/story-rBlCbTgLNVIVn7eNL1RMbP.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra to form fact-finding panel to look into online exam fiasco||Weeks after examinations of University of Mumbai’s (MU) Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) were disrupted and eventually postponed due to technical glitches, Maharashtra education department has decided to constitute a fact-finding committee with technical experts to look into all complaints of online exams being affected due to errors in the ongoing universities exams.In a virtual press conference on Saturday, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant stated that in October, students from several state universities were left struggling due to glitches in online exams, including the incident from first week of October that left thousands of IDOL students anxious and unable to appear for their final-year exams. “Students who were already stressed about examinations were put under more stress due to the technical errors and will now have to re-appear for all exams. Such issues cannot be ignored. The fact finding committee will delve deep into this issue and present a report on the same at the earliest,” said Samant. He added that the committee will bring together at least two education director-level officials along with a technical expert, and the committee will be ready to start work by November 10. “This committee will submit a report based on their findings within one month,” he added. In the first week of October, after postponing three exams within a week for students of the distance education wing, MU announced postponement of all IDOL exams. However, close to 9,000 third-year BCom and BA students could not attempt their paper on three consecutive days due to “technical glitches”. The university finally blacklisted the previous service provider, LittleMORE Innovation Labs, and hired a new exam software company to conduct the exams. Similar instances were reported across state universities this year.Samant further highlighted that based on the report submitted by the fact-finding committee, it will also be decided whether such companies should be blacklisted by all state universities in the future. Meanwhile, all state universities have been asked to not only finish announcement of results by the second week of November but also to ensure that mark sheets are released by the end of November. In a meeting between Samant and vice-chancellors of al state universities on Friday, a decision was taken to form two separate expert committees — one to discuss the implementation of National Education Policy (NEP) and another to suggest amendments to the Maharashtra Public Universities Act (2016). “These committees will get to work immediately. They have been asked to submit their reports to the government within a month,” said Samant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-form-fact-finding-panel-to-look-into-online-exam-fiasco/story-54dKhwjU5Sd1T8aGX8Qs1H.html
25-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 7th straight day of fewer than 10,000 Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 6,417 Covid-19 cases, the seventh consecutive day of less than 10,000 infections, pushing the count to 1,638,961. A steady fall in active cases continued as it further reduced to 140,194, accounting for 8.55% of the total. The toll reached 43,152 as 137 casualties were reported in the past 24 hours, health officials said.Maharashtra continues to record a relatively lower number of Covid-19 cases for weeks, after last month’s single-day spike had gone up to a record 24,448. It can be further observed that the total number of cases recorded in the first week of October was 97,377, in the second week it fell to 73,900 and in the third week it further came down to 63,269 . The first three days of the fourth week have recorded 21,303 cases.But officials are concerned that cases may rise by November-end, considering festivals and people not following social-distancing norms strictly. “We are afraid of a repeat of the post-Ganesh festival, when the state faced a surge in cases. The same situation may come again post Diwali as three festivals — Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali — are going to be celebrated in a row. We also cannot see people taking coronavirus seriously and following social-distancing norms in markets and other public places. Hence, there is concern that cases are going to rise by the end of November,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.In terms of deaths, Maharashtra has the most deaths across states in the country. The state is still far from reaching its target of achieving a case fatality rate (CFR) of 1% as it is still at 2.63%. It also continues to be at second position after Punjab in the country. The CFR of Punjab was 3.15% (with 4,095 deaths) till Friday, according to information shared by the state medical education department.Mumbai continued to record highest cases in the state with 1,257 fresh infections on Saturday. Its case count reached 250,059. The number of active cases in the city increased to 17,977. The city’s toll also reached 10,059 after 50 casualties were reported.Pune city contributed the second-highest number of infections in the daily caseload as it recorded 336, taking its tally to 170,206.Nagpur city recorded 328 cases, third-highest number of infections, pushing its case count to 75,878.On Saturday, the state conducted 68,881 tests and its positivity rate for the day comes to 9.31%, against the overall positivity rate of 19.17%. The total tests conducted till date are 8,548,036.The number of recovered patients also reached 1,455,107 as 10,004 recoveries were recorded in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate was recorded at 88.78%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-7th-straight-day-of-fewer-than-10-000-covid-19-cases/story-HvLnS8ZLWp6Hm0HiT75KiO.html
25-10-2020||Delhi||How China managed to consistently reduce PM 2.5 concentrations in recent years||China did not figure among the ten countries with the highest per capita PM 2.5 exposure in the world, a ranking India topped, a reality that experts say reinforces the need for the latter to take concerted, ambitious actions that may be the only way to address a persistent problem that affects the lives hundreds of millions of people.The State of Global Air 2020 report released earlier this week shows that China is now among the top 30 countries for pollution exposure, but it still bears a huge health burden owing to demographic factors. China recorded 1.42 million premature deaths attributed to PM 2.5 exposure, compared to 980,000 in India in 2019, according to the report. Also Read | Six things govt did to control pollution, but how effective were they?Together, the two countries accounted for 58% of worldwide deaths attributed to PM2.5 pollution in 2019. But there is a significant improvement in China’s air quality in the past 5 to 7 years, which is being captured now by satellite images. The average annual PM 2.5 concentrations in China ranged from 45 to 75 micrograms per cubic metres in 2019 compared to 75 to over 85 micrograms per cubic metres in India.SOGA 2020 released by US-based Health Effects Institute and Global Burden of Disease project underlined that these improvements are mainly owing to meticulous enforcement of their five-year air pollution plan and targets. China implemented the first comprehensive five-year plan to improve air quality between 2013 and 2017 and subsequent plans have continued to address air pollution. Between 2010 and 2019, outdoor PM2.5 levels in China decreased by 30%, largely due to actions undertaken in the past 5 to 7 years, including a shift from coal to gas in residential and industrial sectors and a reduction in industrial emissions. “However, there are fears that the recent economic slowdown and related increases in coal-burning capacity will continue to pose challenges with respect to air pollution control,” it said.India released its National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) in January 2019. NCAP doesn’t have a legal mandate but aims to achieve a 20% to 30% reduction in PM 2.5 (respirable, pollution particles) concentrations over 2017 annual levels in over a hundred cities. A big concern with India also is that Covid-19 pandemic could slow down the implementation of various national level initiatives, including a complete switch to BS VI vehicle emission standards and compliance of thermal power plants to emission norms by installing pollution control equipment.Also Read | Delhi pollution: Plans on paper, and poison in the airCentre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA), a Finland based think tank which tracks China and India’s air pollution policies closely said that China’s environment ministry has already published draft air quality targets for this winter as air pollution started deteriorating in Beijing. Targets have been released for key control regions including Beijing, Tianjing and 26 surrounding cities; Yangtze Delta covering Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang and parts of Anhui and other areas. India or the polluted region of Indo Gangetic Plains doesn’t have similar annual targets yet.The backbone of China’s national action plan is a comprehensive monitoring network of approximately 1,500 air quality stations providing real-time data, said Sunil Dahiya, analyst at CREA, while adding that improving air quality and enforcing industrial emission standards is included in the performance evaluation of provincial and local government officials, which determines their career prospects.“We need to control emissions at source, which means shifting our mode of transport to more public transport and NMT (Non-Motorised Transport), installing efficient pollution control technology at coal based power plants, reducing emissions from industrial operations, and shifting our energy sources from polluting fuels of past to decentralised sources of energy which are more sustainable, cleaner and economical in the form of renewable energy,” said Dahiya, adding that these need to be paired with a strong enforcement strategy.“China’s annual PM2.5 average concentration was 47.7 micrograms per cubic metres in 2019. In the last few years, China has focused efforts on air pollution control. As a result, it has experienced a steady decline in exposure to outdoor fine particulate matter or PM2.5, a key measure of air pollution as well as use of solid fuels for cooking in households. However, recent reported increases in coal burning capacity have the potential to pose continuing challenges,” said Pallavi Pant, scientist at Health Effects Institute. Sagnik Dey, associate professor, IIT Delhi said “it’s impossible to reduce air pollution levels to WHO safety guidelines in a few years. It took the US 30 years to achieve that. But we have to be very focused and ambitious.”WHAT CHINA DOES RIGHT Michael Greenstone, Milton Friedman Professor in Economics at University of Chicago and Patrick Schwarz, pre-doctoral fellow at Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago documented in 2018 why China is winning the war on pollution in their analysis with the same title.· China released its National Action Plan on Air Pollution Prevention and Control, a document similar to NCAP in 2013.· In 2014, Premier Li Keqiang declared a “war against pollution” at the opening of China’s annual meeting of the National People’s Congress. · Using daily data from more than 200 monitors across the country from 2013 to 2017, Greenstone’s team found most populated areas recorded improvements in air quality, ranging from 21 to 42%.· If these reductions are sustained, the average Chinese citizen would see their life expectancy increase by 2.4 years relative to 2013, Greenstone said.· China invested about $270 billion in the plan with focus on the densely populated Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei area, Pearl and Yangtze River Delta regions, respectively.· Beijing, which had additionally set aside $120 billion to fight pollution had the target of reducing PM2.5 levels to below 60 micrograms per cubic metres, or a 34% decline from its 2013 levels.· The plan pledged to meet these goals by reducing dependency on coal, controlling vehicle emissions, increasing renewable energy generation, and increasing enforcement of emissions standards.India:• India has launched its National Clean Air Programme in 2019 which aims to achieve a 20% to 30% reduction in PM 2.5 (respirable, pollution particles) concentrations over 2017 annual levels in over a hundred cities• India introduced BS VI fuel emission standards skipping BS V norms altogether.• Most brick kilns in NCR states have switched low emission, high efficiency zig-zag technology• Delhi has implemented a graded response action plan (GRAP) which ensures various emergency measures are taken when air pollution levels breach a certain threshold in the Capital• India has introduced a number of other measures like subsidising LPG use under the Ujjwala scheme, promoting electric vehicles and various other city specific interventions• According to Central Pollution Control Board, in Delhi there is around 20% reduction in annual PM 2.5 concentrations from 2016 to 2019 and 25% reduction in PM 10 concentrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/how-china-managed-to-consistently-reduce-pm-2-5-concentrations-in-recent-years/story-dtWOaWt6JyMrHyJgCCxA4L.html
25-10-2020||Delhi||Unfortunate that MCDs not paying salaries even during festival time,say AAP; release funds, counters BJP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday said it is unfortunate that at a time when organisations and institutions are giving bonuses to their employees for the festive season, the municipal corporations are not even paying salaries to their employees.Addressing a media briefing, senior AAP leader in charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak raised the issue of non-payment of salaries to workers, doctors, and nurses at civic-body-run hospitals. He said a budget of Rs 18,000 crore has been allocated to the three municipal corporations, and had they efficiently used even 10% of that fund, they could have comfortably paid salaries of employees. “Instead of paying salaries, the BJP is playing politics. If the BJP cannot release the salaries of employees, then the party does not have the moral right to run the civic bodies. This month also marks the beginning of the festive season. Today (Saturday) is Ram Navami, tomorrow is Dussehra, followed by Valmiki Jayanti and, finally, Diwali (on November 14). For Hindus, these are some of the most important festivals,” he said. “Today, at a time when every Indian will be busy celebrating with families, thousands of employees of the BJP-ruled municipal corporations are still protesting to get their salaries. Doctors and nurses who had put their lives at stake to treat Covid patients in Delhi, have resorted to hunger strike to get their salaries. They have not been paid a remuneration for the past five to six months,” Pathak said. He said the BJP has been running the municipal corporations since the past 14 years and they have done nothing but looted the civic bodies, leaving them in such a state that they are unable to pay their employees. Responding to AAP’s allegations, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the Kejriwal government owed crores of rupees to the three municipal corporations. “But the Kejriwal government will never talk about those dues for want of which the MCDs are in financial distress. It is due to sheer political malice that the Delhi government has not released the entire funds allocated to the MCDs -- and whatever was given, was not given on time,” he said. “The Delhi government had to release stalled funds of about ₹18,000 crore by March 31, 2020, to all the three municipal corporations. Half of the current financial year 2020-21 has gone by, but even 25% of the total allocation had not been released,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/unfortunate-that-mcds-not-paying-salaries-even-during-festival-time-say-aap-release-funds-counters-bjp/story-LSlErEMkeyU48K8Na8kw1K.html
25-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Mundka, Alipur choke on severely bad air||The air quality of the city improved marginally on Saturday. But residents in two localities of Delhi — Mundka and Alipur — continued breathing toxic air, with the air in the region hovering in the ‘severe’ category for more than 38 hours.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings on Saturday showed that while the city’s overall air quality index improved to 345 from Friday’s 366, Mundka and Alipur — both of which were categorised as pollution ‘hotspots’ by CPCB in 2018 — have now been in the ‘severe’ zone for over 38 hours at a stretch. In Mundka, the average AQI on Saturday was 425, while in Alipur, the levels were measured at around 413 throughout the day. Hindustan Times visited these two severely polluted neighbourhoods of the city to find out the reasons behind the air emergency and if preventive actions promised by enforcement agencies were being implemented on the ground. Mundka Driving through NH-10, a thick cloud of dust envelops your vehicle as you approach the Mundka Metro station. On Saturday, dust on broken roads— that has not been swept for days — was seen flying around as high speed vehicles zoomed through the highway. Surendra Singh, a business owner on the Rohtak Road, said that the area is perpetually enveloped in dust during the day, while at night the emissions from waste burning, industries and construction takes over. “Every pollution source that you can possibly think of is active here. The roads have not been swept in weeks, which caused dust to be accumulated on the sides and as vehicles move, it flies around. If you go a little inside, there is some private construction work going on and the cement and the construction material is often kept in open, without any covers. I have made several complaints with the CPCB and the Delhi government. But instead of addressing the concerns,they sit on it and then close the complaint without taking any action,” Singh said. The service roads leading to Mundka metro station, are dotted by several tyre repair shops and open air eateries, which add to the already worsened air. Locals there claimed that after sundown daily, heaps of tyres are piled up on the road side and set ablaze. This emits thick black smoke into the air, making it difficult to even stand in the vicinity. The blaze and the smoke billowing from such fires can often be seen from several metres away, residents said. “Open burning is a major problem here. Not just these tyres, but people just dump garbage and once in about a week or two, these piles are set on fire. At night, once shops are closed you cannot stand here without getting choked,” said Majid Khan, a shop owner. On Saturday, the PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels in Mundka spiked to 372ug/m3—nearly six times above the acceptable limit of 60ug/m3. The PM 10 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometers) reached 788ug/m3, as against the standard of 100ug/m3. Contacted, the monitoring teams of Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) claimed that the winter segment of the Supreme Court-approved Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) is in force across the city and surveillance and action against polluting activities has increased. The focus, they said, is also on areas in the hotspot list, of which Mundka is a part. “We have been monitoring the pollution sources across the city, but our focus has been on the hotspots. Mundka is an industrial area . Apart from what we observe through patrolling, we also promptly respond to complaints received by residents,” a senior DPCC official said. The onus is also on the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, the primary enforcement agency responsible for checking open air burning, which residents claimed they have been lax in doing so far. Jai Prakash, north Delhi mayor, said that the municipal agency was doing its best with the resources available with them. “We are short of staff and money but that does not mean that we have stopped work. Our teams are working round the clock to ensure that water sprinkling is routinely happening in all the areas under our jurisdiction. Dust control measures are also being taken,” he said. Alipur In Alipur, a locality which shares its close proximity with Bhalswa landfill, vehicular emissions from trucks is the main culprit for the area’s toxic air. The Alipur main road is lined with truck yards. The poor maintenance of these commercial vehicles and the bad condition of the roads here, become a lethal combination in pushing the air quality into emergency levels every winter. N. Sudama, a truck dealer in Alipur, said that every day around 6,000-7,000 trucks move in and out of the area. He said that apart from the emissions from the tailpipe of the trucks, these trucks are mostly parked on unpaved yards and the constant movement leads to dust flying around. “We have no option because this is our business and there are no residential areas in the vicinity. But if the authorities help us improve facilities here, things can surely get better,” Sudama said. Pollution data shows that on Saturday, the PM 2.5 levels in Alipur had touched 405ug/m3, while the levels of PM10 had spiked to 737ug/m3. Right below the Alipur flyover, the road construction work by the Public Works Department (PWD), was also seen to be violating dust control norms. The uncovered fine particles from the mounds of construction material were clearly visible flying around. “We ensure that the entire area is regularly sprinkled with water. The material is not covered now but we usually cover it up,” said a supervisor at the site. Krishna Sharma, a worker at one of the yards on the stretch said, that vacant plots also become a hotspot for burning and dumping of construction rubble. “I work here and I have never seen any official stop anyone from dumping waste in these plots. The government must be working only in the New Delhi area and some posh neighbourhoods around it,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-mundka-alipur-choke-on-severely-bad-air/story-ddWsNFLGz7f9s24S7pnVWO.html
25-10-2020||Delhi||Six things govt did to control pollution, but how effective were they?||With Delhi facing an impending air crisis -- a glimpse of which the city got on Friday when the air quality plunged to ‘severe’ levels in at least 12 of the 35 pollution monitoring stations -- the Delhi government is scrambling to firefight the annual air problem. But it may be a case of “too little, too late”, say pollution experts. With the city’s air continuing to remain ‘very poor’ with a reading of 345 on the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)’s air quality index, the BJP and the Congress accused the AAP-led Delhi government of inaction. “We have asked the government to get the roads repaired, improve the public transport system and plan flyovers on congested road stretches,” said BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi Assembly. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary pointed out that even with a lot of work left to be done to control local sources of pollution, the AAP government is busy pinning the blame on neighbouring states for stubble burning. Also Read | Delhi pollution: Plans on paper, and poison in the air“Stubble burning is only a component; we also have vehicular emissions, industrial pollution, unchecked construction activities and open burning,” Chaudhury said. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment, said for concrete results, agencies have to work round the year. “Last moment measures will not work. Winter action is only firefighting,” she said. HT takes a look at six steps taken by the Delhi government to control pollution and their effectiveness.Transplantation policy Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, earlier this month, had announced the tree transplantation policy, aimed at increasing the green cover and keeping better checks on construction agencies. But this was met with criticism from experts, who said transplantation seldom ensures survival of trees. Bharati Chaturvedi, founder and director, Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group, said, “Which neighbourhood doesn’t need trees? The policy isn’t about saving trees, but the loss of several hundreds of trees from a neighbourhood.” ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign In a city where over 10 million vehicles are registered, vehicular emission control is crucial. Towards that end, the government launched the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign, to get motorists to turn off the ignition while idling at traffic signals. Over 2,500 volunteers have been deployed at over 100 traffic signals to make the campaign a success. Anti-dust campaign Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had announced stricter monitoring of construction sites across the city. All major sites, operating in an area over 2,000 sqm, were ordered to mandatorily install two antismog guns, for regular water sprinkling. Other measures such as covering the site by tin sheets and covering construction material with green covers have also been made mandatory. But dust still continues to fly thick, say experts. Bio decomposer The government, in early October, started spraying bio decomposer, developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), on crop stubble to turn it into manure. “Even though we do not have much farm land, we have still taken an initiative to spray the bio decomposer in rural pockets,” Rai had said. This again did not have the desired effect as a majority of farm fires happen outside Delhi. Smog tower The Delhi government had announced the setting up of smog towers in Connaught Place in 10 months. A smog tower sucks the polluted air, which is purified by the multiple layers of filters, before being recirculated. However, the effectiveness of such structures in open spaces has been questioned by experts. Electric Vehicle Policy The government’s electrical vehicle policy was notified in August offers subsidies on the purchase of electric vehicles. The government is encouraging citizens to move towards electric vehicles but it will many more months for the policy to evoke any results, said road transport experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/six-things-govt-did-to-control-pollution-but-how-effective-were-they/story-dHt7OqbCnKMAdAYE2Y5TzH.html
25-10-2020||World||China’s Communist Party to hold key conclave of its top leaders ahead of US polls||China’s ruling Communist Party will hold a key annual conclave of its top leaders on Monday, just days ahead of the US presidential polls, amid deepening political tensions between the world’s two largest economies and the Sino-India military standoff at eastern Ladakh.The fifth plenary session of the 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) will be held from October 26 to 29 in Beijing, according to an announcement by the CPC’s Politburo meeting presided over by President Xi Jinping.The Politburo discussed topics including a document on China’s 14th Five-Year Plan (FYP) and a longer-term vision for 2035, state-run CGTN-TV reported. The document, after being revised based on opinions raised at Monday’s meeting, will be submitted for deliberation at the fifth plenary session, the channel said.A set of regulations on the work of the CPC Central Committee was also reviewed at the meeting, state-run Xinhua news agency reported, without giving details.The party’s closed-door plenum consisting of about 204 full central committee members and 172 alternate members is held annually to review the policies of the party and the government.Xi, 67, who has emerged as the most powerful leader of the party after its founder Mao Zedong holding the posts of party’s General Secretary, head of the country’s military besides the Presidency with prospects of life long tenure in power, will deliver a report on the party’s work since the previous meeting in October last year.Observers say the significance of the top decision making bodies of the CPC since the advent of Xi to power in 2012 and currently in his second five-year term has declined as he firmly established his stamp of authority doing away with the past system of collective leadership.All CPC meetings, including the plenum, are held in tight secrecy and the proceedings of such meetings other than the official handouts were rarely publicised.The plenum meeting was delayed in October last year due to agitation against the Chinese government’s interference in Hong Kong, posing a major challenge to Xi’s leadership and his handling of the crisis in the former British colony.However, the CPC and the Chinese government pressed ahead by passing hugely controversial National Security Law this year amid massive opposition from people of Hong Kong and the international community, virtually taking over the security of the Special Administration Region for the first time since it was transferred to China by Britain in 1997. The move had accentuated the international adversity faced by China following the outbreak of the Covid-19 which after emerging in Wuhan in December last year has become the worst pandemic the world has seen in recent years with death toll crossing over a million.While the new security law worsened China-US ties, with President Donald Trump declaring a whole range of new political and economic measures downgrading the ties between the top two economies, it evoked strong reactions also from the UK and European countries. This year’s plenum is being held in the backdrop of major trade and economic crisis gripping China and the world as the Covid-19 pandemic continued to create havoc around the world, while China has stabilised the virus situation at home.It is also being held days before the US Presidential polls scheduled to take place on November 3. While China’s ties with the US deteriorated to historically low, a return of Trump was widely expected to result in far more stringent anti-China policy compared to his rival Joe Biden.The plenum is also being held amid the India-China military standoff at the eastern Ladakh with two militaries massing large number of troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-communist-party-to-hold-key-conclave-of-its-top-leaders-ahead-of-us-polls/story-1yT1tWSvouf98U9GMb11oK.html
25-10-2020||World||Pakistan’s PM Imran Khan accuses French prez Macron of ‘attacking Islam’||Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan accused French President Emmanuel Macron on Sunday of “attacking Islam”, after the European leader criticised Islamists and defended the publication of cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammed.Khan’s comments follow statements Macron made last week after a French teacher was beheaded near Paris after he had shown cartoons of the Prophet during a class he was leading on free speech.Macron said the teacher “was killed because Islamists want our future.”In a series of tweets, Khan said the remark would sow division. “This is a time when Pres Macron could have put healing touch & denied space to extremists rather than creating further polarisation & marginalisation that inevitably leads to radicalisation,” Khan wrote.“It is unfortunate that he has chosen to encourage Islamophobia by attacking Islam rather than the terrorists who carry out violence, be it Muslims, White Supremacists or Nazi ideologists.”Macron already sparked controversy earlier this month when he said “Islam is a religion that is in crisis all over the world”.The French teacher became the target of an online hate campaign over his choice of lesson material -- the same images that sparked a bloody assault by Islamist gunmen on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, the original publisher, in January 2015.Caricatures of Mohammed are forbidden by Islam.Blasphemy is an explosive issue in ultra-conservative Pakistan, where anyone deemed to have insulted Islam or Islamic figures can face the death penalty.“By attacking Islam, clearly without having any understanding of it, President Macron has attacked & hurt the sentiments of millions of Muslims in Europe & across the world,” Khan said.In an address to the United Nations last month, Khan, a populist leader who has been known to play to Pakistan’s hardline religious base, blasted Charlie Hebdo for re-publishing the cartoons, saying “wilful provocations” should be “universally outlawed”.Several Muslim countries have called for a boycott of French goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-s-pm-imran-khan-accuses-french-prez-macron-of-attacking-islam/story-l8i0l9FpBAqqhj69TiTa0N.html
25-10-2020||World||Covid-19: Vaccine storage issues could leave 3 billion people without access||The chain breaks here, in a tiny medical clinic in Burkina Faso that went nearly a year without a working refrigerator.From factory to syringe, the world’s most promising coronavirus vaccine candidates need non-stop sterile refrigeration to stay potent and safe. But despite enormous strides in equipping developing countries to maintain the vaccine “cold chain,” nearly 3 billion of the world’s 7.8 billion people live where temperature-controlled storage is insufficient for an immunization campaign to bring Covid-19 under control.The result: Poor people around the world who were among the hardest hit by the virus pandemic are also likely to be the last to recover from it.The vaccine cold chain hurdle is just the latest disparity of the pandemic weighted against the poor, who more often live and work in crowded conditions that allow the virus to spread, have little access to medical oxygen that is vital to Covid-19 treatment, and whose health systems lack labs, supplies or technicians to carry out large-scale testing.Maintaining the cold chain for coronavirus vaccines won’t be easy even in the richest of countries, especially when it comes to those that require ultracold temperatures of around minus 70 degrees Celsius (minus 94 F). Investment in infrastructure and cooling technology lags behind the high-speed leap that vaccine development has taken this year due to the virus.With the pandemic now in its eighth month, logistics experts warn that vast parts of the world lack the refrigeration to administer an effective vaccination program. This includes most of Central Asia, much of India and southeast Asia, Latin America except for the largest countries, and all but a tiny corner of Africa.The medical clinic outside Burkina Faso’s capital, a dirt-streaked building that serves a population of 11,000, is a microcosm of the obstacles.After its refrigerator broke last fall, the clinic could no longer keep vaccines against tetanus, yellow fever, tuberculosis and other common diseases on site, nurse Julienne Zoungrana said. Staff instead used motorbikes to fetch vials in insulated carriers from a hospital in Ouagadougou, making a 40-minute round-trip drive on a narrow road that varies between dirt, gravel and pavement.A mother of two who visits the Gampela clinic says she thinks a coronavirus inoculation program will be challenging in her part of the world. Adama Tapsoba, 24, walks four hours under scorching sun to get her baby his routine immunizations and often waits hours more to see a doctor. A week earlier, her 5-month-old son had missed a scheduled shot because Tapsoba’s daughter was sick and she could only bring one child on foot.“It will be hard to get a (Covid-19) vaccine,” Tapsoba said, bouncing her 5-month-old son on her lap outside the clinic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-storage-issues-could-leave-3-billion-people-without-access/story-vhGIqLPorDC8AI2Y3BRIjJ.html
25-10-2020||World||Top White House aide says United States not trying to control Covid-19 pandemic||A top aide of President Donald Trump on Sunday triggered a potentially devastating storm close to end of polling, saying the United States was not trying to control the Covid-19 pandemic.“We’re not going to control the pandemic,” Mark Meadows, chief of staff to the president, told CNN in an interview, adding, “because it is a contagious virus just like the flu.”Meadows said the administration’s strategy would be to “control the fact that we get vaccines therapeutics and other mitigation efforts.”With Covid-19 cases surging across the country in what is being called the third wave, Trump’s handling of the epidemic has cast doubt on his re-election chances. Joe Biden, his Democratic challenger, has made it his chief argument for electing him and denying the president a second term.More than 224,000 Americans had been killed and 8.5 million infected by the coronavirus till Sunday, according to the John Hopkins University tracker. And over 83,000 new infections were reported in the last 24 hours in a new surge that contradicts the president and his aides’ repeated claims that US was “rounding the corner”.Trump’s White House is facing fresh scrutiny of its own mitigation efforts that could not protect the president and has seen an increasing number of members of the staff contracting the virus — now members of Vice-President Mike Pence’s staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-white-house-aide-says-united-states-not-trying-to-control-covid-19-pandemic/story-ZHcqwxFgMqhs6uy0ZjjEfP.html
25-10-2020||World||PM Modi greets Ramkalawan on his historic win in presidential polls in Seychelles||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted Wavel Ramkalawan following his win in the presidential elections in Seychelles and said that India looks forward to strengthening the long-standing relationship between the two countries. The Prime Minister also congratulated the people of Seychelles for the conduct of free, fair and peaceful elections. “Felicitations to H.E. @wavelramkalawan on his historic win in the Presidential and Assembly elections in Seychelles. We look forward to a strengthening of the close and traditional relationship between India and Seychelles under his leadership,” Modi tweeted. “This is a victory for democracy, a common value that binds India and Seychelles,” he wrote.Felicitations to H.E. @wavelramkalawan on his historic win in the Presidential and Assembly elections in Seychelles. We look forward to a strengthening of the close and traditional relationship between India and Seychelles under his leadershipThe opposition has taken power in Seychelles for the first time since 1977 with incumbent President Danny Faure getting 43 per cent votes to 54 per cent of Wavel Ramkalawn . The campaign for the elections took place mostly through social media as large rallies were banned due to Covid- 19. The pandemic was a major issue in the election as it has affected the tourism-based economy of the country. “In this election, there are no losers, there are no winners- our country was given the opportunity as the ultimate winner,” Ramkalawan said after winning the presidential elections in his seventh attempt. The archipelago became independent from the British rule in 1976 and in the following year Danny Faure’s United Party seized power in a coup. In 1993, multi-party democracy was restored but the United Party still remained in power. Faure became the president only four years ago in 2016.The voting turnout was roughly 75 per cent in the nation of just under 100,000 people. The new president is expected to be sworn in on October 26. In June 2018, PM Modi had announced that India was extending $100 million credit to Seychelles for the development of its defence capabilities. Seychelles and India have worked very closely on defence cooperation as the island nation is India’s ally in the Indian Ocean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-modi-greets-ramkalawan-on-his-historic-win-in-presidential-polls-in-seychelles/story-3E51Y3KPRkcA9dRhy2WIfN.html
25-10-2020||World||Seychelles opposition wins Presidency for first time in 43 years||The Seychelles elected an opposition candidate as president for the first time since 1977, authorities announced on Sunday, and winner Wavel Ramkalawan reaffirmed a pledge to hike the minimum wage after Covid-19 stifled the tourism dependent economy. Ramkalawan, a former Anglican priest, defeated President Danny Faure after three decades of unsuccessful runs for the presidency of the East African nation, an Indian Ocean archipelago famed for its natural beauty and rare wildlife. Ramkalawan captured 54.9 per cent of the vote while Faure got 43.5 per cent in the vote held from Thursday through Saturday, the electoral commission announced.Ramkalawan promised to continue working with Faure, an unusually good-natured transfer of power for the nearby African continent where many rulers are eliminating term limits and cracking down on political opposition. “Mr Faure and I are good friends. And an election does not mean the end of one’s contribution to one’s motherland,” Ramkalawan said in his victory speech. “In this election, there were no losers, there were no winners. Our country was given the opportunity as the ultimate winner.”As he spoke, Faure sat close by, nodding his head. Back in 1977, power changed hands via a coup that led to 27 years of rule by Albert Rene, punctuated by several coup attempts including one in 1981 by South African backed mercenaries masquerading as vacationing rugby players. Faure’s United Seychelles party had been in power over the past 43 years but this was the first time he had faced voters himself. He was vice president when his predecessor resigned in 2016 after a constitutional amendment was passed limiting presidents to two terms.Faure’s chances may have been damaged by a severe economic downturn. Travel restrictions imposed due to the global Covid-19 pandemic mean the Seychelles economy is expected contract by 13.8 per cent this year, according to the International Monetary Fund(IMF).It is a stunning reversal of fragile progress since the government defaulted on its debt in 2008 and sought an IMF bailout.Both Ramkalawan, of the Linyon Demokratik Seselwa party, and another opposition candidate, Alain St Ange of the One Seychelles party, had promised voters they would raise the minimum wage.This week’s election was for both the presidency and parliament. Ramakalawan’s party will have 20 directly elected parliament seats and five nominated ones, while Faure’s party will have six directly elected members and four nominated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/seychelles-opposition-wins-presidency-for-first-time-in-43-years/story-zX8NP82jU42pVXN77LRPVP.html
25-10-2020||World||Afghan forces say they killed Al-Qaeda terrorist al-Masri||Afghan forces have killed Abu Muhsin al-Masri, a senior Al-Qaeda mastermind for the Indian subcontinent, the country’s National Directorate of Security said in an e-mailed statement.The special operation was carried out in the Andar district of Ghazni province in Afghanistan’s eastern region, according to the statement.Al-Masri, also known as Husam Abd-al-Rauf, is an Egyptian national who figured in the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s(FBI) list of most wanted terrorists. The US issued a federal arrest warrant in 2018 after he was charged with conspiracy to kill American nationals and providing material support and resources to foreign terrorist organizations, according to information on the FBI’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/afghan-forces-say-they-killed-al-qaeda-terrorist-al-masri/story-F6NT1A5rnDLrO3CwsrSLON.html
25-10-2020||World||Singapore to trial antigen rapid tests for migrant workers||Singapore is seeking to reduce the amount of time it takes to regularly check migrant workers for coronavirus infection by piloting the use of antigen rapid tests.For a period of four weeks, a group of 1,000 migrant workers will undergo antigen rapid testing every seven days, the Ministry of Manpower said in a statement Sunday. That’s in addition to the polymerase chain reaction test that they receive every 2 weeks. The new method potentially allows infected workers to be isolated more quickly, reducing the risk of the virus spreading to other residents in dormitories.Singapore is distributing contact trace tokens and bolstering the testing of workers after infections in dormitories exacerbated the outbreak earlier this year. Airports are also studying rapid antigen checks, which look for the presence of the virus’s proteins, making them quicker and cheaper but less accurate than established methods that detect its nucleic acids. The better known polymerase chain reaction tests have been regarded as the gold standard for Covid testing.Polymerase chain reaction tests, however, take a day to confirm results, while antigen rapid tests indicate if a person is positive within half an hour, the ministry said. It will evaluate the effectiveness of the trial and assess the suitability of including it into regular routine testing for workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-to-trial-antigen-rapid-tests-for-migrant-workers/story-FaDouKa7gJchu7kcufZSIP.html
25-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: What is fracking and why is it being discussed so much||In the third presidential debate that took place on Thursday, US President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden were at loggerheads once again on the issue of fracking. This is not the first time that fracking has been discussed in this election cycle.Here’s everything you need to know about the issue:What is fracking?Fracking is the technology that allows oil and gas to be extracted from shale rock using a specific technique called horizontal hydraulic fracturing in which drillers bore through thousands of feet of earth to reach the shale. Then the drill bits are turned horizontally deeper into the ground in search of oil and gas. After this, water is shot at the rock at a high speed and oil and gas molecules flow out of the cracks.How is fracking pertinent to US economy?Fracking has helped in the massive expansion of drilling and thereby in creating new jobs in the US economy. It has also helped the United States become the world’s largest oil and gas producer as well as an exporter.What is Biden’s and Trump’s stand on fracking?The debate on fracking is a decade long one as it is the central conversation point in the larger discourse around climate change. It is being discussed so much as it marks a policy difference between Biden and Trump. Biden has promised his ‘Build Back Better’ plan that focuses on renewable forms of energy and creating jobs through them and has called for a limited ban on fracking which means ending the use of federally controlled lands for fracking. On the other hand, President Trump rejects the concept of any ban and has held the idea that he is protecting the oil and coal jobs through his stand.Also Read: Trump deploys 2016 playbook, Biden expands 2020 battle groundWhy is fracking a voting issue in these elections? The issue is a way for Trump to capture working-class voters, who tend to vote for the Democratic Party. Through this, Trump is also aiming to show voters that his focus is entirely on the economy and jobs. Moreover, four swing states—Pennsylvania, Ohio, Colorado and New Mexico—are largely affected by the issue of fracking and Trump is trying to capture the votes here. Pennsylvania has 20 electoral votes; Ohio has 18; Colorado has nine and New Mexico has five electoral votes.Trump is also able to project Biden as bowing to the left extreme of the Democrats as the Green New Deal (‘Build Back Better’ plan is a reformed version of the deal) was initially proposed by Senator Bernie Sanders and supported by Alexandria Ocasio Cortez.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-what-is-fracking-and-why-is-it-being-discussed-so-much/story-zCdLQui1J3eVe1QLZtbj7M.html
25-10-2020||World||Brexit, Covid-19 and climate colluding to raise UK food prices||Supermarket prices in Britain could start increasing in coming months as food supplies get pummeled by a triple whammy of Brexit, Covid-19 and weather-struck harvests.The UK is just 10 weeks from leaving the European Union, yet there’s still no trade deal between the two sides. If the status quo persists, import taxes averaging 18% will be slapped on meat, produce and beverages coming from the bloc starting January 1. Both sides are aiming for zero tariffs, but there’s a chance they won’t succeed. Either way, logistical burdens will stack up as new checkpoint bureaucracies are created.Portions of those extra costs likely will make their way to consumers, putting some foods out of reach and exacerbating existing inequalities. The looming sticker shock dovetails with grocers trying to ward off stockpiling in the face of more Covid-19 lockdowns and domestic wheat output dropping near a four-decade low after a year of weather extremes.“We’re all very nervous,” said Simon Lane, owner of Fruco Plc, which imports about 100 truckloads of fruit and vegetables from the EU every month. “It’s a watch-this-space situation. One thing is for sure: no-deal will equal a bad deal for consumers.”The UK relies on foreign fare for about half the meals consumed domestically, and the deadline for a Brexit trade deal approaches during winter, when little is harvested from local fields. Talks between the two sides resumed Thursday, and Irish Prime Minister Micheal Martin said “momentum” is building toward a deal.The uncertainty leaves importers scouring tariff codes to calculate the potential hits to their business. Spanish-foods retailer Brindisa needs to decide whether to stockpile as much as 500,000 pounds ($645,000) of shelf-stable items, such as olives and tinned fish, to avoid disruptions for its customers. It also may start transporting goods by sea for the first time.“The UK can’t feed itself,” said Heath Blackford, managing director for Brindisa’s wholesale division. “If we don’t get a deal, we should all be expecting to pay more for our food.”Supply chains snarled by the down-to-the wire negotiations risk sparking food inflation at a time when job cuts are climbing by a record amount. With shops already operating on low margins, higher tariffs likely would ripple into higher consumer prices, said the Food and Drink Federation, with members ranging from cereal makers to soft-drink companies.A season of floods and drought also hurt growers. The paltry wheat crop means imports may double from the prior season as domestic values climb. Porridge maker Pimhill Farm raised prices about 6%, the first increase in seven years, after a May dry spell hampered oats output, and the Shropshire-based company is unsure how Brexit will affect costs for the imported nuts and raisins used in its longstanding muesli recipe, manager Ian Anderson said.“It’s the unknown that’s the worry,” he said.Shoppers in Britain spend a relatively low proportion of their income on food, and prices have been subdued in recent months. Still, the number of people in need has climbed as the coronavirus upends the economy. The Trussell Trust, which supports 1,200 food banks nationally, expects food-parcel demand to increase 61% in the fourth quarter from a year earlier.Nearly a third of children –- about 2.2 million – between the ages of 8 and 17 are enrolled in free school-meal programs this autumn, with 42% of them newly registered, as household income wanes, according to data from The Food Foundation charity.“We are terrified about the predictions there are around the number of people who are going to be struggling,” said Lindsay Boswell, chief executive officer of FareShare, a charity that reroutes surpluses from restaurants and retailers to UK charities and community groups. “Demand for food is going to soar at a time when the supply chain is going to be massively disrupted because of Brexit.”Even with a trade agreement, knock-on effects from logistical hangups or a declining currency could make it pricier to stock pantries. Extra paperwork, and animal and plant health certificates, required at the borders could lengthen transport times, and the chairman of Tesco Plc, Britain’s top supermarket chain, warned of fresh-food shortages if no deal is reached.Lane, owner of Crowborough-based Fruco, said trucks of nectarines and peaches can’t afford to get held up at the border because their shelf life fades quickly. The UK previously said it would grant a six-month grace period for customs checks, but since the EU hasn’t agreed to the same, trucks still could get snarled on that side of the border. Leaving the single market means food-price inflation “under any eventuality,” said Dylan Bradley, an agribusiness director for London-based IHS Markit.The uncertainty arrives at the same time Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government struggles to curb the escalating number of coronavirus infections. Wales is in a two-week lockdown, and the Greater Manchester area is under strict restrictions. Quarantine rules also limited the number of foreign workers that often staff meat plants, risking Christmas turkey supplies.While some have praised the food system’s resilience during the pandemic -- with stores quickly restocking after shortages when lockdowns began -- that was all during the UK’s time in the one market, said Tony Heron, professor of international political economy at the University of York. Removing that buffer just as Europe goes through another surge of infections will prove a tougher test.“It’s a very visible, tangible effect if prices start to shift or if certain produce becomes unavailable,” he said.Yet Harry Smit, a senior analyst at Rabobank in the Netherlands, said it’s unlikely the UK will levy tariffs on food imports because it’s so reliant on foreign fare, and tandem taxes imposed by the EU –- making British exports uncompetitive there – would create domestic surpluses of lamb, barley and other farm products.Plus, increasing commodity prices for food manufacturers don’t always lead to higher costs for consumers, said Sarah Baker, senior strategic insight manager at the Agriculture & Horticulture Development Board. For example, wheat only accounts for about a 10th of the cost of a loaf of bread.“If consumers are increasingly price conscious, you can see that everyone in the supply chain needs to take a bit of a knock,” she said.The current upheaval from politics, coronavirus and the climate is prompting some growers to make long-term preparations. Julian Gold invested in new grains storage at the farm he manages in South Oxfordshire so he could diversify his plantings and keep them ready for market over longer periods.The 750-hectare (1,853-acre) estate stopped raising sheep for the first time in his 28-year tenure in case a no-deal cuts off vital sales to the EU, and he plans to rent a small field to a fruit or vegetable grower as the pandemic fuels a buy-local boom.“We’re in a more volatile world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brexit-covid-19-and-climate-colluding-to-raise-uk-food-prices/story-xKCwaiyuaE85salijqDF5I.html
25-10-2020||World||Turkey extends geological exploration mission in Eastern Mediterranean until November 4||The Turkish research vessel Oruc Reis will conduct geological exploration of hydrocarbon deposits in disputed areas of Eastern Mediterranean until November 4, the Office of Navigation, Hydrography and Oceanography of the Turkish Naval Forces said on Sunday.Turkey issued a new international Navtex alert, according to which the Oruc Reis vessel will conduct research with the Ataman and Cengizhan vessels south of the Greek island of Kastelorizo.On October 11, Turkey announced that Oruc Reis will conduct research with the Ataman and Cengizhan vessels south of Kastelorizo from October 12 to 22. The mission was later extended until October 27. The Greek Foreign Ministry said that the area belongs to the Greek continental shelf and is located just 6.5 nautical miles from the coast of Kastelorizo.The territorial waters of the Greek islands in the Aegean Sea are defined at six nautical miles. Ankara said the vessel operates exclusively on the Turkish continental shelf 15 kilometers (9.3 miles) off the coast of Turkey and 425 kilometers (264 miles) off the coast of Greece.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-extends-geological-exploration-mission-in-eastern-mediterranean-until-november-4/story-TCN1rorHxDMHmnZMZ2D8uN.html
25-10-2020||World||Coronavirus is pummeling Europe’s eateries — and winter is coming||As the Friday night dinner service began earlier this month at the De Viering restaurant outside Brussels, it seemed the owners’ decision to move the operation into the spacious village church to comply with coronavirus rules was paying off. The reservation book was full and the kitchen was bustling.And then Belgium’s prime minister ordered cafes, bars and restaurants to close for at least a month in the face of surging infections.“It’s another shock, of course, because — yes, all the investments are made,” said chef Heidi Vanhasselt. She and her sommelier husband Christophe Claes had installed a kitchen and new toilets in the Saint Bernardus church in Heikruis, as well as committing to 10 months’ rent and pouring energy into creative solutions.Vanhasselt’s frustration is Europe’s as a resurgence of the virus is dealing a second blow to the continent’s restaurants, which already suffered under lockdowns in the spring. From Northern Ireland to the Netherlands, governments have shuttered eateries or severely curtailed how they operate.More than just jobs and revenue are at stake — restaurants lie at the heart of European life. Their closures are threatening the social fabric by shutting the places where neighbors mix, extended families gather and the seeds of new families are sown.A restaurant remains “a place where very special moments are celebrated,” said Griet Grassin of the Italian restaurant Tartufo on the outskirts of Brussels. “It’s not just the food, but it’s the well-being.”This time, the closures are particularly painful because they might stretch into the Christmas season, nixing everything from pre-holiday office drinks to a special meal on the day.When it comes to purely calories and vitamins, “of course we can live without restaurants,” said food historian professor Peter Scholliers.But, he asked: “We can live without being social? No, we can’t.”Successful restaurants have always had to adapt quickly — but never has there been a challenge like this.The European Union said the hotel and restaurant industry suffered a jaw-dropping 79.3% decline in production between February and April. Try bouncing back from that.Summer, with its drop in Covid-19 cases and a hesitant return to travel, brought some respite, especially in coastal resorts.But then came fall. Any giddiness that the fallout from the pandemic could somehow be contained faced the sobering reality of relentlessly rising coronavirus cases and hospitalizations. Overall, Covid-19 has killed over 250,000 people across Europe, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. Leaders are now warning that things will get worse before they get better.But many restaurant owners have bristled at the new restrictions and some are openly challenging them.In London last week, the preeminent chef Yotam Ottolenghi banged pots on the street to protest restrictions that include earlier closing times.“It’s really hard, we’ve got a great industry with lots of heart,” Ottolenghi said. “And there’s so many people who depend on it.”If the mood of any nation is set by its stomach, surely France’s is. And it is turning as sour as a rhubarb tartlet. The streets of Paris, the culinary capital of Lyon and several other French cities were eerily empty at night during the first week of a 9 p.m. curfew scheduled to last for at least a month.Xavier Denamur, who owns five Parisian cafes and bistros that employ around 70 workers, said the French government is unfairly punishing the industry.“It’s a catastrophic measure,” he said, arguing any curfew should be pushed to at least 11 pm to allow for a proper dinner service.In Italy, just such a late-night curfew went into effect in Milan — and even that triggered protests.Still, highlighting how the world is feeling its way in the near darkness, restaurant and food delivery business owner Matteo Lorenzon argued the opposite. “Having a curfew starting at 11 pm, it’s too late.”Already in September, more than 400,000 employees of restaurants and cafes in Italy, a nation of 60 million, were unemployed, according to an estimate by Fipe, the restaurant lobby group. Its prediction for the coming months was even more dire: “Hundreds of thousands of jobs risk being erased definitively.”In the Netherlands, which has one of the highest virus infection rates in Europe, more than 60 Dutch bars and restaurants sought to overturn a monthlong closure order but failed. Lawyer Simon van Zijll, representing the bars and restaurants, warned that the Dutch hospitality industry faces “a tidal wave of bankruptcies.”The first lockdown in the spring caught the owners of Tartufo, the restaurant on the outskirts of Brussels, off guard.This time, Grassin and her husband chef Kayes Ghourabi, were ready: They will ramp up their takeaway service and even offer their own gin with Mediterranean spices. Still, income will drop by about 70% to 80%.“We lose, but it helps the costs. The electricity, the insurance that keep on going, even in a lockdown,” she said.Across Europe, the stories are the same — of chefs thinking creatively, making something of a bad situation, showing resilience to save something they often built from scratch.“I have a son, and I always say to my husband, ‘the restaurant was our first child.’ And you want to fight for it,” Grassin said.Takeout is also a lifeline for Paolo Polli, who owned five bars and restaurants in Milan before closing four recently. His staff was cut from 60 to six. He said he made more money during the lockdown with his pizza-delivery service than when he reopened for regular service.Down south, a balmy fall offered some reprieve, allowing restaurants to serve on outside terraces.Despite this, in Portugal, the AHRESP restaurant association said restaurants lost more than half of their revenue. Now the chilly weather, stronger winds and rain are forcing everyone back indoors, where the virus spreads most easily.“It will be impossible,’‘ said Artur Veloso, who manages the Risca restaurant in Carcavelos. “Winter will bring more ruin.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-is-pummeling-europe-s-eateries-and-winter-is-coming/story-JSSIvVsgn9n7h6WZUXdYAL.html
25-10-2020||World||Pak opposition slams Imran Khan-led govt for failing to exit from FATF grey list||The opposition Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) slammed the Imran Khan-led government for its failure to remove Pakistan from the grey list of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).The Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) alleged that the FATF decision was the result of the “slipshod and obviously done in” law drafting and lack of homework, reported Dawn.Slamming the government over its failure, PPP parliamentary leader in the Senate Sherry Rehman said, “Why did they (the government functionaries) not get their homework done on time? The news from FATF insiders is that the law drafting is slipshod and obviously done in. Why did they not look at everything in a good time? They were too busy managing a constant anti-opposition narrative which seems to be their only task.”The FATF announced on Friday that Pakistan would continue to remain on its grey list for another four months till February 2021 for six out of 27 unmet action plan targets on AML/CFT, Dawn reported.Taking a jibe at the misgovernance and inefficiency of the present government, Rehman reminded them of the fact that the Paris-led organisation had removed Pakistan from the grey list earlier when terrorism was a bigger threat in the region.“It really is not rocket science. It’s been done before quite smoothly and could have been done again if only the government (functionaries) did not look and behave like the governance amateurs they are,” added Rehman.The FATF had placed Pakistan on the grey list in June 2018 due to ‘strategic deficiencies’ in its Anti Money Laundering/Countering the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) regime after a push from India supported by the US, the UK, and some other European countries. Pakistan then committed to a 27-point action plan but failed to meet deadlines. The global watchdog had asked the government to implement a plan of action by the end of 2019, which was later extended due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-opposition-slams-imran-khan-led-government-for-failing-to-exit-pakistan-from-fatf-grey-list/story-DVnOEeh8nJ8zW2KwHnmEXO.html
25-10-2020||World||US disease expert Fauci says Covid-19 vaccine verdict due by early December||US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said on Sunday it would be clear whether a Covid-19 vaccine was safe and effective by early December, but that more widespread vaccination would not be likely until later in 2021.“We will know whether a vaccine is safe and effective by the end of November, the beginning of December,” Fauci told the BBC.“When you talk about vaccinating a substantial proportion of the population, so that you can have a significant impact on the dynamics of the outbreak, that very likely will not be until the second or third quarter of the year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-disease-expert-fauci-says-vaccine-verdict-due-by-early-december/story-NGTmYhRJC0GSJ2RsCK60tO.html
25-10-2020||World||US elections 2020:Coronavirus poses a challenge to exit polls by media‘decision desks’||It has been a long tradition for US television networks to call projected winners on election night as results trickle in, but the unique circumstances of 2020 are likely to create numerous challenges to that practice.“Decision desks” set up by media outlets to project winners of each state, which will determine the presidential race, are gearing up for a complicated election night amid uncertain timing for counting of mail-in and absentee ballots and fears about premature claims of victory.In a campaign marked by the Covid-19 pandemic, the old methods of exit polls are less useful than in the past, says Costas Panagopoulos, chair of Political Science at Northeastern University and a member of the NBC News decision desk team.“With the rise in early voting, absentee and mail-in voting, it’s no longer the case that we can survey voters at the polling places and make accurate predictions,”Panagopoulos said.Some fear an early tally based on votes cast in person on election day may distort the outcome and prompt President Donald Trump to claim victory before absentee and mailed ballots are counted, opening up the potential for chaos.“It’s entirely possible there will be discrepancies across networks because each network has its own standards for how they reach projection decisions even though they are all using virtually the same data,” Panagopoulos said.CBS News said its decision desk will combine exit poll data and vote tallies with the network’s proprietary polling and surveys of some 100,000 people around the United States.Some analysts have warned of a “red mirage” which would show Trump ahead based on early vote counts, even if the absentee ballots counted later reverse the trend, a result which could prompt an outcry.“The contest will be won not only at the ballot box and in the courts but in the court of public opinion,”said a Guardian essay by more than 20 members of the American Political Scientists Association.“All media should adopt the strict standard that no state winner should be declared until the number of votes remaining to be counted has been certified to be less than the margin between the two major party candidates.”A newly formed National Task Force on Election Crises has called on media organizations and the National Election Pool which gathers data for the outlets to use extra caution for projections on November 3.“This presidential election will be like no other in our history,” said a letter from the task force which includes academics, former elected officials, and activists to media organizations.The coalition said that as many as 70 percent of all ballots cast may be by mail or other absentee methods, and that the tallying will depend on different rules for each of the 50 states.“It could take days or weeks to complete an accurate count of all votes,” the letter said.“This period of uncertainty will add further pressure to an already strained system and allow bad actors to attempt to undermine our democratic process.”The different processing times in various states could lead to uncertainty, according to Joe Lenski, Chief Executive of Edison Research, which provides exit polls and vote count data to the National Election Pool.“Some states don’t even allow the by mail ballots to be opened until election day, Lenski said. “So we’re expecting those states based upon what we saw on the primaries to take a lot longer processing and report their by mail ballots. In some cases it could be days or weeks.”While a handful of media outlets will be making calls, one being closely watched is Fox News, a favorite of Trump and Republicans.Fox said in a statement that it will be collecting data and making projections without bias.“The integrity of our decision desk is rock solid,” a Fox statement said.“We will call this presidential election carefully and accurately, relying on data and numbers.”Fox decision desk chief Arnon Mishkin told a recent podcast on the network that making calls will be complicated by the new voting patterns but touted a new tool “that is actually optimal for measuring how people are voting in an election where over 60 percent of the people are not going to be exiting poll on election day.”Despite the fears, a Pew Research Centre survey found 82 percent of US adults have confidence their main news sources will make the right call, with slightly more confidence among Democrat Joe Biden’s supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-coronavirus-poses-a-challenge-to-exit-polls-by-media-decision-desks/story-RAlpI3f0YXY2LtM3HXkQNO.html
25-10-2020||World||Philippines evacuates nearly 1,800 as tropical storm Molave approaches||The Philippines evacuated nearly 1,800 people and suspended sea travel as tropical storm Molave was expected to bring widespread rains over two regions on the southern part of the main island of Luzon on Sunday.Tropical cyclone wind alerts were issued for several provinces in the Bicol and Calabarzon regions with storm Molave expected to make landfall later in the day while traversing the southern Luzon area, the national weather bureau said.“Further intensification prior to landfall over Bicol region remains likely,” it warned in a bulletin.Molave follows tropical storm Saudel, which last week caused widespread flooding in Quezon province in the Calabarzon region, southeast of the capital Manila.After crossing the Philippine archipelago, Molave was expected to continue intensifying over the South China Sea, possibly reaching typhoon category by Tuesday evening, it said.Sea travel operations were cancelled in the Calabarzon region, with 662 people reportedly stranded at ports due to strong winds, according to the disaster monitoring agency.In the Bicol provinces, a total of 532 families, or 1,789 people, were preemptively evacuated to temporary shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-evacuates-nearly-1-800-as-tropical-storm-molave-approaches/story-VMk68Evedj4EHatP2L0i8K.html
25-10-2020||World||Aman Singh becomes first turbaned Sikh to be elected to British Columbia assembly||Despite having elected Harjit Sajjan to the House of Commons leading to him becoming Canada’s defence minister, the province of British Columbia had never elected a turbaned Sikh to its own legislative assembly. That changed on Saturday night, with human rights lawyer Aman Singh making history as he was projected to win the riding (as constituencies are called in Canada) of Richmond-Queensborough.Singh, who was born in Hong Kong, came close to attaining the feat of being elected an MLA in 2017, but lost by just 134 votes to Jas Johal of the Liberal Party. The latter is also Sikh but does not wear a turban. In fact, the province has even had a Sikh premier (equivalent of chief minister in India) in Ujjal Dosanjh, but he also did not sport a turban.Singh was projected to win with about 47% of the vote and with a margin of less than 600 ballots. The snap elections were called by BC Premier John Horgan, the leader of the New Democratic Party (NDP) provincial government, as he sought to turn a minority into a majority. He succeeded in that objective as the NDP captured 55 seats, a gain of 14, while the Liberals lost 12 to total 29 seats. The legislature has a strength of 87 members.The outgoing government had two ministers of Sikh heritage in Jinny Sims and Harry Bains, both of whom were also re-elected. Overall, eight MLAs of Indian-origin were elected to the assembly this time, as against seven previously. Among other prominent winners was Nikki Sharma, a Hindu with roots in Punjab, who emerged victorious from the riding of Vancouver-Hastings and Ravi Kahlon from Delta North, who was a Parliamentary Secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aman-singh-becomes-first-turbaned-sikh-to-be-elected-to-british-columbia-assembly/story-nPdVVFjEVVEE3dZZgxuQyN.html
25-10-2020||World||Sri Lanka imposes new curfew zones to check Covid-19 spread||Authorities in Sri Lanka increased the coronavirus-related curfew zones to 56 police divisions on Sunday, to check the virus spread through community-level transmission.So far, the island nation has reported 7,521 Covid-19 cases. The virus death toll rose to 15 on Saturday after a 56-year-old heart patient died in the North Western Province due to coronavirus complication.“There are 56 police divisions which have been placed under police curfew and violators would be strictly dealt with,” Police Spokesman Ajith Rohana said on Sunday.Rohana added that people’s movement in these areas will be monitored.The new curfew zones are mostly from capital district Colombo and eastern district Batticaloa.The Colombo municipality area has seen sharp rise in infections, Chief City Medical Officer Dr Ruwan Wijemuni said. Colombo city has reported 548 cases in the last four days.Sri Lanka reported 743 cases on Saturday, along with its 15th Covid-19 death.The country has reported 4,050 cases since October 4 from just two clusters -- a garment export factory in Minuwangoda, Western Province and a wholesale fish market in Peliyagoda, a suburban area of Colombo.Dr Wijemuni said the fish market cluster was more dangerous with too many secondary and tertiary contacts.Of the total 7,521 Covid-19 cases reported till now, 3,714 have been discharged from hospitals after complete recovery. Health authorities said investigation is currently underway to establish whether the export factory or the fish market is the originating point of the second wave since October 4.Authorities have ruled out a blanket lockdown due to the strain on the economy.Meanwhile, Health minister Pavithra Wanniarachchi has said that the World Health Organisation has asked the government to be prepared for the distribution of vaccine depending on successful clinical trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-imposes-new-curfew-zones-to-check-covid-19-spread/story-HSeyWJCwvbyHwSzjqzUpfK.html
25-10-2020||World||Nigerian police mobilise to quell worst unrest in two decades||Nigeria’s police chief ordered the immediate mobilisation of all force resources on Saturday to try to control the worst street violence in Africa’s most populous country in two decades, stemming from protests against police brutality.The unrest, unprecedented since the 1999 return to civilian rule, is the most serious political crisis confronting President Muhammadu Buhari, a former military ruler elected in 2015. Curfews have been imposed on millions of people in recent days in response to violence and looting in parts of the country.Violence, particularly in the commercial capital Lagos, escalated after demonstrators were shot on Tuesday night in the city’s Lekki district during a round-the-clock curfew. Witnesses blamed soldiers. Rights group Amnesty International said soldiers and police had killed at least 12 protesters in two districts, though the army and police denied any involvement.Several states, mostly in southern Nigeria, have imposed curfews after two weeks of confrontations between protesters and members of the security services. As pockets of unrest flared again on Saturday in parts of the country, a spokesman for southern Cross River state said several buildings had been vandalised over the last two days including a shopping mall, a bank and electoral offices. A round-the-clock curfew was reimposed on parts of the central city of Jos, just a day after it was relaxed on Friday, following the looting of emergency food supplies stored there by the disasters ministry, authorities said.“This looting has spread to other facilities and is gradually degenerating thereby threatening the peace and security of the state,” the governor of Plateau state, Simon Lalong, said in a statement. And a round-the-clock curfew was imposed in the northern state of Kaduna on Saturday. The move was to “protect lives and property and contain criminal elements”, state security commissioner Samuel Aruwan said in a statement. The Nigeria Police Force said its inspector general Mohammed Adamu had ordered the immediate deployment of all assets and resources to end violence, looting and destruction of property by criminals masquerading as protesters.“The IGP enjoins law-abiding citizens not to panic but rather join forces with the police and other members of the law enforcement community to protect their communities from the criminal elements,” the force said in a statement.During a call on Friday between Buhari and former Nigerian presidents, the head of state said 51 civilian fatalities and 37 injuries had been recorded as a result of “hooliganism” in recent weeks, according to a statement released on Saturday. Unrest escalated in parts of Nigeria after the shooting of the protesters who gathered in Lagos on Tuesday night in defiance of a curfew to demonstrate against police brutality. Olusegun Samuel, the guardian of one protester who was shot at that demonstration, said on Saturday that the 24-year-old may have his right leg amputated due to a severe wound.“It is a very painful issue; very, very painful issue. A young boy of his age,” said Samuel, speaking at a Lagos hospital.David Ivwrogbo was working as a truck driver at a railway construction site when the curfew was announced on Tuesday. He said he was not part of the protest, and was trying to reach home when he was also shot in the leg. He said he was dragged to safety by demonstrators.“The youths are awake and they don’t want to go back to sleep,” he said, referring to frustrated young people who have taken to Nigeria’s streets in the wake of the campaign against police brutality. Lagos state eased curfew restrictions on Saturday to 6 p.m.-8 a.m. Workers took to streets to sweep away broken glass while cars again filled the roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nigerian-police-mobilise-to-quell-worst-unrest-in-two-decades/story-TfEpUDGkvRppOoUAompnaN.html
25-10-2020||World||Joe Biden, Donald Trump rallies show sharp contrast as coronavirus surges again||President Donald Trump and his Democratic rival Joe Biden gave starkly contrasting messages on Saturday about the coronavirus pandemic, taking their campaigns for the White House on the road as Covid-19 cases surged again.Trump addressed a few thousand supporters at a tightly packed, in-person, outdoor rally in North Carolina, one of the battleground states in the Nov. 3 election. He again said America was turning the corner in the fight against Covid-19 and mocked Biden’s more cautious campaigning style. Biden, a former vice president, addressed supporters in about 130 vehicles at a drive-in rally in the swing state of Pennsylvania and warned of a grim winter ahead unless the Trump administration did a better job of halting the disease, which has killed 224,000 Americans. Opinion polls show Biden leading Trump nationally, but the race is much closer in the battleground states that will decide the election. Trump was headed to large rallies in two more of those states, Ohio and Wisconsin, later on Saturday. In Lumberton, North Carolina, he told supporters he was offering a fast recovery from the economic damage wrought by virus lockdowns, which have devastated small businesses and put millions out of work.“It’s a choice between a Trump super boom and a Biden lockdown,” the Republican president said. “We are rounding the turn,” he said, repeating a claim he has been making for months that America is close to getting the better of the virus.By contrast, Biden warned that the cold months ahead could be even harsher due to a resurgence of the virus, which has killed more people in the United States than anywhere else and is on the rise in several battleground states. “It’s going to be a dark winter ahead unless we change our ways,” he said of Trump’s attempts to contain the coronavirus.Biden was addressing supporters in the town of Bristol who had gathered in pickup trucks or cars, many with their windows or sunroofs down, to avoid possible coronavirus infection. Biden’s campaign limited each vehicle to a maximum of four passengers.At one point, Biden called out a group of Trump supporters who were shouting into microphones nearby. “We don’t do things like those chumps out there with the microphone are doing. The Trump guys. It’s about decency.”At his event in Lumberton, Trump made fun of the Biden rally, which he said he had seen on television.“There were so few cars. I’ve never seen an audience like that,” he said. “It was a tiny, tiny little crowd. You could hear the cars: honk honk.”The United States set a single-day record of more than 84,000 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, with the spike in infections hitting election swing states Ohio, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. North Carolina reported 2,584 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, down from a record high of 2,716 the day before. Many states have expanded in-person early voting and mail-in ballots as a safer way to vote during the pandemic. Trump voted in his adopted home of Florida on Saturday, joining more than 56 million Americans who have cast early ballots at a record-setting pace.Trump cast his ballot at a library in West Palm Beach, near his Mar-a-Lago resort, after switching his permanent residence and voter registration last year from New York to Florida, a must-win battleground for his re-election bid.“I voted for a guy named Trump,” he told reporters after voting.With 10 days to go in the campaign, the pace of early voting could lead to the highest voter turnout rate in more than a century, according to data from the US Elections Project.Trump has regularly condemned mail-in voting without evidence as prone to fraud, even though experts say it is as safe as any other method. The large number of early voters is a sign of the intense interest in this year’s election, as well as concerns about avoiding crowded polling places on Election Day and reducing the risk of exposure to the coronavirus.In New York state, voters jammed polling places and stood in line for hours to cast ballots on the state’s first day of early voting on Saturday. Long lines formed before polls opened across New York City and Long Island, videos on social media showed.In Pennsylvania, polls show Biden narrowly leading. A Reuters/Ipsos survey released earlier this week showed Biden with a four per cent point advantage over Trump in the state, down from seven points the week before.Biden got some help again on Saturday from former President Barack Obama, who held a drive-in rally in Miami. Obama, still popular in the party nearly four years after leaving office, delivered a blistering attack on Trump’s leadership “He hasn’t shown any interest in doing the work or helping anybody except himself and his friends or treating the Presidency like a reality show to give himself more attention,” Obama said. “The rest of us have to live with the consequences of what he’s done. At least 220,000 Americans are dead.” About 200 cars, many decorated with American flags and Biden signs, crept past temperature checks and bomb sniffing dogs on the way to the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-donald-trump-rallies-show-sharp-contrast-as-coronavirus-surges-again/story-fTn53s5WSY0WDN38yWhArJ.html
25-10-2020||World||Donald Trump had offered me post of Secretary of State: Nikki Haley||Popular Indian-American Republican politician Nikki Haley on Saturday revealed that Donald Trump, soon after winning the November 2016 US presidential election, had offered her the position of Secretary of State which she politely refused.However, 48-year-old Haley, who at that time was the South Carolina Governor, said she could not refuse the second offer of the post of US Ambassador to the United Nations as Trump had met all the conditions she had set for accepting the position.Haley is now campaigning in support of Trump’s re-election bid.“There is a stark contrast” between President Trump and his Democratic challenger Joe Biden, she said at a fireside chat event organised by the Indian Voices for Trump in the battleground state of Philadelphia.“There is a lot at stake with this election,” she said.Responding to a question from Dr Merlynn Carson, co-chair of Indian Voices for Trump, Haley, for the first time, revealed that Trump, soon after winning the November 2016 presidential elections, offered her the position of Secretary of State,and sent a plane to fly her to New York.However, Haley said, she politely refused the offer, noting that she was not the right fit for the post as she had no experience in that. Days later, after she returned from New York, Trump through his Chief of Staff offered her the position of US Ambassador to the United Nations.Responding to the offer, she set three conditions -- the position should be of Cabinet rank, the envoy should be a member of the national security council and that she will not be a ‘yes woman’. To all the conditions, Trump’s response was “Done. What next?”, leaving her with no option but to accept the position, she recalled.Responding to a question, Haley said Trump has stopped giving aids to countries like Pakistan, which harbour terrorists.“The relationship (of US) with India (under Trump administration) has never been stronger,” she said, adding that President Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi get along very well.  Under Trump administration, the US is partnering with India on various issues, including defence, Haley said. In the aftermath of the coronavirus, there is a far greater need to collaborate between India and the US, she added, referring to the increased co-operation between India and US along with Japan and Australia. China, she said, is the number one national security threat to the US President Trump has “put China on notice,” Haley told the audience.Trump is “not very much a politician”, “what you see, what he is”, she said when asked about the president. She referred to a conversation that she had with Trump, before he was scheduled a deliver an address at the United Nations and asked her opinion on calling the North Korean leader as the “Rocket Man”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-had-offered-me-post-of-secretary-of-state-nikki-haley/story-ZAHnSTQCoIq1pbt5tO1SYN.html
25-10-2020||World||Mike Pence adviser Marty Obst caught Covid-19, adding to White House outbreak||One of Vice President Mike Pence’s closest political advisers, Marty Obst, tested positive for coronavirus infection this week, according to three people familiar with the matter, adding to the number of cases in and around the White House.It wasn’t immediately clear if Obst developed symptoms of Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus.Obst tested positive on Wednesday, two of the people said. He was quiet on Twitter that day, with just one retweet, but has since been active on the social media platform, posting criticism of Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden.While he’s not a government employee, Obst is frequently in contact with Pence and his staff and visits the White House grounds.Obst and spokespeople for Pence didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.The coronavirus has swept the White House since September, infecting President Donald Trump, his wife and youngest son, and a number of top aides, including his campaign manager, his press secretary, and the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee.The outbreak has served as a punctuation mark on Trump’s handling of the pandemic, which polls show has been widely panned by voters.Pence’s press secretary Katie Miller contracted Covid-19 in May. Pence himself has so far escaped infection.The virus has infected about 8.6 million Americans so far and more than 225,000 have died. The US is in the midst of yet another surge of infections, with new cases exceeding 83,000 on Friday, a record.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pence-adviser-marty-obst-caught-covid-19-adding-to-white-house-outbreak/story-rZV4H02PrWpq54IqWG6DrK.html
25-10-2020||World||Indus valley had dairy production way back in 3rd millennium BCE||Dairy production in India began as far back as in the 3rd millennium BCE and may have been a factor behind sustaining the Indus Valley Civilisation, according to findings from a team of Canadian and Indian researchers.The study, published in the journal Nature, was led by Kalyan Sekhar Chakraborty, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Toronto Mississauga, and dates dairy production to 2500 BCE. “This is the first time it’s been proved scientifically that dairy production was in place in the Indus Valley civilization in 2500 BCE, and the earliest known evidence of dairy production,” Chakraborty said in an interview.The results were based on molecular chemical analysis of residue in shards of pottery found at the archaeological site of Kotada Bhadli, a rural settlement located in Gujarat. Of the 59 samples studied, 22 showed the presence of dairy lipids. Through a process called stable isotope analysis, the researchers were also able to identify the type of ruminant used for dairy, and concluded that these were cattle, like cows and buffalo, rather than goats and sheep.The availability of dairy production may have helped sustain such ancient societies, as Chakraborty explained, “This would have allowed the accumulation of a surplus of animal protein, without affecting the number of animals in your herd.” He said the level of production meant that this was “definitely beyond household consumption.”Chakraborty is with the Department of Anthropology at the university, and the study also involved Prof Heather Miller of the same department and Prof Greg Slater of the School of Geography and Earth Sciences at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario. The Indian participants in the research were Prof Prabodh Shirvalkar of the Department of Ancient Indian History and Culture and Archeology at Deccan College Postgraduate and Research Institute in Pune, who excavated the archaeological settlement, provided the samples, site photographs, and background information of the region, and Yadubirsingh Rawat of the State Department of Archeology and Museum in Gandhinagar, Gujarat.Chakraborty pointed out such research was complex because it was simpler to identify animals used for meat from cut marks on their bones, but “uses like dairy are generally invisible.” This was the first time such scientific analysis was used in India for this purpose. The type of vessels used pointed to the milk being processed rather than being used raw.Chakraborty’s interest in this project started in 2010 as he started excavating this rural site and became interested in applying chemistry to archaeology, especially since food habits were “embedded” in such material.He now intends to take the research forward, in this case further back into time to analyse even older remnants from Indus Valley settlements, potentially as far back as when animals were first domesticated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indus-valley-had-dairy-production-way-back-in-3rd-millennium-bce/story-5UZmi5tbyAyukYUsnn25mL.html
25-10-2020||World||Trump deploys 2016 playbook, Biden expands 2020 battle ground||President Donald Trump appears to have gone back to the 2016 playbook for the final nine days of the 2020 race for White House, hoping to pull off a similar win, with not much help from polls or pundits.Democratic nominee Joe Biden, on the other hand, has kept the focus on the present and is seeking to expand the battleground states. He will be addressing two rallies in Georgia, a solidly Republican state, his campaign announced on Saturday. Earlier in the day, Biden and his former boss Barack Obama hammered Trump at separate rallies on his failure to contain Covid-19.“There’s something going on. It happened this time four years ago. This time more,” President Trump told supporters at a rally on Saturday in Ohio, a battleground state he had won easily in 2016 but now leads Biden by a precariously thin margin of 1.5 percentage points in the FiveThirtyEight weighted average of polls.Trump has begun portraying himself, starting with the last debate, as an outsider, and has striven to paint Biden as a corrupt politician just as he did with his 2016 rival Hillary Clinton, and indulgently watched his supporters chant “Lock him up,” a 2020 version of “Lock her up”.Trump campaign manager Bill Stepien told The Washington Post, which first reported Trump’s back-to-2016 strategy, “There are striking similarities to the president’s campaign in 2016 — a tight race, an enthusiasm advantage and clear momentum down the stretch for Donald Trump.”Trump had indeed trailed Clinton in polls at this stage in 2016 by similar margins — by 6.1 percentage points (43.2-49.4) in the FiveThirtyEight average on October 24, 2016. Four years since, Trump trails Biden by 9.1 percentage points (32.8-51.9). Not exactly the same, but not too far apart either.There are crucial differences though between the 2016 and 2020 races: Trump is the president, for one, with a record to defend or flaunt, and not just a candidate; both he and Clinton had high unfavourable ratings in 2016, but this time, there is a huge gap — Biden is seen far more favourably than both Trump and Clinton (compared to her ratings then). Biden, meantime, is seeking to expand his advantage by taking the battle into Republican territory: Georgia, where he will address two rallies on Tuesday, hoping to flip a solidly conservative state that has not voted Democratic in presidential elections since 1992. Citing previous day’s number of Covid-19 infections, the former vice-president said, “Yet at the debate on Thursday night, Donald Trump was still saying, ‘we’re rounding the corner… it’s going away … we’re learning to live with it’.”He added, recounting his own remarks from the debate, “But as I told him, we’re not learning to live with it. We’re learning to die with it, and there is a dark winter ahead.”Obama was scathing in his remarks on his successor. “Eight months into this pandemic, new cases are breaking records,” he said. “Donald Trump isn’t suddenly going to protect all of us. He can’t even take the basic steps to protect himself.”That was a reference to Trump’s own bout with Covid-19. The president has since recovered and resumed campaigning energetically, addressing multiple rallies every day. But White House staffers have continued to test positive for the deadly virus, with new reports adding vice-president Mike Pence’s chief of staff and a political adviser to the growing list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-deploys-2016-playbook-biden-expands-2020-battle-ground/story-FYwK6J9OnDoiBX3Cl00vXO.html
25-10-2020||World||Mexico’s legendary masked wrestlers seek new ways to keep fighting||Mexico’s famed masked wrestlers are trying to get their coronavirus-hit sport off the canvas by taking their colorful fights to a small island nestled in the heart of Mexico City’s popular Xochimilco canals.With sporting events largely banned and the pandemic showing no signs of easing off, performers behind Mexico’s free-style wrestling, known as Lucha Libre, are seeking innovative ways to make a living out of their craft.Lucha Libre is one of Mexico’s most popular sports and a tourist magnet, featuring masked fighters who capture the public’s imagination with their mysterious identities and eccentric performances.A group of Lucha Libre fighters and promoters are planning to fuse two tourist crowd-pullers by holding fights on a small island in the network of waterways and man-made islands on the famed Lake Xochimilco. After erecting a ring on the island, promoters plan to allow fans to watch the fights from boats if they pay a little extra for their ride, starting from next Friday, “You will be able to enjoy real quality wrestling,” said Ciclope, a fighter and promoter of the concept. The small Xochimilco islands, known as chinampas, and their waterways feature on the Unesco World Heritage list. Visitors tour the area on boats, often accompanied by mariachi singers. “Well, with the pandemic, one has to take the positive side out of the negative things,” added Ciclope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-s-legendary-masked-wrestlers-seek-new-ways-to-keep-fighting/story-9Q4MKEg0Eg48RRxFCb6AgK.html
25-10-2020||World||VP Mike Pence tested negative for Covid-19 after top aide tested positive||Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, has tested positive for coronavirus along with at least one other key adviser, raising the prospect of another outbreak within the White House less than two weeks before the election.Pence has tested negative and will continue to campaign for President Donald Trump’s re-election, according to a statement from the vice president’s office announcing Short’s diagnosis. It said Pence was considered “essential personnel” under Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines.Short is Pence’s top aide, a constant presence at his side who frequently acts as a spokesman for the vice president. In the statement, Pence’s office acknowledged that he’s considered a close contact of Short under infection tracing procedures.Pence traveled to Florida to deliver a campaign speech in Tallahassee on Saturday evening after learning of Short’s diagnosis, according to people familiar with the matter. Short, who tested positive earlier in the day, did not accompany him.Pence is scheduled to campaign on Sunday in Kinston, North Carolina.Earlier Saturday, Bloomberg News reported that one of Pence’s closest political advisers, Marty Obst, had tested positive on Wednesday, adding further to the cases in and around the White House.Coronavirus has swept through the White House since September, infecting President Donald Trump, his wife and youngest son, and a number of top aides, including his campaign manager, his press secretary, and the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee. The outbreak has served as a punctuation mark on Trump’s handling of the pandemic, which polls show has been widely panned by voters.The US is experiencing yet another surge of infections, with new cases exceeding 83,000 on Friday, a record. About 8.6 million Americans have contracted the virus so far and more than 225,000 have died.The infections of Short and Obst -- as well as Pence’s exposure -- risk overshadowing the closing week of Trump’s re-election campaign. Trump has repeatedly said in recent days that the country is turning a corner on the pandemic, even with a spike in infections.“The bottom line is we have to be vigilant, we have to be careful, we have to be everything, but we also have to get our lives back,” the president said on Saturday at a rally in Waukesha, Wisconsin. “We have to take our country back. It’s going away, it’s rounding the turn.”Both Obst and Short have developed minor symptoms of Covid-19, the disease caused by the virus, according to people familiar with the matter.Obst is not a government employee, but is frequently in contact with Pence and his staff and often visits the White House grounds. He was last around Pence about a week ago but wasn’t in close proximity to the vice president, two of the people said.Obst was quiet on Twitter the day of his diagnosis, with just one retweet, but has since been active on the social media platform, posting criticism of Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden.Short and Obst declined to comment.Another Trump ally, former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, was hospitalized with Covid-19 after helping the president prepare for his first debate with Biden last month. Since recovering, Christie has issued a public mea culpa, declaring he was wrong not to wear a mask at the White House and urging Americans to follow the guidance of public health authorities.Trump has seldom worn a mask before or after his illness and discourages it among his aides and people around him. The president wore a mask on Saturday when he voted in Florida.Pence, after avoiding the West Wing during the outbreak that sickened the president, was in the building this week.On Saturday, the vice president was photographed wearing a mask as he walked from Marine Two and boarded Air Force Two in Washington. He didn’t wear a mask during events in Lakeland or Tallahassee but was alone on stage, at a distance from other people. US Secret Service agents around him wore masks.The CDC recommends that “essential personnel” wear a mask at all times in their workplaces for 14 days following exposure to someone infected with coronavirus and maintain social distancing, to the extent practicable.Pence’s press secretary Katie Miller contracted Covid-19 in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vp-mike-pence-tested-negative-for-covid-19-after-top-aide-tested-positive/story-dCBEODLY4AvyuOJdN6IyYJ.html
25-10-2020||World||‘That’s no way to talk about friends’: Biden scolds Trump over ‘filthy’ India||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden slammed US President Donald Trump on Saturday for calling India “filthy” and admonished him for speaking that way about “friends”.“President Trump called India ‘filthy’,” Biden wrote in a tweet. “It’s not how you talk about friends—and it’s not how you solve global challenges like climate change.”He added, referring to his Indian-descent running mate Kamala Harris, “@KamalaHarris and I deeply value our partnership—and will put respect back at the center of our foreign policy.”During an exchange at their final presidential debate on Thursday, Trump had sought to defend his record on climate crisis and his decision to exit the Paris Accord, alleging the global agreement was partial to India, China and Russia that were more polluting.“Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India, it’s so filthy, the air is filthy,” the American president had said. “The Paris accord I took us out because we were going to have to spend trillions of dollars, and we were treated very unfairly when they put us in there, they did us a great disservice,” he had added.Indian Americans and surrogates of the Biden campaign had responded angrily at the time. “His rhetoric has proven time and time again that he has disdain for India, as well as for people who draw their heritage from South Asia,” South Asians for Biden, a group of backers and surrogates, said in a tweet.A congressional aide who spoke on background had said it was a “bizarre comment from a president who is trying to court India as a key part of his national security strategy in the Indo-Pacific”. And it was “oddly timed, especially when his secretary of state and defence (Mike Pompeo and Mark Esper) are headed to India next week to meet with their Indian counterparts”. The aide was referring to the 2+2 ministerial dialogue in New Delhi on October 27.Indian Americans have been courted in this election like never before. Both the Biden and Trump campaigns have reached out to the community extensively, each arguing they would be better shepherds of the bilateral relationship with India.There are an estimated 1.9 million eligible Indian American voters. A recent poll of the community showed an overwhelming 72% of them will vote for Biden and 22% for Trump (an earlier survey with smaller sample size was more generous to Trump — 28% to vote for him, 66% for Biden).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-scolds-trump-over-filthy-india-remarks/story-VuzaHFM2WIBsGPeQshVuVP.html
25-10-2020||World||US: First ‘Murder hornet’ nest vacuumed from tree in Washington||A team of entomologists in full-body protective gear vacuumed Asian giant hornets out of a tree in Washington state on Saturday, eradicating the first nest of the so-called murder hornets found in the United States.The state’s agricultural department said it had spent weeks searching for and trapping the hornets, which attack honeybee hives and could pose a threat to humans, because they can sting repeatedly with venom that is stronger than a honeybee’s.The state’s entomologists succeeded by attaching radio trackers to three hornets they had trapped earlier in the week, one of which they followed to the nest, located in a tree near Blaine, Washington, on Thursday.They returned on Saturday to make the extraction.“Got ‘em. Vacuumed out several #AsianGiantHornets from a tree cavity near Blaine this morning,” the agriculture department said on Twitter, adding that more details would be provided at a news conference on Monday.The stinging hornet, the world’s largest, can grow as large as 2-1/2 inches (6.4 cm) in length and is native to Southeast Asia, China and Taiwan. It was first discovered in the United States in December by a homeowner in Blaine.Aside from the danger to humans, the hornet presents a threat to agriculture and the apiary industry, officials have said, because it is a known predator of honey bees, with a few of the hornets capable of wiping out an entire hive in hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/usa-s-first-murder-hornet-nest-vacuumed-from-tree-in-washington/story-PfbSJ41p601UVLYrANHWRK.html
25-10-2020||World||Italy plans further curbs as coronavirus cases hit new record||Italy reported another daily record for Covid-19 cases on Saturday as the government planned further restrictions to contain a resurgence of the pandemic, despite a second night of street protests against curfews ordered this week.Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte has said he wants to avoid a repeat of the blanket lockdown earlier in the year. But a number of regions have imposed overnight curfews and the central government is expected to announce more measures soon.After clashes in the southern city of Naples on Friday night, police faced off against dozens of masked protestors in the centre of Rome after the far-right Forza Nuova group called for a protest against the curfews.Earlier, health ministry data showed 19,644 new Covid-19 cases and 151 dead as the disease surged in areas like Lombardy, Milan, Campania and Lazio.Conte pledged to speed up help for businesses suffering in the crisis but said the weeks ahead would be very difficult. “We cannot lower our guard,” he added.According to a draft decree circulated on Saturday, public gyms and swimming pools may be closed and bars and restaurants told to shut from 6PM, while people will be encouraged not to travel outside their home districts.Like many authorities across Europe, the Italian government is desperate not to close down the economy completely but is facing growing public anger at renewed restrictions being imposed to limit public gatherings.Earlier in the week, overnight curfews were ordered by local governors in Campania, the area around Naples, Lazio around Rome, and Lombardy, the epicentre of the first wave where the financial capital Milan recorded more than 1,000 new cases on Saturday.The northern region of Piedmont and Sicily in the south will follow next week and other regions are expected to match them.With public health services coming under strain, authorities have reopened temporary intensive care facilities built during the first phase. Despite this, Italy’s top public health body warned on Friday services were approaching crisis point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-plans-further-curbs-as-coronavirus-cases-hit-new-record/story-h49LX8gnAdrDAhEhvaashI.html
25-10-2020||World||Officials issue evacuation order to Estes park residents as wildfire rages in Colorado||Residents remaining in Estes Park, in Colorado’s Rocky Mountain National Park, were told to evacuate their homes on Saturday as wind gusts fanned the second largest wildfire in state history and the blaze claimed the lives of an elderly couple. Officials issued a mandatory evacuation order for eastern Estes Park as wind gusts pushed the 191,000-acre (77,300-hectare) East Troublesome Fire east, threatening the town of 6,300 people that serves as a base camp for the popular national park.Noel Livingston, incident commander for the fire, said firefighters waged a “very aggressive” battle on Saturday to hold the line at Estes Park and expressed hopes that a winter storm overnight would aid in containment.“They’ve had a very long day, a very tough day,” Livingston told a briefing on Saturday evening. “A lot of active fire spread there with the community certainly still at risk.”Livingston said the fire probably was caused by a human, but noted that the investigation was not complete.At a Red Cross evacuation center in the Denver suburb of Westminster, a steady stream of evacuees from Estes Park waited in line to be processed and receive hotel and restaurant vouchers. Many exchanged information and stories about their experience with others forced out of their homes.Estes Park resident Suzanne Adams, 44, and her husband Phillip, 49, fled their home on Thursday when just voluntary evacuations were in place. The couple decided to leave when smoke blanketed the town on Thursday afternoon.“The sky turned pink and red and ash started to fall – we thought it was snowing,” she said.Phillip Adams said as the blaze “roared like a freight train” as it moved toward the town. “I looked out to the west and could see flames 300 feet high over the mountain,” he said. Near the town of Grand Lake, some 17 miles (30 km) southwest of Estes Park, the fire killed Lyle and Marilyn Hileman, who were 86- and 84-years-old. The couple, who were married for almost 70 years, chose not to leave their home, local officials said after finding their bodies on Friday.“Our parents left this world together and on their own terms. They leave a legacy of hard work and determination to overcome - something all of Grand County will need,” the family said in a statement released to local media. The fire, which started on Oct. 14, was 4% contained as of Saturday. As the flames spread and jumped the Continental Divide on Thursday, authorities closed all 415 square miles (668 square km) of Rocky Mountain National Park to visitors, and ordered the evacuation of several mountain communities.Livingston said he was hoping that a winter storm warning would translate into lots of snow. “We are hoping, fingers crossed, that we get significant snow tonight,” he said. “We’ll take advantage of that tomorrow.” The closure of the park is in addition to more than one million acres of wilderness in Colorado that the US Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management and state authorities have been forced to declare off limits to the public. Further north, Colorado’s largest wildfire on record, the Cameron Peak Fire, has been burning since mid-August. It has burned more than 207,400 acres and scorched swaths of the Arapaho and Roosevelt National Forests. As of Saturday morning, it was 60% contained. Making conditions worse, most of Colorado is in the grip of some level of drought, according to information released this week by the US Drought Monitor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/officials-issue-evacuation-order-to-estes-park-residents-as-wildfire-rages-in-colorado/story-hcNIEr6FKO8WnWlcuPkTNO.html
25-10-2020||World||Wavel Ramkalawan wins Seychelles elections: Reports||Opposition candidate and Anglican priest Wavel Ramkalawan has won the elections in the island nation of Seychelles, local media reported. He won both presidential as well as parliamentary elections, early reports said. @wavelramkalawan Congratulations Mr. PRESIDENT. We Did IT 💚💚💚💚According to provisional figures reported by the local media, Ramkalawan’s party Linyon Demokratik Seselwa (LDS) secured 55 per cent of votes, while incumbent Danny Faure trailed with 43 per cent of votes.Voting took place Thursday and Friday on a few dozen of these outer islands, mainly for employees of hotels or the island management authority. Some on the main islands deemed essential workers, such as hospital and nursing staff, also voted Thursday.The opposition was narrowly defeated in a presidential election in 2015.The elections were held in Seychelles as the island nation’s economy was battered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The Indian Ocean archipelago nation is expected to see its tourism-dependent economy contract by 14 per cent this year, according to rating agency Fitch, reversing some fragile progress since the government defaulted on its debt in 2008 and sought an International Monetary Fund (IMF) bailout.The same party has been in power since 1977. Faure, who previously vice president, was elevated to the presidency in 2016 when his predecessor resigned after a constitutional amendment was passed limiting presidents to two terms.There are about 74,600 voters in Seychelles out of a population of 100,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wavel-ramkalawan-wins-seychelles-elections-reports/story-rRpqUtgt5UYdeAwMNOIe8O.html
25-10-2020||World||China reviewing strategy for internationalization of Yuan, says official||China is reconsidering its strategy for the internationalization of yuan after completing a comprehensive review recently, according to a senior central bank official.“As everybody knows in the past, the internationalization of the RMB sticks to the market principles,” Zhu Jun, director general of the People’s Bank of China’s international division, said at the Bund Summit in Shanghai on Saturday. “The role of the authorities was mainly focused on removing the policy obstacles for the free use of the currency. At this moment, we think there are some kinds of complications in the domestic and overseas situations.”The yuan rallied to the strongest in more than two years earlier this week, aided by dollar weakness and China’s economic recovery from the virus pandemic. The prospects of a victory by Joe Biden over President Donald Trump in the upcoming US election are also supporting the currency. Trump’s trade war with China last year sent the currency to its lowest since 2008.Zhu said going forward the government can be more proactive with policy support to facilitate the role of the markets. For instance, the central bank can improve bilateral currency swap agreements to better promote trade and investments, and try to coordinate various means of yuan cross-border settlements and payments infrastructure.The authorities will remove existing obstacles for the yuan’s internationalization, with a steady liberalization of the capital account and increasing the RMB exchange-rate flexibility as well as improving liquidity in the bond market, Zhu said.While China over the years made some progress -- promoting offshore yuan trading, winning official reserve-currency status from the International Monetary Fund and introducing commodity contracts priced in yuan -- the renminbi is a small player on the global stage, with 2% market share.From Fixing to Signaling, How China Manages the Yuan: QuickTakeAnd while a steady opening of China’s financial markets to overseas investors has lured inflows, foreign ownership of mainland stocks and bonds is relatively minor. China’s capital account, a term for the flow of funds across borders, currently remains subject to significant regulations on the transfer of the yuan.Separately, central bank governor Yi Gang said on Saturday the reform of the yuan exchange-rate formation mechanism and the internationalization of the currency should be jointly promoted with the financial opening.“The yuan internationalization should be market-oriented,” he said. “The regulator’s main job is to reduce restrictions on the cross-border use of the currency, and let it take its own course.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-reviewing-strategy-for-internationalization-of-yuan-says-official/story-BCU8H7boeVQCnzK5Uacf6L.html
25-10-2020||World||Middle East calls for boycott of French products after Macron’s comments||Calls to boycott French goods are growing in the Arab world and beyond, after President Emmanuel Macron criticised Islamists and vowed not to “give up cartoons” depicting the Prophet Mohammed.Macron’s comments, on Wednesday, came in response to the beheading of a teacher, Samuel Paty, outside his school in a suburb outside Paris earlier this month, after he had shown cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed during a class he was leading on free speech. The teacher became the target of an online hate campaign over his choice of lesson material -- the same images that unleashed a bloody assault by Islamist gunmen on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, the original publisher, in January 2015.Caricatures of Mohammed are forbidden by Islam.On Saturday, Jordan’s foreign ministry said it condemned the “continued publication of caricatures of the Prophet Mohammed under the pretext of freedom of expression” and any “discriminatory and misleading attempts that seek to link Islam with terrorism.”It did not directly criticise Macron, although the French president had on Wednesday also contended that Paty was “killed because Islamists want our future”. But Jordan’s opposition Islamic Action Front party called on the French president to apologise for his comments and urged citizens in the kingdom to boycott French goods.Such boycotts are already underway in Kuwait and Qatar. - ‘Mental checks’ -Dozens of Kuwaiti stores are boycotting French products, with images on social media showing workers removing French Kiri and Babybel processed cheese from shelves.In Doha, an AFP correspondent saw workers stripping shelves of French-made St. Dalfour jams and Saf-Instant yeast in a branch of the Al Meera supermarket chain on Saturday.Al Meera competes with French supermarket chains Monoprix and Carrefour for market share in the lucrative Qatari grocery sector.Al Meera and another grocery operator, Souq Al Baladi, released statements late Friday saying they would pull French products from stores until further notice.They stopped short of explicitly naming Macron or citing his comments, but the Al Meera statement said customer “comments guided our actions”.Neither operator responded to AFP requests for comment.Recep Tayyip Erdogan -- the president of Turkey and a major ally of Qatar -- on Saturday slammed Macron over his policies toward Muslims, saying that the French president needed “mental checks.”“What can one say about a head of state who treats millions of members from different faith groups this way: first of all, have mental checks,” Erdogan said in a televised address.Before Macron’s comments on Wednesday, he had already sparked a backlash in early October when he said “Islam is a religion that is in crisis all over the world”.Nayef Falah Mubarak Al-Hajraf, secretary general of the Gulf Cooperation Council called Macron’s words “irresponsible” on Friday, and said they would “increase the spread of a culture of hatred”.The same day, Qatar University wrote on Twitter that following “the deliberate abuse of Islam and its symbols”, French Cultural Week would be postponed indefinitely, in a context where 2020 is the France-Qatar year of culture. Many Jordanians have changed their profiles on Facebook to add the message “Respect Mohammad the Prophet of Allah (God)”.In Jaffa, a largely Arab town next to Tel Aviv, some 200 people protested after evening prayers on Saturday in front of the residence of France’s ambassador to Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/middle-east-calls-for-boycott-of-french-products-after-macron-s-comments/story-NoOP0qpsWDEOBgSbfXmWML.html
25-10-2020||World||President Trump understands the power of Indian American, says campaign official||Indian Americans have become a force to reckon with in the US and President Donald Trump understands their power, said the president’s re-election campaign official Saturday. “You, the powerful Indian Americans are a force to reckon with today. You have not realized your own power, but President Trump understands your power,” Al Mason, co-chair of the Trump Victory Indian American Finance Committee said at an event organised by the Indian Voices for Trump. Indian Americans, particularly in the battleground states, can play an important role in getting Trump re-elected, he said, adding his recent survey in these battleground states reveal that the community members are moving towards the president in a big way. For the first time in the history of presidential elections, more than 50 percent of Indian American Democrats are moving towards the Republican party because of Trump, he said, adding the vote of the community will contribute to the victory of the president. Explaining the reasons, Mason, based on a survey, said Trump has respected the community and Indian leadership in a way no other president has done in the past. “Trump has elevated India’s stature on the world stage -- the India-US relationship has been rock solid. Kudos to the brilliance of both President Trump and Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi for cementing the bond between India and US,” he said in his remarks at the event. In 2019, Mason explained, when the world was against Modi on the Kashmir issue and world leaders were criticising him on this issue, the only man “who had the guts to stand” by him was Trump. “The president went to the Howdy Modi event in Houston (last year) and never once injected himself into Kashmiri issue ... never once interfered into the internal affairs of India…. Kashmir is a very sensitive emotional topic for every Indian American,” Mason said. During his India trip early this year, Trump said America loves India, America respects India and America will always be faithful and loyal friend to Indians. All this resonates well with the four million Indian Americans, he added.“Every Indian American in the US has a family member back home, like old parents, brother, sister, friend, business - they want India to be respected and protected from China, which is what Trump can provide. They fear that China would start a war with India without Trump. Trump has stood up to China,” he said. Mason had recently created a video “Four More Years” in support of President Trump reflecting his love for Indian Americans and friendship with India, which has received over 25 million views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-trump-understands-the-power-of-indian-american-says-campaign-official/story-vRu7bvjwYuAwGWRdqNtZEP.html
25-10-2020||World||China a ‘number one national security threat’ to US: Nikki Haley||China is the United States’ “absolute number one” national security threat, said Indian-American Republican politician Nikki Haley on Saturday (local time), adding that US President Donald Trump has made sure Beijing does not steal American intellectual property. Speaking during a fireside chat event organised by the Indian Voices for Trump in the battleground state of Philadelphia, Haley, former US Ambassador to the UN, said President Trump has “put China on notice”. “China is our absolute number one threat right now, a huge national security threat. With the trade deal that the President did, not only did he get a better trade deal for us, he put China on notice with intellectual property,” the 48-year-old said.“He has made sure that they know that they can not turn around and steal the intellectual property. They cannot go and spy on our universities, and that we are going to hold them accountable as we go forward,” she added. The two-term governor of South Carolina, Haley was the first Cabinet-ranking Indian-American in any presidential administration. She is now campaigning for Trump ahead of the US election. The US and China relations have swiftly deteriorated in the past few months over a range of issues including Covid-19 origin, Indo Pacific, Hong Kong and trade disagreements. During the event, Haley also hit out at Democratic Presidential nominee and former Vice President Joe Biden and accused former US President Barack Obama’s administration of sponsoring terrorism. “The last administration, under Biden, Obama gave literally planes full of cash to the largest sponsor of terror. And they took that cash and funnelled it and spread terrorism throughout Yemen, and Lebanon, and Syria, and Iraq. And all these places. The President pulled out of the Iran deal so they will have the money to spend,” she said.The presential elections in the US will be held on Tuesday, November 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-a-number-one-national-security-threat-to-us-nikki-haley/story-TpHhvYCVf9TkqVckRxEP0K.html
25-10-2020||World||Facebook demands academics disable ad-targeting data tool||Academics, journalists and First Amendment lawyers are rallying behind New York University researchers in a showdown with Facebook over its demand that they halt the collection of data showing who is being micro-targeted by political ads on the world’s dominant social media platform. The researchers say the disputed tool is vital to understanding how Facebook has been used to as a conduit for disinformation and manipulation. In an Oct. 16 letter to the researchers, a Facebook executive demanded they disable a special plug-in for Chrome and Firefox browsers that they have distributed to thousands of volunteers across the US — and delete the data obtained. The plug-in lets researchers see which ads are shown to each volunteer; Facebook lets advertisers tailor ads based on specific demographics that go far beyond race, age, gender and political preference. The executive, Allison Hendrix, said the tool violates Facebook rules prohibiting automated bulk collection of data from the site. Her letter threatened “additional enforcement action” if the takedown was not effected by Nov. 30. Company spokesman Joe Osborne said in an emailed statement Saturday that Facebook “informed NYU months ago that moving forward with a project to scrape people’s Facebook information would violate our terms.” The company has long claimed protecting user privacy is its main concern, though NYU researchers say their tool is programmed so the data collected from participating volunteers is anonymous. The outcry over Facebook’s threat was immediate after The Wall Street Journal first reported the news Friday because the “Ad Observer” tool provides valuable insights into what ads are targeting specific types of voters. It has been used by local reporters from Wisconsin to Utah to Florida to write about the Nov. 3 presidential election. “That Facebook is trying to shut down a tool crucial to exposing disinformation in the run up to one of the most consequential elections in U.S. history is alarming,” said Ramya Krishnan, an attorney with the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, which is representing the researchers. “The public has a right to know what political ads are being run and how they are being targeted. Facebook shouldn’t be allowed to be the gatekeeper to information necessary to safeguard our democracy.“ “The NYU Ad Observatory is the only window researchers have to see microtargeting information about political ads on Facebook,” Julia Angwin, editor of the data-centric investigative tech news website The Markup, tweet in disappointment. The tool is a key source of data on election interference and manipulation because it lets researchers see how some Facebook advertisers use data gathered by the company to profile citizens “and send them misinformation about candidates and policies that are designed to influence or even suppress their vote,” Damon McCoy, an NYU professor involved in the project, said in a statement. After an uproar over its lack of transparency on political ads Facebook ran ahead of the 2016 election, a sharp contrast to how ads are regulated on traditional media, the company created an ad archive that includes details such as who paid for an ad and when it ran. But Facebook does not share information about who gets served the ad. The company has resisted allowing researchers access to the platform, where right-wing content has consistently been trending in recent weeks. Last year, more than 200 researchers signed a letter to Facebook calling on it to lift restrictions on public-interest research and journalism that would permit automated digital collection of data from the platform. (AP) RAX RAX||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-demands-academics-disable-ad-targeting-data-tool/story-jhNUPl2jFIfX4JaGZloaiM.html
25-10-2020||World||Samsung Electronics chairman Lee Kun-hee dies at 78: Company||Samsung Electronics chairman Lee Kun-hee died at the age of 78 on Sunday, the company said.“It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of Kun-hee Lee, Chairman of Samsung Electronics,” the firm said in a statement.Lee, who turned Samsung Electronics into a global tech giant, was left bedridden by a heart attack in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/samsung-electronics-chairman-lee-kun-hee-dies-at-78-company/story-z1F3kDtvFV9lqpP3lGcxAM.html
25-10-2020||World||Russian oil tanker suffers explosion, 3 crew members missing||A Russian oil tanker was hit by an explosion in the Sea of Azov and a rescue operation was underway on Saturday for three missing crew members, officials said.The Russian Emergencies Ministry said the explosion on the General Azi Aslanov took place as the tanker was en route from the port of Kavkaz to the port of Rostov-on-Don. Authorities said 10 members of the tanker’s 13-person crew have been rescued, while the remaining three were believed to have been thrown overboard by the blast.Three rescue vessels were heading to the site to search for the missing crew.The tanker has tilted and efforts to stabilize the ship were underway.Maritime officials said the tanker wasn’t loaded and the explosion may have been triggered by flammable vapours left behind from the vessel’s previous cargo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-oil-tanker-suffers-explosion-3-crew-members-missing/story-1alKUCNqR0h4nJKSRcpgpL.html
25-10-2020||World||Here’s what may happen next in Thailand’s historic protests||With Thailand’s parliament set to convene on Monday to find a way out of a political crisis fueled by street protests, one thing is becoming clear: There is no easy solution for the military-backed government.Protesters calling for democratic reforms and changes to the monarchy were undeterred by an emergency decree prohibiting large gatherings, prompting Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha to lift it and call for calm. That was met with fresh calls for his resignation and even more protests.Now the military and royalist elite who have long held power in Thailand must decide whether to meet some or all protest demands, or take more aggressive steps to shut down the demonstrations.Here are possible scenarios for where things go from here:1. Slow-Walking ReformOne key demand is a new constitution to replace the one drafted after a 2014 coup led by Prayuth. Its provision for a military-appointed Senate has been instrumental in helping him retain power following last year’s election.Prayuth’s government has already said it’s open to certain unspecified changes, and prior to Monday’s special parliamentary session it already initiated a process to begin amending the constitution. Still, that process could end up taking years, and it wouldn’t be the first time: Following the bloody ‘Black May’ uprising against military rule in 1992, it took five years before a new constitution was put in place. And that was nullified in a coup less than a decade later.Also Read | Thailand braces for more rallies as Prime Minister ignores calls to quit“The regime could be looking at the same kind of tactics this time around,” said Kevin Hewison, an emeritus professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill who has researched Thai politics for decades. They could “drag it out for so long, but eventually don’t make many changes at all.”2. Prayuth’s OusterCalls for Prayuth’s resignation have persisted since last year’s election. While he has so far refused to step down, his rule is contingent on the support of the monarchy and other elites in Bangkok. If protests were to garner wider support from the general population, his ouster may be the easiest way to try and soothe tensions.Prayuth’s future is now firmly tied to the challenges to the monarchy, said Lee Morgenbesser, a lecturer at Australia’s Griffith University whose research focuses on authoritarian regimes and Southeast Asian politics. “If the protests persist too long or become violent, which would see the prestige of the king further questioned, the Thai government is an obvious sacrificial lamb.”Having already survived a no-confidence vote in February, the government isn’t likely to face much pressure in parliament. Still, even if Prayuth were to step aside, he could just be replaced by someone else backed by the military.3. Violent CrackdownPast protest movements in Thailand have often ended in bloody crackdowns, most recently in 2010. With groups of royalists organizing to confront the pro-democracy demonstrators, there are concerns they could happen again at some point -- even if the threat isn’t imminent.“There can always be a violent crackdown,” said Paul Chambers, a Thai politics expert at Naresuan University’s College of Asean Community Studies, adding that such a move could backfire on authorities. The government would “do so only because it is desperate for the survival of military and royal privileges unreformed.”4. Monarchy ChangesAfter breaking long-held taboos about publicly criticizing the royal family, protesters are demanding the monarch no longer endorse coups, provide transparency in managing billions of dollars worth of crown assets, and get rid of defamation laws that stifle discussion of the royal family.Any of those changes would require approval from King Maha Vajiralongkorn, which analysts say is a long shot.“Royal abdication, scaled back authority for the crown are highly unlikely anytime soon,” said Chambers. “After all, Thailand’s military, political and economic elites ascribe their legitimacy to close linkages to the palace. A weakening of palace power weakens the power of all of Thailand’s vested power players.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/here-s-what-may-happen-next-in-thailand-s-historic-protests/story-NsEbndgErSPHEYY9ZuoLrK.html
25-10-2020||World||Nuclear weapons ban treaty to enter into force: UN||The United Nations announced Saturday that 50 countries have ratified a UN treaty to ban nuclear weapons triggering its entry into force in 90 days, a move hailed by anti-nuclear activists but strongly opposed by the United States and the other major nuclear powers.As of Friday, the treaty had 49 signatories, and UN officials said the 50th ratification from Honduras had been received.“This moment has been 75 years coming since the horrific attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and the founding of the UN which made nuclear disarmament a cornerstone,” said Beatrice Fihn, executive director of the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize-winning coalition whose work helped spearhead the nuclear ban treaty. “The 50 countries that ratify this Treaty are showing true leadership in setting a new international norm that nuclear weapons are not just immoral but illegal.”The 50th ratification came on the 75th anniversary of the ratification of the UN Charter which officially established the United Nations and is celebrated as UN Day.“The United Nations was formed to promote peace with a goal of the abolition of nuclear weapons,” Fihn said. “This treaty is the UN at its best — working closely with civil society to bring democracy to disarmament.”The United States had written to treaty signatories saying the Trump administration believes they made “a strategic error” and urging them to rescind their ratification.The U.S. letter, obtained by The Associated Press, said the five original nuclear powers -- the U.S., Russia, China, Britain and France -- and America’s NATO allies “stand unified in our opposition to the potential repercussions” of the treaty.It says the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, known as the TPNW, “turns back the clock on verification and disarmament and is dangerous” to the half-century-old Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, considered the cornerstone of global nonproliferation efforts.“The TPNW is and will remain divisive in the international community and risk further entrenching divisions in existing nonproliferation and disarmament fora that offer the only realistic prospect for consensus-based progress,” the letter said. “It would be unfortunate if the TPNW were allowed to derail our ability to work together to address pressing proliferation.”Fihn has stressed that “the nonproliferation Treaty is about preventing the spread of nuclear weapons and eliminating nuclear weapons, and this treaty implements that. There’s no way you can undermine the Nonproliferation Treaty by banning nuclear weapons. It’s the end goal of the Nonproliferation Treaty.”The NPT sought to prevent the spread of nuclear arms beyond the five original weapons powers. It requires non-nuclear signatory nations to not pursue atomic weapons in exchange for a commitment by the five powers to move toward nuclear disarmament and to guarantee non-nuclear states’ access to peaceful nuclear technology for producing energy.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has supported the nuclear weapons ban treaty, calling it “a very welcome initiative.”“It is clear for me that we will only be entirely safe in relation to nuclear weapons the day where nuclear weapons no longer exist,” he said in an interview Wednesday with AP. “We know that it’s not easy. We know that there are many obstacles.”He expressed hope that a number of important initiatives, including U.S.-Russia talks on renewing the New Start Treaty limiting deployed nuclear warheads, missiles and bombers and next year’s review conference of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, “will all converge in the same direction, and the final objective must be to have a world with no nuclear weapons.”The treaty was approved by the 193-member UN General Assembly on July 7, 2017 by a vote of 122 in favor, the Netherlands opposed, and Singapore abstaining. Among countries voting in favor was Iran. The five nuclear powers and four other countries known or believed to possess nuclear weapons — India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel — boycotted negotiations and the vote on the treaty, along with many of their allies.Setsuko Thurlow, a survivor of the 1945 bombing of Hiroshima, who has been an ardent campaigner for the treaty, said: “When I learned that we reached our 50th ratification, I was not able to stand.”“I remained in my chair and put my head in my hands and I cried tears of joy,” she said in a statement. “I have committed my life to the abolition of nuclear weapons. I have nothing but gratitude for all who have worked for the success of our treaty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nuclear-weapons-ban-treaty-to-enter-into-force-un/story-9mzQQq7v1Qtxcnqw2pZ2AP.html
25-10-2020||World||Covid-19 rages as Asia, US record grim milestones||Asia surpassed 10 million Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the second biggest regional tally in the world. In another grim milestone, the US broke its daily record for new coronavirus infections on Friday, reporting 84,218 new cases due to outbreaks in virtually every part of the country.Behind only Latin America, Asia accounts for about one-fourth of the global caseload of 42.1 million of the virus. With over 163,000 deaths, the region accounts for some 14% of the global Covid-19 toll.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWithin the region, South Asia led by India is the worst affected, with nearly 21% of the reported global coronavirus cases and 12% of deaths. This contrasts with countries like China and New Zealand that have crushed infections and Japan.Bangladesh is Asia’s second worst-hit country, with nearly 400,000 cases. But daily infections have slowed to 1,453, less than 40% of the July peak.In the US, the spike in cases comes less than two weeks before the election on November 3 and is hitting battleground states such as Ohio, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. On Thursday, the US reported a near-record 76,195 new cases. The previous record was 77,299 new cases on July 16. At the time, hospitalisations for Covid-19 patients hit 47,000 and two weeks later deaths rose to an average of 1,200 per day.Earlier, the World Health Organization (WHO) warned of an “exponential” rise in infections threatening health systems’ ability to cope. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said “too many countries are seeing an exponential increase in Covid-19 cases and that is now leading to hospitals and intensive care units running close to or above capacity - and we’re still only in October”.France will have to live with the coronavirus at least until next summer, President Emmanuel Macron said on Friday.Macron said there were no plans at this stage to reduce curfews aimed at preventing the virus spreading. “When I listen to scientists I see that projections are for at best until next summer,” he said, adding it was too early to say if France was headed towards lockdowns.France reported 41,622 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and will break through the 1,000,000 cumulative tally on Friday.Poland’s President Andrzej Duda has tested positive for coronavirus but is feeling well, his spokesman said on Saturday. Duda’s diagnosis comes amid a huge surge in confirmed new cases of Covid-19 and virus-related deaths in Poland, a nation that saw only very low infection rates in the spring.His spokesman, Blazej Spychalski, said on Twitter that the 48-year-old conservative leader was tested the day before and his result was positive. He said the president is in isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/virus-rages-as-asia-us-record-grim-milestones/story-Hob5v2emK1qo1KUGGvZOBK.html
25-10-2020||World||Ethiopia upset after Trump says Egypt should ‘blow up’ dam||Ethiopia on Saturday denounced “belligerent threats” over a huge dam it has nearly completed on the Blue Nile River, a day after US President Donald Trump said downstream Egypt will “blow up” the project it has called an existential threat.Without naming Trump, the statement by Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s office came amid an outcry in Ethiopia over the US president’s latest threat over the dam. The $4.6bn Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam is seen as a source of pride, and is aimed at pulling millions out of poverty.“The man doesn’t have a clue on what he is talking about,” former PM Hailemariam Dessalegn tweeted, calling Trump’s remark irresponsible.Trump made the comment while announcing that Sudan would start to normalise ties with Israel. Downstream Sudan is a party to the talks with Ethiopia and Egypt over the disputed dam. “They (Egypt) will end up blowing up the dam,” Trump said. “I say it loud and clear… they have to do something.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ethiopia-upset-after-trump-says-egypt-should-blow-up-dam/story-hfoD0tZomfpfVt2mKILg2M.html
25-10-2020||World||Ventilation key to preventing Covid-19, say top UK experts||Check the ventilation in your office space because poor airflow raises the risk of exposure to Covid-19, top British experts advising the UK government on dealing with the coronavirus pandemic have said.Experts on the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) have called for making ventilation in public buildings and workplaces integral to policy measures, highlighting risk in poorly ventilated spaces. Measurements of elevated carbon dioxide levels in indoor air are an effective method of identifying poor ventilation in multi-occupant spaces.Their advice is the second such conclusion after a University of Cambridge study in September found an increase in risk of exposure to the virus from ventilation systems in modern office buildings, which are designed to keep temperatures comfortable and increase energy efficiency.The SAGE experts said in a paper released on Friday, “Ventilation is an important factor in mitigating against the risk of far-field (>2m) aerosol transmission… Activities that may generate high levels of aerosol (singing, loud speech, aerobic activity) are likely to pose the greatest risk; in some spaces even enhanced ventilation may not fully mitigate this risk.”“It is more important to improve ventilation in multi-occupant spaces with very low ventilation rates… Virus survival in air decreases with increasing temperature and humidity. In most environments, this effect is likely to be less important than the ventilation rate. However, environments with low temperature and low humidity (for example, chilled food processing, cold stores) may pose an enhanced risk,” they added.The SAGE paper called for updated guidance on environmental control for Covid-19 across all sectors to provide explicit advice on the risk of far-field aerosol airborne transmission, the importance of ventilation, and recommendations on improving it.“In the longer term consideration of infectious disease transmission needs to be embedded into building ventilation regulations and associated statutory guidance in the same way that energy, comfort and air quality have been incorporated,” the paper said.The Cambridge study published in the Journal of Fluid Mechanics found that widely used “mixing ventilation” systems, which are designed to keep conditions uniform in all parts of the room, disperse airborne contaminants evenly throughout the space. These contaminants may include droplets and aerosols, potentially containing viruses.The evidence, the study said, increasingly indicates that the virus is spread primarily through larger droplets and smaller aerosols, which are expelled when people cough, sneeze, laugh, talk or breathe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ventilation-key-to-preventing-covid-19-say-top-uk-experts/story-bNnNtg1b0fDv6UTmMGxuxI.html
25-10-2020||World||Donald Trump says India’s air is filthy during US presidential debate||US President Donald Trump on Thursday described the air in India and China as “filthy” as he denounced Democratic rival Joe Biden’s plans to tackle climate change.At their second and final presidential debate, Trump renewed his criticism that action on climate change was unfair to the US. “Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia, look at India — it’s filthy. The air is filthy,” he said at the Nashville debate.Biden said that climate change is “an existential threat to humanity. We have a moral obligation to deal with it.”Also watch | ‘It’s not how you talk about friends’: Biden On Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remark “We’re going to pass the point of no return within the next eight to 10 years,” he said.Trump has pulled the US out of the Paris accord, which aims to cap global warming “well below” two degrees Celsius.At the first debate too, Trump spoke critically of India, questioning its coronavirus data amid criticism of his handling of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-india-s-air-is-filthy-during-us-presidential-debate/story-zj8Fxapnz5OXCCfIDuHpgO.html
25-10-2020||World||In Biden’s outreach to Indian Americans, a clear reference to Chinese aggression and Pak||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden has said that while US-India ties were “photo-ops” for President Donald Trump, for him they were about “getting things done”, and reiterated his promise to work with India to combat terrorism and prevent China from threatening its neighbours.To illustrate his contrast with the US president, Biden recalled the role he played in the passage of the “historic” India-US civil nuclear deal as chairman of the US Senate foreign relations committee in 2008. “At the time, I said if the United States and India became closer friends, then the world will be a safer place,” Biden wrote in an Op-Ed in India West, a news publication focused on the Indian diaspora.President Barack Obama’s 2009-2016 tenure saw “some of the best years” between the two countries, Biden wrote, adding that he and his Indian-descent running mate Kamala Harris will “build on that great progress and do even more.”“We can and should be natural allies,” wrote Biden, who currently has the upper hand in the election according to opinion polls, using a phrase first used by late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee during a trip to the US in 1998. Also Read | India is filthy, claims Trump at his final clash with Biden before race for White House closesLeaders from both countries have since tried their own version to define the relationship in their own vision.Biden reiterated his promise—first laid out in an expansive platform he unveiled on August 15 at a virtual event to mark India’s Independence Day—to work with India on its key foreign policy concerns.“If elected President, I will continue what I have long called for: The US and India will stand together against terrorism in all its forms and work together to promote a region of peace and stability where neither China nor any other country threatens its neighbours.” The resolve to combat terrorism was a reference to cross-border terrorism emanating from Pakistan.Both Biden and Trump have wooed Indian Americans voters—estimated to number 1.9 million—for their potential to make a difference, howsoever small, in battleground states that will determine the outcome. “The Indian American electorate of nearly 2 million voters is a powerful force that can make all the difference from North Carolina and Virginia to Pennsylvania and Michigan to Georgia and Texas and across the country,” he wrote, leaving no doubt the Op-Ed was an appeal to Indian American voters.Also Read | 2020 is the year of Indian-Americans, and they’re not with TrumpHe added: “And as we value the Indian-American diaspora, we’ll continue to value the US-India relationship. For Donald Trump, it’s photo-ops. For me, it’s getting things done.” It could not be immediately ascertained if the former vice-president was referring to a video released by the Trump campaign of clips of the president with Prime Minister Narendra Modi from their joint appearances at the ‘Howdy Modi’ and ‘Namaste Trump’ events in Houston and Ahmedabad to woo Indian American voters.Watch: US Final Presidential Debate: When Donald Trump called India filthyBiden promised them better ties with their country of origin and better lives for them in the US, addressing their main concerns, as with other Americans—promise to contain the Covid-19 epidemic, expand healthcare, not raise taxes for those under a certain income, encourage legal immigration, and make colleges tuition-free for some certain income categories.Also watch | ‘It’s not how you talk about friends’: Biden On Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remarkBide also noted in the Op-Ed the importance of respecting diversity among other shared values. “We will meet every challenge together as we strengthen both democracies—fair and free elections, equality under the law, freedom of expression and religion, and the boundless strength both nations’ draw from our diversity,” he wrote, adding, “These core principles have endured throughout each nations’ histories and will continue to be the source of our strength in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-trump-india-us-ties-are-about-photo-ops-biden/story-lBYVfmJnmwuQIzLu1wQprJ.html
25-10-2020||India||Govt to revamp system for monitoring NGOs||The social justice ministry has reshuffled 30 key officials and is revamping the system of monitoring non-government organisations (NGOs) that receive financial grants by introducing social audits after surprise inspections threw up evidence of misuse of public funds by entities claiming to be working for the benefit of the underprivileged, senior citizens and drug addicts.According to an order issued by the ministry on Monday, accessed by Hindustan Times, the officials up to the rank of undersecretary have been transferred from their positions. Most of them dealt were in departments that provided support and monitored the work of NGOs that claimed to be providing free coaching to poor students, working for the welfare of senior citizens and upliftment of weaker sections.The move came days after surprise checks by senior government officials, aided by recent graduates of institutions like Delhi University, Tata Institute of Social Sciences and Indian Institutes of Technology, produced evidence of vast discrepancies between the claims of many organizations that received substantial government grants.Based on these checks, the ministry has initiated the process of blacklisting around 150 such organizations. A senior government official, who didn’t want to be named, confirmed that the bureaucratic reshuffle in the social justice ministry was linked to the inspections, which showed that public funds were often not reaching the intended beneficiaries.Nearly 130 or 19 % of the 700 organizations surveyed in the exercise were either non-functional, had violated regulatory norms, did not maintain records or simply could not justify the government grants they sought or had received.A drug de-addiction centres in Sangareddy district of Telangana didn’t keep a record of visits by doctors. Local residents had no idea of the services provided by the centre.Another organization in Mahisagar in Gujarat had received a grant, but hadn’t started any work; it was yet to decide on the location of the centre it wanted to set up.Many organizations were found to be charging high fees for their services.An organization that claimed to run a residential school was found to have only three rooms for accommodating 100 students. In Chamba in Himachal Pradesh, a senior citizens’ home had only two inmates at the time of inspection.On average, each of these institutions received grants of Rs 25 lakh a year.R Subrahmanyam, secretary to the ministry of social justice, confirmed that the ministry was now working on a tighter monitoring system. It is in line with the government’s focus on greater transparency and accountability, the top social justice ministry official said.Social audit units of the rural development ministry will be requested to create a social justice cell. The services of these trained auditors will be used at the district levels for up to six days a month to ensure the money NGOs receive from the ministry isn’t being misused.Auditors of the social justice cell would be trained by the National Institute of Social Defence (NISD). The social justice ministry is planning a pilot project in five states: -- Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya and Maharashtra. A Social Audit Advisory Body (SAAB) will be set up to guide these projects||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-revamp-system-for-monitoring-ngos/story-PXHrIFv6jCJGNv7zyO9sAL.html
25-10-2020||India||Smart makeover on the cards for House canteen from Nov 15||India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC), which will start running the Parliament canteen on November 15, plans to hire a celebrity chef as it seeks to improve the quality and expand the varieties of food on offer for MPs, officials familiar with the plan said. ITDC has already zeroed in on a chef who has worked with the President of India for five years and is internationally recognized to oversee the culinary operations of the canteen. Officials did not disclose the chef’s identity. The Lok Sabha secretariat has they approve the plans drawn up by the state-run hotel chain, including the price list.“There will be a gradual change in the service,” said an official on condition of anonymity. “We will start operations with around 125, 150 people.” Initially, because of the Covid-19 outbreak, ITDC will limit itself to serving tea, coffee, kadha (a herbal concoction) and packaged snacks such as salted savories and biscuits. Full operations are likely to start only around the next budget session. An increase of merely Rs. 5 is also expected in the prices, officials added. “It is a major banqueting operation,” said the official mentioned above. “The sweeping changes will be in the service done for sit-down meeting, such as that of the Prime Minister with the council of ministers, joint parliamentary committee meetings, conferences and hosting of foreign delegations.” At present, the corporation is looking to upgrade the cutlery and the crockery, and improve the kitchens to match five-star hotel standards, said a second official. “There will be three primary canteens, Parliament, Parliament annexe and the library,” this official said.  Parliament and ITDC have already signed a memorandum of understanding relating to the improvement in food quality and are expected to finalize an agreement soon. When full operations resume, the workforce is expected to be around 250-strong; the workers will be hired over a period of time. “The basic aspects will likely stay the same,” said the first official. “We have to wait and see what all the secretariat approves. But we would like to offer them a wide variety of teas, coffees, cappuccinos, decafs.” The house last week ended its more than 50-year-old association with Northern Railways that had been overseeing catering n the Parliament House complex since 1968. The staff deployed by Northern Railways has been asked to report back to their department by November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smart-makeover-on-the-cards-for-house-canteen-from-nov-15/story-piIe1BJGUOZUo8WcRP4IzL.html
25-10-2020||India||‘No place for arrogance, breaking of promises in a ruler’s life’: Sonia Gandhi’s Dussehra message||Vijaya Dashami’s biggest message is that people are paramount in governance and there is no place for arrogance, falsehood and breaking of promises in a ruler’s life, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said on Sunday while greeting people on Dussehra.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also greeted people on the occasion, saying truth ultimately triumphs.In her message on Dussehra, Sonia Gandhi extended good wishes to all.A symbol of victory of justice over injustice, truth over falsehood and prudence over arrogance, Dussehra, after nine days of worship, also brings with it a new resolve and a vow to fulfil duties in any situation, she said.“Public is paramount in governance and there is no place for arrogance, falsehood and breaking of promises in a ruler’s life. This is the biggest message of Vijaya Dashami,” Sonia Gandhi said.The Congress president hoped that this Dussehra will not only bring happiness, peace and prosperity in everyone’s life but also strengthen harmony and cultural values ​​among people.She also appealed to people on this occasion to protect themselves from the coronavirus during festivals and to follow all Covid-19 guidelines.Several senior Congress leaders, including general secretary organization K C Venugopal, chief party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, extended greetings to people on Dussehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-place-for-arrogance-breaking-of-promises-in-a-ruler-s-life-sonia-gandhi-s-dussehra-message/story-ztlfl2pNsFYGIX2EhGrWTI.html
25-10-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with CEOs of leading oil, gas companies on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the annual India Energy Forum by CERAWeek on Monday and interact with chief executives of leading global oil and gas companies in the annual event organised by NITI Aayog and ministry of petroleum and natural gas.“The objective behind the meeting is to deliver a global platform to understand best-practices, discuss reforms, and inform strategies for accelerating investments into the Indian Oil and Gas value chain. The event also grows in stature with the rise of India, the world’s third-largest energy consumer, which is likely to see over USD 300 billion investment by 2030 in the Oil & Gas sector to meet rising demand,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has said in a statement.Here’s everything you need to know about the event:1. The event, which is being hosted by IHS Markit, will convene an international group of speakers and a community of more than a thousand delegates from India and over 30 countries, including dignitaries from regional energy companies, energy-related industries, institutions and governments.2. This is the fifth such event organised by NITI Aayog and ministry of petroleum and natural gas. Around 45-50 global CEOs of major oil and gas companies will attend the event this year. NITI Aayog initiated the first roundtable of global oil and gas CEOs with the Prime Minister in 2016.3. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan will make opening remarks which will be followed by a comprehensive presentation giving an overview of the oil and gas sector, and explaining the ambition and opportunities in the sector in India. After this will follow an interaction session with global CEOs and experts.4. Featured speakers include US secretary of energy Dan Brouillette, secretary general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo; Saudi Arabia’s minister of energy Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud; BP’s group chief executive Bernard Looney; chairman and CEO of TOTAL SA Patrick Pouyanné; president and group CEO of Petronas Tengku Muhammad Taufik; Reliance Industries Limited chairman and managing director Mukesh Ambani and president and CEO of Tellurian Inc Meg Gentle.5. Key topics that will be explored include:Impact of the pandemic on India’s future energy demandSecuring supplies for India’s economic growthWhat do energy transition and the climate agenda mean for India?Natural gas in India’s energy mix: What’s the path?Refining and petrochemicals: Strategies midst surplusThe pace of innovation: Biofuel, hydrogen, CCS, electric vehicles and digital transformationMarket and regulatory reform: What is ahead?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-ceos-of-leading-oil-gas-companies-on-monday/story-TQQbTmpU4eVeOhd5Gz50iK.html
25-10-2020||India||Nine more Covid-19 patients die in Uttarakhand, state tally climbs to 60,376||With 221 new Covid-19 cases, the total tally of coronavirus infections in Uttarakhand touched 60,376 on Sunday. The state reported the death of nine Covid-19 patients. Of these 9 deaths, two were due to coronavirus while the rest were due to co-morbidities. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 positive patients has increased to 993 in Uttarakhand. Out of the 993 deaths, 261 were due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. Out of 60,376 people who have tested positive so far, a total of 54,488 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.25%. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 6.34%. Also, 319 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Sunday with a maximum of 106 from Dehradun district. According to the health bulletin released by the state health department on Sunday evening, of 221 fresh cases, the maximum of 89 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district. The new cases reported from other districts included Bageshwar (1), Chamoli (13), Champawat (8), Haridwar (30), Nainital (21), Pauri Garhwal (13), Pithoragarh (1), Rudraprayag (22), Tehri Garhwal (6), US Nagar (8) and Uttarkashi (9). Dehradun district has so far reported the maximum of 16,764 Covid-19 positive cases followed by Haridwar (10,822), US Nagar (9,372) and Nainital (7,097). The state has so far tested over 9.8 lakh samples of which results of over 16,800 are awaited. Uttarakhand currently has 57 containment zones in six districts including a maximum of 26 in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-more-covid-19-patients-die-in-uttarakhand-state-tally-climbs-to-60-376/story-BZ5H7biDfk1BsoAXXkiXZM.html
25-10-2020||India||Want peace but won’t cede an inch: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said India wants an end to the border tension with China in eastern Ladakh, but at the same time asserted that Indian soldiers will never allow even an inch of the country to be taken away by anyone.The defence minister made the remarks after performing “Shastra Puja” — the customary worship of weapons — at the Sukna-based headquarters of the Indian Army’s 33 Corps in Darjeeling district of West Bengal on the occasion of Dussehra.The defence minister was scheduled to perform the puja at Sherathang, a high-altitude border area near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in Sikkim, but could not go there due to inclement weather, officials said.“India wants an end to the ongoing border tension with China and restoration of peace. This is our objective. But at times, some nefarious incidents keep happening. I am very confident that our soldiers will never allow even an inch of our land to be taken away by anyone,” Singh said after the ceremonyChief of Army Staff General MM Naravane and several senior officers of the Indian Army were present on the occasion at the key military base, which is responsible for guarding the LAC in the Sikkim sector.After performing the puja, Singh inaugurated a new road in Sikkim through a video-conference from Sukna.“I can say with confidence and on the basis of concrete information that the courage and deeds of Indian soldiers during whatever has happened at the India-China border in Ladakh recently will be written in golden letters by the historians,” the minister said without elaborating.Twenty Indian soldiers laid down their lives while valiantly fighting a group of Chinese troops in the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15, an incident that had significantly escalated the border tension between the two countries.China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash, though it has officially admitted to have suffered casualties. According to Indian officials, China suffered “heavy casualties” in the incident.Indian troops also occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rezang La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank of the Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, after the Chinese military attempted to intimidate them in the area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30.Both sides held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row that began on May 5, following a violent clash in eastern Ladakh. However, no breakthrough has been achieved to end the standoff.The defence minister’s “Shastra Puja” at the strategically important military base was a message to India’s adversaries, a military official said.Singh has been performing “Shastra Puja” during Dussehra for the last several years, including during his tenure as the Union home minister in the previous National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.Almost all formations of the Indian Army along the LAC are on a very high level of alert in view of the border row with China in eastern Ladakh.The defence minister arrived at the Sukna-based headquarters of the 33 Corps on Saturday.In an address to a group of soldiers at the base on Saturday evening, Singh said India always tried to maintain good relations with its neighbours, but situations arose from time to time when its armed forces had to make supreme sacrifices to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country.The defence minister also reviewed the combat preparedness of the army during a high-level meeting at the military base.The army has significantly bolstered deployment of troops and weaponry along the nearly 3,500-km-long LAC, including in the Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-peace-but-won-t-cede-an-inch-rajnath-singh/story-FORJIBdsvjsBrHtlHqAuNI.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Character assassination of Maharashtra’s sons’: Uddhav Thackeray speaks about Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday took a veiled dig at actor Kangana Ranaut over the controversy after Sushant Singh Rajput’s death without naming her and said those who hate Maharashtra have left no stone unturned to defame the state.This is the first time Uddhav Thackeray has spoken about the controversies surrounding Rajput’s death that targeted his son Aaditya Thackeray and actor Rhea Chakraborty among others. “Those crying for justice for Bihar’s son are indulging in character assassination of Maharashtra’s sons,” Thackeray said as he broke his silence on allegations against Aaditya Thackeray.The Shiv Sena chief was speaking at his party’s annual Dussehra rally at the Savarkar hall in Dadar area of Mumbai due to the coronavirus norms instead of the usual venue of Shivaji Park.Thackeray said some people come to Mumbai for bread and butter and abuse the city by calling it Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK) but did not name Kangana Ranaut. “People who have no means of livelihood in their home come to Mumbai and betray it. Calling Mumbai as PoK is in fact the failure of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He had said he would get back PoK into India,” Thackeray said.Ranaut had kicked up a controversy after she compared Mumbai with PoK in September. Ranaut’s comment was in response to a remark by Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, asking her not to come back to the city after she claimed she felt unsafe here. She had also made objectionable comments against the Mumbai Police.Also read | ‘Our Hindutva is not clanging bells, utensils,’ says Uddhav Thackeray in Dussehra speechAfter Rajput’s death on June 14, Thackeray’s Shiv Sena-led coalition government was criticised by the Bharatiya Janata Party as well and Ranaut over the handling of the case by Mumbai Police. Mumbai Police, which initially probed Rajput’s death, said it was a case of suicide. However, the actor’s family filed a complaint against Rhea Chakraborty and her relatives, accusing her of stealing his money and driving him to end his life among other things.The case is now being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Several people, including Rhea Chakraborty and her brother, were arrested by NCB, which is probing the drugs angle in connection with Rajput’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/character-assassination-of-maharashtra-s-sons-uddhav-thackeray-speaks-about-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death/story-7hFrz1clY8vlqk5ajjLW3N.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Should be ashamed’: Uddhav Thackeray’s 7 bitter attacks on BJP, Centre in Dussehra speech||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday tore into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Centre as he picked up several issues -- from its poll promise of Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar to what he called was the failure of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime.Thackeray while speaking at his party the Shiv Sena’s annual Dussehra rally said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should acknowledge the failure of GST and revert to the old tax regime. The chief minister also criticised the BJP’s poll promise of Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar as he questioned the party’s understanding of why doesn’t the rest of the country deserve the same medical assistance to fight the pandemic.“It has been a year now. From the day I became the CM, it was being said that the state government will be toppled. I challenge and say that if you have the courage, do it and show,” he said at the annual Dussehra rally held at the Savarkar hall in Dadar due to coronavirus norms instead of the usual venue, the sprawling Shivaji Park.Also read | ‘Our Hindutva is not clanging utensils’: Uddhav Thackeray’s Dussehra speechHere are the seven scathing attacks made by Uddhav Thackeray in his Dussehra speech:1. On Hindutva tussle with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh KoshyariWe are being asked about Hindutva. That why are we not re-opening temples in the state. They say my Hindutva is different from that of Balasaheb Thackeray. Your Hindutva is about clanging bells and utensils, our Hindutva is not like that.2. On Covid-19 vaccine in BJP’s Bihar poll manifestoYou promise a free Covid-19 vaccine in Bihar, then are people of other states from Bangladesh or Kazakhstan. Those speaking like that should be ashamed of themselves. You are at the Centre.3. On allegations against his son Aaditya Thackeray in the Sushant Singh Rajput death caseThose crying for justice for Bihar’s son are indulging in character assassination of Maharashtra’s son.4. On the GST regimeThe GST regime implemented by the government has failed and PM Modi should acknowledge it and revert to the old tax regime. We (Maharashtra) are yet to get our Rs 38,000 crore as GST refund.5. On Centre’s handling of the Covid-19 disease outbreakA peculiar thing is happening around the country. Around the country, Covid-19 has impacted the economy but the government’s focus is on toppling governments in other states. The BJP is inviting anarchy by doing so. Instead of the ‘no alternative’ factor as was the case earlier, people have now started thinking that anyone will do except you.Also read | Mohan Bhagwat knows the truth, just scared: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe at RSS chief’s China comments6. On RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s Dussehra speechThe RSS chief said Hindutva has been narrowed down to only observing puja rituals. Those who wear black caps like him should understand this if they have brains. I have no happiness in shutting down places. Lifting of restrictions is being done cautiously and gradually.7. On Kangana Ranaut equating Mumbai with Pakistan-occupied KashmirPeople who have no means of livelihood in their home come to Mumbai and betray it. Calling Mumbai PoK is in fact the failure of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He had said he would get back PoK into India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-be-ashamed-uddhav-thackeray-s-7-bitter-attacks-on-bjp-centre-in-dussehra-speech/story-pcB0Tsmf8jk4YgTdmWfV9I.html
25-10-2020||India||Top army commanders to review situation in Ladakh, reforms at 4-day conference||Top commanders of the Indian Army will carry out an inclusive assessment of the country’s combat preparedness in sensitive areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and in eastern Ladakh at a four-day conference beginning Monday.Army chief General MM Naravane will be chairing the Army Commanders’ Conference (ACC), a high-level event which is held biannually where important policies are made and decisions are taken. “The commanders will carry out a comprehensive review of the security challenges facing the nation including the situation in eastern Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir,” news agency PTI said quoting a source.The commanders will exclusively deliberate on issues relating to human resource management in the Indian Army and will hold an in-depth discussion on Wednesday on various agenda points, according to the report. According to the PTI report, the top commanders will discuss and decide on the pending reform measures such as cutting down on ceremonial practices and non-military activities to make sure resources are distributed in a rational manner.The commanders will attempt to finalise different reform measures that are recommended by separate internal committees while at the same time focusing on enhancing the operational capability of the force, the sources told the news agency.Apart from army commanders, the conference will also be attended by Principal Staff Officers (PSOs) of the Indian Army headquarters and several other senior officers. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh will address the conference on Tuesday, the report said.Top army officials are also expected to examine a proposal to cut down on the number of security guards assigned at official residences of senior officials. The officials will also study the proposal to reduce the number of CSD canteens if several such facilities are functioning within one station.The conference comes at a time as the armies of India and China gave deployed thousands of along the LAC after the border standoff that began in early May and escalated in June after 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed in a clash with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). The situation in eastern Ladakh continues to remains tense even after several rounds of talks on the military and diplomatic levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-army-commanders-to-review-situation-in-ladakh-reforms-at-4-day-conference/story-dMOwAsWia7975iXgeTBi4K.html
25-10-2020||India||Kerala plans to withdraw general consent given to probe agency CBI||The Kerala government is planning to withdraw the general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) like five other opposition-ruled states. The immediate trigger is the way the central agency took up the Life Mission project case without informing the state government. “The state is seriously considering it. Many states have already withdrawn the consent. There are allegations that the agency is being used to settle political scores. Many states do complain that it is interfering in issues where it has no jurisdiction. We also want to protect the state’s interests,” said state law minister A K Balan. Last week, the Maharashtra government had withdrawn the general consent given to the agency. After withdrawing the consent given under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, the CBI can’t file fresh FIRs but it will not affect the ongoing investigations, said legal experts. Earlier Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan also withdrew consent to the central agency. But in Kerala, opposition Congress and BJP criticized the move saying it was intended to save many in the government allegedly involved in Life Mission project kickbacks. Two weeks back the state government had to rush to the High Court to quash a CBI probe into the Life Mission project and the court had stayed it for two months. A scheme to build free dwelling units for the homeless, irregularities came to light when central agencies were probing the gold smuggling case. When lockers of the main accused in the smuggling case Swapna Suresh were opened they got Rs one crore cash and two kg gold. Later, she reportedly told the agencies that this was the commission she received for clinching a deal with an international aid agency ‘Red Crescent’ which funded the Life Mission project in Vadakancherry in Thrissur district. Later a news channel controlled by the CPI (M) came out with more revelations claiming Rs 4 crore was paid as commission in the Rs 20 crore project. It also came to light that permission of the Union government was not obtained for accepting foreign contribution. The anti-corruption unit of the CBI had registered a case last month under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). But the state government maintained that it will not come under the purview of the FCRA and moved the court to quash the case. The Congress and BJP alleged that there were huge kickbacks in the project so the state government was opposing the CBI probe. But the LDF said the Union Government was using the central agency to discredit the state government. “Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said two days ago in Wayanad that central agencies were misused to target political opponents. How can the state Congress take such a position?” asked CPI (M) leader A Ananthan. State opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the move was aimed at stopping the central agency reaching the CM’s office. “Even a child can make out that huge corruption took place in the Life Mission project. The government is using all means to prevent a central agency probe which will help unravel kickbacks,” he said. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also criticised the move. “CM Pinarayi Vijayan is scared the truth will come out but people will realise the government’s designs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plans-to-withdraw-general-consent-given-to-probe-agency-cbi/story-13ZgUb3ZCyNIMDwYgehj6J.html
25-10-2020||India||Sedition case: Kangana Ranaut, sister seek time till Nov 15 to appear before Mumbai Police||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel have sought time till November 15 to appear before the Mumbai Police in connection with a sedition case. The Bandra Police had summoned the sisters on October 26 and 27 to record their statements but Ranaut’s lawyer, Rizwan Siddiquee, has sent a reply to the police station stating that the sisters are in Himachal Pradesh and are busy with the wedding preparations of their younger brother in their hometown.“My clients Ms. Kangana Ranaut & Ms. Rangoli Chandel will not be attending the Police Station on 26th & 27th because of Wedding preparations & ongoing functions in their hometown concerning their younger brother. I have responded to the summons & sought time after 15th of Nov,” Siddiquee tweeted. My clients Ms. Kangana Ranaut & Ms. Rangoli Chandel will not be attending the Police Station on 26th & 27th because of Wedding preparations & on going functions in their hometown concerning their younger brother. I have responded to the summoms & sought time after 15th of NovBombay High Court had ordered that Ranaut and Chandel must be booked after Bandra metropolitan magistrate JY Ghule took cognizance of the complaint registered by Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer, Munawwarali Sahil Sayyed. The first information report (FIR) was registered under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, etc), 295A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition), 34 (common intention) of the India Penal Code (IPC).The summons was issued by Bandra Police on October 20 and the sisters were directed to come on October 26-27 to record their statements. In his complaint, Sayyed referred to social media posts made by Kangana Ranaut and her sister and has accused them of posting “very objectionable” comments that have hurt not only his religious sentiments but are also very hurtful to other artists in Bollywood. The complainant also accused the sisters of spreading communal hatred, using offensive language and making derogatory comments about Maharashtra’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in their tweets and interviews.Officials of the Bandra Police station have not yet responded to the reply of the actor and her sister.Reacting to the summons, Ranaut took a jibe at the Maharashtra government in a tweet last Thursday. “Obsessed penguin Sena ... Pappupro of Maharashtra, bahut yaad aati hai k-k-k-k-k-Kangana, koi baat nahin jaldi aa jaungi...” she had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sedition-case-kangana-ranaut-sister-seek-time-till-nov-15-to-appear-before-mumbai-police/story-5xpG6vHM6wZVFyzy9zXRPO.html
25-10-2020||India||US secretary of state Mike Pompeo, defence secretary Mark Esper to arrive in India on Monday||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark T Esper will arrive here on Monday for the third edition of the two-plus-two ministerial dialogue which is taking place just a week ahead of the American presidential election and in the midst of India’s festering border row with China. The two-plus-two dialogue will be held on Tuesday. The Indian side at the talks will be represented by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. A host of crucial bilateral, regional and global issues including China’s efforts to expand influence in the Indo-Pacific region as well as its aggressive behaviour in eastern Ladakh is likely to figure in the talks. In the last few months, the US has been ramping up attack on China over a range of contentious issues including the border row with India, its military assertiveness in the South China Sea and the way Beijing handled the anti-government protests in Hong Kong. Last week, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the talks will entail a comprehensive discussion on cross-cutting bilateral issues as well as deliberations on regional and global developments. Pompeo and Esper will have bilateral meetings with their Indian counterparts as well. They are also scheduled to make a joint call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Officials said US Secretary of Defence Esper will be given a tri-services guard of honour at the lawns of South Block in the Raisina Hills on Monday afternoon. It is expected that the two sides may finalise the long-pending BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) agreement to further boost bilateral defence ties. The BECA will provide for sharing of high-end military technology, logistics and geospatial maps between the two countries. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years. In June 2016, the US had designated India a “Major Defence Partner” intending to elevate defence trade and technology sharing with India to a level commensurate with that of its closest allies and partners. The two countries inked the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other’s bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. The two countries signed another pact called COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) in 2018 that provides for interoperability between the two militaries and provides for sale of high end technology from the US to India. The first edition of the two-plus-two dialogue was held in Delhi in September 2018 after the mechanism was approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump. The second edition of the dialogue took place in Washington in December last year. The new framework of the ministerial dialogue was initiated in order to provide a forward-looking vision for the strategic partnership between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-secretary-of-state-mike-pompeo-defence-secretary-mark-esper-to-arrive-in-india-on-monday/story-9SBhVLykE4PE6Syt5NxxZM.html
25-10-2020||India||‘There should be a debate on Uniform Civil Code’: Dattatreya Hosabale||There should be a nation-wide debate on the uniform civil code (UCC) so that people are made aware about what it stands for and what they are going to get, said Dattatreya Hosabale, the joint general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Sunday. The RSS leader said though UCC is defined in the Constitution under the Directive Principles of State Policy, no time frame has been mentioned for its implementation. The demand for a uniform civil code has been supported by the Sangh and its political arm, the Bharatiya Janata Party. In response to a question on the UCC, Hosabale who was addressing a lecture on the foundation day of the RSS organised by the think tank, India Foundation, said, “It is for the government to decide whether it is a good time or not to (to bring a Bill to introduce UCC). We have to educate people about it. People did not know what Article 370 or Article 35A were. Educating people is important.” He said a “proper public debate” helps clear perceptions and cited the example of how the Citizenship Amendment Act that “was not against any section” was misconstrued. “…Unfortunately people raised their voices against that. It is not taking away anyone’s right. It is for those who are persecuted,” he said. To a separate question on the tussle between the Centre and the states on issues of national as well as international concerns, he said India is a federal mechanism, but not a union of states. The ideas of federalism he said should be strengthened as they are essential for growth and development as a nation. The RSS leader also frowned on the slandering and uncivil language used against women on social media and the shouting matches on television debates. He said while the government should ensure there are laws against crime such as rape; but it is important to teach youngsters to respect women and how to behave with them at work places, during travel and in neighbourhoods. “A section of the media are not playing a proper role; particularly the entertainment industry. In the name of entertainment promiscuity is promoted,” he said. He went on to add that commenting on personalities is an unhealthy practice. “Social media has opened up to people an instrument with no ombudsman or censorship; so mature people should lead a movement to see there is no filthy language. Public discourse has to be healthy. Even if someone does not agree with my views, he is not my enemy,” Hosabale said. “TV debates and discussions have not set good examples. Shouting brigades have come…Fringe elements of any ideology or party are not the real representatives. Restraining the fringe is also the responsibility of mature people,” he said. On the issue of terrorism, Hosabale said India has been at the receiving end of terrorism for a decade or more. “There has been talk of planned action against terrorism but how much they have achieved is there for us to see. Religious heads will have to without any hesitation say that in the name of religion no terrorism is permitted… The government should take strict action and society should support them. Terrorism is the enemy of humanity, terrorists are human but have no human rights,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-should-be-a-debate-on-uniform-civil-code-dattatreya-hosabale/story-zAIHx7vhpAEQOkh8cBsYVO.html
25-10-2020||India||GST officials arrest 1 person for trading in fake invoice, generating ITC worth Rs 52.19 crore||GST officials have busted a fake invoice trading racket and arrested a person for passing on input tax credit (ITC) of over Rs 50 crore, a source said on Sunday.The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Pune Zonal Unit, has arrested Tusshar Ashok Munoat who was into ‘trading of fake invoices’ and used to generate fake invoices on commission basis for ineligible ITC availment and pass it on to others fraudulently.Total ITC involved is Rs 52.19 crore approximately, the source added.  Munoat owns M/s Rutu Enterprise and a few other companies such as M/s Reise Enterprises, M/s Namo Enterprises and M/s Patil Contractor, and used to trade fake invoices to earn commission benefit.  The Finance Ministry source also expressed dismay on those lobbying to oppose ‘arrest’ as an essential preventive measure in GST to curb unbridled dishonest activities by such unscrupulous elements and are challenging the provision of arrest in GST in various courts.The source further said that the government has started use of Aadhaar number in GST registration to check the menace of bogus/fake firms and thereby, put a curb on fraudulent availment and passing on of ITC.  Also, serious deliberations are going on in the Department of Revenue for putting such dubious firms under risk category and to block their refunds, besides other appropriate legal actions, as necessary.The source further said that after tracing for long, Munoat was arrested on October 21 from a remote village in Osmanabad district of Maharashtra. He was produced before a Magistrate who rejected his bail application and remanded him to judicial custody till November 2. Pune-based M/s Rutu Enterprises had four GSTIN numbers, one each for Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh; and was shown engaged in civil work such as interior work, construction of building/roads/bridges, pipe line laying work, earth work, electric work, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-officials-arrest-1-person-for-trading-in-fake-invoice-generating-itc-worth-rs-52-19-crore/story-1MWlpBYUx4rg6h1pT3GpGM.html
25-10-2020||India||Tripura to Chennai: Minor lovers elope, authorities bring them home after 5 days||Over a hundred hours after eloping, holding each other’s hands with a promise to stay together, two minors from Tripura were brought back home. Police teams and Child Welfare Committee authorities of Chennai and Tripura worked round the clock in coordination to bring the duo back home.The minors knew each other for six months and decided to leave their house to settle outside Tripura. As per their plan, they took a flight from Agartala and reached Chennai via Kolkata on October 21 when they caught the attention of the airport security personnel. They were handed over to Chennai Child Welfare Committee who informed Tripura authorities about the incident.“Chennai Child Welfare Committee contacted us on October 21 after spotting the minor duo at the airport. Accordingly, we asked our Childline members to fly to Chennai to bring them. Two Childline members went on October 22 and brought them the next day. Currently, the minors are with their parents,” said chairperson of the Child Welfare Committee, Gomati district.Also read: Nitish Kumar will be behind bars if LJP comes to power - Chirag PaswanDuring the initial probe, Childline members found that the duo first met with each other six months ago when the girl (14) visited her relative’s home near the boy’s (17) home. As their love grew deeper, they decided to elope and stay together. The boy took Rs 20,000 from his house and spent most of the money to procure the air tickets. The boy, however, didn’t reveal how he managed to gather the money.Both the minors stay at two different locations, within 5-6 kilometres distance, in Tripura’s Sepahijala district.According to Childline members, the minors left their houses on October 19 and were spotted on October 21 at Chennai airport.“We safely brought them from Chennai on October 23 and handed them over to their parents. We will soon send a team for their counselling,” said coordinator of Childline, Sepahijala district, Mithun Datta.“We found documents, including mark sheets and certificates, an android phone and Rs 2,000-3,000 from the boy’s possession. The girl had a bag with clothes and a cellphone,” said Datta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-to-chennai-minor-lovers-elope-authorities-bring-them-home-after-5-days/story-9IuF8aEBeenzRB4E6pEB9O.html
25-10-2020||India||Mohan Bhagwat knows the truth, just scared: Rahul Gandhi’s jibe at RSS chief’s China comments||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday took a swipe at Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat over his comments on China during the organisation’s Vijayadashami celebrations. Gandhi, who has been relentless in this attack on the government over the border standoff with the neighbouring country, especially picked on the RSS chief’s remarks on Chinese encroachment in Ladakh.“Deep inside, Mr Bhagwat knows the truth. He is just scared to face it. The truth is China has taken our land and GOI & RSS have allowed it,” Gandhi tweeted after Bhagwat’s speech at the RSS’ headquarters in Nagpur.Bhagwat said in his speech in an indoor event, which was attended by 50 swayamsevaks due to Covid-19 guidelines, that India needs to be better than China in terms of military preparedness, adding the world is aware of that country’s expansionist designs. The RSS chief cited Taiwan and Vietnam as examples of the Chinese expansionist designs and said that many countries are now standing up to China.Also read | ‘We are not kids’, Owaisi’s reply to Mohan Bhagwat’s ‘some people misled our Muslim brothers’“Our defence forces, government and people responded sharply to China’s efforts to encroach on our territories,” Bhagwat said claiming that China was shocked at India’s response to its intrusion. “We don’t know how it will react. So the way forward is to be alert and prepared. We should be more powerful than China in terms of military preparedness, economic conditions, international relations and also relations with neighbouring countries,” he said.“China encroached on our borders amid the pandemic,” he said. “We intend to be friendly with all. This is our nature. But mistaking our benevolence for weakness and attempts to disintegrate or weaken us by sheer brute force is unacceptable. Our detractors must know this by now,” he added.Also read | India’s response has stunned China, says Mohan BhagwatThe government should forge an alliance against China with immediate neighbours like Nepal, Sri Lanka and others, he said. “India needs to grow bigger in power and scope than China,” he added.The border row with China has been on for months now and escalated after 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed in Galwan Valley following a clash with troops of the People’s Liberation Army in June. Before that, the tension was already simmering in Ladakh’s Pangong Lake and several other areas. India and China have held several rounds of talks at the military and diplomatic levels but they have been inconclusive so far.The Congress party, led by Rahul Gandhi, has criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government, saying they must talk about the real situation at the Line of Actual Control truthfully.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mohan-bhagwat-knows-the-truth-just-scared-rahul-gandhi-s-jibe-at-rss-chief-s-china-comments/story-HtyyobRxFvQFs1NjJbbSvK.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Our Hindutva is not clanging bells, utensils,’ says Uddhav Thackeray in Dussehra speech||Launching a blistering attack on those who are questioning the Shiv Sena’s Hindutva, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said Balasaheb Thackeray’s Hindutva is not “clanging bells and utensil” during his Dussehra speech on Sunday. Thackeray’s sharp comment comes after a standoff with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who questioned the chief minister’s stance on ‘Hindutva’ after he did not allow the reopening of religious places in the state. दसरा मेळावा २०२० https://t.co/0VeGFShm0L“We are being questioned over Hindutva. Why? Because temples are not being opened. Such people whose name might not be known to anyone beyond their family, are asking us about Hindutva,” the Sena chief said.Also Read: Uddhav Thackeray blocks CBI from probing cases in Maharashtra, withdraws general consentThis year’s Dussehra rally is significant because this is the first time a Sena chief is also the Maharashtra CM. This is also the first time that the grand annual rally was held not on the Shivaji Park ground — where it used to be held traditionally — but at Swatantryaveer Savarkar auditorium opposite the Shivaji Park ground at Dadar in central Mumbai. The change of the venue was due to Covid-19 protocol. The address was live-streamed on Shiv Sena’s social media accounts. “From the day I became the CM, it was being said that the state government will be toppled. They keep giving dates. I challenge and say that if you have the courage, do it and show,” the Shiv Sena chief said.A day after the party criticised BJP’s vaccine promise in Bihar in its Saamana editorial, Uddhav questioned the national role of the government. “You are talking about giving free vaccines in Bihar. Is rest of the country Pakistan or Bangladesh? Those speaking like that should be ashamed of themselves. You are at the centre,” he said. The recent episodes in which Mumbai has apparently eared a bad name — Sushant Singh Rajput death case investigation, Kangana Ranaut comparing Bollywood to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir, Bollywood actors being summoned by Narcotics Control Bureau over dug links — also found mentions in Thackeray’s speech. The Maharashtra government has recently withdrawn the general consent of the state to the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-hindutva-is-not-clanging-bells-utensils-says-uddhav-thackeray-in-dussehra-speech/story-JUvwO2MJxKo6o5A3y7GuII.html
25-10-2020||India||Air India One: Second VVIP aircraft in Prime Minister and President’s fleet arrives in Delhi||The second Boeing 777 VVIP aircraft with missile defence systems, which will serve on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Air India One’ fleet, landed in Delhi on Saturday. The first modified Boeing 777 aircraft had arrived in India earlier in October. The special aircraft will only be used by President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The aircraft was scheduled to be delivered more than a month ago but it was delayed due to operational issues.Earlier in August, the Centre had sent a team of senior government officials, officers from Indian Air Force (IAF) and Air India to the United States for the assessment of the technical requirements and accepting the delivery of the two VVIP aircraft. Air India had sent the two long-haul Boeing 777-300ER aircraft to a Boeing facility in Dallas to be modified for VVIP travel. Air India One, which is the call sign of any aircraft with the Prime Minister or President on board, has its own missile defence system called the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS), which is capable of countering missile threats from an enemy. These defence systems are capable of diverting heat-seeking missiles by disturbing their guidance systems and jamming enemy radar.The Boeing 777 aircraft, which is on par with the US President’s Air Force One in terms of security measures, will be operated by Indian Air Force pilots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-one-second-vvip-aircraft-in-prime-minister-and-president-s-fleet-arrives-in-delhi/story-r17Uf6zsn24XkWTnZRG2vN.html
25-10-2020||India||Dengue is under control in Delhi, says Arvind Kejriwal||Dengue is under control in Delhi like it was last year, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. He was speaking on the 8th Sunday of ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ campaign against the vector-borne disease. Kejriwal changed water from potted plants and checked other sources of stagnant water at his residence under the campaign. The anti-dengue campaign was also supported by celebrities, including singer Shankar Mahadevan, who encouraged people to follow preventive measures against the disease. “On the 8th Sunday of Delhi’s fight against dengue, I inspected my house for accumulated water and changed it. To prevent dengue, we have to stop the breeding of mosquitoes. Just like last year, dengue is under control in Delhi. Delhi is defeating dengue for the second consecutive year,” Kejriwal said in a tweet.  The species of mosquito which causes dengue thrives in clean stagnant water. Water that deposits in pots, coolers, unused tires, vases and such sources need to be drained under the campaign.  Mosquito breeding can be checked by adding a small layer of oil or petrol to the accumulated water, and covering water tanks with lids. The campaign encourages people to devote ten minutes at 10 am on Sundays for eight weeks to check mosquito breeding and encourages them to influence their 10 friends to follow suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dengue-is-under-control-in-delhi-says-arvind-kejriwal/story-N4wp9bcx9E1Sxx8eNsTbyM.html
25-10-2020||India||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das tests positive for Covid-19||Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das has tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Requesting people who have recently come in contact with him to get tested or check their health, Das said he will isolate himself and will continue work. Day-to-day functioning of RBI will go on normally and the Governor is in touch with deputy governors and other officers through video conferencing and telephone. Giving update about his health, he said he is feeling fine and doesn’t have any major symptom. I have tested COVID-19 positive. Asymptomatic.Feeling very much alright.Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days.Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all Dy. Govs and other officers through VC and telephone.“I have tested COVID-19 positive. Asymptomatic.Feeling very much alright.Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days.Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all Dy. Govs and other officers through VC and telephone,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-governor-haktikanta-das-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-vB4S0eaelQkqUvBb6rTROO.html
25-10-2020||India||Like Ram Mandir, Article 370 move, PM Modi ‘decided’ date of war with China, says UP BJP chief||Amid the ongoing standoff between India and China, BJP’s Uttar Pradesh chief Swatantra Dev Singh has said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided when the country would be at war with Pakistan and China. Like the abrogation of Article 370, the construction of Ram Temple, everything has been decided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Swartandra Dev could be heard saying in a video clip that is now doing the rounds on various social media platforms.“Like the decisions on Ram Mandir and Article 370, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided when there would be war with China,” the Uttar Pradesh party chief said amid claps. Reports said the video is from an event on Friday at BJP MLA Sanjay Yadav’s house. Apart from Article 370, Ram temple and India China war, the BJP chief mentioned India-Pakistan war as he said all dates have been fixed by Modi. “Sambandhit tithi tai hai,” he said in Hindi, claiming that a decision has been taken on the date. “But he won’t let down the poor of the country, he won’t allow the country to be disrespected. We are on the path of Ram and Krishna,” he added.As the remark stoked a fresh controversy over this “date” remark, local MP Ravindra Kushwaha said to PTI that the BJP president made them to boost the morale of party workers.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-ram-mandir-article-370-move-pm-modi-decided-date-of-war-with-china-says-up-bjp-chief/story-TRdTLWjSfrNr1P7POhL5eL.html
25-10-2020||India||32 Maoists surrender in Dantewada, four carried reward of Rs 1 lakh each||Thirty-two Maoists, including four carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh each on their head, surrendered before the Chhattisgarh Police in Dantewada district, police said on Sunday. As per a press release issued by the district police, 19 surrendered Maoists are natives of Bakeli village, four from Korkotti and three each from Udenar, Tumarigunda and Matasi villages which come under Barsoor police station of Dantewada district. Police further claimed that the Maoists surrendered under ‘Lon Varratu’ drive under which banners were put up in their villages, appealing them to surrender. The surrendered cadres were involved in the attack on security forces and other Maoists violence in the district, police added. “Four of them carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh each on their them and were absconding,” the press release stated. Dantewada police provided them with Rs 10,000 as immediate assistance. Other facilities under Chhattisgarh Surrender and Rehabilitation policy will follow. Also read: Against China, India needs to be militarily better prepared: Mohan BhagwatAs per records, at least 150 purported Maoists have laid down their arms and surrendered under the ongoing ‘Lon Varratu’ campaign in the past four months across around 50 villages of the Left-wing Extremism (LWE)-hit Dantewada district. However, the tribal rights activists raised questions on this campaign and claimed that an innocent tribal is trapped between Chhattisgarh Police, other paramilitary security forces and the Maoists. Under the programme, the activists alleged, the police are forcing innocent tribals to turn themselves in. ‘Lon Varratu’ in the tribal Gond dialect means homecoming. The police have earmarked about 50 hypersensitive Maoist-dominated villages where pamphlets have been put up with an appeal for them to surrender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-maoists-surrender-in-dantewada-four-carried-reward-of-rs-1-lakh-each/story-BcLz0xV0trzsurAfxOYV2O.html
25-10-2020||India||Against China, India needs to be militarily better prepared, says RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said India needs to be more powerful than China in terms of military preparedness, adding the world is aware of that country’s expansionist designs.Speaking at the Sangh’s annual Vijayadashami rally, which this time was limited to an indoor event attended by 50 ‘swayamsevaks’ due to Covid-19 guidelines, Bhagwat said India needs to be militarily better prepared against China.Many countries are now standing up to China, he said.Claiming that China was shocked at India’s response to its intrusion, Bhagwat said, “Our defence forces, government and people responded sharply to China’s efforts to encroach on our territories.” “We dont know how it will react. So the way forward is to be alert and prepared. We should be more powerful than China in terms of military preparedness, economic conditions, international relations and also relations with neighbouring countries,” he said.The government should forge an alliance against China with immediate neighbours like Nepal, Sri Lanka and others, he said. “India needs to grow bigger in power and scope than China,” he added.“China encroached on our borders amid the pandemic,” he said, adding the world knows the expansionist nature of that country. He cited Taiwan and Vietnam as examples of the Chinese expansionist designs.“We intend to be friendly with all. This is our nature. But mistaking our benevolence for weakness and attempts to disintegrate or weaken us by sheer brute force is unacceptable. Our detractors must know this by now,” he said.Bhagwat said India is a Hindu Rashtra and Hindutva is the essence the country’s selfhood.“When the RSS says Hindustan is a Hindu Rashtra, it does not have any political or power-centred concept in its mind,” Bhagwat said.He said the term Hindutva has been distorted by appending a ritualistic connotation to it.The Sangh believes the term is applicable to all 1.3 billion people in the country who call themselves the sons and daughters of Bharatvarsh...and who are proud of the heritage of their ancestors, he said.On the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), Bhagwat said it is not against any particular religious community, but “some people misled our Muslim brothers” claiming it was aimed at restricting their population.“There was opposition to CAA claiming it was being used to check the Muslim population in the country. In fact, no Indian citizen was threatened due to CAA,” he said.Before the issue could be discussed further, the focus shifted to coronavirus, which overshadowed all other topics, he added.“We need not fear coronavirus, but should be alert and cautious. We cannot stop living. Coronavirus is spreading but fatalities are less. Due to the pandemic, we have started learning the importance of hygiene, cleanliness, environment, family values all over again,” he said.“Coronavirus has given rise to challenges of unemployment. Many lost jobs and labourers are now returning to cities. But the jobs may not be there. The challenge is to create employment opportunities in different places,” he said.Bhagwat said before the pandemic, several issues which were in the public discourse took a backseat.“Article 370 was abrogated, the country accepted the Supreme Court verdict on Ram temple with patience and understanding,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/against-china-india-needs-to-be-militarily-better-prepared-says-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat/story-PlW3GkIT18L6C4pw83QKiJ.html
25-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Key constituencies and their candidates||Bihar, the first state to hold assembly elections amid the coronavirus pandemic, will witness the first phase of polling on October 28. The Election Commission had announced the poll schedule for Bihar assembly elections on September 25. Polling in second and third phases will take place on November 3 and November 7 respectively. While voting will be held on 71 seats in the first phase, 94 seats in second phase and 78 seats will undergo polling in last phase. The results of the Bihar assembly election will be declared on November 10.Here are high-profile seats, which that will draw attention from across the country during the Bihar assembly elections:1. Tejaswi Yadav, the former deputy chief minister of the state, is contesting from the Raghopur seat. In 2015, Tejaswi defeated the then Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) leader Satish Kumar from the constituency. The seat is considered as the Rashtriya Janta Dal’s stronghold. Lalu Prasad Yadav and Rabdi Devi both represented the constituency in the state assembly from 1995 to 2010. In 2010, Rabdi Devi lost the seat to the then Janta Dal (U) leader Satish Kumar. Satish Kumar has now joined BJP after the JD(U) denied him ticket from Raghopur. In 2015, the 30-year-old Yadav scion had defeated Satish Kumar.2. Hasanpur assembly seat will have another Yadav family member fighting the Bihar assembly elections. Tej Pratap, a sitting MLA from Mahua assembly in Vaisali district, has changed the constituency to Hasanpur this time. Yadavs and Muslims are in majority in the constituency. Tej Pratap will face Janata Dal (United) sitting MLA Raj Kumar Ray, who had in 2015 defeated Binod Choudhary of BLSP.3. Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a friend-turned-foe-turned-friend of chief minister Nitish Kumar, is contesting from the Imamganj seat. HAM(S) is one of the allies of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). In 2015, Manjhi won from the Imamgarh seat as an Independent candidate and defeated then JD(U) leader Uday Narayan Choudhary. Now, Choudhary has left the JD(U) for the RJD. The RJD has pitted former assembly speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary against the former chief minister Manjhi. Choudhary has represented the constituency thrice from 2000 to 2015.4. Bankipur constituency is one of the high-profile seats in Bihar. Nitin Nabin is taking on former BJP leader Shatrughan Sinha’s son Luv Sinha on a Congress ticket and Pushpam Priya Chaudhary of newly-formed Plurals Party. The BJP’s Nitin Nabin has held the Bankipur legislative assembly seat since 2006. Before Nitin, his father Nabin Kishor Prasad Sinha represented the BJP in the constituency. Pushpam Priya is the chief ministerial candidate for her party. In 2015, Nitin Nabin had defeated Congress’ Ashish Kumar by 39,767 votes.5. From the Jale constituency, Maskoor Usmani is contesting on a Congress ticket. Usmani, the former Aligarh Muslim University Students’ Union president, is known for protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. He also drew attention in the Jinnah portrait row in Aligarh in 2018. Congress has never won the seat since 1995. Usmani is pitted against the BJP’s sitting MLA, Jeevesh Kumar.6. Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, the former heavyweight MP from Madhepura and chief of Jan Adhikar Party-Loktantrik (JAP-L) is contesting from the Madhepura assembly seat. He is pitted against the RJD’s Chandrashekhar, a sitting MLA, and the JD(U) leader Nikhil Mandal. In May 2015, Pappu Yadav was suspended from the RJD.7. Speaker of state assembly Vijay Kumar Choudhary is contesting from the Sarairanjan seat in Samastipur as a Janata Dal(United) nominee. He is the current MLA from the constituency. Choudhary is pitted against Arvind Kumar Sahni of the RJD. Choudhary is a five-term MLA from Sarairanjan and considered a confidant of CM Nitish Kumar.8. Suhasini Yadav, the daughter of a socialist veteran and chief of Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) Sharad Yadav, is contesting from the Bijariganj assembly seat in Madhepura district on a Congress ticket. She is taking on Niranjan Kumar Mehta of the JD(U). In the 2015 Bihar assembly election, Mehta defeated BJP leader Ravindra Charan from the same seat.9. Shravan Kumar, the parliamentary affairs and rural development minister in the Nitish Kumar government, is contesting from Nalanda to seek re-election as a JD(U) candidate. He is pitted against Gunjan Patel of the Congress.10. Manju Verma, a former minister in Nitish Kumar government, is contesting from the Cheria Bariyarpur seat in Begusarai. Rajvanshi Mahto of the RJD is challenging her in the constituency. Manju Verma is a two-term MLA from Cheria Bariyarpur and will be in the fray for a third consecutive term.11. Abdul Bari Siddiqui, a former MP and minister of finance during the RJD-JD(U) coalition government, is contesting from the Keoti assembly seat as an RJD nominee. He has been challenged by the BJP’s Murari Mohan Jha. Abdul Bari became an MLA in 1977 for the first time from Bahera constituency.12. Krishnandan Prasad Verma, the education minister in the state government, is contesting from the Jehanabad assembly seat. He is pitted against Kumar Krishna Mohan alias Suday Yadav of the RJD. Suday Yadav won the by-poll after his father Mundrika Singh’s death in 2017.13. Shreyasi Singh, a national shooter and the daughter of former Union minister Digvijay Singh, is contesting from the Jamui assembly seat on a BJP ticket. She is challenging sitting MLA Vijay Prakash of the RJD. The late Digvijay Singh was a three-term MLA from Jamui constituency.14. Chandrika Rai, a former minister and the father-in-law of Lalu Yadav’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, is contesting from the Parsa assembly seat in Saran on a JD(U) ticket. He is pitted against Chote Lal Rai of the RJD. Chandrika Rai is a six-term MLA from Parsa. He was first elected to the state assembly in 1985 on a Congress ticket.15. Sandeep Saurav, a former JNU student leader, is contesting from the Paliganj assembly seat as CPI-ML (Liberation) nominee. He is pitted against Jay Vardhan Yadav, a sitting MLA, from the JD(U).16. Nand Kishore Yadav, the state’s road construction minister, is contesting from Patna Saheb seat as a BJP candidate. Praveen Kushwaha of the Congress is challenging his state assembly membership. Patna Saheb is a BJP bastion. Nand Kishore Yadav has been representing the BJP in the state assembly since 1995.17. Anant Singh, a criminal-turned-politician and sitting Mokama MLA, is once again contesting from the Mokama assembly seat on RJD ticket. Rajiv Lochan Narayan of the Janata Dal (United) is challenging him in the constituency. In 2015, Anant Singh won the assembly election from the constituency as an Independent candidate. Before that, he was a member of the JD(U). 18. Lovely Anand, a former MP and the wife of strongman Anand Mohan, is contesting from the Saharsa assembly seat as an RJD candidate. She is pitted against Alok Ranjan Jha of the BJP.19. Divya Prakash, daughter of former Union minister Jay Prakash Yadav, is contesting from the Tarapur assembly as an RJD candidate. She is pitted against Mewa Lal Choudhary of the JD(U).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-key-constituencies-and-their-candidates/story-rGFxIfnbOYavi9i7FzGwWI.html
25-10-2020||India||Road safety: Experts call for stringent medical checks before issuing driving licenses||Two recent incidents have brought to light the rather casual manner in which driving licenses are issued without conducting necessary medical tests. On August 31, 46-year-old Sameer Ali Sayyed drove his Maruti Suzuki Esteem right into a restaurant located on the busy Karnac Bunder street in South Mumbai killing five people and injuring three others. Sayyed had suffered an epileptic attack and had lost control over the vehicle. It was not the first time when Sayyed was involved in such an accident. In May 2020, he suffered a similar attack and crashed his vehicle leaving a woman injured. Sayyed, at that time, had not revealed his medical condition to avoid his license from getting suspended. More recently, on October 20, BEST bus driver Haridas Patil suffered a heart attack while he was driving the bus. Patil lost control over the vehicle which crashed into a signal post at Vasant Park near Chembur and also damaged a small vegetable shop. Luckily, nobody was injured in the accident. India, which continued to top road accident deaths for the second consecutive year in 2019, is yet to have a stringent mechanism of testing the medical condition of driving license applicants. The process is stringent when it comes to most developed countries. Also read: Coronavirus is pummeling Europe’s eateries — and winter is comingBhushan Kumar Upadhyay, additional director general of Maharashtra highway police said, “Although, accidents due to medical conditions of the driver may comprise a small portion of the overall road accidents numbers but it’s a serious issue and cannot be ignored. Medical conditions impact drivers physically as well as mentally, it may (indirectly) contribute to the circumstances that lead to accidents.” Former Director-General of Maharashtra Police Dr PS Pasricha, who was also chairman of the All India Road Safety Committee, said, “Road safety system in our country has always been affected by a very casual approach. There are some sections in the existing road transport laws and rules which need to be seriously reviewed. Medical fitness certification is one of them.” “We do not have a system in place that can identify a driving license holder with an unfit medical condition. While that can be a problem with many other countries, and not just India, it doesn’t mean that nothing can be done for effective prevention of accidents that occur due to the medical condition of drivers. We can simply do it by making the pre-license issuing procedure more rigorous.” The duties of drivers and riders, as defined under the Motor Vehicles (Driving) Regulations, 2017 states, “The driver shall ensure that at the time of driving a vehicle, he is in full control of his physical and mental abilities and physically and mentally fit to drive a vehicle.” It reflects when a Regional Transport Officer from Mumbai, requesting anonymity, questioned, “Why would a medically unfit person take to driving in the first place and risk his/her own life?” An RTO officer, who requested anonymity, explained the existing system and said, “An applicant seeking a driving license to drive a private car or a motorcycle (not commercial/transport/heavy vehicle), need to just submit a self-declaration (Form-1 which covers physical fitness and eyesight effectiveness in seven points) declaring that he/she is fit to drive a non-commercial vehicle. The applicant need not produce a medical fitness certificate issued by a medical practitioner. The applicant would be granted a driving license for 20-years after duly following all the procedures.” Only those applicants who are above 50-years of age and applying for a fresh driving license would have to submit a medical fitness certificate, compulsorily, he added. Also read: ‘Don’t presume to know ...’ - Omar Abdullah to Ravi Shankar PrasadApplicants seeking a driving license to drive a transport vehicle or a commercial vehicle have to compulsorily submit both - self-declaration and medical certificate and at both the stages (while freshly applying for license and at the time of renewal), he further said. A senior transport official, who has been very active in road safety initiatives, on the condition of anonymity said that the procedure and the system to check the medical fitness of a driver while issuing the license is very ineffective, casual, non-stringent and outdated. “Commercial vehicles or transport vehicles (except hazardous chemical vehicles) drivers need to submit the medical certificate to get a license but after getting the license, the driver undergoes medical examination/review for fitness only after five years at the time of the renewal of the license. What if he develops any serious medical condition between those five years, putting his own and others lives at risk?” the officer questioned. The existing rules say that only those applicants are eligible to get a driving license who, at the time of the driving test, manage to convince the officer that they have a “sound mind” and “sound physical fitness”. Vinayak Joshi, an expert in defensive driving said, “With the help of the agents (outside RTO) driving license seekers in Mumbai easily get a medical certificate from a ‘doctor’ practising right outside the RTO office in just Rs 50. Because of such unprofessional, unethical and corrupt practices, there is no strict scrutiny as far as the medical fitness of the applicant is concerned. He/she is given a fitness certificate based on his/her physical appearance. No serious inspection, study or analysis of his/her medical history is done that can probably put light on his inability to drive a vehicle, or need for a medical review.” “How can the system expect from an RTO officer to make such an important observation in a person without having any expertise? To ascertain whether an individual has a sound mind his/her psychological profiling and analysis is required and only medical professionals would be able to assess it. Also, medical professionals can also understand if an applicant is short-tempered. Determining such conditions is very important as it could turn any small incident into a major road rage situation. Remember, driving is not just a skill but also an attitude,” says Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer, Pune. A driver should also have a strong sixth sense or foresight. RTO officers are not qualified to determine whether an individual seeking a license has these important abilities or not, Sasane added. General Practitioners (GP) are bound to report ‘at-risk’ drivers in countries like the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Great Britain, Hungary, Latvia, Norway, Poland, Portugal and Sweden. Dr Pasricha said, “There should be a legal obligation on the doctors to report unfit medical conditions of a driver to the RTO as a preventive measure but, again, the matter of breach of privacy would arise. So, this issue needs some brainstorming to arrive at a solution that would bring legal obligation on doctors and, at the same time, to ensure that the privacy of a patient is not breached.” “The government need to form a team which can study the rules and laws related to medical standards for the assessment of the fitness of the driver of other countries and pick up their best practices to suit our needs,” added Pasricha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-safety-experts-call-for-stringent-medical-checks-before-issuing-driving-licenses/story-3hOi0lLwIjX7JnZFfTkrZK.html
25-10-2020||India||What are the 2+2 talks and what do they mean for US and India?||India and the United States are set to meet for the third ministerial 2+2 talks to be attended by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh and US secretary of state Michael Pompeo along with defence secretary Mark Esper in New Delhi on October 26 and October 27. The talks are part of the larger military cooperation between New Delhi and Washington and are crucial for both India and the US.Here’s what you need to know about the 2+2 talks:What are ‘2+2 talks’?‘2+2 talks’ is a term adopted in foreign diplomacy that implies a dialogue between two countries’ defence and external affairs ministries. India holds such talks with Japan and Australia as well but at the foreign secretary and defence secretary level. It is only with the US that India holds ministerial-level talks. Also read: India-US 2+2 dialogue to focus on regional security cooperation and defence information-sharing What happened in the previous 2+2 talks?India and the US have met for two 2+2 talks - one held in New Delhi in September 2018 and the second held in Washington DC in December 2019. The talks resulted in agreements known as Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) and Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA). LEMOA allows both countries to have access to each other’s designated military facilities for refuelling and replenishment. COMCASA is an Indian specific agreement, which provides a legal framework for the transfer of communication security equipment with no disruption in supply from the US to India and also provides access to real-time classified information from the American navy for the Indian Navy. What is on the table during the 2+2 talks now?The focus of the dialogue will be the Indo-Pacific region and India’s neighbourhood. Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) is likely to be signed in these talks and it will enable India to use American expertise on geospatial intelligence and also help India’s weapon and automate hardware systems.What do these talks mean for India and US?For New Delhi, the talks come at a time of a bitter standoff with China at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and for the US they come at the cusp of the presidential elections scheduled to be held on November 3 in which the incumbent President Donald Trump has taken a tough stance on China. Therefore, for both the countries China and its aggressive rise is the “area of common interest”. Although strategic experts have been wary of the outcome of the talks as they are the last major diplomatic engagement before the US presidential polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-are-the-2-2-talks-and-what-do-they-mean-for-us-and-india/story-JJBMLcMkoVQ7NYKUl17WdP.html
25-10-2020||India||Senior citizen becomes third Covid-19 patient to die by suicide at Patna’s AIIMS||A 68-year-old Covid-19 patient died by suicide at Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Sunday morning, officials said. This was the third Covid-19 patient to have died by suicide at the institute. “The patient from Siwan was admitted in the general ward and found dead in the bathroom Sunday morning,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna. “The patient was admitted to our institute on October 7 after testing Covid-19 positive. He was on the road to recovery and we were planning to discharge him, when we got the news of his death,” he added. “Preliminary inquiry from patients in the ward suggests that the patient was apparently mentally depressed for the past few days,” added Dr Kumar. Earlier, a 38-year-old locomotive driver of the Indian Railways, posted in Delhi, and hailing from Khagaul in Patna, died on June 22. A month later, a 21-year-old youth from Bihta jumped to death on July 25 from the ward on the third floor of the institute where he was undergoing treatment. The condition of deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, who was admitted to the AIIMS-Patna on October 22, as well as Gaya MP Vijay Kumar Manjhi and former state minister Narendra Singh, all undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna after testing positive for the virus, was improving, said Dr Kumar. Meanwhile, 749 new infections were reported Sunday, pushing the total number of Covid-19 cases to 2,12,192 in Bihar. The maximum 238 cases were from state capital Patna, followed by Muzaffarpur 60, Nalanda 38, East Champaran 30, Purnia and Bhagalpur 25, Jehanabad 24, Katihar 22 each among others. Patna with 34,533 cumulative cases topped the state tally, followed by Muzaffarpur 9,619 cases and Bhagalpur 8,332 cases, as on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-citizen-becomes-third-covid-19-patient-to-die-by-suicide-at-patna-s-aiims/story-9VaiwHd0VKh83Xh0QYQksJ.html
25-10-2020||India||‘We are not kids’, Owaisi’s reply to Mohan Bhagwat’s ‘some people misled our Muslim brothers’||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi sharply reacted to RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s comment that “Muslim brothers” have been misguided about the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and said Muslims are not kids who will be “misguided”.“We’re not kids to be ‘misguided’. BJP didn’t mince words about what CAA+NRC were meant to do. If it’s not about Muslims, just remove all references to religion from the law,” Owaisi wrote on Twitter. We're not kids to be 'misguided'. BJP didn't mince words about what CAA+NRC were meant to do. If it's not about Muslims, just remove all references to religion from the law? Know this: we'll protest again & again till there are laws that require us to prove our Indianness...[1] https://t.co/uccZ8JTjsi“Know this: we’ll protest again & again till there are laws that require us to prove our Indianness,” Owaisi added.Talking about anti-CAA protests, Bhagwat, in his annual Dussehra address, said, “CAA does not oppose any particular religious community. But those who wanted to oppose this new law misled our Muslim brothers by propagating a false notion that it was aimed at restricting the Muslim population. Using CAA, opportunists unleashed organised violence in the name of protests.” We'll protest against any law with religion as basis of citizenship. I also want to tell Congress, RJD & their clones: your silence during the agitation is not forgotten. While BJP leaders were calling people of Seemanchal 'ghuspethiye', RJD-INC didn't open their mouths once [2] Upping the ante, Owaisi attacked Congress, RJD too as he slammed Bhagwat’s comment on Muslims being misguided about CAA. “We’ll protest against any law with religion as basis of citizenship. I also want to tell Congress, RJD and their clones: your silence during the agitation is not forgotten. While BJP leaders were calling people of Seemanchal ‘ghuspethiye’, RJD-INC didn’t open their mouths once,” Owaisi wrote. AIMIM is contesting in 24 seats in the Bihar Assembly Election 2020 as part of the Grand Democratic Secular Front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-not-kids-owaisi-s-reply-to-mohan-bhagwat-s-some-people-misled-our-muslim-brothers/story-l4SbKOsEc4DMSBXbQmKY4H.html
25-10-2020||India||Dasara doll festival: Karnataka based family displays dolls depicting different themes||Members of a Shivamogga based family on Saturday celebrated the Dasara doll festival by putting dolls depicting various themes on display at their residence.Dasara doll festival is an age-old tradition in old Mysuru province including Shivamogga.Dasara Bombe (Dasara doll) installation, depicting various avatars of Gods and Goddesses is a part of auspicious Navaratri festival in Southern Karnataka.Prakash along with his family in Shivamogga installed many idols with different themes.Mysuru palace, Jamboo Savari, Village life, early life of Lord Krishna and also replicas of Buddhist temples in China were put on display.Speaking to ANI, Prakash said, “We have been celebrating this festival for the past two generations. Our aim is to show the victory of good over evil to the new generation. We have collected many dolls from various parts of India and abroad. We have arranged them in the descending order of ages. We have put gods on the top and then come to the era of Rishis and Munis.”The 10th day of Sharad Navratri is celebrated as Dussehra or Vijaya Dashami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dasara-doll-festival-karnataka-based-family-displays-dolls-depicting-different-themes/story-b1pfkjjdYlGtvMwSQHXV7O.html
25-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate jumps from 71% to over 90% in a month||Within a month, the recovery rate in Uttarakhand has jumped from 71% to over 90 %, health officials said Sunday.There is not a single district where the recovery rate is below 80%.On Saturday, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 60,000 mark. Out of 60,155 who tested positive so far, a total of 54,169 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.05%. JC Pandey, public relations officer (PRO) of the state health department said in the last few weeks, the pandemic situation has improved significantly in Uttarakhand with improvement in most of the metrics, especially the recovery rate which has crossed over 90 %. “Of over 60,000 people who have tested positive so far, there are only 4,542 active cases at present. This is due to the cumulative efforts of doctors, health staff, district officials and police personnel, who have worked towards checking the spread of the virus in the state and provided the best possible healthcare to the people who test positive”, he said. Pandey said the Uttarakhand government has strengthened the surveillance and control measures against the epidemic in a consistent manner. “The state government has operationalised 37 dedicated Covid hospitals and 417 Covid Care Centres (CCC) across the state. To facilitate the early management of Covid-19 positive patients, the government has designated 19 private hospitals as Covid dedicated facilities”, he said Anoop Nautiyal, from NGO Social Development for Communities Foundation, who has been analysing the Covid-19 data in the state, said the last one week (October 18-24), which was the 32nd week of the epidemic in the state, has been very good when one looks at the Covid metrics. “Recovery rate, which was around 71 % on September 22, has now crossed over 90 %. Over 85,000 samples were sent for testing in the last one week, which is highest in a week so far. We also had the lowest positivity rate in 15 weeks, the lowest number of positive cases in 11 weeks, active cases below 5,000 in the last nine weeks and lowest number of deaths of Covid positive people in eight weeks,” he said. The state has so far tested over 9.73 lakh samples for Covid-19. Since the pandemic began in the state in mid-March, 960 people have died of Covid-19 and comorbidities. The maximum number of Covid-19 cases have been reported from Dehradun district (16,675) followed by Haridwar (10792), US Nagar (9364) and Nainital (7076).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-jumps-from-71-to-over-90-in-a-month/story-L84JQP5NKLYlEwMpSv5icO.html
25-10-2020||India||Hindutva is essence of India’s self-hood: Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said India is a “Hindu Rashtra”and Hindutva is the essence the country’s self-hood.Speaking at the RSS’s annual Vijayadashami rally here which was broadcast online and attended 50 swayamsevaks (volunteers) due to the Covid-19 guidelines, Bhagwat said when the Sangh says Hindustan is “Hindu Rashtra”, it does not have any political or power-centered concept in its mind.“Hindutva is the essence of this Rashtras Swa(self-hood). We are plainly acknowledging the self-hood of the country as Hindu because all our socio-cultural practices are directed by its principles with their spirit percolating in the personal, familial, professional and social life of each one of us,” he said.The RSS chief said the term Hindutva has been “distorted” by appending a ritualistic connotation to it. The Sangh does not use it to refer to this misconception.“To us, it is the word expressing our identity along with the continuity of its spirituality based traditions and its entire wealth of value system in the land of Bharat,” Bhagwat said.“Therefore, the Sangh believes it is the word applicable to all 1.3 billion people who call themselves the sons and daughters of Bharatvarsh, whose every day life is striving towards an alignment with its moral and ethical code and who are proud of the heritage of their ancestors who successfully traversed the same spiritual landscape since time immemorial,” Bhagwat said.He said being oblivious to the true meaning of this term weakens the thread that integrates us with this country and society.“It is for this reason that this term is the first target of castigation by those who instigate inter-group conflicts, who are bent on splitting our country and society,” he said.By presenting as separate our diversities which are traditionally accepted, respected and are a part of larger scope of Hindu philosophy in reality, they try to convert them into a source of alienation or separatism, Bhagwat said.“Hindu is not the name of some sect or denomination, it is not a provincial conceptualisation, it is neither a single castes lineage nor the privilege of the speakers of a specific language.“There may be some who have an objection in accepting this term. We do not object their using other words if the content in their mind is the same,” he said.However, in the interest of the countrys integrity and security, the Sangh has over the years humbly assimilated the colloquial and global interpretations of the term Hindu, Bhagwat said.He further said being Hindu does not require giving up one’s faith, language, land or any other identity marker. It only mandates an abandonment of the quest for supremacy.“One has only to be alert and keep away from the selfish and hateful forces who confuse and instigate people by showing them false dreams of supremacy, encourage radicalism and foster separatism,” he said.Dwelling on the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, he said India stood strong in the face of adversity and dealt with the calamity effectively.“There are some reasons why we escaped corona debilitation that few countries could not. Our governing and administrative agencies promptly sprung up in action. They cautioned citizens, created emergency task forces and efficiently implemented control measures,” the RSS chief said.Government officials, medical practitioners, police officers, municipality workers and cleaners displayed an extraordinary sense of responsibility by dedicatedly serving the infected patients, he said.Citizens of the country too mobilised private resources and left no stone unturned in offering all possible help to their fellow beings, he noted.“The larger picture was that of sensitivity, cooperation and mutual trust between governmental administrative agencies and society,” Bhagwat said.He also talked about reflecting on the centuries’ old culture ethos of the country. “Many of our traditional habits pertaining to cleanliness and hygiene, healthy lifestyle and strengthening immunity with the science of Ayurveda also proved to be useful in this period,” he said.Bhagwat asked for restarting educational institutions, compensating teachers, resending students to their schools and colleges while paying fee for the same.He noted that in cases where families are facing deprivation, stress creeps up in the households. To prevent negative dispositions like crime, depression and suicide, there is an extensive need of counselling and support services at this time, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindutva-is-essence-of-india-s-self-hood-mohan-bhagwat/story-hGYiWUNM5Gzc8vKZogox0I.html
25-10-2020||India||Covid-19 situation contained in Delhi, govt doing all it can: Health minister Satyendar Jain||The coronavirus pandemic situation in Delhi is under control and the government is carrying out containment, contact tracing and isolation to tackle the issue, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Sunday.“Dr Paul expert committee had said that due to winter and festive season cases (of the coronavirus disease per day) can spike up to 12,000-14,000 but right now it is around 4,000 so the situation is contained. We are focused on containment, contact tracing and isolation to tackle the situation,” Jain said, according to news agency ANI.Jain was referring to the report of the high-level expert committee led by NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul which had said that hospitals in Delhi should prepare for 15,000 daily cases owing to a spike in respiratory illnesses with winter setting in along with Covid-19 cases.Also read | Delhi airport to soon start Covid-19 testing for international departuresThe committee had listed three reasons which may lead to a surge in cases. “Winter months that make respiratory illnesses severe; patients may come from outside from Delhi in large numbers; patients coming from distant areas are likely to be get more serious. In addition, with festival gatherings, there could be a sudden rise in the cases,” the report had said.Paul, who heads the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), had also said in an interview to PTI earlier this month that India could see a second wave of coronavirus infections in the winters as he cited the rising cases in Europe. “We cannot rule out (a second coronavirus wave this winter in India). Things can happen and we are still learning about the virus,” Paul said, according to PTI.Delhi had recorded 4,116 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike in 35 days, and the death toll in the national capital mounted to 6,225. These fresh cases resulted from 55,461 tests conducted the previous day. It was the second consecutive day when more than 4,000 new cases were reported. According to the health bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Saturday, 4,116 fresh cases were reported. On Friday, 4,086 new cases were recorded and 3,882 a day before.The previous highest single-day spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease was recorded on September 18, when 4,127 new infections were recorded. New cases in Delhi had been below the 4,000-mark since September 19, until on October 23.The health bulletin said 36 fatalities were recorded, taking the death toll to 6,225, the bulletin said. The tally of active cases on Saturday rose to 26,467 up from 26,001 the previous day. The total number of cases climbed to 3,52,520, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-situation-contained-in-delhi-govt-doing-all-it-can-health-minister-satyender-jain/story-zXMaUF7TdXZAZqOmnAHADO.html
25-10-2020||India||Tigress that killed domestic animals in Kerala’s Wayanad trapped after 2 months||After two months of intense search forest officials on Sunday captured a tigress that killed many domestic animals and spread terror among local residents in Panamaram in north Kerala’s Wayanad .The animal had killed three goats two weeks back and tried to attack a cow last week, forest officials said. Two cages were set up two months ago after local people protested and but the big cat evaded the trap several times. Forest officials said it is a nine-year-old tigress with a slight injury in one of its paws. The fear of the tigress stopped people from coming out of their homes in the evenings in the Panamaram area. After a health check up of the animal, forest officials will decide whether it can be released in deep forests or kept in a zoo. Wild animals straying into human habitat is regular in Wayanad has now become common, local people complained. In June a tribal youth was killed by a tiger and his half-eaten body was recovered later. A woman on a two-wheeler had a narrow escape in August after a tiger charged and chased her for a short distance before occupants in a vehicle stopped and shooed it away. The district also boasts of a wildlife sanctuary with a thriving population of elephants and tigers. According to the last wildlife census Wayanad wildlife sanctuary spread over 344 sq km is home to 80 tigers. The district has 60 per cent forest cover and it is a major tourist destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tigress-that-killed-domestic-animals-in-kerala-s-wayanad-trapped-after-2-months/story-tHdTNICwre5SEfXPQdbYcP.html
25-10-2020||India||Fadnavis will now realise Covid-19 situation is serious: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Against the backdrop of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis contracting Covid-19, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday saidthey were telling him to take care and he will now realise that the situation outside is serious.Raut’s remarks came in the wake of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray being recently targeted by the opposition for not moving out of his house during the pandemic.Talking to reporters here, Raut said Thackeray has given directives to ensure that Fadnavis, who is leader of opposition in the state Assembly, gets the best treatment.Fadnavis on Saturday said he had tested positive for coronavirus.The BJP leader was admitted to a government-run hospital in Mumbai and his condition was stable, a party source said.After returning to Mumbai on Friday evening, Fadnavis got himself tested as some of the BJP leaders who had travelled with him during the Bihar poll campaign tested positive for coronavirus, the source said.Fadnavis also toured the flood-affected areas of western Maharashtra and Marathwada from October 19 to 21.“We were telling Devendra Fadnavis to take care. He will now realise that the situation outside is serious. The opposition was targeting the chief minister for not moving out,” Raut said, when asked if Thackeray’s annual Dusshera address on Sunday evening would target the BJP.He said Fadnavis has set a good example by getting admitted to a government hospital, and Thackeray has given directives to ensure he gets the best treatment.The Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson also said the Covid-19 vaccine should be for all citizens and its politicisation was not right.He further said the Shiv Sena has made arrangements to ensure Thackeray’s Dussehra address reaches two crore people in the state.Had there been no Covid-19 outbreak, the Shivaji Park in central Mumbai would have been smaller for the “sea of Shiv Sainiks” who would have come to hear Thackeray’s address, he said.Raut also pointed out that at the Dussehra rally last year, he said the next chief minister of the state would be from the Shiv Sena.Thackeray will deliver his Dussehra speech at the Savarkar auditorium opposite the Shivaji Park in the evening and it will be attended by 50 people, including MLAs, MPs from Mumbai, ministers and the CM’s family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavis-will-now-realise-covid-19-situation-is-serious-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut/story-l6FHpTsdUMktoYcNiqzQTL.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Don’t presume to know what Supreme Court will decide’: Omar Abdullah takes on Ravi Shankar Prasad on Article 370||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Sunday took on Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad who on Saturday said special status will not be restored in Jammu and Kashmir. The law minister’s comment came after PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti said she would raise the national flag only once the state flag in back, pushing for the restoration of Article 370. The BJP condemned her “seditious comment” and demanded action against the leader, who has been released from detention early this month after 14 months. Dear Ravi Shankar Prasad ji, we don’t expect you to restore anything but unless you are suggesting the Supreme Court has surrendered its independence & takes dictation from you please don’t presume to know what the Hon judges will decide. https://t.co/s8rD3Us6JUThe removal of statehood and the scrapping of Section 370 was done following a proper constitutional process and both houses of Parliament approved it with “overwhelming numbers”, the law minister said.Also Read: Farooq Abdullah president, Mehbooba Mufti vice president of People’s Alliance for Gupkar DeclarationReplying to the law minister, Omar Abdullah took to Twitter on Sunday morning and said it is not expected of him to restore the erstwhile state’s status. “Dear Ravi Shankar Prasadji, we don’t expect you to restore anything but unless you are suggesting the Supreme Court has surrendered its independence and takes dictation from you please don’t presume to know what the honourable judges will decide,” Abdullah tweeted. Seven parties of Jammu and Kashmir — National Conference, People Democratic Party, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India- Marxist, Peoples Conference, J&K Peoples Movement and Awmai National Conference — have joined hands to form the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to demand the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah has been appointed the president of the new outfit and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti is the vice-president. The flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir will be the flag of the alliance, it has been decided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-presume-to-know-what-supreme-court-will-decide-omar-abdullah-takes-on-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-hSGItpKTzuhM77LpOftfXP.html
25-10-2020||India||SMS before vaccination, QR certificate after: How India may use digital platforms for Covid-19 vaccine drive||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emphasised on an IT-backed system to ensure vaccine delivery to the last mile — like the election process in the country — the expert group is planning to include digital features like SMS, digital certificate in the vaccine delivery process, reports said.The Centre had set up a National Expert Committee on Vaccine Administration, led by Niti Aayog member VK Paul. The committee is laying out a detailed plan of vaccine storage and delivery as Indian awaits its first vaccine by the beginning of 2021. The Centre has already asked state governments to send list of priority groups who should get the vaccines first. The information of the beneficiaries will be added to the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) — a digital platform under National Health Mission, which is already being used at different immunization programmes at 32 states/UTs. It provides real-time information on vaccine stocks, flows, cold storages etc. But at present, it doesn’t track the beneficiaries.Like elections, the vaccination drive will be conducted in phases and schools will be used as booths, reports said. In the first phase, India is looking at vaccinating about 30 million people, including healthcare specialists, who are on the frontline of the fight. The 30 million will include 7 million doctors and paramedics, in addition to 20 million other frontline health workers. The expert panel is also mulling to use SMS facility to send a message to the beneficiary informing them about the time, date, venue of their vaccine dosage. After an individual receives the vaccine shot and reports no adverse impact, a QR-based digital certificate will be awarded which can be stored in Digilocker.“We have our own digital platform that has all updated information — from vaccine procurement to storage, cold chain and transportation in refrigerated vehicles.This facility already exists in India, and what the government is contemplating is how to augment this facility to be able to deliver Covid-19 vaccine,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan has earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sms-before-vaccination-qr-certificate-after-how-india-may-use-digital-platforms-for-covid-19-vaccine-drive/story-d8I6FIZzPrtKAvLDy6KJmK.html
25-10-2020||India||Mann ki Baat: Light a lamp for soldiers; pick local products while shopping for festivals, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged the people to light a lamp for the soldiers protecting the borders. Wishing the public on Dussehra, the prime minister pointed out that they should show patience and follow Covid-19 guidelines while celebrating during the festive season which includes festivals like Diwali, Valmiki Jayanti, Eid and Guru Nanak Jayanti in the coming days.In his serial radio address, Mann Ki Baat, the prime minister said Dussehra was the victory of good over evil and also of fortitude over adversities. He also reiterated his ‘Vocal for Local’ pitch even as he defended the farm laws brought in by his government, saying the move had opened up new avenues for farmers.Also read | No tolerance for corruption, no place for middlemen in new India, says PM Modi He said Indian products like Khadi were getting international recognition and were being lauded as an eco-friendly clothes. He said an area in Mexico was actively engaged in production of Khadi.The prime minister said during festivals, our support staff -- like the cleaning staff, house help and security guards -- should be taken care of, especially during these difficult times.The prime minister said on Diwali, one lamp should be lighted in gratitude to the soldiers who are protecting our borders. “We have to remember our soldiers, who are standing guard at the borders even in times of festivals. We must celebrate festivals while remembering them. We also have to light a ‘diya’ in our homes to honour these brave sons and daughters of mother India,” he said.He also paid glowing tributes to India’s first home minister Sardar Patel, whose birth anniversary falls on October 31, and asked people to work for the country’s unity through their words and deeds.The prime minister said Patel instilled the idea of Unity in Diversity in the minds of the people. “Today we have to encourage all those aspects which unite us,” he said.He said our ancestors had tried to bring people close. He also mentioned the efforts of Adi Shankaracharya and Sikh gurus had brought people together. The prime minister also expressed his admiration for the teachings of Maharishi Valmiki and said he had inspired millions.PM Modi also remembered former prime minister Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on October 31.He also applauded the brothers and sisters of Pulwama and their families “for educating the young minds of the country”. He said that almost 90% of the demand for pencil slate in the country is met by the Kashmir Valley, and Pulwama has a big share in that. “At one time, we imported the wood for pencils, but now Pulwama is making the nation self-reliant in this field,” he said.The prime minister lauded the technology-based service delivery projects that came up during the lockdown. He also mentioned a fresh vegetable delivery app in Jharkhand by a self-help group led by women. He said new opportunities in the farm sector were encouraging the youth.“This is a new beginning that tell us what kind of changes are possible with the new farm laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-light-a-lamp-for-soldiers-practise-caution-while-celebrating-festivals-says-pm/story-rhvBMXEchMEg1H1wRf0wSK.html
25-10-2020||India||Pompeo, Esper to push Trump’s anti-China message in India||Just a week before November’s election, two of President Donald Trump’s top national security aides will visit India for meetings focused largely on countering China’s growing global influence. As the bitter race between Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden winds down, the talks this week in New Delhi aim to reinforce the president’s anti-China campaign message.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Mark Esper will meet their Indian counterparts for strategic and security talks on Tuesday, after which Pompeo will travel on to Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia. All of them are contending with a tug-of-war between Washington and Beijing that has intensified as Trump seeks to paint Biden as weak on China.Trump has played up his friendship with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his re-election bid but may have set his case back with an off-the-cuff remark about climate change at his Thursday debate with Biden. “Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India, it’s filthy. The air is filthy. “ he said, defending his decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord.Also Read | India-US 2+2 dialogue to focus on regional security cooperation and defence information-sharingWhether offense will be taken by the Indians or whether it will affect Pompeo and Esper’s mission is not clear. Yet, regardless of election considerations, it is a critical time in the US-India relationship as China looms large over what Washington has labeled the Indo-Pacific region.Heightened border tensions between New Delhi and Beijing have only added to Chinese-American animosity that has been fueled by disputes over the coronavirus, trade, technology, Taiwan, Tibet, Hong Kong, human rights and disputes between China and its smaller neighbors in the South China Sea. Those competing maritime and territorial claims will figure prominently at Pompeo’s last stop in Indonesia.Meanwhile, India is looking to emerge from a shell of internal issues, including unrest in the Himalayan region of Kashmir, as it faces twin threats from China and Pakistan.Tuesday’s meetings come amid a recent flareup in military tensions between India and China over disputed mountainous border with tens of thousands of their soldiers in a standoff since May. Trump has offered to help defuse tensions but has yet to receive any indication of interest from either side. India and China fought a month-long war over the region at the height of the Cuban Missile Crisis in the fall of 1962 and some fear a similar confrontation before this winter sets in.Pompeo has made no secret of the Trump administration’s desire to isolate China. Asked about his trip, Pompeo said last week: “I’m sure that my meetings will also include discussions on how free nations can work together to thwart threats posed by the Chinese Communist Party.”Ahead of Pompeo and Esper’s visit, Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun visited New Delhi last week and called China “an elephant in the room,” stressing that Washington is keen to advance India’s interests in the region, build a free and open Indo-Pacific, and counter risks posed by Chinese high-tech telecommunication networks that the US sees as central to China’s predatory economic activity.“We will take every opportunity to really advocate for a strong digital economy and partnership in the countries where we’re going and seek support of the Clean Networks, which we think works to every country’s advantage,” said Dean Thompson, the top US diplomat for South Asia.Since Trump became president, the US and India have steadily ramped up their military relationship. When Trump visited India in February, the two sides concluded defense deals worth over $3 billion. Bilateral defense trade has increased from near zero in 2008 to $15 billion in 2019.Still India is wary of being drawn into the fight between the world’s two largest economies. G. Parthasarthy, a retired Indian diplomat, said India was not interested in becoming a front-line state against China. “It is a move to balance the growing Chinese power in this area. The India-China border issue is not going to go away with the Chinese claims increasing,” he said.The talks in New Delhi on Tuesday follow a meeting that Pompeo had earlier this month in Tokyo with his counterparts from India, Japan and Australia, which together make up the four Indo-Pacific nations known as “the Quad.” The Quad is seen as a counterweight to China, who critics say is flexing its military muscle throughout the region.Pompeo will head back to Washington by way of Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia during which he plans to press each nation to push back in Chinese assertiveness. He’s also expected to raise human rights issues at each stop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pompeo-esper-to-push-trump-s-anti-china-message-in-india/story-fB6h8OsdzsGq49CKhZbEWM.html
25-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recovery rate reaches landmark 90%: Govt||India’s rate of recovery from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has touched 90% with 62,077 people recovering in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday. This took the total recoveries to 7,078,123, it added.“India records a new Milestone: Recovery Rate touches 90.00%. 62,077 have recovered and discharged in the last 24 hours whereas the new confirmed cases stand at 50,129,” the ministry wrote on Twitter.It added in a statement that the achievement is matched by the downward spiral of the total active cases, which are maintained below the seven lakh-mark for the third consecutive day.The record recoveries are logged on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about the changed festive scenario in the country. In his Mann ki Baat address, Modi spoke about the pandemic forcing us to stay indoors at that time of year when streets would usually be the most crowded. He, however, stressed on the need to continue to take precautionary measures in the fight against the deadly virus. According to the government, 75% of the new recovered cases are concentrated in 10 states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, and Chhattisgarh with Maharashtra leading the tally with more than 10,000 single day recoveries.Earlier in the day, the health ministry also brought to light the rapid pace of recoveries in the country. According to the data it cited, it took three months to achieve three million recoveries from 0.1 million between July and September whereas they surpassed seven million in one and a half months ending October.The active cases (6,68,154) account for only 8.50% of the total positive cases of the country, with 79% of the new cases coming from 10 states and Union territories. Kerala has logged the maximum new cases with more than 8,000 cases followed by Maharashtra with more than 6,000 cases.Also, recoveries exceed active cases by 6.4 million. The daily toll from the infection also continues to experience a downward slope with less than 1,000 deaths since last one week. In the last 24 hours, 578 people died due to Covid-19. The number of fatalities have remained below 1,100 since October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-touches-landmark-of-90-covid-19-recoveries-govt/story-xMhJRRZTZJiAROI3Swz7iJ.html
25-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 80% Covid-19 deaths being reported from 10 states, says health ministry and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: 80% deaths being reported from 10 states, says health ministry dataEighty per cent of the new deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country are being reported from 10 states, shows Union health ministry data.With 137 deaths reported on Saturday, Maharashtra recorded most new Covid-19 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 patients having succumbed to the viral infection so far in the state is 43,152. Read MoreIndian army won’t let anyone take even an inch of our land: Rajnath SinghAs the tensions with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh continue, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the Indian Army won’t let anyone take even an inch of the country’s land. He added that India wants the standoff to end and peace to be restored in the sector. Read MoreTrump deploys 2016 playbook, Biden expands 2020 battle groundPresident Donald Trump appears to have gone back to the 2016 playbook for the final nine days of the 2020 race for White House, hoping to pull off a similar win, with not much help from polls or pundits. Democratic nominee Joe Biden, on the other hand, has kept the focus on the present and is seeking to expand the battleground states. He will be addressing two rallies in Georgia, a solidly Republican state. Read MoreThese 21 Android apps on Google Play are nothing but adware, says AvastGoogle has been trying hard to tackle the issue of removing apps that can harm your smartphones and are essentially adware disguised as games. Although the firm’s checking process is stringent, there have always been news of some apps making their way to the Play Store. And this time, security research firm Avast seems to have found some 21 of them. As per the report, these 21 apps are adware apps that pose themselves as games but end up damaging the handsets. Read MoreAudi says Covid-19 has pushed back luxury car segment in India by 5-7 yearsThe coronavirus pandemic has hit hard the luxury car segment in India, taking it back by five to seven years, and it will take two to three years to reach the levels witnessed around 2014-2015, according to a top official of German auto major Audi. Read MoreIPL 2020: ‘He has managed to do that for the team,’ Sachin Tendulkar explains reason behind KXIP’s revival in formKings XI Punjab have turned around their season in the last few weeks of the Indian Premier League 2020. KXIP looked down and out after the first seven matches as they lost six. But they have put in some impressive performances as they defeated table toppers Mumbai Indians, Royal Challengers Bangalore and Delhi Capitals in successive matches. Read MoreInside Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet’s wedding, watch her make grand entry on a chariot for varmala ceremony, sing special songNeha Kakkar has tied the knot with fellow singer Rohanpreet Singh, and pictures and videos are proof that the couple had a blast during the wedding celebrations. After marrying each other in an Anand Karaj ceremony at a gurudwara, the two had another grand varmala ceremony with their friends and family in attendance. Read More‘It’s not how you talk about friends’: Biden on Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remarkDemocratic presidential candidate Joe Biden slammed US President Donald Trump for his ‘filthy India’ remark. Biden wrote on Twitter that he and his running mate Kamala Harris deeply value America’s partnership with India. He tweeted, “President Trump called India ‘filthy’. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-80-covid-19-deaths-being-reported-from-10-states-says-health-ministry-and-all-the-latest-news/story-R26KGN1GsU4GYc6PXJT4aI.html
25-10-2020||India||Flying abroad? Know how you can get tested for Covid-19 at Delhi airport||As the number of people taking international flights from Delhi is increasing, Delhi Airport has opened the testing facility on its premises for outgoing passengers as well. The facility has been limited to incoming passengers so far. All international passengers are required to have a Covid-19 negative report before flying. The report should not be older than 96 hours — the times varies according to the rules of the destination countries. Despite all these checks and balances being in place for international travellers, Indian airlines have been accused of carrying Covid-19 positive passengers. Dubai civil aviation authority has even asked Air India Express to reject Covid-19 report from four specific labs in India, as their negative reports proved to be false.In this background, the facility at Delhi Airport might com handy to outbound passengers. Here’s all you need to know:1. If you are planning to get tested at the airport, you must reach the airport at least 7 to 8 hours before your scheduled journey as the report will take four to six hours to be processed.2. The price is Rs 2,400, as decided by the Delhi government. Waiting lounge charge is Rs 2,600.3. The facility is available round the clock.4. The facility, which was so far limited to only incoming passengers, can be pre-booked online where passengers are required to put their name, email address, Aadhaar or passport number, flight number, PNR number, date, times slot and the number of passengers to be tested. There are one-hour time slots throughout the day.5. Passengers are required to give nasal and throat swab samples.Delhi airport has recently been certified as the second safest aerodrome in the world in post-Covid-19 safety survey. Singapore’s Changi Airport is the first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flying-abroad-know-how-you-can-get-tested-for-covid-19-at-delhi-airport/story-dSPQlgYpDGaZL72es0S8LK.html
25-10-2020||India||Remember soldiers guarding our borders, light a ‘diya’ for them: PM Modi||Asserting that India stands firmly with its brave soldiers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to light a ‘diya’ at their homes to honour security forces guarding its borders while they celebrate festivals. In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio broadcast, Modi wished people on Dussehra and said that with various festivals coming up, they need to show patience and follow health guidelines in celebrating these auspicious occasions during the Covid times.Also Read | Mann Ki Baat: In push for local, PM Modi highlights ‘Pencil Village of India’ The prime minister also asked people to keep the ‘vocal for local’ resolve in their mind and give priority to local products while shopping for festivals. The world is taking note of India’s products, he said, citing the example of rising popularity of Khadi. The prime minister hailed the contribution of soldiers and their service to the nation.Also Read | ‘People need to show patience while celebrating festivals during Covid-19’: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat “We have to remember our soldiers, who are standing guard at the borders even in times of festivals. We must celebrate festivals while remembering them. We also have to light a ‘diya’ in our homes to honour these brave sons and daughters of mother India,” he said. He also paid glowing tributes to India’s first home minister Sardar Patel, whose birth anniversary falls on October 31, and asked people to work for the country’s unity through their words and deeds. Modi also remembered former prime minister Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remember-soldiers-guarding-our-borders-light-a-diya-for-them-pm-modi/story-vJQ4Mbc94KBG5tuNhzZq6M.html
25-10-2020||India||Mann Ki Baat: In push for local, PM Modi highlights ‘Pencil Village of India’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday asked the people of the country to promote and buy locally-made products during the festival season. Addressing the nation through Mann Ki Baat, he also listed a unique success story.The prime minister talked about Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir which is emerging as a hub for making pencils.“Today, Pulwama is playing an important role in educating the entire nation. Today, if the students across the nation do their homework, prepare notes, it is because of the hard work of the people of Pulwama,” PM Modi said in his 70th Mann Ki Baat address.“Almost 90 per cent of the demand for pencil slate in the country is met by the Kashmir Valley. And Pulwama has a big share in that. At one time, we used to import the wood for pencils, but now, Pulwama is making the country self-reliant in this field,” he added.PM Modi said that the Chinar wood in the Kashmir Valley has high moisture content and softness which makes it most suitable for the production of pencils.“Oukhoo in Pulwama is known as the ‘Pencil Village’. There are many units engaged in the production of pencil slates which are generating employment. And in these units, women are working in large numbers. Pulwama earned this distinct identity when locals here decided to do something novel. They took risk and dedicated themselves to it,” said PM Modi.“I appreciate the brothers and sisters of Pulwama and their families who are making invaluable contribution in educating young minds of India,” the prime minister added.In his monthly radio address, PM Modi wished people on Dussehra and said that with various festivals coming up, they need to show patience and follow health guidelines in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.He also paid glowing tributes to India’s first home minister Sardar Patel, whose birth anniversary falls on October 31, and asked people to work for the country’s unity through their words and deeds.Pm Modi also remembered former prime minister Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-in-push-for-local-pm-modi-highlights-pencil-village-of-india/story-lc6eecprKSfZOjRd53bcDJ.html
25-10-2020||India||‘People need to show patience while celebrating festivals during Covid-19’: PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that people need to show patience while celebrating festivals at a time when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is raging across the country.“Dussehra is a festival of victory of patience over crises. Today, all of you are living with great restraint, celebrating festivals with modesty. Therefore, in the Covid-19 battle, we are fighting, victory is certain,” PM Modi said on his monthly radio address Mann Ki Baat.“Previously, a large number of people used to gather in Durga Pandal. It was a fair-like atmosphere during Durga Puja and Dussehra, but this time it didn’t happen. Many more festivals are to be observed, we’ve to work with restraint during this Covid-19 crisis,” he added.PM Modi also said that the people of the country must remember soldiers who are protecting the borders of the country. “Light a lamp for them in your homes while celebrating festivals,” he said.The prime minister said that while celebrating festivals, people should remember people who helped them during lockdown times. “Do remember lockdown times when we got to know those close associates of society without whom our lives would have been very difficult. Sanitisation workers, housekeepers and guards were with us in difficult times. Now in festivals, we’ve to take them along,” he said.PM Modi also called for promoting indigenously-built products during the festival season. “This time, amid the enthusiasm of festival, when you go shopping make sure to remember your resolve of ‘vocal for local’. When purchasing goods from market give priority to local products,” he said.Many of our local products have the potential to go global, he added.Highlighting the popularity of local products like Khadi, PM Modi said that a store in Delhi registered Rs 1 crore sale on single day on Gandhi Jayanti. He further said that Khadi has made a mark in Mexico.He also said that traditional Indian sport Mallakhambh is gaining popularity in at least 20 countries.Mann ki Baat is a radio programme, aired on All India Radio on the last Sunday of every month, through which the Prime Minister interacts with the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-need-to-show-patience-while-celebrating-festivals-during-covid-19-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-5QrkishZroHwl5mDQqB6bJ.html
25-10-2020||India||‘World taking note of Indian products like khadi’: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat||In the 70th address on his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi renewed his pitch for domestic products by saying, ‘we must not forget to be vocal for local during this festive season.” He added that the world was taking note of Indian products, and gave the example of khadi’s reach in the international market. He said that the product was not only being used across the world for being eco-friendly but also to make a fashion statement. Elaborating on its popularity within India, Modi said that a Khadi store in Delhi’s Connaught Place registered sales worth Rs 1 crore on a single day on Gandhi Jayanti.’ He hailed khadi as a body friendly and all weather fabric. He also pointed towards khadi’s popularity in Mexico’s Oaxaca where people have taken to the product’s manufacturing in several villages. The fabric has become popular by the name ‘Oaxaca khadi,’ he said. Many self help groups and organisations across the nation are also making masks of khadi fabric, the Prime Minister said. He spoke about Suman Devi, a woman from Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki who is now being joined by many women from around the country in making masks. PM Modi called for promoting indigenously-built products during the festival season. “This time, amid the enthusiasm of festival, when you go shopping make sure to remember your resolve of ‘vocal for local’. When purchasing goods from market give priority to local products,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-taking-note-of-indian-products-like-khadi-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-7hjM6sSMCOof3eJ0sdv6DI.html
25-10-2020||India||In Mann ki Baat address, PM Modi puts spotlight on importance of humour in trying times||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation in the 70th edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat. During the address, PM Modi urged people to remember ‘vocal for local’ while shopping in the festive season. Highlighting Khadi India’s reach in international market, PM Modi said, “many of our local products have the potential to go global.”He also asked people to remember our soldiers during the festivities and “burn a diya in honour of these bravehearts.”PM Modi also paid tributes to the former prime minister Indira Gandhi. Every month, PM Modi address the nation over range of issues through ‘Mann Ki Baat’. The suggestions for each episode’s topic are shared by listeners on PM Modi’s social media accounts.Here are the highlights of his speech:-  “This time, amid the enthusiasm of festival, when you go shopping make sure to remember your resolve of ‘vocal for local.’ When purchasing goods from market give priority to local products,” said PM Modi.- Highlighting Khadi India’s reach in international market, PM Modi said, “Many of our local products have the potential to go global.”“A Khadi store in Delhi registered Rs 1 crore sale on single day on Gandhi Jayanti.”- “Previously, a large number of people used to gather in Durga Pandal. It was a fair-like atmosphere during Durga Pooja and Dussehra, but this time it didn’t happen. Many more festivals are to be observed, we’ve to work with restraint during this Corona crisis,“ said PM Modi.- “We also have to remember our bravehearts who stand on the borders even in these festivals and are serving and protecting India. We have to celebrate our festivals by remembering them. We also have to burn a diya in the house in honour of these brave sons and daughters of Bharat Mata,” said PM Modi.- “Nowadays, our traditional sport Mallakhamb is also gaining popularity in many countries. In US, when Chinmay and Pragya Patankar started teaching Mallakhamb at home, then they also had no idea it will gain so much success. Today, there are many Mallakhamb training centres in US,” said PM Modi.- “On 31st October, we lost former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. I respectfully offer tributes to her.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlights-pm-modi-addresses-nation-in-mann-ki-baat/story-RQBxDZh8xRVVqJkkCLElGK.html
25-10-2020||India||India’s response has stunned China, says Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, in his annual Vijayadashami speech on Sunday, said India’s assertive response to China’s aggression and expansionist tendency set an example of a strong resolution that stunned Beijing.Referring to the stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, the RSS chief said China’s misuse of resources by unleashing terror on the borders of India and the aggressive stance of invading Indian territory is well-known to the world. “Our brave defence forces, government and the people remained unfazed and responded sharply to this attack. This example of a strong resolution, exercising self-respect and bravery, has stunned China. Going further, we must be watchful and remain firm. Even in the past, the world has time and again witnessed China’s expansionist attitude,” he said, speaking in Nagpur. Also read: India must overcome China syndrome, embrace QUAD | AnalysisThe RSS has favoured a muscular foreign policy vis-à-vis China, and has advocated an economic policy that pivots around cutting down imports from China and revisiting trade ties with the nation. RSS affiliates such as the Swadeshi Jagran Manch have started campaigns boycotting goods from China. “Rising above China economically, strategically and securing cooperative ties with our neighbours is the only way to neutralise those demonic aspirations. The policies proposed by our leaders seem to be charting those very horizons. Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar are not just neighbouring countries, we have shared friendly bonds with these nations and they are more or less aligned with our values and ethical code,” he said. Bhagwat also said India’s propensity to offer a hand of friendship should not be misconstrued as a sign of being “weak”. “China, for the first time, should have understood that we are ready and capable to fighting,” Bhagwat said. Bhagwat said threats to India are not only from across the border, but within as well. He referred to the protests against the Citizen Amendment Act, or CAA, as the handiwork of those who want to portray India’s “diversity as divisions”. “What happened in the last one year shows why we need to be vigilant. It is natural in a democracy to have political aspirations and strive to grab power; we can have difference of opinion, but election is not a fight between enemies…And there are powers inside India and outside that take advantage of this difference. They try to show our diversity as divisions. They administration should take quick steps to punish those who create problems,” he said. Quoting Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s address to the Constituent Assembly, Bhagwat said there was a need to identify disguised elements and defuse their conspiracies that were out to unleash “anarchy”, and cited attempts made to create communal disharmony by propagating a false notion about CAA. “Those who wanted to oppose the amendment in the Citizenship Act …misled our Muslim brothers by propagating a false notion that was aimed at restricting the Muslim population. Opportunists took advantage of this delicate situation by unleashing organised violence and causing unrest in the name of protests. As a consequence, a tense atmosphere was created in the country that put our communal harmony at stake,” he said. Even as he appreciated the efforts of the administration and the society in fighting the challenges brought on by the coronavirus pandemic, Bhagwat said efforts are required to impart skills and create avenues for employment. He said job losses are a challenge that needs to attention.Having lent support to the government’s “Vocal for Local” initiative that promotes indigenous production, the RSS chief said self-reliance implies overall well-being and upliftment of the whole nation through coordinated efforts and cooperation. “A policy-making process where all concerned people and parties discuss and deliberate extensively and draw consentient conclusions fosters the spirit of oneness and trust among all. Open dialogue with all, drawing consensus through discussion, ensuring cooperation and resultant trust - this is the prescribed method for securing credibility and eminence among one’s family and community,” he said. His comments come in the backdrop of the protests over three pieces of farm reforms legislation passed by Parliament last month. While the government has asserted that the new farm laws allow farmers to sell their produce at profitable rates and rid them of middlemen, farmers’ outfits, including the RSS affiliated Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, have protested again the new laws. “Farmers are free to make their own seeds and they are self-reliant they make their own seeds and fertilizer; we need such policies that allow them to make value addition to the age old practices in agriculture,” Bhagwat said. He also suggested that the government should offer some sort of a security blanket to the MSME units and ensure financial help reaches the intended beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-response-has-stunned-china-says-mohan-bhagwat/story-nRsR1WTux0U4O9azUxHTPI.html
25-10-2020||India||Indian army won’t let anyone take even an inch of our land: Rajnath Singh||As the tensions with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh continue, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the Indian Army won’t let anyone take even an inch of the country’s land. He added that India wants the standoff to end and peace to be restored in the sector. The minister also hailed the braveheart soldiers stationed at the border and stated that their efforts will be written in golden words in history. Singh is currently is on two-day visit to West Bengal and Sikkim, where he performed Shastra Puja with soldiers near the China border.His visit comes in order to boost the morale of Indian troops deployed against the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at the border. He also reviewed the army’s preparedness against the Chinese troops.  भारतीय सेना के जवानों से भेंट करके मुझे हमेशा बेहद ख़ुशी होती है। उनका मनोबल बहुत ऊँचा रहा है, इसकी जितनी भी प्रशंसा की जाए कम है।भारत चाहता है कि तनाव ख़त्म हो और शांति स्थापित हो। मैं पूरी तरह आश्वस्त हूँ कि हमारी सेना भारत की एक इंच ज़मीन भी दूसरे के हाथ में नहीं जाने देगी। pic.twitter.com/jS3GHa4fniEven after seven rounds of military level talks between the two nations, the disengagement and de-escalation process in the tense Ladakh region has not moved forward. The commanders are expected to meet for the eighth round of talks next week.India and China have been engaged in a border standoff since April-May this year. Apart from Ladakh, a tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers also took place in north Sikkim in early May.The standoff, currently in its sixth month, has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops even firing warning shots at friction points in August-September, the first such instance since October 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-won-t-let-anyone-take-even-an-inch-of-our-land-rajnath-singh/story-HpStfMvKPmDf5KNLRfNSCM.html
25-10-2020||India||Covid-19: 80% deaths being reported from 10 states, says health ministry data||Eighty per cent of the new deaths due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country are being reported from 10 states, shows Union health ministry data.With 137 deaths reported on Saturday, Maharashtra recorded most new Covid-19 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 patients having succumbed to the viral infection so far in the state is 43,152.The second most affected state in terms of fatalities is Tamil Nadu, with 10,893 deaths, of which 35 were reported on Saturday. It is closely followed by Karnataka at 10,892 deaths which also reported 71 new deaths on Saturday.The other states with high Covid-19 deaths are: West Bengal (1,793), Chhattisgarh (1,793), Uttar Pradesh (6,854), Kerala (1,306), Delhi (6,225), Punjab (4,107), and Andhra Pradesh (6,566). Also read: India’s Covid-19 recoveries soar past 7 million, 4 states account for more than half, says govtHowever, the country’s case fatality rate (CFR), which is the number of patients who died of the disease among those whose test returned positive, is dropping each day, and currently stands at about 1.5%, which is much lower than the global CFR of about 2.7%.“We are losing fewer patients and a major contributing factor is that we now know the disease far better than what we knew of it earlier, especially which medicines and therapies work better on Covid-19 patients. The entire treatment protocol has been revised and standardised that has worked really well,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, consultant, department of medicine, Moolchand Hospital.Those above 60 years of age and people with comorbid conditions are at a greater risk of developing severe illness.The government’s mortality analysis data shows that about one in two (53%) of those who succumbed to the viral infection were above 60 years of age. Also, as high as 88% of the Covid-19 deaths have been in people who were above 45 years of age. More men die of the viral disease than women. Among the victims, nearly 70% were men and 30% were women, shows India’s latest Covid-19 mortality analysis data that the government releases from time to time. Chronic medical conditions that have been commonly observed in Covid-19 patients include hypertension, diabetes, liver disease, heart disease, asthma, chronic renal disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, low immunity, malignancy, bronchitis and chronic neuromuscular disease. Hypertension and diabetes are the two most common comorbidities that lead to the disease progressing to severe levels among Covid-19 patients. With 645 deaths reported on Saturday, the number of Covid-19 deaths in the country stood at 118,591. The total infection count stood at 78,63,871.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-80-deaths-being-reported-from-10-states-says-health-ministry-data/story-znULiU2u8N5yDyz2s6JdqI.html
25-10-2020||India||Indian defence forces, govt, people responded sharply to China’s efforts to invade our territories: RSS chief||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday said that Indian defence forces, government and the people remained unfazed and responded sharply to China’s boisterous efforts to invade the country’s territories. “The role of China in the context of Covid-19 pandemic can be said to be doubtful, but it was clear to the whole world, the manner in which China attempted to encroach on India’s borders, because of its economic strategic force. Indian defence forces, government and the people remained unfazed and responded sharply to China’s boisterous efforts to invade our territories,” Bhagwat said in his address at the annual Dussehra function at Maharshi Vyas auditorium, RSS headquarters in Nagpur.“The message sent by our leaders with a sense of self-respect and the indomitable ethical-patience of our citizens must compel China to reform its attitude but if push comes to shove we will not fall short of alertness, firmness and readiness,” he added.India and China are engaged in a standoff since April-May this year starting from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh in Northeast. India has deployed close to 60,000 soldiers to counter the Chinese Army which first moved troops to transgress into Indian areas in Pangong Lake and other adjoining locations.Also Read | ‘Efforts to reignite anti-CAA protests still continue’: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in Dussehra addressBhagwat asserted that securing cooperative ties with our neighbours and at international relations is the only way to neutralise the expansionist aspirations of China and “our present policies seem to be charting those very horizons”“Rising above China economically and strategically. We intend to be friendly with all. This is our nature. But mistaking our benevolence for weakness and attempts to disintegrate or weaken us by sheer brute force is unacceptable. Our reckless detractors should know this by now,” he said.“Until recently the philosophy of integrating the world on the basis of the market forces dominated but with the latest turn of events, the idea of safeguarding life and exercising international cooperation has started to take shape in the global mind. We should speed up our pace in making our relations more friendly with Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, our neighbours, who are also our friends and countries of similar nature to a large extent,” he added. RSS marks Vijay Dashmi as one of its biggest events when the RSS chief addresses the RSS workers on a number of issues concerning politics, society, national security and family values.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-defence-forces-govt-people-responded-sharply-to-china-s-efforts-to-invade-our-territories-rss-chief/story-3tkuyXX9lFd8ZpF1kyp8BN.html
25-10-2020||India||India’s daily Covid-19 cases drop below 51,000; active cases remain below 7 lakh||India’s daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are steadily declining with the figure falling below 51,000 on Sunday morning while the active cases continued to remain below seven lakh for the third day in a row. According to the latest data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the country’s caseload has risen to 7,864,811 with 668,154 active cases and 118,534 deaths due to the disease. As many as 7,078,123 people have recovered from the disease with Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu reporting the most number of recoveries. Earlier in the day, the health ministry had tweeted, “In a significant achievement, India’s total recoveries have crossed the landmark milestone of 70L. The top 4 States account for more than half of the total recovered cases. About 44% active caseload of the country is contributed by them,” the ministry said in a tweet.Through a graph alongside the tweet, the ministry highlighted that while it took three months to go from 0.1 million to three million recoveries from July till September, the recoveries increased at a steady pace and surpassed seven million in one and a half months ending October. It also noted that the decline in active cases on a daily basis was a result of the Centre’s ‘test, treat, track’ strategy. Meanwhile, the infection tally has reached 42.5 million worldwide with the maximum number of cases continuing to come from the United States at 8,571,943. The toll has risen to 1,148,943, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-below-51-000-active-cases-remain-below-7-lakh/story-L3MNqoZ0uAfxKra7HMwR5L.html
25-10-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh ready with 4 habitats for translocation of African cheetahs||The Madhya Pradesh forest department is ready with four suitable habitats to showcase to a three-member committee constituted by the Supreme Court to guide the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) in the translocation of the African cheetah from Namibia to India, a forest official said Saturday. The committee comprising former director Wildlife of India Ranjit Singh, DG of Wildlife of India Dhananjay Mohan and DIG, Wildlife, Ministry of Environment and Forests will visit Madhya Pradesh next week to survey the suitable habitats for the cheetah.The exercise is part of a programme to reintroduce the fastest land animal in India after the Asiatic cheetah was hunted to extinction in the country in the 1950s. The Madhya Pradesh forest department, which was initially vying for translocation of the cheetahs in Kuno National Park in Sheopur district and Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Damoh district in 2012, has now added two more locations – Madhav National Park in Shivpuri district and Gandhi Sagar Wildlife Sanctuary in Mandsaur district in the survey, said JS Chauhan, additional principal chief conservator of forest, (Wildlife). “In January, the Supreme Court had allowed the Centre to introduce the cheetah in the country following an application filed by the NTCA. The apex court formed the committee which will submit its survey report before the court so that proper monitoring could take place,” said Chauhan. The forest officer said, “Kuno National Park in Sheopur, which was upgraded for the relocation of Asiatic Lion but the process couldn’t begin, can get good numbers in the survey as the place is most suitable in the country for translocation of the cheetah. Meanwhile, we have prepared all the three other places too by translocating prey base and resolving local issues.” Sheopur, divisional forest officer (DFO), PK Verma said, “Kuno National Park has one of the best prey bases with a population of spotted deer of 45 per sq km. The area which was about 350 sq km is now increased to 750 sq km and all the villages have been shifted from the forest area.” Verma said the forest department has worked hard to ensure that the Kuno National Park has been turned into a suitable habitat for the cheetah.“The process of shifting of the Asiatic lion couldn’t take place. But we hope that the cheetah will come to Kuno. The introduction of the cheetah will give a new life to the area. The locals, who are waiting for Lion and Cheetah for the past 10 years to boost the local economy, will also get benefit of it. We have left no stone unturned to prepare the national park as the most suitable habitat for the cheetah,” said Verma. Asiatic cheetahs once roamed India’s grasslands but indiscriminate hunting led to their extinction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-ready-with-4-habitats-for-translocation-of-african-cheetahs/story-raZ6M8JDVISKeU9ZJMlCdJ.html
25-10-2020||India||‘World knows its expansionist nature’: RSS chief slams China in Dusshera address||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday lashed out at China for encoaching India’s borders during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. In his annual address, Bhagwat said that the world knows China’s expansionist nature.“China encroached on our borders amid the coronavirus pandemic. The world knows the expansionist nature of that country,” news agency PTI quoted Bhagwat as saying.He also said that Indian forces, government and the people remained unfazed and responded sharply to China’s boisterous efforts to invade the country’s territories.Also Read | ‘Efforts to reignite anti-CAA protests still continue’: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in Dussehra address“The message sent by our leaders with a sense of self-respect and the indomitable ethical-patience of our citizens must compel China to reform its attitude but if push comes to shove we will not fall short of alertness, firmness and readiness,” he added.Bhagwat further asserted that that securing cooperative ties with our neighbours and at international relations is the only way to neutralise the expansionist aspirations of China.“We should speed up our pace in making our relations more friendly with Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, our neighbours, who are also our friends and countries of similar nature to a large extent”India and China are engaged in a standoff since April-May this year.The RSS chief also spoke about the Citizenship Amendment Act. “Citizenship (Amendment) Act not against any religious community, but some people misled our Muslim brothers claiming it was aimed at restricting their population,” he said.The country is celebrating Dusshera, also known as Vijaydashmi, on Sunday. During the celebration, people burn effigies of Ravan to mark the win of Good over evil.However this year the celebrations have been low-key due to the Covid-19 restrictions imposed to curb the spread.The RSS also celebrates Dusshera as one of its biggest events. This year the celebrations were held without with just 50 people in attendance due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-knows-its-expansionist-nature-rss-chief-slams-china-in-dusshera-address/story-lseFaoSfxkrsFl3AHDsU5O.html
25-10-2020||India||Air pollution levels ‘very poor’ in northwest India, may improve marginally||Air pollution levels remained in “very poor” category on Sunday morning in most parts of northwest India. Scientists at air quality early warning system under ministry of earth sciences are expecting air pollution levels to improve marginally after wind speed improved on Saturday.Ambala, Baghpat, Bahadurgarh, Bhatinda, Bulandshahr, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida and Gurugram were all in “very poor” category. Delhi recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 353, also in very poor category. Though wind direction continues to be north-westerly, its speed improved marginally on Saturday which didn’t allow pollution levels to deteriorate to “severe” category. “Wind speed is ranging from 8 to 12 kmph which can aid in dispersion of pollutants. We don’t expect pollution levels to deteriorate further in the next two days. It may marginally improve because our models are showing better ventilation till Monday,” said Vijay Soni, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD).Also read: Pollution tracks rising fire graphMeanwhile, conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of monsoon from the remaining parts of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and the entire North Arabian sea and from some parts of Odisha, north Maharashtra, Central Arabian Sea during the next 24 hours and from the entire country in the subsequent two days. This will lead to mostly dry weather across the country except peninsular India.“With likely setting in of north-easterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over Bay of Bengal and extreme south, peninsular India, the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around October 28. Simultaneously, the northeast Monsoon rains are also likely to commence over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining areas of Karnataka and Kerala around October 28,” IMD said in its Sunday bulletin. The normal date for monsoon withdrawal is October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-levels-very-poor-in-northwest-india-may-improve-marginally/story-dEQD6HXWJ1S598gTZQUvuI.html
25-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajnath Singh to perform Shastra Puja with soldiers in Sikkim on Sunday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajnath Singh to perform Shastra Puja with soldiers in Sikkim on SundayDefence minister Rajnath Singh will perform Shastra Puja - worshipping of weapons - on then occasion of Dussehra on Sunday with the soldiers of the Indian Army. Singh will perform the puja with one of the local units deployed in Sikkim near the China border. Read more‘Not anti-national or religious fight’: J&K mega alliance vows to expose ‘lies’Members of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration held a meeting in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on October 24. The meeting was held at PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti’s residence, and attended by her former rivals Farooq and Omar Abdullah. Watch hereWatch: Donald Trump casts early vote, repeats mail-in fraud charge | US pollsUS President Donald Trump cast an early vote ahead of elections. Trump voted at a library serving as a polling centre in Florida. Trump was seen wearing a mask which he removed during media briefing. Watch hereTweet on ‘pets’ people want but can’t have sparks an interesting threadEvery now and then, YouTube India takes to Twitter to share all sorts of posts. Ranging from funny to emotional, their tweets are varied and thoroughly entertaining. Just like this share which details the pets that people may want but can’t have. Read moreMany happy returns: As more ancient artefacts make their way home, a look at a top 10For hundreds of years, India has been losing ancient artefacts to theft, foreign invasion and colonisation. Some of these artefacts are nearly 2,000 years old. Many have ended up in private collections; some sit on display in museums around the world. Read moreFootfairy movie review: Gulshan Devaiah-starrer murder mystery aims big, achieves littleFootfairy, with the unfortunate rhyming with tooth fairy, is a rather straightforward story of a monstrous ‘fairy’ who takes away only the most beautiful feet it finds. After killing the unfortunate victim first, of course. Read moreJoe Root names the ‘most complete player’ in Virat Kohli, Steve Smith and Kane Williamson trioKohli often faces comparisons from former Australia captain Steve Smith, New Zealand captain Kane Williamson and England captain Joe Root - who all together are regarded as ‘The Big four’ of cricket. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajnath-singh-to-perform-shastra-puja-with-soldiers-in-sikkim-on-sunday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tgqjYiEMEYU1je02AqnPWP.html
25-10-2020||India||NGT panel to probe barge accidents on Indo-Bangla waterway causing fly ash pollution||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a committee comprising experts from the Central Pollution Control Board and the West Bengal Pollution Control Board to look into fly ash pollution in the rivers triggered by capsizing barges in the Hooghly river on National Waterway 97, also known as the Indo-Bangladesh Protocol Route.The NGT’s move earlier this week came following a petition by Dakshinbanga Matsyajibi Forum, a union of fishermen in south Bengal. West Bengal’s chief wildlife warden and district magistrate of South 24 Parganas are also in the committee. “Barges transporting fly ash from Kolkata and Haldia in West Bengal to Bangladeshi ports of Khulna, Mongla and Chattagram often capsize in the Hooghly releasing tons of fly ash. This pollutes the river’s ecosystem and adversely affects the fishing industry that thrives on these rivers and in the Sunderbans,” said Pradip Chatterjee, president of the Dakshinbanga Matsyajibi Forum.Everyday hundreds of barges moving along National Waterway 97, also called the Sunderban waterway, carry fly ash from West Bengal to Bangladesh for cement factories in that country. According to the forum at least five barges have capsized this year releasing tons of fly ash in the rivers. While the Sunderbans’ fragile ecosystem is a breeding ground of several species of fish and aquatic animals, the Gangetic dolphin and Hilsa fish are found in the Hooghly river which could be hit by the pollution. The union ministry of environment and forest in its report titled ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India (2018)’ released earlier this year had also said that India and Bangladesh should carefully use the water-channels in the Sunderban, so as not to disturb the free movement of tigers between the two countries. “Even though cargo used to move through the Indian part of the Sunderbans, it has been stopped totally since 2011. Now the ships and barges take alternate water routes, avoiding the Sunderbans, to reach Bangladesh,” said a senior official of West Bengal forest department. The petition says that most of the barges that move through the rivers carrying fly ash have outlived their lives There is, however, hardly any mechanism in place to check them or make the owners pay on polluters-pay principle. “We are satisfied that substantial question relating to environment arises in this case which requires to be looked into by the Tribunal,” the Kolkata bench of the NGT said. The committee has been directed to verify the factual aspects after physical verification of the area and examine the factors giving rise to barge accidents, suggest measures to prevent occurrence of such incidents and also mitigation measures in respect of fly ash already spilled in the waterway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngt-panel-to-probe-barge-accidents-on-indo-bangla-waterway-causing-fly-ash-pollution/story-xBD4dQqy4m6M2EenbtoyuI.html
25-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 recoveries soar past 7 million, 4 states account for more than half: Govt||Over seven million people have recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India and four states, which also have maximum number of active cases, have contributed to more than half of the recovery figures, Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday. “In a significant achievement, India’s total recoveries have crossed the landmark milestone of 70L. The top 4 States account for more than half of the total recovered cases. About 44% active caseload of the country is contributed by them,” the ministry said in a tweet.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The national recovery cate has further improved to 89.78%, the government said on Saturday and added that 61% of the total recovered cases are from six states - Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.According to data cited by the government, 0.1 million people had recovered from the disease on June 3 and the figures continued to witness an upward trend with the tally tally reaching 7,016,046 on October 24.The graph shared by the ministry along with the tweet also shows the rapid pace of recovery in the recent months. While it took three months to go from 0.1 million to 3 million recoveries, the figure stood at 3 million on September 4 and surpassed 7 million as on October 24, i.e. in little more than one and a half month.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageTime and again, the government has hailed its ‘test, treat, track’ strategy for the steady decline in active cases and increase in recoveries. The total caseload in the country stands at 7,814,682 while the toll stands at 117,956.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-recoveries-soar-past-7-million-4-states-account-for-more-than-half-govt/story-FuxDHe8HiBsVAYawn1BW4N.html
25-10-2020||India||IT, ED rarely raided BJP leaders in last six years: Congress||Central government tax and enforcement agencies like Income Tax department and the Enforcement Directorate have rarely raided BJP leaders over the last six years, despite numerous government toppling instances, All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in-charge of Goa Dinesh Gundu Rao said on Saturday.Addressing a press conference here Rao said, “The BJP is stoking sentiment because party or government programmes do not matter anymore. The economy has fallen, our borders are threatened, our foreign policy has collapsed and we are friendless in our neighbourhood, there is no security for women and dalits.”“Every day we see that ED, Income Tax are raiding Opposition parties. Show me one BJP leader in the last six years who has been issued notice by any of the enforcement agencies. Several state governments have been toppled and hundreds of crores of rupees have been spent in such attempts. IT and ED do not know what is happening? CBI does not know what is happening?” he asked further.Rao said that this “country is being run by capitalists in collusion with Prime Minister Narendra Modi”.“This is not a democracy. This country is being run by big capitalists in collusion with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They are using human and natural resources of this country to make profit. This is disastrous situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-ed-rarely-raided-bjp-leaders-in-last-six-years-congress/story-NwIkTPxPWZAZdU2QPL5wyN.html
25-10-2020||India||‘Everyone should get success’: PM Modi wishes nation on Mahanavami||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended greetings to people celebrating ‘Mahanavami’, the ninth and last day of Navratri festival.“Heartiest greetings to the countrymen on Mahanavami. On this auspicious day of Navratri, the ninth power of Mother Durga is worshiped by Goddess Siddhidatri. With the blessings of Maa Siddhidatri, everyone should get success in their works,” said PM Modi on Twitter.The nation is celebrating Dussehra and Mahanavami today as the nine-day long Navratri culminates. Mahanavami is celebrated across the country, especially in West Bengal state. It is one of the biggest festivals for Bengali people. However, the celebrations are subdued this year due to the nationwide Covid-19 restrictions preventing people from celebrating the festival on a grand scale.Following pujas and other traditional practices over the five-day long Durga Puja and prior to the immersion of the idol as part of the ‘Ghot Bisharjon’, Vijayadashami is marked with women participating in ‘Sindoor Khela’, which involves women applying vermilion (Sindoor) on each other after applying Sindoor on the Goddess’ feet and forehead and feeding her with sweets and betel leaves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everyone-should-get-success-pm-modi-wishes-nation-on-mahanavami/story-BMLP6WfjJHDtoJnSiEErBJ.html
25-10-2020||India||On Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remark, Biden says ‘not how you talk about friends’||Slamming President Donald Trump for his comment on India’s air pollution, former vice president and Democratic Party’s presidential nominee Joe Biden on Saturday said he and his running mate Kamala Harris deeply value America’s partnership with India. “President Trump called India ‘filthy’. It’s not how you talk about friends and it’s not how you solve global challenges like climate change,” Biden said in a tweet, two days after Trump during a presidential debate accused China, India and Russia of not taking care of their “filthy” air. “Look at China, how filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India. The air is filthy,” Trump had said during the final presidential debate with Biden in Nashville, Tennessee on Thursday. “Kamala Harris and I deeply value our partnership and will put respect back at the centre of our foreign policy,” Biden said in a tweet Saturday as he retweeted his op-ed in the latest issue of ethnic India West weekly.Also watch | ‘It’s not how you talk about friends’: Biden On Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remark“The Obama-Biden years were some of the best we’ve ever had between our two countries. A Biden-Harris administration will build on that great progress and do even more. We can and should be natural allies,” Biden wrote in the op-ed. “That’s why if elected President, I will continue what I have long called for: The US and India will stand together against terrorism in all its forms and work together to promote a region of peace and stability where neither China nor any other country threatens its neighbours,” he said. “We’ll open markets and grow the middle class in both the United States and India, and confront other international challenges together, like climate change, global health, transnational terrorism and nuclear proliferation,” said Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-donald-trump-s-filthy-india-remark-joe-biden-says-not-how-you-talk-about-friends/story-5cBQoyz3xwoVBm511gqphI.html
25-10-2020||India||Policeman killed in Maoist ambush in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur district||A Chhattisgarh policeman was killed and another injured when Maoists ambushed a police team in the forests of Narayanpur district in Bastar region on Saturday, police said. Police also claimed that about five Maoists were injured after the police team retaliated but managed to escape from the site of the encounter.Santu Vaddu, the deceased jawan was with District Reserve Guard (DRG) of Narayanpur district. Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sunderaj P said that the incident took place near Tadur village under Orchha police station of the district. “On Friday, a team of DRG went inside the jungles of Orchha for an anti-naxal operation launched by the district police. On Saturday, at around 10.30 am, when the team was returning the Maoists ambushed it resulting in an encounter,” said the IG. The IG further said that during the encounter DRG personnel Santu Vadde sustained bullet injuries on his leg and died later during treatment. “Another constable Bajju Ram Kachlam sustained minor injuries and was admitted to a hospital,” Sunderaj added. “Blood stains at the encounter spot suggests that around 4-5 Maoists sustained bullet injuries in the encounter. We have launched operation in the jungles which is underway,” the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policeman-killed-in-maoist-ambush-in-chhattisgarh-s-narayanpur-district/story-pP2LU4eU87rn1lNPrZqrgJ.html
25-10-2020||India||Andhra govt partially demolishes GITAM university campus in Vizag for alleged encroachment||In an overnight drive, civic authorities in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam on Saturday demolished the compound wall and a few other structures of the Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management (GITAM) University, a prestigious private university at Rishikonda on the city outskirts. The demolition followed a recent report submitted by Visakhapatnam revenue divisional officer (RDO) Penchala Kishore to the government, declaring that the university was in possession of 40.51 acres of government land which it had allegedly encroached upon during the previous Telugu Desam Party government. GITAM University was promoted by former TDP parliamentarian late M V V S Murthy. It is currently managed by his grandson M Sri Bharat, who also happens to be son-in-law of senior Tollywood actor and MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna, son of TDP founder and former chief minister N T Rama Rao. Incidentally, Bharat contested the 2019 general elections from Visakhapatnam parliamentary constituency on TDP ticket. The demolitions which began after midnight went on till the early hours of Saturday. Apart from the main entrance and security chamber, the entire compound wall of the engineering and medical blocks was razed to the ground. Heavy police forces were deployed at the demolition site, as the civic authorities closed the approach road towards the university. Later, the authorities put up a board declaring it as the government property. An official of the GITAM University said the GVMC officials had conducted the demolition drive without issuing any prior notice. “We came to know only in the morning. We informed the higher authorities that the land issue is in the court. No marking was done for identifying the government land,” the official, who refused to be named, said. The RDO, however, told reporters that the university had encroached upon over 40 acres of land and the GVMC authorities held talks with the university management several times. “We have demolished certain structures which were built in the encroached portion of the government land. In the next phase, we shall take some more demolitions,” Kishore said. The demolitions evoked strong protests from the TDP. Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu condemned the demolitions saying it was a clear act of vengeance against the political opponents in the state. He said the matter was in court but the demolitions were initiated without waiting for the final verdict. “The destructive attack on a noted educational institution would be a big threat to the future progress and prosperity of the state as a whole,” he said. He also pointed out that the university had provided medical help to 2,590 Covid-19 patients for which it incurred expenses of crores of rupees. Such a noble educational institution became witness to thoughtless demolitions overnight by over 200 personnel. “One who cannot build has no right to demolish, he argued. Naidu’s son and TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh also condemned the demolitions at GITAM University. “The chief minister’s modus operandi is to create terror in the minds of all the people in Visakhapatnam and perpetrate his ruthless rule there,” he alleged. YSR Congress party legislator from Anakapalle Gudivada Amarnath, however, made it clear that the state government would not spare anybody who resorted to illegal encroachment of government lands and properties. He alleged that the GITAM university had encroached upon government lands worth Rs 800 crore. “What is wrong in taking back the government land?” he asked. He refuted the allegation that the government had not given any notice to the university authorities. “In fact, notices were served on the management five months ago,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-partially-demolishes-gitam-university-campus-in-vizag-for-alleged-encroachment/story-XsrG5Mv4DJdUMytGfeR8CL.html
25-10-2020||India||PM Modi, Donald Trump get along so well, says Nikki Haley||US President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi get “along so well” and the two countries are partnering in defence, trade and other sectors, said Nikki Haley, American former envoy to United Nations, on Saturday. Speaking during an event here, Haley, Indian-American Republican politician, said in the aftermath of the coronavirus, there is more of a coalition that the United States is bringing in India along with Australia and Japan.“...The relationship with India has never been stronger ever. India is the largest democracy that shares our values. And President Trump and Prime Minister Modi get along so well. But now we are actually partnering with them on defense and trade and other areas,” she said at a fireside chat event organised by the Indian Voices for Trump in the battleground state of Philadelphia.“And with COVID-19 coming from China. There’s more of a coalition that the United States is bringing in India, along with Australia and Japan. And so, really, the foreign policy of President Trump has been gangbusters over any other president that we have had in decades, and that affects every one of us from national security,” she added. Haley, the two-term governor of South Carolina, was the first Cabinet-ranking Indian-American in any presidential administration. She is now campaigning for Trump ahead of the US election.In a message for all Indian Americans, Haley told ANI: “The Indian American community contributes a lot to the United States, and it is the best country in the world but we have to protect them. So we need the American community to remember that President Trump was given us the lowest unemployment has allowed for businesses to thrive.”“It’s really allowed us the opportunity to excel in every field and every direction we need to go and continue to support him so that we can continue doing that for our children, our grandchildren right,” she added.Speaking about China in view of national security threat, Haley said that Beijing is the United States’ “absolute number one” national security threat adding that US President Donald Trump has made sure China does not steal American intellectual property.Haley, former US Ambassador to the UN, said President Trump has “put China on notice”.”China is our absolute number one threat right now, a huge national security threat. With the trade deal that the President did, not only did he get a better trade deal for us, he put China on notice with intellectual property.”“He has made sure that they know that they can not turn around and steal intellectual property. They cannot go and spy on our universities, and that we are going to hold them accountable as we go forward,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-donald-trump-get-along-so-well-says-nikki-haley/story-fjFxgpCF8mqfpswVIzUjCK.html
25-10-2020||India||Rajnath Singh to perform Shastra Puja with soldiers in Sikkim on Sunday||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will perform Shastra Puja - worshipping of weapons - on then occasion of Dussehra on Sunday with the soldiers of the Indian Army.Singh will perform the puja with one of the local units deployed in Sikkim near the China border. He embarked on a two-day visit to West Bengal and Sikkim on Saturday.Shastra Puja is a ritual performed by the Hindus annually around the time of Dussehra. Singh had performed the puja in France last year, on the first Rafale fighter jet India formally received.He emblazoned the aircraft with an Om tilak and laid flowers and a coconut as part of the ritual. The defence minister also took a 35-minute sortie in the two-seater jet.Singh is visiting Sikkim to boost the morale of Indian troops deployed against the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at the border. He will review the deployment of troops at the borders and assess their preparedness against the PLA.The defence minister visited the Headquarters of 33 Corps at Sukna in Darjeeling on Saturday where he said that the country’s boundaries are secure due to its soldiers.“India always wants good relations with all its neighbouring countries, we have always made an effort for the same. But our jawans have had to sacrifice their lives from time to time to protect our borders, integrity and universality,” he said.“This time in Galwan, our 20 jawans of Bihar Regiment sacrificed themselves to protect our motherland...The nation and its boundaries are secure due to you,” he added.The defence minister was accompanied by Chief of the Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane.India and China are engaged in a border standoff since April-May this year. While the Ladakh sector has been the focus of the current round of border tensions with China, a tense confrontation between Indian and Chinese soldiers took place in north Sikkim in early May, just days after a brawl between rival troops on the northern bank of Pangong Tso.The standoff, currently in its sixth month, has taken India-China ties to a new low, with troops even firing warning shots at friction points in August-September. This was the first instance of shots being fired along the LAC since October 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-perform-shastra-puja-with-soldiers-in-sikkim-on-sunday/story-JyIOd3zJjWk5q34LjbJBQO.html
25-10-2020||India||BJP, Cong trade barbs over rape-murder of Dalit girl in Punjab||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday hit out at Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for their “selective outrage” over crimes against women and questioned the party’s alleged silence on the rape and murder of a six-year-old Dalit girl in Punjab. Sitharaman said that crimes against women should not be linked to politics and questioned why the Congress was silent. “All political parties together will have to make sure that the system responds and justice is served in time. But because we want our political games to be played, we are selective about voicing horror... and remain in complete silence when it is in states governed by Congress.”“The pretentious Congress has not said a word. The tweet-friendly Rahul Gandhi hasn’t tweeted on the Hoshiarpur incident. There’s been no outrage, no picnic either,” she added.Congress MP Rahul Gandhi hit back, tweeting: “Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice.” Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev said the reason Congress leaders felt the need to go to Hathras is because the district administration geared up, not to protect the victim and her family, but to threaten them. “That’s why the opposition leaders felt it was their duty to go to Hathras. In Punjab, the chairperson of Punjab Women’s Commission has met the family, assured their full support,” she said while criticising National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cong-trade-barbs-over-rape-murder-of-dalit-girl-in-punjab/story-NSfpcleveonD5Z2IzRTViP.html
25-10-2020||India||In Odisha temple, animal sacrifice discontinued due to Covid-19 pandemic||For the first time in several decades, the ritual of animal sacrifice in a famous Hindu temple of Odisha could not be held due to Covid-19 restrictions though the Supreme Court had allowed it last week.The famous Chhatar Jatra of Manikeswari Temple in western Odisha district of Kalahandi was conducted on Saturday amid Covid-19 restrictions and tight security without participation of devotees. The festival began early this morning with the procession of Chhatar of Goddess Manikeswari taken to the outskirts of Bhawanipatna town following secret rituals.As per tradition, devotees sacrifice large numbers of sheep, goats, roosters and pigeons in the hope that Goddess Manikeswari would meet all their wishes. However, the Orissa High Court on January 6 had imposed a ban on sacrifice of animals and birds in and around Maa Manikeswari temple. Last week, the Supreme Court had put an interim stay on the High Court order of restricting animal sacrifice during the festival.Despite the SC allowing the sacrifice ritual, the organisers of the festival decided against the animal sacrifice to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “We had imposed section 144 CrPC around the temple to prevent congregation of people around the temple. The organisers too decided not to go ahead with the animal sacrifice due to Covid-19 restrictions,” a senior official of Kalahandi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-temple-animal-sacrifice-discontinued-due-to-covid-19-pandemic/story-hzOH9q0KpHJlwcZ84GhsiI.html
25-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand crosses 60,000-mark with 359 new Covid-19 cases, 5 more die||Uttarakhand on Saturday crossed the 60,000 mark in Covid-19 cases, with 359 fresh patients taking the state tally to 60,155. Out of 60,155 who have tested positive so far, a total of 54,169 have recovered successfully, taking the recovery rate in the state to 90.05 %. The positivity rate in the state now stands at 6.35 %. Also, 451 Covid-19 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Saturday with a maximum 196 from Dehradun district. The fresh Covid-19 cases reported from other districts included Almora (18), Bageshwar (12), Chamoli (31), Champawat (2), Haridwar (63), Nainital (48), Pauri Garhwal (24), Pithoragarh (13), Rudraprayag (13), Tehri Garhwal (7), US Nagar (18) and Uttarkashi (20). The state reported the death of five Covid-19 patients. Of the 5 deaths, one was due to coronavirus while the rest were due to co-morbidities. With this, the death toll of Covid-19 patients increased to 984 in the state. Out of the 984 deaths, 259 are due to coronavirus, while the others died due to co-morbidities. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Saturday evening, a maximum of 90 fresh cases were reported from Dehradun district. Dehradun district has reported the maximum of 16,675 Covid-19 positive cases so far followed by Haridwar (10,792), US Nagar (9,364) and Nainital (7,076). The state has so far tested over 9.73 lakh samples of which results of over 14,900 are awaited. Uttarakhand, currently has 57 containment zones in six districts including a maximum of 26 in Dehradun district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-crosses-60-000-mark-with-359-new-covid-19-cases-5-more-die/story-BpfurnpGWvfSyh9ZLFJb0I.html
25-10-2020||India||J&K coalition is anti-BJP, not anti-national, says Farooq Abdullah||A grouping of six political parties in Jammu and Kashmir chose National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah as its chairperson and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Mehbooba Mufti his deputy, giving shape to an alliance that they have formed to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status. The decisions were taken at a meeting held at the Fairview residence of Mufti at the posh Gupkar Road in Srinagar. Leaders of all six parties — NC, PDP, Peoples Conference (PC), Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M), Peoples Movement (PM) and Awami National Conference (ANC) — were present at the meeting. The flag of the erstwhile state was adopted as the flag of the alliance. Abdullah said the grouping, christened People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, or PAGD, was not an anti-national alliance but was definitely anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “I want to tell you that it’s a false propaganda by the BJP that the PAGD is anti-national. There is no doubt that it is anti-BJP, but it is not anti-national,” he said. Abdullah, 84, the Lok Sabha member from Srinagar, said their fight was not religious in nature and that it was for their “rights and identity”. “They (the BJP) have tried to destroy the Constitution and divide the country. We have seen what they did to the Constitution of India on August 5 last year...our objective is to fight for the rights of people of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. We will fight for the regional autonomy of Jammu and Ladakh regions as well.”On August 5, 2019, the central government nullified Article 370, which accorded special status to the state of J&K, and bifurcated it into two Union territories – J&K with a legislative assembly and Ladakh without one — triggering widespread protests and a political firestorm. Several political leaders and activists including three former chief ministers — Mufti, Abdullah and his son, Omar Abdullah — were detained as a preventive measure to maintain law and order. The Abdullahs were released in March, and Mufti was freed in the second week of October. Since then, the leaders, once fierce opponents, have come together — backed by four other parties — to forge the alliance that aims to work for the restoration of the region’s special status. The grouping’s first meeting was held at the Gupkar residence of Abdullah on October 15.At Saturday’s meeting, PC chairperson Sajjad Lone was nominated as the spokesperson of the alliance. CPI-M general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami will be its convener and Anantnag parliamentarian Hasnain Masoodi of the NC its coordinator. Members of the alliance said they will come up with a white paper within a month to expose the “lies” spread about the people of J&K. “...it (the white paper) will be placed before the people and the country to expose lies and misunderstandings; it will expose the reality about J&K with statistics. The document will be a tribute to the people,” Lone said. The next gathering of the alliance will be held in Jammu within two weeks and its first convention in Srinagar in November, he added.BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur said the grouping will not succeed. “These people have ruled J&K for 70 years. Now when they are out of power, the families have again come together to grab power. This is a VVIP alliance of powerful people that will not work.”Noor Baba, a political analyst and the former head of the political science department at the Kashmir University, however, said leaders of the new alliance were a recognised and a significant voice. “The government of India cannot dub them separatists. They cannot be dubbed Pakistanis because their credentials are established as authentic Indians in Kashmir who believe in a certain idea of India — which is secular and allows certain safeguards in relation to the state of Jammu and Kashmir...Their voice is significant if they stand by what they have committed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-coalition-is-anti-bjp-not-anti-national-farooq-abdullah/story-JDwPwkaWdItZ12q6vdFVQM.html
25-10-2020||India||Work for Mahakumbh 2021 to be held in two shifts for time-bound completion||With less than three months left for the Mahakumbh and infrastructural work still going on, the Mela administration is focussing on ensuring time-bound completion of the work, by carrying out constriction in two shifts. A monitoring committee has been set up to assess, monitor and check the Kumbh related work, which reports on a daily basis to the Mela administration. Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat is now routinely inspecting the construction worksites to gauge the pace of work. Directing officials to start operating construction work in two shifts, Rawat has made it clear that quality and time-bound completion of the work is vital for hosting a successful Mahakumbh fair. All the departmental officials have been directed by senior mela administration officials to adhere to the December deadline with regard to Kumbh permanent nature projects. “By December end, we have to ensure all permanent work is completed,” Rawat said, while inspecting the Sukhi rivulet, where a 44 metre bridge construction work is going on at Bhoopatwala. Secretary, public works department (PWD), R Sudhanshu assured that no compromise on the quality of Mahakumbh related work will be made. “Stern directives have been given to nodal and department officials involved in Kumbh projects. Adhering to the deadline of completion of Kumbh projects by year-end is foremost priority along with the quality of the work,” said R Sudhanshu. To ensure speedy construction work, the Mela administration had sought additional time from the Irrigation department of Uttar Pradesh to extend the Ganga canal closure from fortnight to a month this year. The closure of the Ganga canal from October 14 to November 15 has surely increased the speed of the construction work. From the construction of bridges, new Ganga ghats to renovation-cleaning work, the canal closure extension by a fortnight is proving vital for time-bound completion of Mahakumbh projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-for-mahakumbh-2021-to-be-held-in-two-shifts-for-time-bound-completion/story-13HttomNiXK2ETSoP1W67O.html
25-10-2020||India||Telangana to revise budget for FY 2020-21 amid revenue drop due to covid||The Telangana government has decided to revise its annual budget for the financial year 2020-2021 amid a shortfall in revenues due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials familiar with the matter said.Following a meeting with officials of the state’s finance ministry on Friday, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has instructed officials to take up an interim review of the state’s budget, an official release from the CM’s office stated. “The state’s revenue and income have been reduced severely due to the lockdown imposed due to Corona pandemic. There was cut in the funds from the Centre to the State. The Central GDP has fallen to (Minus) -24 percent. This had a major impact on the states,” the statement cited the chief minister as saying. Under these circumstances, KCR said, the state had to prepare estimates on how much funds are actually available and how much funds can be allocated to the departments. “Review the entire state budget and submit a report to the government,” the CM told officials. On March 8, state finance minister T Harish Rao had presented the state’s annual budget with an outlay of Rs 1,82,914 crore, with a revenue surplus of Rs 4,482 crore. The budget projected a revenue expenditure of Rs 1,38,669 crore and capital expenditure of Rs 22,061 crore. The chief minister has also proposed to make changes in the existing method of announcing dearness allowance (DA) to the state government employees and pensioners, officials who attended Friday’s meeting said on condition of anonymity.As on date, DA is being paid to state government employees in accordance with the decision taken by the Centre. The CM said hereafter, the state would announce the DA once in six months without waiting for the decision of the Centre. “Changes could be made in the instalments at later stage, depending on the Central formula,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-to-revise-budget-for-fy-2020-21-amid-revenue-drop-due-to-covid/story-zU8gpGfTwm5QX9tb1jGUmI.html
25-10-2020||India||Third phase of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to begin soon in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed the second phase of clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. The civic body will soon start third phase trials after the first batch of volunteers complete 28 days since their first vaccination.As many as 200 healthy volunteers participated in the second phase of the trial of the vaccine candidate named COVISHIELD. Both King Edward Memorial (KEM) and BYL Nair hospitals, that are conducting the trials, will now submit their reports to the data safety monitoring board under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization to seek approval for stage III of the trial. “With the approval, we will be able to start the third phase of the trial once the first set of volunteers complete 28 days of the first vaccination. As per ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), the third trial can only be conducted on volunteers after a gap of 28 days,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. On September 26, the first dosage of the second phase of trial was given to three volunteers between ages 20 and 45 years at KEM hospital. On October 23, they completed 28 days of their first vaccination.Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) has partnered with British-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca to manufacture the experimental Covid-19 vaccine formulated at the University of Oxford.Meanwhile, as informed SII has suggested that the civic body include 50 more volunteers for the first phase of the trial. Following which, both the hospitals have written to the ICMR seeking approval. “As we have achieved our target of 100 volunteers, we have asked ICMR if they want us to include more volunteers. So far, we haven’t received any response. However, we have kept additional volunteers on standby,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair hospital.However, Kakani said that they wouldn’t wait further for a response from ICMR and start their third phase trial. “We can’t wait any further as we need to provide the third dosage to the first volunteers who have completed their 28 days of waiting period,” he said. Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM hospital confirmed that they are yet to start the third phase of the trial.In August, when ICMR selected the two Mumbai-based hospitals to run clinical trials for the vaccine, they were instructed to enroll 160 volunteers at each hospital. Later, the number of total volunteers was reduced to a total of 200-or 100 each - for conducting the second phase of the trial. According to ICMR, every volunteer is covered by life insurance worth Rs 1 crore in the event of death due to any side effect of the vaccine administered in the trial. Also, they get Rs 50 lakh medical insurance to cover the cost for treatment of any possible adverse effect from the vaccination.In the second week of September, both hospitals had to halt the trial after a participant developed an adverse reaction in the United Kingdom. Later, the Drug Control General of India granted permission to run the second and third phases of the trial. However, both civic hospitals had to receive final approval from their ethics committees before starting with the screening of the volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-phase-of-oxford-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-to-begin-soon-in-mumbai/story-nqkpFPgmxiHMrGOTqFXdgM.html
25-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand govt issues SOP for schools to reopen on November 2 after 7 months||With schools scheduled to reopen for classes 10 and 12 on November 2 after nearly seven months, the Uttarakhand government on Saturday evening released guidelines to be followed by educational institutions in the state to check the spread of Covid-19. According to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by chief secretary Om Prakash, schools outside containment zones in the state will open from November 2. According to the guidelines, the schools will have to follow many conditions that include sanitization of school premises before and after classes daily, arrangements to be made in schools for sanitizers, handwash, thermal screening, first aid, if any student or teacher shows Covid-19 symptoms, he or she to be immediately sent home, social distancing to be ensured while students arrive at and leave school, wearing of face masks by all students and teachers among others. The other main guidelines include classes be started in two shifts if social distancing cannot be ensured due to large number of students. Schools have been directed that they should seek written permission of the parents/ guardians before allowing students in the schools. The school buses have to be sanitized daily and 50% strength of the seats be used to ensure social distancing while commuting between schools and homes. In classes, seating arrangements should be made in such a way so that there is a distance of six feet between the students. The seating spots on the benches have to be marked for easy identification. If the weather allows, classes can be held outdoors to ensure proper following of social distancing norms. Different timings need to be set for students to come into and leave school premises so that there is no unnecessary crowding when the schools start and close for the day. Prayers are to be held in the classes or outdoors, but no games or recreational activities will be allowed. Schools have been asked not to encourage organizing of events, due to which there is crowding. If some students want to study from home, using online means, they have to be allowed to do so, the SOP states. The decision to open schools from November 2 for classes 10 and 12 was taken during a cabinet meeting on October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-govt-issues-sop-for-schools-to-reopen-on-november-2-after-7-months/story-dR6ZRHEplVkg1FIE1VYVFO.html
25-10-2020||India||Leopard cub found dead in Uttarakhand’s Nainital||A carcass of a three-month-old leopard cub was found in Uttarakhand’s Nainital on Saturday morning, forest officials said. The cub was found dead in Veer Bhatti area in Manora forest range under the Nainital forest division. The locals informed the forest department about the location of the carcass. Bhupal Singh Mehta, range officer of the Manora forest range said, “On Saturday morning, some locals from Veer Bhatti area who were out for a walk spotted the leopard cub’s carcass and informed us. Our team rushed to the spot and recovered the carcass and sent it for post-mortem examination.” He added that the cub had injury marks on its body and it is likely that it fell down a hill or was killed by another animal “The actual cause of death will be known after the post-mortem examination but prima facie it looks that the leopard either fell from a hill or was killed in some conflict with another wild animal,” added Mehta. This is not the first incident of a leopard death in the state this year. On October 17, a one-year-old leopard cub was found dead in Pithoragarh. On October 22, 2020, a leopard was found dead in the forests of Ramnagar. Last week, three leopard foetuses were found in Almora district. Officials initially thought that three leopard cubs had died but on reaching the spot they found that those were foetuses. On July 12, a leopard was found dead in Dhauladevi block in Almora. On July 4, the carcass of a two-year-old female leopard was recovered by forest officials in Uttarkashi district. On May 28, a three-year-old female leopard died after getting trapped in a fence at Lohaghat in Champawat district. Meanwhile in Pithoragarh district, a woman from Dunga village was attacked by a leopard on Friday night. Vinay Bhargava divisional forest officer Pithoragarh said one Hema Devi, 35 was attacked by a leopard on Friday night when she came out of her house to fetch drinking water. She shouted for help but was severely injured. She was rushed to the local hospital where she is undergoing treatment for her injuries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopard-cub-found-dead-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital/story-viaRKxhghSTwibZtawiDAJ.html
25-10-2020||India||PM Modi to address the nation on Mann Ki Baat at 11am||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation during the 70th edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, at 11am on Sunday. PM Modi had sought ideas and suggestions from people on his social media accounts earlier this month about topics for Mann Ki Baat where he addresses the country over a range of issues.The Prime Minister had tweeted to ask people to send their inputs by writing to him using NaMo or MyGov App or by recording their messages by calling on 1800-11-7800. The last date for sending in the suggestions was October 23.In the previous edition of Mann ki Baat, which came shortly after the passage of the farm bills, PM Modi had strongly defended the legislations enacted by his government and said they would benefit farmers by giving them the freedom to choose where they wanted to sell their produce as well as consumers by taking middlemen out of agricultural trading.The government also maintained during the passage of these legislations that they will widen market access to farmers and which opposition parties say are anti-farmer and corporate-friendly.In his 69th edition of Mann Ki Baat on September 29, the Prime Minister also recalled landmark events to be observed in the coming days, including the Bhagat Singh Jayanti and the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on October 2.He also took a swipe at the Congress party, saying that if the essence of Mahatma Gandhi’s economic philosophy was followed by previous governments, his government would not have felt the need to launch the Aatmanirbhar Bharat (Self-Reliant India) campaign because India would have become self-reliant much earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-mann-ki-baat-tomorrow-at-11am/story-nzxQM00mI0bFrksTy5AnjI.html
25-10-2020||India||Result of ‘Howdy Modi’, Trump calls India’s air ‘filthy’: Kapil Sibal||Taking a jibe at the Centre, Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Friday said that US President Donald Trump said that India’s air is ‘filthy’, a result of ‘Howdy Modi’ event. “Trump : Fruits of Friendship 1) Questions India’s Covid death toll 2) Says India sends dirt up into the air India “ air is filthy “ 3) Called India “ tariff king “ The result of “Howdy Modi “ Sibal tweeted. US President Donald Trump described the air in India, China, and Russia as “filthy” as he defended his decision to withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord and lauded his decisions with regard to reducing carbon emissions at Thursday’s final debate before the November 3 election.“Look at China. How filthy it is. Look at Russia. Look at India, it’s filthy. The air is filthy,” said Trump while speaking on carbon emissions as he countered Democratic rival Joe Biden at a final debate moderated by NBC’s Kristen Welker.Also watch | ‘It’s not how you talk about friends’: Biden On Trump’s ‘filthy India’ remark Trump further claimed that under his administration the US has had the lowest emission numbers in the last 35 years.Earlier during his first presidential debate against his Democratic challenger Joe Biden, the US President said India, China, and Russia “did not exactly give a straight count” on deaths due to the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/result-of-howdy-modi-trump-calls-india-s-air-filthy-kapil-sibal/story-dpe3EeZ1nDShUXYhCpRbbL.html
25-10-2020||Editorials||The Sangh-BJP interface | HT Editorial||The Vijayadashmi speech by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief is significant for it lays out the Sangh’s broader worldview, and its approach to contemporary issues. Given that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) derives its ideological inspiration from the RSS, and there is a close degree of coordination between the government, the party, and the larger “ideological family”, the speech has assumed even greater importance since 2014. On Sunday, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat praised India’s handling of the China threat; lauded the government and society’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic; defended the Citizenship (Amendment) Act; attacked forces which he claimed wanted to weaken and divide India internally; and sought to equate Hindutva with the nation. All of this indicates that there is a high degree of synergy between the government and the Sangh. This is not surprising, for after its victory in 2019, the BJP-led government at the Centre has been committed to the core ideological goals dear to the RSS. The speech should lay to rest speculation about the Sangh’s unhappiness with the government, notwithstanding occasional differences on policy and personnel. But the most significant element of the speech was the bit on the economy. Three things stand out. One, the Sangh is quite delighted with the focus on self-reliance, for it views this as a victory of its long-held swadeshi philosophy. Mr Bhagwat emphasised the importance of having the sites of production, workforce engaged in production, economic benefits from sales of production and rights of production under “national control”. This is a rather strong call for a return to the local. Two, in a message of moderation to the more extreme economic affiliates, he acknowledged the importance of foreign investment for technical knowledge-sharing, international cooperation, financial independence — but “on our terms” and “mutual consensus”. And finally, while supporting the government’s recent economic reforms, Mr Bhagwat emphasised that farmers must not get trapped by either corporates or middlemen, the government should provide an extra layer of protection to entrepreneurs, and development gains must percolate down — all of which marks a cautious warning. A close reading of the speech, thus, indicates that on political and cultural issues to a large extent and on the economy to a lesser extent, the government and the RSS have a close overlap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-sangh-bjp-interface-ht-editorial/story-bZ3RUOHeM3UPP1pOqyENKM.html
25-10-2020||Editorials||The threat from al Qaeda persists | HT Editorial||The reported killing of the al Qaeda number two serves as a reminder that the group that made jihad a household word is still alive. The terror group remains headquartered in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region, which explains why it was Afghan forces that found and killed Abu Muhsin Al-Masri. Since last year, al Qaeda’s leadership, including its chief Ayman al Zawahiri, has repeatedly called for a renewed jihad in Kashmir against India. Indian law and order agencies continue to apprehend a steady stream of al Qaeda suspects. More telling is that almost all of these al Qaeda recruits captured in India have been found to have come through Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) training camps. While Pakistan’s military insists it has no relationship with al Qaeda, the Lashkar link and the manner in which al Qaeda conveniently aligns itself with Islamabad’s interests seems more than just a coincidence. Kashmir rose to the top of al Qaeda’s agenda as New Delhi moved to marginalise Islamabad’s role in the future of the region. This March, al Qaeda publication, Nawai Afghan Jihad, declared its support for United States (US)-Taliban talks, echoing Pakistan’s position.Al Qaeda, the Islamic State, LeT and other such groups are different brands which draw from a common pool of terrorism. Al Qaeda keeps a low profile even as it spreads once again in Africa, Yemen, Syria and South Asia. One result of this deliberate strategy is that the US now downplays the group as a threat. But India cannot afford this luxury as long as al Qaeda remains domiciled in the subcontinent, covertly aligns itself with Pakistan and prepares for the US withdrawal from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-threat-from-al-qaeda-persists-ht-editorial/story-dujNMrpotdnXkQzWaoobWN.html
