26-10-2020||News||Bihar: A referendum on Nitish Kumar||The 2020 assembly election in Bihar has taken an interesting turn. The competition between top national and regional parties, the rift within existing alliances, the discourse around jobs, and most importantly, the focus on Nitish Kumar’s record have made the polls complex . Indeed, it is difficult to predict which key electoral issue is going to influence voters most deeply. After election dates were announced, public discourse was centered mainly around creating a formidable alliance of parties, which would bring together caste-based votebanks. But, as polling day approaches, there are still cracks in both the main coalitions in the state. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) was not able retain three potential partners within its formation. Two of them, the Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahni and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) led by Jitan Ram Manjhi, shifted to the rival group, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), while the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha has allied with other smaller parties. These parties may be small but they command the loyalty of segments of distinct social groups, based on the caste appeal of their leaders, which could well affect the fortunes of the mahagathbandhan. On the other hand, the internal dynamic within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Nitish Kumar led NDA is not smooth either. The coalition could not retain the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in the pre-poll alliance. Interestingly, the LJP is fighting mainly against the Janata Dal (United). Twenty-one out of its 134 candidates are former BJP functionaries who are taking on the JD(U) on the LJP symbol. This has created confusion among BJP supporters over whether to support the JD(U) candidates or the LJP. And while Chirag Paswan has attacked Chief Minister (CM) Nitish Kumar, he is all praise for the BJP. He has proclaimed that he is a fan of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, and the LJP continues to be remain part of the NDA at the Centre. Many BJP leaders have issued somewhat unconvincing clarifications that the LJP is not part of the NDA in the state. Modi’s silence on this issue in his campaign speeches on Friday has also deepened speculation over that there could be a tacit understanding between the BJP and LJP. There is no doubt that the PM is popular among the voters and, therefore, the LJP may be trying to use this to its advantage, despite the BJP’s protestations that it has asked the LJP to refrain from doing so. These developments pose a challenge for Nitish Kumar who is facing anti-incumbency after 15 years in power.The election campaign is now centered around Nitish Kumar. Unlike in the previous election, the Opposition has refrained from attacking the PM. Therefore, it is Nitish Kumar’s record as CM which seems to be the key electoral issue. His victory in both 2005 and 2010 was the outcome of a successful “coalition of extremes” that brought various caste groups together with the help of the BJP and the other influential caste leaders. In 2015, he allied with Lalu Prasad, who had his own winning combination of Yadavs and Muslims. He then split from Lalu Prasad, whose absence, this time around, should have made the fight easier for the CM, but given the discord within the NDA, that is not the case anymore. The other issue which features prominently, and has been taken up by the Opposition, is unemployment. The challenge of generating employment is not limited to Bihar, but the huge population coupled with the lack of job opportunities has posed a substantial policy challenge. Apart from the public sector, employment is dependent on the size and scope of the private sector. Bihar’s market constitutes only 4% of the national market. The state is hobbled by the absence of land reform and the effects of persistent feudalism persist. The surplus from agriculture has not been ploughed into industry. Bihar has not yet taken a capitalist turn, even though social change and democratisation has taken place. Apart from the effects of large-scale migration, bottom-up corruption has corroded most state structures.The absence of bijli, sadak and paani (electricity, roads and water) as significant issues in this election suggests a paradigm shift in the electoral discourse. There was a time when many parts of the country, including Bihar, were struggling to get basic infrastructure. This suggests that Bihar, under Nitish Kumar, has successfully addressed these issues. The other issues are related to people’s aspirations to achieve outcomes on par with those of other developed states. With migration and the electronic media, the cognitive world has expanded even in rural Bihar.Experience from the previous elections suggest that the key factor behind Nitish Kumar’s success has been the coalition of extremes, which includes dominant castes as well as the most marginalised backward, Dalit and Muslim groups. He is still one of the most popular chief ministers in the country, which is why the BJP has been compelled to accept him as the face of the coalition. Even if Chirag Paswan’s attempts to chip away at the CM succeeds, the BJP will not allow anyone else, but Nitish Kumar to become the CM if the NDA wins. The BJP will wait for another term for its chance because this is the only Hindi heartland state where the party has not yet reached its peak. Shaibal Gupta is member secretary, Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), Patna The views expressed are personal___________||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/bihar-a-referendum-on-nitish-kumar/story-QxZffMWbZPh5Vm6jGskbYL.html
26-10-2020||News||Suspend international IP, patent obligations on Covid-19 vaccines||Although strenuous efforts are on across the globe to develop vaccines and drugs to fight Covid-19, the issue of their equitable access remains a major challenge. A formidable barrier to ensuring timely access to vaccines and drugs could be patents or other intellectual property (IP) rights. Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), in a 2017 report, documents how patents have hindered the introduction of affordable vaccines in developing countries. The rights of the inventor should be protected through IP laws. Arguably, such protection spurs innovation, overcoming the social costs imposed on the public through limited accessibility of the product. However, in a world living through the worst pandemic in a century, there is a strong case for the collective interests of humanity to trump the individual interests of the inventor. India’s recent proposal at the World Trade Organization (WTO), jointly with South Africa, asking for a temporary waiver of the application of certain provisions of the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) agreement on Covid-19 vaccines and drugs must be seen in this light. If the waiver is granted, WTO member- countries will not be under obligation, for a temporary period, to either grant or enforce patents and other IP-related rights to Covid-19 drugs, vaccines,ventilators, masks and other related items. This will help them devise plans for vaccinating their populations without worrying about legal suits. While many developing countries have endorsed India’s proposal, countries such as the United States have opposed the move. Articles IX.3 and IX.4 of the WTO agreement empowers the ministerial conference to grant such a waiver. The ministerial conference should state the exceptional circumstances justifying the decision, the terms and conditions governing the working of the waiver, and the date on which the waiver shall end. Thus, the WTO can temporarily suspend the application of the IP-related provisions for a certain period to address the issue of accessibility of vaccines and drugs. There are several instances where WTO has adopted such waivers in the past. Arguably, there is no need to suspend the application of the TRIPS agreement because countries can make use of its flexibilities such as the issuance of compulsory licences. But, working out of some of these flexibilities involves onerous procedural requirements. For instance, while Article 31 bis of the TRIPS agreement allows countries with insufficient manufacturing ability to benefit from the issuance of compulsory licences, the procedural requirement of packaging and labelling is cumbersome. It can lead to delays in supplying vaccines or drugs. Thus, a temporary waiver will be more effective than relying on flexibilities. However, the concern regarding IP rights becoming a barrier in speedily distributing Covid-19 vaccines and drugs is germane not just for WTO law but also vis-à-vis bilateral investment treaties (BITs). Several BITs recognise IP rights as part of foreign investment. Consequently, State regulatory measures that impact the investments of transnational pharmaceutical corporations could be challenged as potential breaches of BITs. This could have a chilling effect on State regulation aimed at ensuring accessibility of Covid-19 drugs and vaccines. Globally, pharma companies have, in the past, used BITs to challenge State regulations on IP rights. Thus, India and other countries must also secure a waiver from the application of BITs to Covid-19 vaccines, drugs, and diagnostics. Countries can do this by adopting a binding declaration to that effect either bilaterally or multilaterally. Some pharmaceutical companies have voluntarily offered that they would not enforce their Covid-19 vaccine patents. However, given the real dangers of “vaccine nationalism” — as per Oxfam’s report, a small group of rich countries has already purchased more than 50% of the future supply of Covid-19 vaccines — voluntary efforts may not be enough. Coordinated State action at the global level that temporarily suspends the application of relevant international law to Covid-19 vaccines and drugs will be an important step in fighting the pandemic.Prabhash Ranjan is a senior assistant professor of law at South Asian University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/suspend-international-ip-patent-obligations-on-covid-19-vaccines/story-C8KL9pTmRcvaxvMOXhZcYN.html
26-10-2020||News||Designing a new digital governance framework||India’s digital markets have witnessed three paradigm shifts this year. First, there has been rapid digitalisation of traditional sectors, as a response to Covid-19, leading to the phenomenal growth of markets such as edtech, healthtech, telemedicine and digital on-boarding. Second, 200 applications, which originated in China, including popular communications and entertainment platforms, have been banned due to security considerations. Finally, a growing set of voices advocate less dependence on American platforms such as Google that can single-handedly determine the market potential for digital start-ups. All these changes point to the need for a suitable policy response.Nimble-footedness is a key characteristic of competitive digital businesses, which deserves reflection in policy design. Businesses that offer multiple use-cases, products and services account for a large share of the economic value generated in global digital markets. Seven of the top eight global firms in terms of market capitalisation use data-centric business models, and are either American or Chinese. The global digital economy is unfortunately a caricature of the traditional economy. The United States (US) and China dominate because their market conditions are conducive for “platformisation” — stacking multiple services into single catch-all applications such as Facebook or WeChat. There are five Chinese and 13 American counterparts for every digital business in India that generates over a billion dollar in annual revenues. Platformisation of digital India is contingent on the availability of adequate data and content. The combination of organised datasets and compelling content unlocks network effects that help digital businesses achieve scale. Datasets allow companies to anticipate market dynamics, tailor custom offerings, minimise transaction costs and maximise enterprise efficiency. Content precipitates a virtuous cycle of consumption and production, and links digitalisation to the knowledge economy. To access or generate data and content, entrepreneurs need the ability to evolve business models and take risks. India’s Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, a 20-year-old law, theoretically governs all digital applications. It grants legal recognition to e-commerce and is the legislative basis for fundamental rules and regulations. Parliament enacted this omnibus law to promote the early digital economy’s growth in India. India’s IT leadership has identified the need for legal reform because our digital ecosystem has developed beyond recognition. In 2000, India had no digital unicorns, no platforms and less than one per cent of its citizens had access to the internet. Conversely, with around 700 million broadband subscribers today, India sees over 400 million unique site/app visits every month, 97% of which are directed at data and content-driven entertainment. Domestic digital transactions grew at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 29.4% between FY 2018-FY 2020. The modernisation of the legal framework for IT offers an unparalleled chance to generate economic gains from this frenetic pace of activity, by removing legacy hurdles. A new framework will require a concerted focus on modern design. Traditional legal-regulatory constructs, based on licences and controls, suffer from a lack of agility and leeway to accommodate the pace of technological change in the digital economy. Governments all around the world are exploring ways to address this problem. This includes detailed discussions in the United Kingdom (UK)’s House of Lords and the European Union (EU)’s European Commission on the merits of wider goals-based or principles-based statutes versus narrower rules-based ones. The former requires thoughtful calibration and state capacity for enforcement, but is more resilient to changes in technology and business models. The latter allows for easier enforcement but is rigid and prevents innovation.In deliberations with top executives, jurists and academics, we found most enthusiasm for a principles-based approach. India can compete effectively in the global digital economy if three criteria are met: Product businesses must become platforms, single utility platforms must transition to multi-utility ones, and these must achieve global scale. India has a strong IT base, which is already export-oriented, and new platforms can ride on its coattails to access global markets. However, the three criteria necessitate policy design that provides legal certainty and supports innovation. In other words, India will have to prioritise bold new principles over prescriptive rules and build new capacities for associated regulatory oversight. India has already shown the gumption to embrace a principles-led approach to digital governance in technical areas such as network-neutrality, despite its repeal in the US. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India has also reaffirmed the need for a light-touch regulatory framework for digital applications. Future principles could include constructs such as “platform neutrality” to ensure that large platforms do not become gatekeepers in digital markets, combined with the wider use of “fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory” terms to govern business conduct. The country has a historic opportunity to define high-impact principles for governing digital applications. These can serve as a template for other digital markets, even as they foster a level- playing field at home. Arvind Gupta is head, Digital India Foundation, and Vivan Sharan, advisor, Esya Centre The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/designing-a-new-digital-governance-framework/story-QTKPvsA6JXvQfUbXUrtqeM.html
26-10-2020||News||Indian democracy is being hollowed out||The world’s largest democracy is at the crossroads. That the economy is in deep crisis is clear. But what is less appreciated is that all the pillars of a democratic system of governance are under assault. The fundamental right to freedom of expression has been systematically suspended through suppression and intimidation. Dissent is deliberately stifled as “terrorism” or branded as an “anti-national activity”. Many institutions that are meant to uphold the rights of citizens and society at large have been co-opted or subverted. The Indian State now diverts attention from real problems of the people by pronouncing bogus threats to “national security” everywhere. Of course, some of these threats are real and have to be dealt with uncompromisingly but the Narendra Modi government and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) conjure up sinister conspiracies behind every political protest, indeed behind any and everything they see as opposition to them. The system unleashes investigative agencies on dissenters and deploys proxies through sections of the media and online troll factories. India’s hard-won democracy is being hollowed out.The Modi government leaves no scope for exaggeration. Every organ of State that could possibly be used to target political opposition has already been pressed into service — the Police, the Enforcement Directorate, the Central Bureau of Investigation, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and even the Narcotics Bureau. These agencies now dance only to the tune of the Prime Minister and home minister’s office. The use of State power must always obey constitutional norms and respect established democratic conventions. Foremost among these are two: Such power must always be used in the interest of all citizens without discrimination of any kind; and the State machinery must not be used to selectively target political opponents. The Modi government has consistently done more than any previous government in Independent India to violate these core principles. Early in its first term, the Modi government began designating its own political opponents as enemies of the Indian State. This self-serving move unleashed the most draconian laws in our penal code against any and every protester who disagreed publicly with the BJP and its politics. It began in 2016 with the invoking of sedition charges against young student leaders in Jawaharlal Nehru University, one of India’s foremost universities. It has continued relentlessly in a wide variety of contexts, with a series of disturbing arrests of well-known activists, scholars and intellectuals. They have no doubt taken positions contrary to that of governments in power. But that is what democracy is all about.The most cynical attempt to label anti-BJP protests as anti-India conspiracies is seen in the Modi government’s response to the extraordinary protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, and the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC). The CAA-NRC protests, led primarily by women, showed how a genuine social movement can respond to sectarian and discriminatory politics with a strong message of peace, inclusiveness, and solidarity. The protests at Shaheen Bagh and at other countless sites across the country demonstrated how dominant male power structures can be persuaded to play a supporting role, leaving the centre stage to women. It was also notable for its proud use of national symbols, including the Constitution and its Preamble, the national flag, and our freedom struggle.This movement received widespread support from civil society activists and organisations across the political spectrum who also opposed the divisive CAA-NRC. But the Modi government refused to acknowledge this movement. Instead, it chose to vilify it and made it a divisive issue in the Delhi elections. BJP leaders — including the minister of state for finance and the home minister — used abusive rhetoric and violent imagery to attack what was essentially a Gandhian satyagraha. Other BJP Delhi leaders publicly threatened to attack the protesters. The ruling party created the conditions in which violence broke out in northeast Delhi. These riots in February would have never occurred had the government wished to prevent them. In the months following, the Modi government carried its vendetta to extreme lengths, claiming that the protests were a conspiracy against the Indian State. The result has been blatantly biased investigations, with around 700 FIRs filed, hundreds being questioned, and dozens detained under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Prominent civil society leaders, some of whom are renowned all over the world, are being named as masterminds and instigators of the Delhi violence. The BJP may have differences with dissenters and civil society activists. Indeed, the same activists have often protested against Congress governments as well. But to paint them as anti-national conspirators promoting communal violence is prejudicial and extremely dangerous for democracy.It is nothing less than shocking that eminent economists, academics, social campaigners and even very senior political leaders that includes a former Union minister have been maliciously targeted through so-called disclosure statements in the investigations by the Delhi Police. This only shows that the BJP is determined to pursue its authoritarian strategy regardless of consequences. The Uttar Pradesh government’s vile response to the Hathras protests against the rape of a Dalit girl, the unlawful cremation and the intimidation of her family crying out for justice is in keeping with this intolerant and undemocratic mindset. It also happens to be in total contrast to how the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government handled the Nirbhaya case.Undermining the basic principles of liberty and freedom of expression in this manner poisons politics and the society itself. The BJP, like every other political party, is entitled to propagate any ideology within the framework of the Indian Constitution. But our Constitution also assures every Indian that fundamental rights do not end with the right to vote — they also include the right to freedom of expression, the right to protest and dissent publicly and peacefully. To paint genuine civil society leaders as evil conspirators and terrorists is to burn the bridges of communication with the common people, on whose behalf they speak. Citizens do not cease to be citizens when the party they voted for loses an election. The Prime Minister repeatedly claims to represent 130 crore Indians. But his government and the ruling party are treating political opponents, dissenters, and those who did not vote for the ruling party as second-class citizens without democratic rights. The people of India are not just an electorate. They, and only they, are the nation. Governments exist to serve them, not vilify this or that part of them. This nation will thrive only when democracy as envisioned by our Constitution and the Independence movement is followed in its letter and spirit.Sonia Gandhi is the president of the Indian National CongressThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/indian-democracy-is-being-hollowed-out/story-AvED52JaiKrJxBk2NI4kWN.html
26-10-2020||Jaipur||Wearing masks to be mandatory in Rajasthan, state govt to propose bill||Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said that to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the state government is considering making wearing masks mandatory in the state. For this, a bill will be proposed in the upcoming assembly session. He said that Covid-19 can be avoided only by adopting preventive measures such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands regularly. Urging people to avoid bursting crackers on Diwali, the chief minister said the pollution caused by fireworks increases the risk of spreading Covid-19 virus and adversely affects the health of the infected persons and those who have recovered people. Also read: Air pollution may hinder India’s fight against Covid-19, say scientists“As the medical experts have suggested, we should celebrate Diwali without crackers and inspire others to save lives from corona,” he said during a dialogue on the success of ‘No Mask-No Entry-Public Movement against Corona’ campaign with officials, NCC scouts, and coordinators associated with Nehru Yuva Kendras. The CM said that every section of the society should join the government with a commitment to make the campaign successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/wearing-masks-to-be-mandatory-in-rajasthan-state-govt-to-propose-bill/story-rA57Guf3AxMv5wsyow3zyK.html
26-10-2020||City||Two kids rescued after arrest of serial kidnapper||Police have arrested an Uttar Pradesh resident and rescued two children, aged four and eight, whom he had allegedly kidnapped and pushed into begging. The kids were found at a migrant quarter in Moti Nagar on Monday.The accused has been identified as Krishan Kumar, a native of Jaunpur in UP. As per the police, the accused used to lure kids playing on streets with crackers and sneak them away. He would then torture the kids by burning them with matchsticks to psychologically condition them into following his command. The children would then be made to beg or take up rag-picking. To avoid suspicion, the kidnapper had taught the kids to address him as ‘papaji’.Confesses to kidnapping five childrenThough the accused has so far confessed to kidnapping five children, three of whom had managed to escape, police suspect he may have had a hand in the abduction of a four-year-old who had gone missing recently.Police have so far established that Krishan had been operating in Focal Point area, Jamalpur and Bhamian road. He used to look for small children, preferably under the age of 10.Sharing details, joint commissioner of police (JPC, rural) Kanwaldeep Kaur said they are seeking police remand of the accused for questioning.“It is not clear at the moment if Krishan had kidnapped the four-year-old child who had gone missing recently. We had tried to gather some details from the rescued children but they are currently under trauma and we do not want to put any kind of pressure on them,” Kaur said.She added that the accused was notorious in the area for his child lifting activities. “In December last year, the accused had kidnapped two children aged 10, from Focal Point area. But both kids had managed to escape and reach home safely,” said the JPC.She added that on September 22, Krishan had kidnapped a nine-year-old. Fortunately, this child also managed to escape. “We had got a clear shot of the accused on the close circuit television (CCTV) camera in the area but he used to shift base frequently, thus escaping arrest,” said Kaur.During the preliminary investigation, it came to fore that the accused used to live alone and was using the children as bonded labourers so that he could earn more money.Rescued:A four-year-old, who was kidnapped from Mahavir Colony, Bhamian Road, on October 11.An eight-year-old who was kidnapped from Focal Point area on October 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-kids-rescued-after-arrest-of-serial-kidnapper/story-eCgoFyIJtufbtZEgdhCwKK.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||On the run for 2 years, murder accused arrested in Chandigarh||Absconding for nearly two years, a Ludhiana resident accused of murdering a car mechanic, whose half-burnt body was found near Mullanpur in April 2018, was arrested by the police here on Monday.Police said the accused, identified as Harbhajan Singh alias Sukha, was presented in the court and sent to judicial custody.The other three accused — Jagdev alias Gaggi, Gurdeep Singh and Khem Singh, alias Shanty — involved in the kidnapping and murder, are presently lodged in jail.As per the information, police had registered a case after the victim, Mohammad Ali, was abducted from near the grain market in Sector 39, Chandigarh, on April 11, 2018, three days after which his half-burnt body was recovered from Siswan near Mullanpur. The missing complaint was given by the deceased’s wife, Neeta Dogra.According to the police, Sukha kidnapped Mohammad in car and took him towards Siswan, where he strangulated him to death. The accused then bought petrol from a fuel pump near Mullanpur and dumped the victim’s body in a forest area in Siswan. Sukha removed the victim’s clothes and used the petrol to set Mohammad’s face on fire to make his body unidentifiable. The victim’s slippers were found near the body, police said.About the motive behind the crime, the police had then said that Neeta had married Mohammad in 2013, but got into an affair with one Shanty and stayed with him for three years. However, Neeta later left Shanty and returned to her husband. Shanty, a jilted lover, then hatched a conspiracy to eliminate Mohammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/on-the-run-for-2-years-murder-accused-arrested-in-chandigarh/story-WYbdWh1f2vFp3MbK30dkyJ.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Two kill Mumbai restaurant owner for refusing to serve them food on credit||Two men have been booked for killing a 23-year-old restaurant owner in Andheri on Sunday after he refused to serve them food on credit. The incident took place near Nityanand garage on Sakivihar Road in Andheri (East). Powai police have registered a case of murder and are on the lookout for the accused.According to police, the deceased, identified as Arif Ansari, a resident of Chandivali, along with is his elder brother Asif, ran a restaurant at Sakinaka. On October 25, around 8pm, one the accused, identified as Vipul Solanki, 22, visited the restaurant and ordered food.However, Ansari refused to take their order and asked them to settle their pending food bill for the month. The accused got angry and called his elder brother Prakash Solanki, 25 to the restaurant.Vijay Dalvi, senior inspector from Powai police station, said, “The brothers asked Ansari to come out of his restaurant and then took him to a spot near Nityanand garage where they stabbed him with a knife. The accused then escaped from the spot.”“Ansari was rushed to Rajawadi Hospital, but he died during treatment. Police registered a case under section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and are investigating the case,” said Dalvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-kill-mumbai-restaurant-owner-for-refusing-to-serve-them-food-on-credit/story-MVs9wNQfKiySLI9t3krDSK.html
26-10-2020||City||Two held with drugs, weapons in Mohali housing society||Two persons were arrested from Purab Premium Apartments in Sector 88 here with 350 gm heroin, a .32 bore pistol, 13 live cartridges, Rs 70,000 drug money and an SUV, police said on Monday.The suspects have been identified as Gurjant Singh of Kamala Bodla village in Ferozepur district and Arunpal Singh of Balachaur in SBS Nagar, said SP (city) Harvinder Singh Virk during a press conference at Sohana police station.He said the police have recovered a Toyota Innova SUV, .32 bore pistol, 13 live cartridges, Rs 5,000 cash and 300gm heroin from Gurjant, while Rs 20,000 cash and 55gm heroin were seized from Arun.As per the police, Gurjant, a postgraduate, already has four cases of attempt to murder, theft, extortion and criminal intimidation registered against him in Ferozepur, Himachal Pradesh and Sector 17, Chandigarh. The accused father, Nishan Singh, had been murdered in 2019.Arun Pal has been living in Block C of Purab Premium Apartments for the last two years and works as music composer.Sohana police SHO Daljit Singh Gill said they received information that some people in the housing society were carrying drugs and weapons, following which a team led by assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harjinder Singh nabbed the duo.“The accused used to sell the drugs around the housing society and made hefty money from it. The investigation is on and we are tracing their supply chain,” SHO Gill said.A case under relevant sections of the IPC, Arms Act and NDPS Act was registered against both the accused at Sohana police station.Purab Premium Apartment has made news for the wrong reasons in the past as many incidents of nuisance were reported from the locality.All the accused will be produced in the court on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-with-drugs-weapons-in-mohali-housing-society/story-iMWLEdX0CoMBeNZt6AXLDJ.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Gzb police lodge FIR over ‘conversion’ claims||The police on Monday lodged an FIR against unidentified persons, who claimed on social media that 100 people “converted” to Buddhism on Sunday. The incident comes on the heels of a similar development on October 21, when locals of Valmiki Basti in Karhera claimed that 236 persons “converted” to Buddhism to demand justice for a 19-year-old woman who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered in Hathras.The FIR was filed on a complaint by advocate Ganga Sharan, who stated that he is the district president of Buddhist Society of India’s Ghaziabad branch and some unidentified persons were spreading false information that he was taking up religious conversion.“Yesterday (Sunday) on Vijaya Dashmi (Dussehra) that was an event of Budh Vandana held at Jait Van, Budh Vihar. There, we distributed some certificates in prize distribution for an earlier event which was held at Kalka Garhi Chowk on February 16. But some anti-social elements are levying allegations that I was involved in religious conversion. These are false and baseless allegations. The allegations are denied and are only rumours,” Sharan said in a video statement, which was released by the Ghaziabad police on Monday.However, he did not respond to repeated calls on Monday.The pictures circulated on social media showed groups of people taking part in an oath. The police registered an FIR under sections 295a (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 298 (uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sihani Gate police station.“On October 25, there was an event held and some people were spreading false information over the social media that it was an event for religious conversion. The officer bearer of the Buddhist Society of India has given us a complaint in which he has said that there were allegations of religious conversion. We have received a complaint and legal action is under underway,” superintendent of police (city) Abhishek Verma said in a video statement on Monday.However, he did not take calls for further queries in the matter.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the administration officials came to know about the incident through social media and directed the officials to conduct an inquiry. “The police have lodged an FIR against unidentified persons in this connection. I have written to the police to identify such persons for spreading false information and lodge FIR against them. I have also directed that we will take action under the National Security Act against such persons,” Pandey said.“Subdivisional magistrates have been asked to collect information through field officers and collect evidence against such persons, whose list will be compiled by an additional district magistrate. Moreover, I have also directed that any person who helps us arrest such persons or provide information will be suitably rewarded,” Pandey said.During a recent incident on October 21, locals of Valmiki Basti in Karhera said that 236 persons had “converted” to Buddhism in an event held on October 14 and demanded justice for the Hathras victim.The district administration, on the other hand, said that the residents had raised their local issues and no religious conversion took place.A day later, one Montu Chandel Valmiki, a resident of Pappu Colony in Sahibabad, gave a police complaint based on which the Ghaziabad police registered an FIR against unidentified persons under IPC sections 153a (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) and 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill etc).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gzb-police-lodge-fir-over-conversion-claims/story-Nll0KoKSCZGEiZgLAGuoeN.html
26-10-2020||City||Gang of thieves busted in Kharar; 10 stolen vehicles, arms seized||With the arrest of five persons on Monday, the Kharar police claimed to have busted a gang of notorious thieves active in the region. Nine two-wheelers, one jeep, illegal weapons and drugs were recovered from their possession, police said.The arrested suspects have been identified as Prince, Bhupinder Singh Rawat — both Raipur Khurd residents — Rahul Kumar, Lakhan and Pardeep Kumar, all three from Dera Bassi. They used to carry out thefts in residential areas in the tricity area.Addressing the media here on Monday, superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal and Kharar deputy superintendent of police Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi said that under the supervision of Kharar SHO Rajesh Arora, the five accused thieves were arrested during checking on October 23. During the interrogation, accused Pardeep was nominated in the FIR based on the disclosure statement given gang members Bhupinder and Rahul. Moreover, all the accused admitted to several thefts and snatchings committed by them, following which five motorcycles, an open jeep and a bicycle was recovered from their possession.Pardeep was arrested by the police on October 24 with the recovery of 80 grams of smack/intoxicating substance.SP Grewal said the accused used to steal motorcycles for joyrides in the beginning, but gradually turned to the criminal activity for greed of money. They then started carrying weapons with them to intimidate their targets for loots and plundering.Bhupinder and Lakhan already have theft and brawl cases registered against them, while Pardeep had been arrested in a drugs case in Bathinda district. He used to supply drugs using the stolen vehicles.All the five accused were produced in a Kharar court and sent to five-day police remand, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-thieves-busted-in-kharar-10-stolen-vehicles-arms-seized/story-Wg9y5vcnTCOzsjcL4HJPWO.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Another Noida sweets manufacturer attacked by ransomware||Noida: Merely a month after Haldiram Snacks Private Limited corporate office in Noida suffered a ransomware attack, the servers of another Noida-based sweets manufacturing company were hacked and their data was encrypted in a different format that that which the company uses.According to the company, the incident took place on the afternoon of August 22 at the corporate office of Mithaas sweets in Noida’s Sector 63.“Our company server was hacked and there was a ransomware implanted between 3-4pm. All our transactional data was encrypted in a different format, which was inaccessible to us and became completely useless. There was a ransomware screen which asked us to contact them on a particular email id in order to decrypt the data back to the original format,” said Sumit Chowdhary, director (operations).He added that when the company contacted their anti-virus provider, they were advised not to engage with the ransomware.“They said that the hackers may then be able to hack into our email as well. So we never replied to the mail. All our data is still there in the encrypted form. We are hoping that technical experts will be able to decrypt it eventually,” said Chowdhary.The company has 12 sweets outlets of across the national capital region, while the main factory and corporate office is located in Sector 63.Based on their complaint, a case has been registered at the Phase 3 police station against unidentified hackers under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Officials said that a police complaint was submitted by the firm after the incident took place, however, the matter was probed by the cyber cell before an FIR was registered.“The cyber cell is investigating the matter and will share the necessary information with us. They are working on tracing the IP addresses of the hackers. Once that is done and they are identified, we will nab them,” said Jitendra Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.On July 13, the servers of Haldiram Snacks were hacked by unidentified persons and their data was stolen. In exchange, the hackers had demanded Rs 7.5 lakh to release the information. A case had then been registered at the Sector 58 police station on October 14.Police officers said that once the hackers are identified, only then will they be able to tell if the same group is behind both the ransomware attacks or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/another-noida-sweets-manufacturer-attacked-by-ransomware/story-EfrJ6P1RGiSkntFwOiLmZM.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Protection for Bhandup wetland planned as Maharashtra government to regulate entry to Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary||The Maharashtra forest department has decided to regulate the entry of visitors to the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS) from its Bhandup entry point in the city’s eastern suburbs. The move is aimed to protect the 11-hectare Bhandup pumping station area – a satellite wetland of the sanctuary.The decision was announced on Monday by the state mangrove cell under the forest department.So far, visitors’ entry to the sanctuary was only from the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Centre (CBMC) at Airoli, Navi Mumbai. Now, regulated entry from Bhandup will open up entry to the sanctuary from Mumbai as well.The cell has decided to erect check posts, place barricades, set up a time frame for entry and exit, and levy entry fees for visitors, vehicles, and camera use.“We expect all regulations to be in place by mid-November,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell), adding, “The idea behind this is to enhance security measures around the sanctuary as proposed under the TCFS management plan. Fees collected from visitors will be utilised for the maintenance and development of the area. This will also provide much-needed protection to the Bhandup pumping station (BPS) – TCFS’ satellite wetland under the management plan.”According to Tiwari, the tentative entry fee will be ₹50 per person, ₹50 for two-wheelers, ₹100 for four-wheelers, and ₹100-200 as camera fee. “These are still tentative amounts. Final figures will be updated close to the date regulation commences,” said Tiwari.A team of eight security personnel from the Maharashtra State Security Corporation (MSSC) will be deployed at the Bhandup entry point. “We are planning to keep the entry point open between 6am and 10am and 4pm to 6pm. The security staff will work round-the-clock and will also be in charge of patrolling inside the sanctuary. We also plan to set up a board on the eastern express highway directing visitors to the sanctuary,” said Tiwari, adding that the check post will be opposite BPS. “There will be a barrier on the road where the counter will be placed for fee collection.”According to the Bombay Natural History Society (BHNS), BPS is surrounded with mangroves, except eastern patches occupied by salt farms. The area has 30 bird species and 14 migratory species.Last Sunday, the mangrove cell and environment group Vanashakti removed 400kg waste during a clean-up drive at BPS and areas adjacent to the sanctuary. “We have always maintained that BPS is a forested area, and the department should have a permanent posting. This is now being done. It will help to protect the sanctuary habitat much better and prevent misuse. This had been a long-standing demand as it automatically protects BPS as well,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/protection-for-bhandup-wetland-planned-as-maharashtra-government-to-regulate-entry-to-thane-creek-flamingo-sanctuary/story-EBofGyxxoS2SaEM1elmlxL.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Two wanted criminals arrested after separate encounters in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Two wanted criminals were arrested after separate encounters with the police in Greater Noida on Monday. In the first case, a 35-year-old man was arrested after an encounter in Greater Noida West. The suspect was identified as Islam, a resident of Moradabad.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that police received information about movement of the suspect at 4pm. “The police signalled the suspect to stop for checking, but he tried to escape after opening fire at the police team. During encounter, he was injured in his right leg and then arrested,” he said. The police recovered a stolen motorcycle, a countrymade gun and a live cartridge from his possession. The suspect was wanted in five criminal cases and a reward of Rs 25,000 was announced on his arrest, the police said.In another case, a 25-year-old man was arrested after an encounter with the police in Ecotech III area in Greater Noida. The suspect was identified as Prashant Kumar, a native of Kannauj. He lived in a rented accommodation at Salarpur in Noida Sector 39. Ankur Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the police received information about movement of two suspects on a motorcycle near Jalpura village. “The police signalled the suspects to stop for checking. The suspects opened fire at the police team and tried to escape,” he said. The police also opened fire in which Kumar was hit in his left leg and fell off the motorcycle and was arrested. His accomplice riding pillion managed to flee the spot, Aggarwal said. The police have recovered a countrymade gun, a stolen motorcycle and a mobile phone from Kumar’s possession. At least five criminal cases are registered against Kumar, the police said.Both the arrested suspects were rushed to the district hospital for medical treatment. They will be produced in court and sent to jail once they are discharged, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-wanted-criminals-arrested-after-separate-encounters-in-greater-noida/story-0r7yfAYvTQb3ER65EvLNvL.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER to resume OPD services from November 2||To facilitate non-Covid patients, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has finally decided to resume its out-patient department (OPD) services from November 2 onwards. However, all patients will first be evaluated through tele-consultation and only those requiring physical examination will be called to the hospital through the appointment system.The OPD services at the institute have been lying shut since March 20, when coronavirus hit the city. From May 19, tele-consultation services were started at PGIMER and around 2,100 patients are being seen every day. Before the Covid pandemic, nearly 10,000 patients visited the OPDs daily.In a statement issued here, PGIMER said, “The tele-consultation services will continue considering its dual benefit to the patients and the institute.”It said that the tele-consultation will act as the ‘point of setting up physical appointments in the OPDs’. The timings of registration for tele-consultation will be from 8am to 9.30am from November 2.The OPDs would function as per the existing schedule and the focus would be on limiting the number of patients, the institute said. The patients evaluated through tele-consultation and requiring physical examination will be called to PGIMER by appointment system.“All the departments will write date of appointment on the tele-consultation OPD cards of the patients to be called in physically and have the same sent over to the medical record officer of the respective centres,” the statement added.The medical record department will schedule the appointments as per recommendations of the department in hourly slots and intimation about the same will be sent automatically as SMS on the registered mobile numbers of the patients, PGIMER said.The departments of general surgery, internal medicine, paediatric medicine, obstetrics, gynaecology and ophthalmology would be running daily OPDs.Patients to be screened in holding areaTo ensure adequate physical distancing, only 50 patients would be seen at each OPD.“This number will be suitably increased/decreased as the Covid situation unfolds. Walk-ins without prior appointment will be dealt with only through tele-consultation during this phase,” the institute said.A holding area will be created in the parking area outside the OPD, where patients will wait. After screening, they would be sent to the OPD concerned. The department of community medicine has been entrusted with the task to initiate a screening system for patients who would be called in for physical check-ups.Meanwhile, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the PGIMER authorities to start tele-consultation over video to avoid crowding at the OPDs. The instructions were issued during the war-room meeting of the administration on Monday.How to visit OPDsRegister for tele-consultation. Helpline numbers are available on PGIMER’s websiteThose requiring physical examination will get an SMS from the institute about the OPD appointment with the date and hour slotVisiting patients will first wait in the holding area outside the OPDThey will be screened and directed to the OPD concerned as per the slots||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-to-resume-opd-services-from-november-2/story-umoBri6LWBPVjG8DQx0ZfK.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Three arrested for killing 30-year-old man in Muradnagar||Ghaziabad: The police on Monday arrested three persons for allegedly murdering a 30-year-old man and throwing his body on railway tracks in Muradnagar in order to make it look like an accident. The police said that the victim was allegedly in a relationship with sister-in-law of the prime suspect, Vishwas Kumar. On the intervening night October 14 and 15, the police had recovered the Lokesh Panchal’s body from the railway tracks in Muradnagar. The other two suspects were identified as Sanjay Kumar and Sonu Kumar, the police said, adding that some more persons are involved in the case. The victim and suspects are natives of Muradnagar. “On the night of October 14/15, we recovered a body which was run over by a train near Manota in Muradnagar. The body had no clothes. From the circumstances it appeared that it was not a suicide case or an accident. Upon detailed questioning of the victim’s family, they revealed that the victim was having relationship with a local woman,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). During the investigation, the police found that several relatives of the said woman went absconding since the night of the murder. After the arrest of three of them, they revealed to the police that the victim had come to their house on the evening of October 14 and was seen in a compromising position with the woman by her relatives. “Upon this, they decided to kill Lokesh Panchal and called him to a place in Muradnagar where they bludgeoned his head with stones and threw the body on the railway tracks to make it look like an accident or a suicide. After investigation, three suspects were arrested while others will also be nabbed soon,” Jadaun said. On the complaint of the victim’s family, the police had registered an FIR under IPC sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence) and 34 (common intention) at Muradnagar police station. In the FIR, the victim’s family said that he was in relationship with the woman for the past five years and has gone to her house on October 14. In their FIR, the family had also raised suspicion over the relatives of the woman for the murder, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/three-arrested-for-killing-30-year-old-man-in-muradnagar/story-EJ2qLYqnKSuIvIBHUZfxxL.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Work on elevated stretch over DSC road put on fast track||NOIDA: The work on 5.5km elevated stretch, which is being built over Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) road to facilitate commuting between Noida and Greater Noida, has been put on fast track, officials of the Noida authority said on Monday. About 15% work on the ₹467-crore project has been completed and it will be completed by December next year, they said.Earlier, the authority had extended the deadline to March 2022 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The proposed six-lane elevated road will start from Sector 39/43 crossing and end at Sector 82 T-point. Once developed, the elevated road will decongest major traffic in Noida’s Barola, Bhangel, and sectors 49, 45, 47 and 46, among other areas.“It is a big day today as we have completed 1,000 piles (the foundation on which elevated stretch will rest) in less than four months. The work on this project is being completed on war footing so that we finish it even before the deadline,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief engineer of Noida authority.Recently, the authority diverted the traffic to make sure commuters don’t face inconvenience during massive construction work underway on the project. The authority has repaired Bhangel-Gheja road to divert the traffic as an alternate to the DSC road on which the elevated road is being constructed. Earlier Bhangel-Gheja road was not in use due to bad conditions.“We repaired and readied the Bhangel-Gheja road to make sure the commuters do not face any problem because the traffic is allowed only on two lanes on DSC road. The diversion is also important so that we can carry out the elevated road construction work with ease,” said Tyagi.The authority completed 82 piles in July, 212 piles in August, 467 piles in September and 239 in October this year. “We have also constructed 27 caps on which the pillars will be constructed,” said Tyagi.On March 3 this year, the authority had roped in state-owned agency -- Uttar Pradesh Bridge Corporation -- for constructing the elevated stretch that will provide seamless connectivity to thousands of motorists who travel from Delhi side to the special economic zone (SEZ) in Phase 2 area and Sector 82. The UP Bridge Corporation in March had started mobilizing the workforce to start work at the site and also done barricading of the site. But the work was disrupted due to the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. In 2012, the authority had for the first time conceived the idea of constructing an elevated stretch over DSC road. In May 2016, it prepared a detailed project report of the project. But work could not start due to fund crunch. The DSC road, earlier known as the Dadri Link Road, passes from Noida’s Gole Chakkar to Greater Noida’s Dadri town.The proposed elevated road will have exit and entry at Sector 100 so that new group housing societies located in sectors 107, 47 and 104, among others, can benefit from the project, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/work-on-elevated-stretch-over-dsc-road-put-on-fast-track/story-O6ORI0skJYoLjPifaDKBmO.html
26-10-2020||City||Man arrested for raping minor in Navi Mumbai, four months after he went missing||The Rabale police in Navi Mumbai have arrested a 27-year-old man for sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl after a four-month-long chase. The police said the matter came to light on June 12, 2020, when the minor informed her father about persistent pain in her stomach. They went for a check-up and found the minor was eight months pregnant. The parents then approached the police and registered a case under section 376, 376 (2) (n), 376 (3) of the Indian Penal Code and different sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual offence Act (Pocso). “The investigation revealed the minor came in contact with the accused around November 2019. She just remembered his first name - Sumit. The accused worked as a helper at a vada pav stall and went absconding after he found about an offence registered,” said an officer. During the investigation, the police found him to be from Bihar and developed a chain of contacts to trace him. They got a tip-off that he was seen in Ghansoli and arrested him on Sunday, October 25. “We produced him in court and he was remanded in police custody till November 2,” said Yogesh Gawde, a senior police inspector from Rabale police station. The investigation revealed that he was booked for kidnapping another minor girl in 2018. The Rabale police are further checking the records. In the meantime, the minor delivered a baby and is staying with her parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-in-navi-mumbai-four-months-after-he-went-missing/story-H2xP9nVtBmFfA8GdSFEXEO.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Noida: Sector 71/51 underpass to be ready by Dec this year||NOIDA: The six-lane underpass project at Sector 71/51, which will provide seamless ride to commuters travelling from Noida’s City Centre to Greater Noida West, is likely to be ready by December this year, officials of the Noida authority said on Monday. In July this year, the authority had extended the deadline to March next year, as the work got disrupted due to the nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The 750-metre-long underpass will benefit the newly developed group housing societies in Noida’s sectors 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79 as well as Greater Noida West.“We have put the work on fast-track. About 82% work of this mega project has been completed and the remaining is scheduled to be completed by December-end,” said Rajeev Tyagi, chief engineer of Noida authority.The authority had in July last year started the work on the underpass project at the city’s major traffic intersection that used to witness heavy congestion particularly during peak hours. The underpass will also benefit commuters travelling from Sector 62 towards Dadri Road.“We have already opened the stretch from the road number six to Dadri Road above the underpass. We have used push box technique to build this underpass. Commuters will get immense benefit once this project will be ready and opened for use,” said Tyagi.In February this year, the authority had started shifting the sewer line to make way for the construction of the underpass. However, the shifting work got delayed due to the pandemic.“But now the delay due to Covid-19 pandemic has been covered, and the project will be completed by December end,” said Tyagi.The underpass is being built on the Master Plan-III road. The authority has shifted the sewer line a little towards Sector 51 (Hoshiyarpur) and Sector 52. After the sewer line has been laid, traffic disruption has eased to some extent in the area, the officials said.The Noida authority is racing against the time to finish ongoing infrastructure projects following the UP government directive that no project should miss the respective deadlines. The authority’s chief executive officer has directed the staff to expedite the work on several projects such as the 4.5-km Bhangel road being built above Dadri road, 5.5-km Chilla elevated road, sector 71/51 underpass, an alternative route to Dadri road, cleaning of vacant plots and other works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-sector-71-51-underpass-to-be-ready-by-dec-this-year/story-wTSDrRdugxAUtHu5ox7kzO.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad completes four lakh Covid-19 tests||Ghaziabad: Ghaziabad has undertaken four lakh tests to detect the Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, with the last leg of the testing milestone having been reached in only 23 days.The health department said it has now undertaken more reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests as they have been asked to conduct only 2,000 tests through rapid antigen test kits. The RT-PCR tests are considered the golden standard in testing for Covid-19.The first case in the district surfaced on March 5. Subsequently, till June 25, the district had been conducting only RT-PCR tests, after which it started using antigen kits. The official records indicate that by July 30 (147 days since March 5), the district had undertaken a total of one lakh tests. The second lakh was undertaken from July 31 to September 1 – a span of 33 days. Later, as rapid antigen testing increased in share – from 57.15% to 58.5% – the district had administered another lakh tests by September 28 – 27 days since the last milestone. The last set of one lakh tests, however, took only 23 days to complete – September 29 to October 21 – which is the fastest so far. “The use of rapid kits has helped us achieve more testing and we were able to find suspected cases in containment zones and also at our testing centres, where tests were on a walk-in basis. Initially, we were conducting 2,000-2,500 tests daily but we increased it to about 4,500-5,000 and even reached 6,000 tests per day during last week of September,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “Now, we will remain focussed on testing activities, besides trying to increase contact tracing efforts. At present, we are tracing an average of about 15 contacts per case and getting them tested. The number of cases is on the decline but testing will continue to find more suspected cases,” he added. The district conducted the highest 6,042 tests on October 5 which remains the single-day highest tests conducted so far. “Now, we have been given a target of conducting 3,100 tests per day, which includes 2,000 per day tests with the use of rapid antigen kits. So, in order to keep up testing, we are focussing on more RT-PCR tests which are more reliable than rapid tests,” said an officer from the district health department, who wished not to be named.According to records of the district health department, the district conducted 4,01,663 total tests till October 21 which included 2,37,846 tests conducted with the help of rapid kits, with a total share of about 59.22% in total testing. Till October 23, the district, with increased testing, had conducted about 397 tests per day per million of population since March 5. The World Health Organisation’s (WHO’s) recommendation is of 140 tests per million residents a day. According to the figures of the state control room, the district on October 24 has a total of 17,818 Covid-19 cases which includes 16,637 patients who have been discharged while the number of active cases stood at 1099.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-completes-four-lakh-covid-19-tests/story-iIW06Qcqu4NTcz4SNXKLfL.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Air quality dips a day after Dussehra; Greater Noida and Noida worst polluted in NCR||Noida: Air quality of Noida and Greater Noida slipped a day after Dussehra as parts of the two cities continued breathing toxic air with pollutants more than ten times the permissible limits. The two cities also emerged as the top two polluted cities of the National Capital Region (NCR) on Monday.According to experts, festival rush along with unfavourable meteorological conditions and additional smoke from stubble burning could be the major reason behind drop in the air quality. Last year in 2019, the festival of Dussehra was on October 8, and met conditions were much more favourable. “There were no fireworks or Ravana effigies burnt this year, yet the air quality dropped this Dussehra. The plausible reasons could be that meteorological conditions this year were more unsupportive on days around the festival. The temperatures drop towards the end of October and stubble burning increases. The additional emissions due to the burning of the large effigies leads to further deterioration of air quality,” said Shambhavi Shukla, program officer, air pollution at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).According to the data assessed by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Greater Noida was 384 or “very-poor” – the worst in NCR – while the AQI of Noida was 376 against 362 a day earlier – second worst in NCR.The AQI of Ghaziabad, however, improved to 365 on Monday against 379 a day earlier. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”Meanwhile, the air quality slipped further at Greater Noida’s Knowledge Park (KP) 5 monitoring on Monday. The AQI at KP 5, which is one of the two air quality monitoring stations in Greater Noida, was 435 or ‘severe’ against 419 (also severe) a day earlier. The AQI of KP 3, the only other monitoring station of Greater Noida, was 341 on Monday, against 364 on Sunday, both in “very poor” category.Officials of the state pollution control board, who inspected the area, held irregular construction activities as the reason behind further deterioration of air quality in the area. They also slapped a fine of Rs 50 lakh on a builder. “The KP 5 area has a number of construction projects nearby, generating excessive dust and thereby deteriorated air quality. We inspected the area Monday and found that grass was trimmed at a number of places, resulting in loose soil, thereby adding to dust. Officials of the concerned departments had been asked to start water sprinkling in the area to settle dust,” said Archna Dwivedi, regional officer, UPPCB, Greater Noida. The PM10 concentration for KP 5 for the past 24 hours was 602.66 microgrammes per cubic metres, which is ten times the permissible limit, while PM2.5 concentration was 231.97 microgrammes per cubic metres which is five times the limit. “PM10 are larger particles suspended in the air and are quite harmful. Their major source is dust, either on roads or from construction. As the temperatures dips, the larger particles stay suspended in the air for a longer time and can lead to heart and lung-related issues,” said Shukla. Officials said that they also found irregularities while inspecting a large building project at Greater Noida’s Tech Zone 4. “We have found that a builder of a project in Tech Zone 4 has been carrying on heavy construction without taking appropriate pollution controlling measures. The building materials were not covered and the anti-smog guns were also not working. We have recommended a fine of Rs 50 lakh on the builders under the NGT guidelines,” said Dwivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-dips-a-day-after-dussehra-greater-noida-and-noida-worst-polluted-in-ncr/story-oPOHyA2QpaRx3PvH471fJN.html
26-10-2020||City||Mumbai records lowest active, daily cases in 2 months||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai dropped to its lowest in the past two months at 17,860 on Monday. Prior to this, the lowest number of active cases was 17,931, recorded on August 24.Over a month ago, active cases had peaked at 34,136 on September 18, the highest number recorded in Mumbai since the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak in March. Active Covid-19 cases comprise the total number of patients who are receiving treatment at present as well as those who are quarantined. As per Mumbai civic body’s data, nearly 50% of the city’s Covid-19 beds are vacant as of Monday.Civic officials said early admissions and better treatment protocols are key reasons for the reduction in the number of active cases. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The active cases gradually came down since mid-September even though the number of fresh Covid-19 cases rose. This is because people are much more aware and sensitive when it comes to getting admitted immediately after developing Covid-19 symptoms. This helps in quicker recovery. Also, treatment protocols are being stringently followed by all Covid-19 health centres, which is why the recovery rate has also increased.” City’s recovery rate stands at 88%.Meanwhile, on Monday, the city also recorded its daily lowest Covid-19 cases in the past two months after 804 cases were reported. Prior to this, the lowest daily count was recorded on August 24, when the city saw 743 cases. Mumbai’s case tally has reached 252,085, while its Covid-19 fatalities peaked to 10,142 after 37 deaths were reported on Monday. The case fatality ratio of the city is 4.0%. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases has reduced since September when there was a surge in the number during festivities with 2, 000-2, 600 cases being reported in Mumbai every day since the second week of the month. The number has now come down to 1,000-1,400 in the past week. This is despite the increase in the testing capacity by 43%. The daily testing figures went up from 4,000-5,000 in June to up to 15,000- 16,000 in September and August.Shashank Joshi, member of state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “Overall in Maharashtra, there is a clear trend of decline in the cases in the past three weeks. We can see that the decline is coinciding with the departure of monsoon. It is definitely a reassuring sign. This might be because a large population that are in crowded clusters may have already been exposed to the virus and fought it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-records-lowest-active-daily-cases-in-2-months/story-K0MVINtNizLjbyRSoRIsaL.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad: AQI better at Vasundhara monitoring station this year while Loni suffers the most||Ghaziabad: Three of out of the four online ambient air quality monitoring stations in Ghaziabad saw more number of days in the “poor”, “very poor” and “severe” air quality index (AQI) categories during the first 25 days of October this year, as compared to the same period last year. According to records of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), only the Vasundhara monitoring station saw a lesser number of days under the three AQI categories mentioned above this year, when compared to the same in 2019.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”According to CPCB’s records, from October 1 to 25, 2019 the Vasundhara monitoring station saw AQI in the “severe” category on at least 10 days, but saw zero ‘severe’ pollution days during the same period this year. However, there were 11 days this year from October 1 to 25 when the station recorded “poor” AQI, while the number of “very poor” AQI days dipped from seven last year to four this year.The monitoring station caters to localities of Vaishali, Vasundhara, and Sahibabad Industrial area, among others. Likewise, the monitoring station at Indirapuram had, in the first 25 days of October last year, seen three and eleven days under “very poor” and “poor” categories, respectively. However, the count for the number of days when AQI was “very poor” has risen to five from last year’s three, while 15 days were recorded under the “poor” category during the same period this year from last year’s 11. “There has been improvement at Vasundhara as it is near to the industrial area where we have got the air pollution control systems in industrial units upgraded. Further, factories are running below full capacity, even though some lockdown has been lifted. In addition, last year works for the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) were taken up near UP-Gate. So, the Vasundhara station was being affected due to the construction activities there. Now, the work has progressed near Vijay Nagar, which is why the AQI is better at Vasundhara,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. He added that readings at the Indirapuram station are being affected by infrastructure works taken up at the CISF Road and also getting effect of work taken up under the DME project.“At Sanjay Nagar, we have stopped letting private buses operate from near the monitoring station, and water sprinkling at dust emission sources is taken up vigorously. Further, many school buses used to visit the CNG pump nearby and this caused pollution due to more vehicle idling time waiting in queues. Since school buses have not been in operation since quite some time, the pollution levels have come down here,” Sharma added. The officials said that the Loni monitoring station is a major problem issue this year as three different agencies are carrying out road infrastructure works nearby, besides instances of waste burning which have come to light. “Loni is a major issue this year and I have written to the district authorities of North Delhi for joint operation for enforcement and monitoring. It is so because there is a lot of e-waste coming in from Delhi and getting processed in Ghaziabad. So, joint efforts by authorities in Delhi and Ghaziabad are needed,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “On the other hand, we have taken up a lot of enforcement work in nearby areas close to other three monitoring stations. This is why no other three monitoring stations, except Loni, have gone to “severe” category this year and “very poor” category pollution has also gone better and now under “poor” category,” the DM added.At the Sanjay Nagar monitoring station, 13 days during the same period in October had “poor” and “very poor” AQI, while this year the count has risen to 19.The worst affected station – Loni – has suffered “severe” AQI readings on two days this October, besides 10 days under “very poor” AQI and 13 days under “poor” AQI. However, the overall pollution scenario in three cities of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida continued to remain under the “very poor” category. According to CPCB, the AQI values were at 376, 365 and 384 for Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida, respectively, on Monday.The officials of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that wind speed is likely to pick up from Tuesday and dispersal of pollutants will be more. “The wind speed at present is about 6-8kmph on an average, while it is hardly present during the night timings. From Tuesday, the wind speed will pick up and is likely to be in the range of 12-15kmph, which will help in dispersal of pollutants during the day time. So, conditions are likely to improve for next four-five days but there is no prediction for rainfall,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-aqi-better-at-vasundhara-monitoring-station-this-year-while-loni-suffers-the-most/story-YxlwYcBXA7tAaYZ1o9LBFI.html
26-10-2020||Gurugram||District administration initiates a move to put daughters’ names on address plates||In bid to bring about a change in the attitude towards girls, the district administration has initiated a move of asking people to put the names of their daughters on the house plates. A similar initiative was taken in Nuh this month, where 250 houses had put name plates with their daughters’ name at the entrance of the houses.On Monday, Prashant Panwar, additional deputy commissioner gave name plates to at least five families. In a statement issued by the district administration, Panwar said that villages with poor sex ratio have been identified for the initial phase of the initiative. Parents of five newborn girls from Sirhaul and Khandsa were given name plates by Panwar. They were also informed about the various schemes and the one-stop centre for women.Panwar said, “The initiative will bring a change in the society. Generally, we see name of the male member on the name plate. But now through this drive we can see name of the girl child on the nameplate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-administration-initiates-a-move-to-put-daughters-names-on-address-plates/story-RPVCoTu3BBNx5I0KvX26YN.html
26-10-2020||Gurugram||Man who robbed passengers after sedating them held from Sector 9||The police on Sunday arrested a 30-year-old man from Sector 9 for his alleged involvement in robbing people by offering them shared cab rides from Gurugram to Jaipur and later giving them cold drinks laced with sedatives. Three of his fellow gang members have been identified but are yet to be arrested, said the police on Monday. The police said the gang used to steal cabs for robbing commuters. They also used to board e-rickshaws and rob the driver and passengers by offering them sedative-laced cold drinks. The police said that they received complaints this year about two incidents — first, the gang robbing an e-rickshaw driver and stealing the vehicle, and second, the gang robbing a Jaipur-based commuter. The gang usually befriended single passengers looking for cabs from Rajeev Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk for their travel to Jaipur, the police said. In one case, on May 7, two men boarded an e-rickshaw near Shishpal Vihar near Sohna Road and asked the driver to drop them near Ghata village and agreed to pay ₹350. After driving for a kilometre, one of the gang members offered the driver a cold drink. Although, he initially refused, he later agreed upon insistence.“I sipped only three sips from a cold drink glass, which the two men had offered, and half an hour later, I felt dizzy and fell unconscious near Arcadia Market in South City 2. I found myself lying in a hospital bed the next day,” recalled Mehrab Ali, a resident of Gangarampur in West Bengal, who lived in a rented room in Sector 50. He said had lost all his belongings worth ₹5,000. The doctors treating Ali, however, could not find any trace of the sedative.The police said Ali had taken an e-rickshaw on rent from a private company and used to ferry passengers from Sohna Road to a mall in Sector 50. In the other incident in June this year, Jaipur resident Anil Kumar was returning from Delhi when he boarded a cab from Rajiv Chowk, in which two passengers were already seated. As the journey began, one of the suspects asked the driver to stop the cab and got down to buy a cold drink and offered the same to all three. Minutes after he took a few sips, Kumar fell unconscious. The gang fled with ₹1 lakh cash, a gold chain, a gold bracelet, and his mobile phone. He was thrown out of cab on an isolated stretch close to expressway. In his complaint with Kherki Daula police station, Kumar gave a detailed description of the suspects. The police started an investigation and during the probe, they found that the description matched a suspect arrested last year in lift-and-loot case. Police traced the suspect identified as Saddakul-Islam of village Malihar in West Bengal and kept a close watch on him and on Sunday questioned him following which he revealed that how he along with his close aides used to target passengers and robbed them. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that there are 50 similar cases reported between May and September. We are suspecting the involvement of this same gang posing as cab drivers and passengers. “Two of the cases in May and June this year — one in Kherki Daula and the other under the jurisdiction of Sector 50 police station — have been identified by the police and the suspect has confessed to these incidents. Another robbery in Sector 50 was also committed by this gang,” he said. The police said cases have been registered under sections 328 (Causing hurt by means of poison, etc, with intent to commit an offence) and 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said “There is a rise in the number of cases of unsuspecting commuters being drugged by fellow passengers. The suspects source the sedatives from a local chemist in Jaipur, who should not be selling drugs without prescriptions. “It is actually difficult to buy these drugs without the proper prescription. But they source the drugs through their known chemist,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-who-robbed-passengers-after-sedating-them-held-from-sector-9/story-SmnB9M7flOxhO2RAWvUZ9J.html
26-10-2020||Gurugram||Haryana Vision Zero likely to restart next month, funding approved in principle||The funding for Haryana Vision Zero (HVZ), a road safety programme aimed at reducing on-road fatalities across Haryana, has been approved in principle, five months after the project folded up due to lack of funds. The programme is likely to restart next month, with officials of the Haryana transport department on Monday confirming that the process for formally doing the same has been initiated.HVZ is loosely based on the ‘Vision Zero’ concept of Sweden, and is aimed at achieving zero road fatalities in Haryana. Under HVZ, a team of road safety experts collaborate to analyse data of fatal accidents in a particular district and then audit stretches to identify whether human errors, engineering errors, or lack of infrastructure were the causes behind such incidents. The recommendations are then sent to public bodies concerned, for implementation.For instance, at the Khandsa exit on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, 21 pedestrian fatalities were recorded between 2017 and 2019, the highest in Gurugram. After auditing the stretch, HVZ had identified the lack of pedestrian amenities for crossing the National Highway 48 as the main cause of high fatalities and recommended the installation of a foot overbridge (FOB) at the exit. An FOB was installed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in May this year.“Last week, during a meeting, it was decided that since the funding for the programme had stopped, the Haryana government would step in. In principle, the decision has been approved and steps for formalising it have started. The remaining paperwork would be completed by the state government in due time,” said Anurag Rastogi, principal secretary, Haryana transport department.Rastogi added that the matter was put forward for discussion by Manoj Yadav, director general of police (DGP), Haryana, during a meeting in Chandigarh on October 22.“The proposal for reviving HVZ is important. During its operation, the programme was effective in reducing road fatalities at the district level through identification of black spots and coordinating with all relevant authorities to ensure that road engineering defects, which were leading to accidents, can be rectified. HVZ brought all stakeholders together and its results were visible,” said Yadav.During its three-year tenure, the total number of road fatalities recorded in both Haryana and Gurugram had declined. As per HVZ data, in Haryana, the total number of road fatalities was 5,390 in 2017, 5,356 in 2018, and 5,125 in 2019. Similarly, for Gurugram, the total number of road fatalities was 484 in 2017, 469 in 2018, and 401 in 2019.HVZ started operation in May 2017 and initially only covered 10 districts of Haryana. A year later, its coverage extended to all 22 districts in the stateHVZ was entirely privately funded. Every May, an automobile manufacturer and a software development and technology consulting company would cumulatively give annual funding of Rs 3 crore to HVZ, as part of corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds.However, the companies withdrew the funding this year due to the economic slowdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic, forcing HVZ to shut operations on June 1.“Vision Zero is a modern, scientific and global approach to road safety and has been adopted by several progressive countries across the world to reduce road traffic deaths and serious injuries. Haryana was the first state to adopt this approach in India and has witnessed a tangible impact. Restarting HVZ programme will not only reduce deaths on Haryana’s roads but can also form a model that can be replicated across the country,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, programme coordinator, HVZ.An HVZ official privy to the matter said that in June, a communication was sent to the Haryana government regarding its closure due to lack of funds.“We had informed the state government about the closing of the programme via email. However, with the government caught up in curbing the spread of coronavirus at the time, there was no response as such. Last month, during a state-level road safety meeting, the matter was discussed and steps for reviving HVZ were subsequently initiated,” the HVZ official cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-vision-zero-likely-to-restart-next-month-funding-approved-in-principle/story-WWgyBIUwol26uvGuypiX8H.html
26-10-2020||Gurugram||Man who robbed more than 20 banks arrested by Gurugram Police||A 35-year-old man has been arrested for robbing more than 20 banks across eight states over the last decade, said the police on Monday. The suspect, identified as Gajraj Kumar of Karoli village in Rajasthan, was wanted by the police departments of Haryana and Tamil Nadu for the past two years. The police said he joined his friend’s gang who allegedly used to steal valuables from lockers of banks and courier offices in Rajasthan. He allegedly joined the gang after he lost a huge amount of money in gambling and was unable to pay back his debt. Based on a tip-off, Kumar was arrested from Jaipur on Sunday. According to the police, he had returned from Madhya Pradesh after allegedly robbing a bank last week. The police said Kumar, and three of his aides, had robbed the bank of gold and ₹10 lakh cash,, which are yet to be recovered. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, in early 2008, Kumar allegedly met a criminal in his village who helped him to pay off his debt. Together, they formed a gang to rob a local Gramin Bank. “He had lost nearly ₹80,000 in a month and had taken a loan from family and friends to gamble,” Sangwan said, adding that he had also started betting on cricket matches and mostly lost. “He first thought to target a bank which was close to his village. He allegedly broke the bank wall but could not succeed in entering the strong room. After spending four hours inside, he returned empty-handed,” said Sangwan recounting Kumar’s confession. The police said his first two attempts at robbing a bank were unsuccessful. However, between March and December 2008, he allegedly robbed nine banks in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh , Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Sangwan said Kumar allegedly paid off his debt and bought land in his village in Rajasthan with the loot money. “He was arrested for the first time in 2011 for an attempted robbery in Rajasthan, later by Himachal Pradesh Police and was lodged in Una Jail for nearly a year,” he said. The police said Kumar met criminals in the jail where he was lodged and made strong networks in nine states. Later, he started visiting places such as Jhansi, Gwalior, Aligarh, Haridwar,Allahabad, Jaipur, Raipur in Chattisgarh, Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu and Sheopur in Madhya Pradesh for recce and conducting robberies. Sangwan added that Kumar along with his associates would fly to all places, but never returned with any loot money or goods. He allegedly sold the gold locally and transferred the money through hawala. “He made sure he never kept more than ₹25,000 in his bank accounts to ensure he was never under the scanner,” Sangwan said. Kumar was taken on a six-day police remand on Monday and was sent to 14-day judicial custody. The police said they have informed Tamil Nadu Police who will visit Bhondsi jail to question him. He will be taken on production remand to Tamil Nadu for further investigation and for recovery of robbed items, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-who-robbed-more-than-20-banks-arrested-by-gurugram-police/story-YjKIlB1V7PwypHQN2YcMcO.html
26-10-2020||Gurugram||At 12%, Gurugram’s test positivity rate highest in two months||For the sixth consecutive day, new infections in Gurugram crossed the 300-mark, taking the test positivity rate(TPR) in the district to 12% — the highest in the past two month. Health officials said that the strong upward trend indicates the resurgence of the infection due to the movement of people during the festive season and complacency in following precautionary norms.Test positivity rate is the ratio of positive cases to the total number of tests conducted. A higher TPR can mean widespread infections in the community. Data shows that weekly average positivity rate has now reached its peak in the last two months. While in August, the TPR was 9%, in September, the positivity rate had reached 10%. Over the last six days, the TPR is hovering around 12%, thereby indicating that the infection is spreading fast. On Monday, the daily positivity rate touched 13%. According to World Health Organization (WHO), the ideal TPR should be five percent at least for at least two weeks to ensure that the outbreak is under control. Health department officials have pointed out that, starting from October 21, new cases have started crossing the 300-mark, reaching 398 on October 24. On Monday, 346 new cases were reported, taking the total number of infections in the city to 27,961. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “The weekly positivity rate has now increased to 12%, higher than both August and September. This is due to the festival season as more people are coming out of their homes. Further, they are hardly wearing masks and following protocols of social distancing.” Yadav said that nearly 3,000 tests are being conducted daily, with the government lab doing at least 1,200 Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests and 700 rapid antigen tests. According to him, on Sundays, testing is comparatively low as most of the labs remain closed. Yadav cautioned that the numbers are likely to increase further as patients with influenza-like illness might get infected due to change of season. “Our target is to test and track people with infection,” he said.Due to spike in cases,hospitalisation is also on the rise. On Monday, as per the district health bulletin, 191 seriously ill patients are admitted in hospitals. Until, the last week the number fluctuated between 150-160. The Covid-19 toll has reached 204, with three deaths being recorded in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/at-12-gurugram-s-test-positivity-rate-highest-in-two-months/story-ctgXAXWgiOyhTouNTdftCI.html
26-10-2020||Gurugram||Digital learning vehicles deployed in six schools||The district administration on Monday said it had started conducting classes via two digital buses for students of select schools in the city. The ‘unique digital bus’ and ‘mobile hot spot vehicle’ have been arranged through support from three private organisations, which have jointly contributed to the initiative. The free service is currently being used across six government schools and will be scaled up in the coming days to cover 17 schools in the district, where students will be provided lessons digitally. In a statement released by the administration on Monday, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said that lessons would be imparted to the students of government schools via the digital bus which was equipped with state-of-the-art equipment including Wi-Fi facilities, charging points, biometric scanning, global positioning system (GPS), and cameras, along with 26 computers. Through this bus, students of classes 7, 8, 9 and 10 will be taught subjects such as mathematics, science, and English, among others. Khatri said that the content of National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) books would be taught digitally through the mobile van, which would allow students to view audio-visual e-content. Two resource persons have also been deployed on the bus to resolve any queries and explain concepts to students. District education officer Indu Bokan said that students in government schools of Manesar and Pataudi will also be connected through the digital bus in a phased manner. “The bus is equipped with smart gadgets that can be used by our students to access digital online classes. It will also run on two routes in Manesar and Pataudi,” said Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/digital-learning-vehicles-deployed-in-six-schools/story-ML528igWb32yT9dIwySZ2O.html
26-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MC chief issues show-cause notice to A2Z company for failure to run RDF plant at full capacity||Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Monday issued a show-cause notice to the A2Z company, the firm tasked with garbage lifting in the city, for failing to run the refuse-derived fuel (RDF) plant at its full capacity at the main dumpsite on Tajpur road.Sabharwal, along with other health branch officials, visited the site on Monday and inspected the ongoing work of disposal of over 1,100 tonnes of garbage that is generated in the city daily.It was found that the company was running the RDF plant at around 50% of its capacity and a few machines were not being put to use.Earlier in August, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) had also withdrawn the consent to operate the plant as the company had failed to run it at full capacity as per the directions issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT).The consent was reissued after the civic body intervened and, the company gave an undertaking that it’ll run the plant at full capacity.An official of the company said that one of the main reasons to not run the plant at full capacity was that the municipal corporation had failed to arrange customers for purchasing the RDF generated and the same could not be stored by the company.Sabharwal said that a show-cause notice had been issued and would be delivered to the company soon and, strict action would be taken against the company if it fails to run the plant to its full capa-city as per the directions issued by the National Green Tribunal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-chief-issues-show-cause-notice-to-a2z-company-for-failure-to-run-rdf-plant-at-full-capacity/story-I3sU2HScWQXG3W9d5dQncI.html
26-10-2020||Gurugram||State education department to provide special assistance to drop outs||The state education department will be conducting a six-month long academic support programme for out-of-school children to bring them up to the age-appropriate standards of mainstream schools. The programme will cover children of migrant labourers who do not attend school, those who had to drop out of school or discontinue studies, thereby leading to a learning gap, and those who have no access to formal education. Earlier, in January this year, the department had conducted a survey to identity such out-of-school children. However, following the Covid-19 lockdown and pandemic restrictions, a fresh survey was conducted last month. Sangeeta Chaudhary, district project coordinator, said that as per the survey conducted in January, around 4,000 such children were identified for the academic assistance programme. The second survey that was conducted last month threw up similar figures with roughly 3,500 students being identified. “Due to the pandemic restrictions and lockdown, our plans got delayed. Since there had been a lot of movement of migrant population during the lockdown, we decided to hold a fresh survey last month. The new numbers are nearly similar as the past figures,” said Chaudhary. She said the department had approved a budget for 4,000 students in the Gurugram district who would be taught for a period of six months till they achieve competency levels that will enable them to get admitted to schools. “These students will be taught to achieve a level of competency expected from a school student. Once the academic support training is completed, we will get the students admitted in various government schools,” said Chaudhary The academic support programme will be conducted at various centres that will be established in identified locations. Each centre will have a student strength ranging between 25-50 depending on the number of students identified that area. The state education department will be appointing education volunteers in different localities to train these children before they can resume classes. “We will be putting out notices seeking applications for education volunteers this week. These volunteers are hired on a fixed monthly remuneration. They will be trained before they start teaching the students in centres that will be established across the district,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/state-education-department-to-provide-special-assistance-to-drop-outs/story-mOwsIS7Dm22r2Uz2fD82qN.html
26-10-2020||Gurugram||Haryana seeks genset exemption till November 30 for Gurugram||The Haryana power department has sought exemption on the usage of diesel generator (DG) sets for 19 residential societies in Gurugram and Faridabad till November 30, along with the exclusion of Information Technology (IT) companies in Gurugram. On Monday, the department submitted its final take on the diesel genset ban, as directed by the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution Prevention and Control Authority (Epca).The decision on the November 30 deadline for residential societies and IT industry has been taken by the officials after consultation with Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday. On Monday, Trilok Chand Gupta, additional chief secretary, power department, wrote to Bhure Lal, chairman, Epca, in this regard. A copy of the letter was accessed by HT.In the letter, Gupta said that the ban on diesel genset has been reviewed in detail by the chief minister on October 23, along with departments concerned, including the environment department. “All the issues have been resolved, only in 19 cases, the exemption is sought for maximum up to November 30,” reads the letter.The detailed affidavits of these 19 residential societies in Gurugram and Faridabad have already been sent to the Epca. These societies lack regular electricity connection and are dependent upon diesel generator sets. In their affidavits, colony developers have given four to five different timelines to reach the final process of getting electricity connections. The steps to be taken include the application for a tender, submission of bank guarantee, land and facility to set up the power substation to finally switch from DG set to regular connection.DG sets are banned under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) implemented from October 15 to tackle air pollution from slipping to ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ category during winter months.Earlier this week, Epca chairman Bhure Lal directed the Haryana power department to submit a comprehensive affidavit on the power supply to societies still reliant on diesel genset. For the exemption, Epca asked the Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL) to fix a time frame for residential societies to get the regular power connection.The state has also sought an exemption for IT companies, to allow operation of diesel generator sets as a secondary source of power in case of disruption in supply.“Representatives from Nasscom {National Association of Software and Service Companies} have given a presentation on their issue as these industries run on servers which cannot afford to have a power break of a second,” said Gupta.According to him, these companies will prepare a logbook of DG sets used by them when there is a disruption in the regular electricity supply. “If the IT companies are not considered for an exemption then these companies will have to look for an alternative back up source, like large-size invertors. Otherwise, the department will have to enforce the ban,” said Gupta.Sunita Narain, an environmentalist and Epca member, confirmed that a letter has been received from the Haryana government. She said, “In case of IT companies, they want diesel genset as a backup option. But our question is — how will they manage it? The backup could also become a primary source of power. The issue was raised last year too. A discussion on the societies requiring exemption will be held after going through the detailed affidavits submitted by them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hry-seeks-genset-exemption-till-november-30/story-2AV0SLtpmzdJQbnt2P7xrN.html
26-10-2020||Gurugram||Rs 86 lakh collected in Grap violations so far||Agencies implementing the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) in the city have cumulatively collected Rs 86 lakh in the last week from violators, with penalties imposed on motorists using vehicles older than 15 years accounting for Rs 51 lakh of the total. Grap came into force on October 15 to prevent air quality from deteriorating. The crackdown on violations started from October 19, after the agencies had formed enforcement teams and appointed nodal officers for the sameData collated by Haryana Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) from different departments shows that from October 19-25, a total fine of Rs 86.24 lakh has been imposed on 1,279 people for violations, a majority of which were stubble burning, unpaved roads, dust through construction and demolition waste, polluting industries and vehicles, and garbage burning. Around 60% of the total fines were imposed on unauthorised vehicles, most of which were being used without fitness certificates. The deputy commissioner of police (traffic), DK Bhardwaj, said, “As per the government notification, two and three-wheelers, cars, buses and trucks older than 15 years are not allowed, unless they have proper documentation. The smoke produced by these vehicles release high quantity of particulate matter and pollutes the air. By conducting special drive as directed by the state, we are actively challaning these unauthorised vehicles.” Another large chunk of the fines, of Rs 10 lakh, has been cumulatively imposed for dust emissions due to road construction or unpaved roads. As reported by HT last week, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) was penalised Rs 5 lakh for dust emission on the unpaved road connecting NH48 and Dwarka Expressway. Another fine of Rs 5 lakh has been issued for dust on Sohna Road. Violations of construction and demolition (C&D) activities accounted for Rs 6 lakh of the total, levied on 34 defaulters — mainly construction sites or those found dumping waste on roadsides. For dumping the waste, additional Rs 30,000 was imposed on five people. At least 18 were penalised Rs 15,500 for garbage dumping, while 15 violators were penalised Rs 41,000 for burning garbage. Of the total 1,279 violators, at least 166 were served with notices, a major proportion of it being farmers for stubble burning offences. As per the data, 138 notices were served for paddy straw burning, with over Rs 4 lakh imposed on the violators. Atma Ram Godara, district agriculture officer, was unavailable for comment.Shakti Singh, regional officer (south), HSPCB, who is also the nodal officer for Grap implementation, said, “Different agencies are involved in tackling air pollution. The impact of the activities can be seen on the air quality, if compared with other NCR towns. We are not reporting ‘very poor’ air quality like Faridabad, Delhi, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Ballabhgarh, among other cities.” He said that night patrolling, increased water sprinkling and strict implementation of penalties for violations play a key role in maintaining air quality.On Monday, Gurugram reported ‘poor’ air quality, with an air quality index (AQI) of 258, while Delhi was in ‘very poor’ category with an AQI of 353. Other NCR towns — Faridabad (323), Ghaziabad (365), Noida (384) and Ballabhgarh (337) — were also in ‘very poor’ category. Polluting industries in Gurugram are also under the scanner, with notices being served to four people and a fine of Rs 1.6 lakh imposed on them.Singh, however, said that the total collection of the fine from violators will be available only next month, as several landowning agencies and companies have been given time to submit their response on the action taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rs-86-lakh-collected-in-grap-violations-so-far/story-AJXuRSArN9vNYkTkrYTTrO.html
26-10-2020||City||PAU counselling goes offline as few turn up during online process||After not getting many takers during online counselling, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Monday started a three-day on-campus admission process for undergraduate courses.The second counselling for BSc (honours) agriculture at the Institute of Agriculture was held on the first day of the offline process.Around 35 out of 80 seats in BSc agriculture were left vacant during the first round of online counselling. Many students who got admission even failed to submit the fees. In the previous years, cutthroat competition used to be witnessed over seats in BSc agriculture. As many as 29 out of a total of 60 seats in BSc horticulture were left vacant during the online process. There were no takers for BTech biotechnology, microbiology, food technology while, there were few for MSc botany and MSc biochemistry courses.Students say that the reason local colleges are not finding many takers this season is because more and more students are trying to go abroad for studies.Navdeep Singh, a city resident who had appeared for the counselling, said that better pay scale and permanent residency (PR) after the completion of graduation courses are some of the reasons behind students opting to study abroad instead of here.Gurpreet Singh from Mansa also shared a similar view. “Prerequisite of every student is to get a job after graduation. But in our country, either they get paid less or do not get a job at all. So, opting to study abroad seems a safer option,” he said.PAU registrar RS Sidhu said that the online process had been adopted keeping in mind the Covid guidelines but it was observed that many students who had applied for the seats did not submit the fees so it was decided to conduct the counselling on campus.“While the seats in agriculture and horticulture have been filled, the vacant seats in other streams are expected to be filled in the next two days,” Sidhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-counselling-goes-offline-as-few-turn-up-during-online-process/story-07PCO9ANw0E2rjoa8WOAZP.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitation workers and garbage collectors call off strike in Chandigarh||Sanitation workers and door-to-door garbage collectors on Monday called off their indefinite strike in Chandigarh. They will resume work from Tuesday.The strike was ended even though key objections of the unions — GPS-enabled watches to keep track on sanitation workers and takeover of door-to-door garbage collection by the municipal corporation — remained unresolved.In a meeting with the union representatives on Monday, MC officials reiterated that the two contentious decisions were being implemented only after the approval of the General House and the UT administration. It was decided that the unions will take up these issues with the authorities “at their own level”.However, the MC assured the protesters that the remaining demands, including regular jobs besides house allotment and pension benefits to all daily-wage employees, and payment to contract staff on ‘same work, same pay’ basis, will be addressed as per the prevailing laws and rules.Even councillors had a meeting with the union representatives. “After we assured them that their key demands will soon be resolved, they agreed to call off their strike,” said ex-mayor Rajesh Kalia, who is the MC sanitation committee chairman.Issues to come up in MC HouseSanitation workers went on strike on Friday, their main objection being to GPS-enabled watches introduced to keep a check on irregularities in attendance of the field staff.The civic body procured 4,000 watches on a monthly rent of ₹18 lakh to cover 2,400 sanitation workers, 1,000 work munshis and 600 gardeners.Krishan Kumar Chadda, president, Safai Karamchari Union, said: “We have been assured that in the next General House meeting, the issue of GPS-enabled watches will be tabled and decided upon. Till the House decision is reversed, we will continue to stage a protest, four people at a time, outside the MC office.”The private door-to-door garbage collectors had also joined the stir, suspending work across the city on Saturday. They have been up in arms over the MC’s plan to run garbage collection vehicles in all wards and collection of monthly charges from households on behalf of the collectors.Om Prakash Saini, president of Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said: “We have been assured that a five-member committee, comprising of three ex-mayors and two councillors and to be constituted by city BJP chief Arun Sood, will look into our demands. Our issues will also be taken up in the next General House meeting.With the strike being called off, residents heaved a sigh of relief. Garbage has been piling up on the roadsides across the city, with the situation worsening after Dussehra on Sunday. Although there were no big celebrations in view of the pandemic, small effigies were burnt in some localities. “While roads continue to be littered with garbage, children who organised Dussehra helped in clearing the mess,” said Surinder Sharma, president, RWA, Sector 15. In Sector 35 and 46, too, residents came together to clean the roads after the festivities. Physical House meet on October 29Mayor Raj Bala Malik has decided to call a physical MC General House meeting on October 29. The meeting held on October 20, through video conference, was adjourned as 18 BJP councillors had boycotted it. They were demanding a physical meet rather than a virtual one. City BJP chief and councillor Arun Sood, who was among those who remained absent from the meeting, said: “We will bring table agendas of GPS-enabled watches and issues relating to door-to-door garbage collectors in the House meeting. We will question the officials in the House that what difference has the watches made in the last three months, for which the cash-starved MC is paying ₹18 lakh per month.”The BJP also plans to bring table agenda on water tariff revision. The party has been facing public ire on the steep hike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sanitation-workers-and-garbage-collectors-call-off-strike-in-chandigarh/story-DyIHLxEFuO7KvHOtWiN2nM.html
26-10-2020||City||Panchkula records only 5 new cases, recovery rate reaches 96%||Panchkula district on Monday recorded only five new Covid-19 cases, lowest in at least three months, while no casualty was reported for second time in three days. The recovery rate has reached 96%, highest in the tricity.As many as 6,984 people have tested positive in the district so far, of whom 6,706 have recovered and 110 (1.6%) have succumbed to the virus. Only 168 (2.4%) cases remain active, lowest in the tricity.The district witnessed a surge last month, with the peak recorded on September 15, when 181 cases were reported.The numbers came down to double digits this month, and since October 11, the daily infection tally has not crossed the 50-mark, except once.In the past two days, only 13 cases have been reported, bringing a sigh of relief to the health authorities, though they are keeping a close watch, fearing a rise during the ongoing festive season.“The surge is over and new infections are on the decline. For how long we will be able to maintain these low figures can’t be said,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Taking no chances, the district authorities have decided to increase sampling and to also cover labourers who are returning to brick kilns and poultry farms, said Dr Kaur.“Expect on Dussehra, when only 150 samples were taken, 800-900 samples are being collected for Covid-19 testing daily,” she said. “We are going to increase sampling of roadside vendors and will place mobile testing vans near sweetmeat shops and other crowded places during the festive season. Our main focus will remain on sampling and contact tracing.”Good recovery rate, but high fatality rate a concernAccording to the Haryana government’s weekly Covid-19 status report (till October 25), test positivity rate in Panchkula district is 8.2%, second in the state after Panipat and Rewari (8.4%).The district, which has a population of 5.61 lakh, has tested highest number of samples per million (1,51,436), second only to Gurugram (2,26,366), which has a population of 15.14 lakh.Recovery rate in Panchkula (95.8%) is also second highest after Ambala (96.7%), and higher than the state (92.4%) and national average (90%).However, in a negative indicator, the case fatality rate in Panchkula (1.6%) is also second-highest after Fatehabad and Jind (1.9%). Also, it is much higher than the state average of 1.1%. The national average is 1.5%.“The unusually high mortality is the only regret we have,” said Dr Kaur.4 more succumb in Chandigarh, 1 in MohaliChandigarh recorded four Covid-related deaths and 47 fresh cases on Monday.Those dead have been identified as two women, aged 83 and 77, from Sectors 36 and 35, respectively, and two men, aged 78 and 58, from Sectors 4 and Sector 38 West, respectively. Three of them had co-morbidities.The toll has climbed to 222 and case fatality rate to 1.6%.As many as 14,085 people have tested positive so far, of whom 13,230 have been cured, taking the recovery rate to 93.9%. The number of active cases stands at 633 (4.5%).In Mohali, one person died and 55 tested positive for the virus, while 45 were discharged after recovering on Monday.Among the fresh cases, 32 surfaced in Mohali city and 13 in Kharar town.The district has recorded 12,118 cases so far, of which 557 (4.6%) remain active. With 11,328 patients being cured so far, recovery rate stands at 93.5%. The case fatality rate is 1.9%, as 233 patients have succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-records-only-5-new-cases-recovery-rate-reaches-96/story-LIfc8GEPPvSNqfsx8AoUpM.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Air quality ‘severe’ in parts of Greater Noida, ‘very poor’ in Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Faridabad||Air quality reached “severe” levels in parts of Gautam Buddh Nagar in the National Capital Region (NCR) on Monday, while it largely remained “very poor” in Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad, according to a government agency.Concentration of major air pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 during the morning hours remained in the “severe” category in parts of the four immediate neighbouring districts of Delhi, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).An air quality index (AQI) between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.In Gautam Buddh Nagar’s Noida, the AQI was 383 at Sector 116, followed by 373 at Sector 62, 364 at Sector 1, while the air quality monitoring station at Sector 125 showed “insufficient” data for the last 24 hours.In Greater Noida, an AQI of 433 was recorded in Knowledge Park V and 359 at Knowledge Park III, according to the CPCB data at 8 pm.In Ghaziabad, an AQI of 399 was recorded at the station in Loni followed by 363 at Indirapuram, 348 at Sanjay Nagar and 317 at Vasundhara, according to the CPCB figures.An AQI of 340 was recorded at Gurgaon’s Vikas Sadan followed by 253 at NISE Gwal Pahari, 175 at Teri Gram, while there was “no sufficient data” for Sector 51.In Faridabad, the AQI was recorded 372 at Sector 16A, 342 at Sector 30, 321 at New Industrial Town and 241 at Sector 11 at 8 pm.The concentration of PM 2.5 and PM 10 in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad around 10 am on Monday was near or upwards of 400 in the “severe” category, according to CPCB data.As a possible health impact, the CPCB states, an AQI in the “very poor” category can lead to respiratory illness on prolonged exposure, while in the “severe” category, healthy people gets affected and those with existing diseases can get seriously impacted.With the worsening of air quality, the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) has been implemented in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) from October 15 to check air pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-severe-in-parts-of-greater-noida-very-poor-in-ghaziabad-gurugram-faridabad/story-e4RTVHez9rgX9y3DqrEVLN.html
26-10-2020||City||Pune district reports three deaths, 372 fresh Covid-19 cases||Pune: The state health department has reported three deaths due to Covid-19 and 372 fresh cases of the infection on Monday. Of the three deaths, two were from Pune rural and one from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Of the 372 cases, 108 were from Pune rural which took the total count of Covid-19 cases in rural areas to 75,822 and the progressive death toll stands at 1,549. 152 were from PMC area which took the total count of Covid cases to 170,656 and the progressive death toll to 3,874, and 112 were from PCMC which took the total count of virus cases to 83,750 and the progressive death toll to 1,184. Pune district has totally reported about 3.30 lakh Covid cases of which 2.99 have recovered, 66,09 were reported dead and 24,352 are active cases. Pune’s recovery rate currently is 90.4% and case fatality rate is 2%. In Maharashtra, a total of 16.48 lakh cases have been reported of Covid, of which 14.70 have recovered, 43,868 were declared dead and 134,137 are active cases undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Currently, 2,530,900 people are in home quarantine and 13,690 people are in institutional quarantine. Of 8,645,195 laboratory samples, 1,648,665 have been tested positive (19.07%) for Covid until Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-three-deaths-372-fresh-covid-19-cases/story-NfcLZ3t79ReWgWRW7KbBbP.html
26-10-2020||City||VAT assessment notices: Announce OTS policy by November 1 or face agitation, traders tell govt||After VAT assessment notices were issued to traders, the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal on Monday gave an ultimatum to the state government to announce One-Time Settlement (OTS) policy by November 1 or face agitation.Traders rued that the government has extended the last date for responding to the notices till December 15 but OTS policy should be notified at the earliest. State general secretary of beopar mandal, Sunil Mehra, state secretary Mohinder Aggarwal and district president Arvinder Singh Makkar said that traders are already reeling under losses and the government is further pressuring them by issuing notices at this time of crises.“In 2014, the SAD-BJP led state government notified that there will be no tax assessment for traders with turnover below Rs 1 crore, but the sales tax department is again serving notices to those assesses on the directions of the state government,” said Makkar.Mehra said that around 70,000 notices have been served to VAT assesses across the state of which 23,000 were served in Ludhiana alone.Mehra said that the government has announced that the OTS policy would be notified in a week, but if it fails to fulfill its promise, traders will raise a statewide agitation from November 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vat-assessment-notices-announce-ots-policy-by-november-1-or-face-agitation-traders-tell-govt/story-z0dXtu014ACnY7kgLVyPJN.html
26-10-2020||City||Ludhiana MLA seeks action against traders dumping hosiery waste in open spaces||With Diwali just round the corner, MLA (Ludhiana east) Sanjay Talwar has sought action against traders who dump hosiery waste in open plots in his constituency citing the risk of fire incidents due to the bursting of firecrackers. In a letter written to the mayor Balkar Sandhu, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, and commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, Talwar said that fire incidents have taken place in his constituency due to waste being dumped in plots in the past and few residents had also suffered injuries.Talwar added that he had also apprised the authorities in November 2018 and October 2019, but no concrete action has been taken in this regard. The practice continues unabated in Mayapuri, Grewal Chakki area, and other areas at Tibba road in his constituency.Three houses had collapsed after a gas cylinder exploded in Mayapuri at Tibba road last year. It was said that hosiery waste kept in the street caught fire which got spread to nearby houses. A drive was initiated in the area for a few days after the incident took place and it was found that the illegal practice is still going on with no checks by authorities. Many other incidents have also taken place in the past wherein a few residents have also got injured, said Talwar. Seeking strict legal action against those involved in the practice, Talwar demanded a drive should be initiated by the administration to keep residents safe. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “I am not aware of the letters issued by the MLA in the past, but if any illegal activity is being carried out which is putting the lives at risk, strict action would be taken against the same. I will issue directions to the tehbazaari wing in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mla-seeks-action-against-traders-dumping-hosiery-waste-in-open-spaces/story-XGdP5aL3ZbiraeAQ4L3PRO.html
26-10-2020||City||10 open school students miss exam due to PSEB ‘goof-up’||Around 10 students were left in a tizzy after they skipped their Class 10 (open school) Punjabi examination on Monday due to the Punjab School Education Board’s (PSEB) goof-up. The admit card issued to these students mentioned the examination time from 2 pm to 5.15 pm, however, the exam was conducted from 11 am to 2.15 pm at 20 examination centres in the district. After October 20, the board had issued new roll numbers to students and they were asked to download the same from the board’s website. PSEB controller of examination, Janak Raj Mehrok said, “We will inquire into the matter and reschedule the exam for students who missed it today.”Four students reached the examination centre set up at RS Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, at 1.45 pm and were denied entry by the school authorities who informed them that the exam was conducted from 11 am to 2.15 pm. The students were then asked to go home.Another student Manpreet Singh who showed up at 1.30 pm at Government Senior Secondary School, (boys) Jagraon, was also denied entry. He said, “I had downloaded the admit card last week from the board website and the exam timing printed on it was 2 pm to 5.15 pm so I reached the centre at 1.30 pm. But the school authorities did not allow me to appear for the exam. I had to miss the exam due to the board’s apathy.”School principal, Gurvinderjit Singh, said, “We have asked the student to contact the board officials as the exam was scheduled from 11 am to 2.15 pm. Of the total five, four students appeared for the exam while one remained absent.”JP Bhatt, spokesperson of joint action front, associated schools, Punjab, said, “Many students missed their exam today and the same issue was reported from 2-3 centres. The authorities must reschedule the exam for these students.”PSEB exam centre changed The Punjab School Education Board has shifted the exam centre set up at Government Senior Secondary School, Jagraon Bridge to Government Senior Secondary School, Haibowal Khurd for Class 10 (open school) English board examination on Tuesday.The board took this decision after the district officials reported that the school has seven small classrooms and will not be able to accommodate 143 students as it will be difficult to maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-open-school-students-miss-exam-due-to-pseb-goof-up/story-j6qW9lpJlqTnXWz7ZFtKUL.html
26-10-2020||City||Fire breaks out at PAU garbage dump||A fire broke out at Punjab Agricultural University’s (PAU) garbage dump on Monday morning. A cloud of smoke could be seen from faraway places, but no loss to the fields or machinery was reported.PAU has set up compost pits at the dump and green waste was being dumped in large quantities at the site, which had caught fire. The firefighting operation continued for over six hours.Leading fireman Rajinder Singh said, “The fire brigade received an alert at around 11 am, following which three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The firefighting operations continued for over six hours, but no casualty was reported. The reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained.”PAU estate officer, Ashok Kumar said, “The bursting of firecrackers might have caused the fire. Soon after the PAU staff came to know about the incident at around 10 am, we had immediately informed the fire brigade.” Green waste catches fire in Tiger SafariThe green waste dumped in the Tiger Safari near Jalandhar bypass also caught fire on Sunday late evening. Fortunately, no casualty or loss to wildlife was reported.Leading fireman, Rajan Singh said that green waste dumped at one corner of the Tiger Safari caught fire and the flames were doused in around half an hour. The cages of animals including those of tigers were away so no loss to wildlife was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-breaks-out-at-pau-garbage-dump/story-ZlycyG3Ss7zyYtjk0pIZzN.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||21-yr-old woman shot dead outside Faridabad college||A 21-year-old woman was shot dead outside her college in Ballabgarh in Haryana’s Faridabad district on Monday, with police launching a manhunt to nab two persons in connection with the crime.The woman had come out of her college after appearing for an exam when the incident took place, ACP, Ballabgarh, Jaiveer Singh Rathi, said.The accused, who arrived at the spot in a vehicle, tried to pull the woman inside, in a possible bid to abduct her, but she resisted after which one of the accused shot her.She was taken to a hospital, but succumbed to injuries, the ACP said.He said during preliminary investigation, it has emerged that one of the accused was known to her.A case has been registered and the matter is being investigated, Rathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/21-yr-old-woman-shot-dead-outside-faridabad-college/story-cP76HQ8zPv54AjL3naXdmN.html
26-10-2020||Bhopal||‘Abductor’ boards train with 3-year-old toddler, turns out to be her father||A Thiruvananthapuram-bound train, with no scheduled stoppage between Lalitpur junction in Uttar Pradesh and Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, didn’t get any red signal during its three-and-a-half-hour long non-stop journey. This was to ensure that an abductor of a three-year-old girl travelling in the train got arrested. The detention of the abductor on Sunday night, however, proved to be an anti-climax as he turned out to the girl’s father, the officials said. As per the officials, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Bhopal got information on Sunday evening that a three-year-old girl was abducted by a man from Lalitpur and he boarded Gorakhpur-Thiruvananthpuram Raptisagar Express (12511) at Lalitpur junction on Sunday evening, said an RPF officer. The RPF, Bhopal, and government railway police (GRP) personnel cordoned off the particular platform at Bhopal railway station where the train was to pull in past 9 pm. They also cordoned off the stretch from where the train was to slow down as there was apprehension that the abductor might jump off the train to escape, said RPF Bhopal railway station in-charge Nihal Singh. Also read: Air pollution may hinder India’s fight against Covid-19, say scientistsEarlier, a message was conveyed to every railway station in between by the authorities concerned that there should be green signal all through to allow the train to run without any halt. The GRP and RPF personnel at all the railway stations were instructed to be on their toes in case the train had to halt at any railway station due to any unavoidable reason. They had to ensure to rescue the girl and arrest the abductor, the official said. “When RPF officials detained the abductor, Santosh Pandey, 28, resident of Azadpura locality in Lalitpur, from S-2 coach of Raptisagar Express, he told us that he happened to the girl’s father and had left his house with his daughter after an altercation with his wife.” The RPF team handed over the girl and the man to Government Railway Police (GRP) station at Bhopal Railway station. On Monday, the girl’s mother reached the police station and the couple returned home after a warning to them for wasting the time the authorities, said RN Rawat, in-charge, GRP, Bhopal. GRP Lalitpur railway station sub-inspector Anil Kumar Rana said, “Asha Narayan lodged a complaint with us that a man wearing beige colour shirt abducted her three-year-old daughter and boarded Raptisagar Express. She hid the fact that the man was her husband. We informed the officials at RPF control room Jhansi and later informed the officials in Bhopal, which was the next destination of the train.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/abductor-boards-train-with-3-year-old-toddler-turns-out-to-be-her-father/story-SM8MCVHQEw3itiK7uIKsXN.html
26-10-2020||NA||Yediyurappa stays as CM, insist 2 BJP leaders seen as possible replacements||Union minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday dismissed suggestions that the Bharatiya Janata Party was scouting for Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s replacement. The Union minister, who is seen as a potential contender for the race for the chief minister’s chair, insisted that there were no plans for a change of leadership in the state government and Yediyurappa had been doing a fine job.Joshi is the second BJP leader in 24 hours to deliver a sharp rebuttal to a campaign within the state BJP that has targeted the chief minister. ‘Yediyurappa is performing well,” Pralhad Joshi told reporters.Joshi echoed Jagadish Shettar, a minister in Yediyurappa cabinet handling large and medium industries. Shettar, also a potential contender, brushed aside former Union minister and senior BJP lawmaker Basavraj Patil Yatnal’s statement that prophesied a leadership change in the state.“That is his personal view and the party as well as state BJP president have already refuted the same,” Shettar said.Union minister Pralhad Joshi went a step further in defence of Yediyurappa who has lately been the target of Congress barbs over his government’s handling of floods in the state and the disbursement of compensation to farmers. Joshi underscored that the BJP government had been able to provide more funds to help farmers, crediting the BJP-led national coalition for sparing more money for Karnataka farmers than the previous Congress-led UPA government.Congress leaders including leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah as well as Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar had earlier accused the state government of failing to get adequate funds for flood relief though people voted the BJP on 25 of the 28 Lok Sabha seats in Karnataka.Siddaramiah has demanded a special session of the assembly to discuss the destruction caused due to floods for the third successive year. The legislative assembly’s winter session was earlier truncated due to Covid-19 pandemic-related fears.Joshi mounted a counterattack on the Congress, saying its leaders had come to believe that only it was meant to rule. “Whenever there is a crisis within Congress, they try to project it as a crisis for the country and the state. The Congress does not believe in democracy. There is a fight in Congress for the CM’s post (in Karnataka) when the post is not even vacant,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/karnataka/yediyurappa-stays-as-cm-insist-2-bjp-leaders-seen-as-possible-replacements/story-I5bzAP8CGTVEiAkde0ncHJ.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Co-accused held in firing outside nightclub in Chandigarh’s Sector 9||Making first breakthrough in the Eskobar firing case, Chandigarh Police on Monday claimed to have arrested a 21-year-old Ludhiana youth following a tip-off.A TikTok content creator was injured after being assaulted and shot at by four men following an argument at Eskobar, a nightclub in Sector 9, on the night of October 11. The suspect arrested from a naka at the Sector 3/4/9/10 roundabout has been identified as Sukhdeep, alias Sukhi, 21. He was produced in court on Monday and sent to eight-day police remand.During preliminary interrogation, he is reported to have confessed that he and his three friends, including main accused Movis Bains, were involved in the firing. The four were booked for attempt to murder besides under the Arms Act, on the complaint of victim Sourav Gujjar’s friend Akash. According to the FIR, Akash and Gujjar had gone to Eskobar along with their friends around 11:30pm on October 11.On the dance floor, they entered into an argument with Movis and his group. As they left the basement and came outside the nightclub, the accused allegedly followed them and opened fire, leaving Gujjar with a bullet wound in the thigh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/co-accused-held-in-escobar-firing-case/story-3QGZBrMKxFSRG3v28r1GdN.html
26-10-2020||Lucknow||Trader kidnapped in UP’s Baghpat, rescued hours later||An iron trader who was allegedly kidnapped for ransom from Badaut here on Monday morning was rescued from the jungles of a village later in the day, police said. The kidnappers fled after seeing large police deployment, they said. Aadesh Jain left his residence in Khatri Gadhi locality for his shop at Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg around 5 am but did not return. His family later informed the police that they received a call asking for a ransom of Rs 1 crore, the police said.The trader was rescued from the jungles of Ratoul village, they said. Jain, who was produced before the media, said the kidnappers told him that they had mistakenly kidnapped him. Addressing the press conference, ADG, Meerut zone, Rajiv Sabharwal said the kidnappers fled after seeing the large deployment of police personnel.“We have received some inputs about them through which we are trying to nab them,” he said.District borders with Meerut, Ghaziabad, Muzaffarnagar and Sonipat in Haryana were sealed soon after getting the information of kidnapping, he added. Earlier in the day, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra took to Twitter to slam the Yogi Adityanath government over the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh. Along with her tweet, the Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh tagged a media report about the kidnapping of the iron trader.“An iron trader was kidnapped in Baghpat this morning. Women are not safe in UP. Traders are not safe. Children are not safe. Those in government make hollow speeches in election meetings. Fear prevails in public,” Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/trader-kidnapped-in-up-s-baghpat-rescued-hours-later/story-TiWSOBHREt1PzvoPkRZbBJ.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||J&K records lowest number of fresh cases in 3 months||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded 364 fresh coronavirus infections, the lowest in three months, taking the total positive cases in the Union Territory to 92,225. The last time the UT had recorded daily cases in this ballpark was in the last week of July. Officials said 217 people had tested positive in Kashmir and 147 in Jammu.The UT also recorded six deaths due to the disease, of which four were recorded in Kashmir and two in Jammu division, which took the total death toll to 1,444. The number of patients who have recovered from the contagion reached 83,485 after 627 people were cured of the disease-- 398 in Kashmir and 229 in Jammu. The recovery rate increased to 90.5 % - the highest so far. Active cases in Jammu and Kashmir have dropped to 7,296. Of the total deaths so far, 964 have been reported in Kashmir and 480 in Jammu.As many as 326 deaths were reported in August, 478 in September and 263 in October. The recovery rate has continuously improved over the past one month. So far, in October, 26,561 patients have recovered against 17,155 fresh infections.October has also witnessed a decrease in the average number of daily cases. Against an average 1,245 daily novel coronavirus cases reported in September, October has recorded an average 659 cases till date. The average daily deaths in October are 10 against 16 in September. The total tests conducted in the UT has crossed 21.94 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 108, followed by 10 in Poonch.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 76 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 56.Srinagar tops the case tally with 18,729 cases and 346 deaths followed by Jammu district with 17,013 cases and 249 deaths.Till date, 6.42 lakh people have been enlisted for observation —18,198 in home quarantine, 7,296 in isolation, and 46,825 under home surveillance. Around 5.68 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-records-lowest-number-of-fresh-cases-in-3-months/story-h7BtlCoKkP3yCS8p9eXBaP.html
26-10-2020||City||Two more held for ATM robbery in Zirakpur||Two more men have been arrested for uprooting an ATM in a robbery bid at Zirakpur last week. The duo has been identified as Deepak Sharma of Dafarpur village in Dera Bassi and Gurpreet Singh, alias Tinku, of Devi Nagar village in Panchkula. They along with two others had struck at a Kotak Mahindra Bank branch on VIP Road in the wee hours of October 20. Informed by a passerby, two cops on a bike had managed to apprehend one of the robbers — Anmol Arora of Jarnail Enclave in Zirakpur — and recover the ATM containing ₹14 lakh and the vehicle and tools used in the loot.The fourth robber, Abhishek Katiyal of Dhakoli, is still absconding.Rajpal Singh Gill, station house officer, Zirakpur, said the robbers have confessed that they made six similar failed attempts to loot ATMs in the past. Meanwhile, after Anmol’s police remand ended on Monday, he was sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-held-for-atm-robbery-in-zirakpur/story-jUfWdSV3PKkayNSthWIsEI.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Lawrence Bishnoi gang member held with illegal weapon in Chandigarh||Sandeep Kumar, alias Nata, 35, a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, was arrested at a naka, Chandigarh Police said on Monday. A countrymade pistol was also recovered from him.A resident of Nadiyali village in Mohali, he is associated with key gang members Sampat Nehra and Deepu Banur. Besides being booked for sheltering Bishnoi gang members in the past, he is a co-accused in an attempt to murder case registered against Banur in Dera Bassi, said police. Having studied till Class 10 and unemployed right now, he also faces cases of kidnapping, firing and possession of illegal weapons in other parts of Punjab.Police have been on a vigil after a spate of firing incidents and gang violence in the city this month. On being tipped off, the operations cell had set up a special naka near the turn to Raipur Kalan village on Sunday, where Sandeep was apprehended. After being booked under the Arms Act at the Mauli Jagran police station, Sandeep was produced in court, which sent him to two-day police remand. During questioning, Sandeep reportedly disclosed that he got the illegal weapon from a man in Muzaffarnagar, UP. Police are trying to ascertain whether he was involved in the recent firing incidents in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lawrence-bishnoi-gang-member-held-with-illegal-weapon-in-chandigarh/story-VFt5wzReWpNZm2ZuEvjutM.html
26-10-2020||Bhopal||Technical error halts probe into Madhya Pradesh’s multi-crore e-tender scam||The investigation into Madhya Pradesh’s multi-crore e-tender scam that appeared to be gaining momentum after the arrest of 8 people including three government employees in 2019 has hit a bump, people familiar with the matter said. An official of the state’s Economic Offences Wing said forensic experts recently told the investigating team that they had not been able to access at least five hard disks.Investigators at the state’s EOW had confiscated 19 hard disk drives, cloned the drives and sent them over to the forensic wing of Delhi-headquartered Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) in July 2019. They were looking for evidence to back up charges of rigging and tampering of tenders worth Rs 3,000 crore. Some officials believe that the tenders floated by the Madhya Pradesh State Electronics Development Corporation for various departments could be worth Rs 80,000 crore.“After waiting for 14 months, CERT recently informed the agency that it couldn’t open at least five drives that have details of more than 25 tenders due to a technical error which results in delays,” said the officer who is familiar with the matter.“Five of the clones of the hard disks were probably corrupted and CERT officers are not able to access the data in it. The CERT has returned the hard disk drives and asked for disk imaging of the hard drives,” the official said.The Shivraj Singh Chouhan government had recommended investigation of allegations of manipulation of the e-tenders in its earlier tenure May 2018. But it was only after a change in government that the economic offences wing registered the first FIR in April 2019.There has been no breakthrough in the case.The nine tenders valued at Rs 3,000 crore where there were suspicions of rigging were cancelled before any payment was made.“If the CERT report finds tampering in other tenders, which were already approved and payment were made, the EOW will start a fresh probe. But it will happen only when the CERT report suggests tampering,” said the officer. Rajesh Mishra, the superintendent of police of the economic offences wing said, “The whole investigation now depends upon the CERT report.”“As the CERT has returned the five hard drives, we will do disk imaging of the same and send it back to the organisation. We will have to wait for the report”, said the senior police officer.He added that the irregularities appeared to have been largely committed by a private company to benefit some other companies. “As of now, EOW hasn’t found any involvement of any politician in the scam.”Till now, EOW has filed only one charge-sheet and booked 21 people mainly directors of five companies which got tenders due to tampering. What is e-tendering ScamThe e-tendering scam was exposed by Manish Rastogi, the then principal secretary of science and technology department and head of MPSEDC. Rastogi detected issues in the tender process, which indicated tampering in the tender process. Rastogi had asked Antares Systems Ltd (ASL), an implementation agency appointed with TCS to ensure end-to-end e-procurement for submitting a root cause analysis of the error.In its report, ASL confirmed the tampering and told the MP government that a breach in the system had been detected. The directors of a Bhopal based private company were identified as the main accused. They were accused of hacking the system to access the e-procurement portal and approaching companies that had responded to the tender notice.It turned out that the company had been given access to the portal in 2016 to carry out tests to improve the speed of the website. They went on to use this access to modify the content of the bidding process after the last date for submitting the tenders was over. The company directors allegedly changed bids so that its clients were the lowest bidder and got the contract.A police officer said tampering had been established in three out of nine tenders while the reports of six tenders are being awaited. Those who were arrested include three directors of the Bhopal based company, a director of a Bengaluru based IT company, an officer on special duty (OSD) in MPSEDC, two personal secretaries to former water resource minister and a middleman. The directors of five companies, who were stated to be beneficiaries, are absconding, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/technical-error-halts-probe-into-madhya-pradesh-s-multi-crore-e-tender-scam/story-o3OvTZw1EYjOhrgmmsVKQP.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||Centre to bring ‘comprehensive law’ to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR||Centre will bring a new law to control air pollution specifically in Delhi/NCR region within a week, RP Gupta, secretary, environment ministry said on Monday.“I will not share any details of the law or what penalties are involved but this is a comprehensive law focused only on the Delhi/NCR region to curb the air pollution menace here from various sources. It is not an amendment of existing laws,” he said responding to HT’s queries.Delhi/NCR is among the most polluted regions of the world. Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad, Bhiwadi and other NCR towns all recorded ‘very poor’ category air on Monday.The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday suspended its earlier order that was issued on October 16 appointing former apex court Judge Madan B Lokur as a one-man committee to enforce a strict ban on stubble burning in neighbouring states of the national capital such as Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh (UP). The order was “kept in abeyance” by a three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, after Solicitor-General (S-G) Tushar Mehta informed the court about a comprehensive law being planned by the Centre to control air pollution.Also read: Corruption taking place right under Nitish Kumar’s nose, says Chirag PaswanIndia recorded the highest annual average PM 2.5 concentration exposure in the world last year according to the State of Global Air 2020 (SOGA 2020) report released last week.India was followed by Nepal, Niger, Qatar and Nigeria in high PM 2.5 exposures. This means people in India are exposed to the highest PM 2.5 concentrations globally. The report also said that India has been recording an increase in PM 2.5 pollutant since 2010. Central Pollution Control Board’s 2019 report indicates that the national average PM 2.5 concentrations have been recording a rising trend in the past three years owing to the increasing number of vehicles and re-suspension of natural dust. Out of 20 most populous countries, 14 have recorded a gradual improvement in air quality.India, Bangladesh, Niger, Pakistan and Japan are among countries that have recorded a modest increase in air pollution levels. CPCB officials declined to comment on the provisions of the new law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/centre-to-bring-comprehensive-law-for-air-pollution-control-in-delhi-ncr/story-eYrUxYJxOeHMnDau0oMyfL.html
26-10-2020||City||Czech national acquitted of girlfriend’s murder in Goa||The high court of Bombay (HC) at Goa has upheld the acquittal of a Czech national who was arrested for having allegedly murdered his girlfriend in a room of a guest house at Calangute in 2013. Initially, the accused, Pavel Neuhausel, was found by passersby below a railway bridge at Cansa, Tivim, in an unconscious state.Later, the police took him back to the guest house, where it was found that his girlfriend, Markita Horka, was lying dead in a pool of blood. Pavel had filed a police complaint, which stated that he and Horka were attacked by two unknown persons, who had kidnapped and dumped him on a road. However, the police concluded that it was Pavel, who had killed Horka by stabbing her on the neck and chest multiple times, following which he had filed a false complaint in a bid to deflect the blame for the murder. However, the HC agreed with the trial court that the police had failed to present a watertight case and did not take the complaints seriously among other lapses.“There was no serious investigation into the complaint of the accused even though it relates to the same incident in respect of which he was charged with murder. The prosecution had failed to carry out an investigation into the complaint of the accused. It is unsafe to rely upon the prosecution’s version that the accused had perpetrated the crime,” the HC ruled. Pavel, who was out on bail, had left India and his disappearance prompted the HC to seek a report from the Goa Police. Data showed that upto 90% of the foreigners, who were out on bail, were untraceable by the Goa Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/czech-national-acquitted-of-girlfriend-s-murder-in-goa/story-QlXLaNjuoVGdwfx15RX1mK.html
26-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan civic polls: Won’t let Cong make Jaipur another Hyderabad, says BJP’s Vasudev Devnani||Rajasthan BJP legislator Vasudev Devnani launched a scathing attack on Congress and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief, stating that his party “will not let the Congress make Jaipur another Hyderabad and Congress MLAs here become Asaduddin Owaisi”.It is to mention that Owaisi is the president of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and represents Hyderabad in the Lok Sabha. “The BJP will not let the Congress make Jaipur another Hyderabad and Congress MLAs here become Asaduddin Owaisis,” he told reporters here.Devnani also alleged that the Congress divided Jaipur into two municipal corporation areas for “promoting such elements” that divide society for political mileage.“Congress has divided this pink city into two corporations. Partition has been the nature of Congress. For political mileage, they have divided Jaipur Corporation and promoted such elements who have divided society in the Pink City,” said Devnani, an in-charge of BJP for the Jaipur Heritage Municipal Corporation elections. The Jaipur Heritage Municipal Corporation, which covers the old parts of Jaipur and also known as the walled city, has been declared a heritage site by UNESCO.Devnani further cornered the Congress for mismanagement in the Jaipur Municipal Corporation in the last two years. He raised issues related to dilapidated roads, LED street lights, drinking water, door-to-door garbage collection and stray animals on roads.He alleged that a large section was deprived of ration kits as it was distributed to Congress supporters and a certain section during the Covid-induced lockdown.Speaking about the BJP’s election campaign, he said: “The way our election campaign is gaining momentum, it is clear that BJP will achieve the target of ‘Mission-70’ in Heritage Corporation and ‘Mission-110’ in Greater Corporation.”He added that BJP will win in both the municipal corporations in the polls on October 29 and November 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-civic-polls-won-t-let-cong-make-jaipur-another-hyderabad-says-bjp-s-vasudev-devnani/story-YFLayqLrceKJt4tZhGbCaJ.html
26-10-2020||Pune||YourSpace: Flood-affected residents need timely financial assistance||Farmers used for elections and forgotten These natural calamities strike farmers every year, every season. It is not a new phenomenon because agriculture is still dependent and destroyed by rains in this country even after many technological advancements. Politicians come and go, but no government has ensured how to ensure that losses are paid to farmers easily and timely. Farmers even today are used as an election issue and these visits come on the face of elections or as a tactic to attack the ruling party. A few days after the visit the situation is still the same and the state of farmers remain unchanged. If only every visit by elected representatives and politicians resulted in some change on ground, farmers today would have lived a much better life. Dnyaneshwar Inamke Mental support important during distress When natural disaster strikes, the victims become hopeless and lose faith as their hard work lies worthless in front of them. However, in case of such visits by politicians, we can also see that meeting local leaders, not just politicians but government officials, might prove as a sense of relief for distraught farmers. This mental support is also important. However, due to the current situation, the heavy presence of media, photo ops and social media might seem like politicians are taking undue advantage in the form of flood tourism. But I would say that it is important that the government machinery, including officials and ministers, visit the place immediately to gauge the damage caused by the calamity and also ensure that the administration works properly to provide all necessary help. Abhishek Bhosale Government must provide immediate monetary help In this disaster situation, no party should make it a political issue. Farmers are already distressed and are desperate for help. The connectivity with villages is affected and so help reaches late. There are children and elderly who are most affected during such natural disasters. Farmers have their entire families dependent on them and, in addition to this, their produce lies damaged and wasted. The government should appoint a special officer and a team to make the entire process easy right from filing a panchnama and get help. Help must be provided not just for the loss, but also immediate relief, including food and immediate assistance. The government must provide immediate monetary help and not delay and make the farmer run from pillar to post. The government must set aside a dedicated fund because such disasters are a routine nowadays. Sanket Lonkar Visits only photo ops Experts have already conveyed to the administrator as well as to the minister about the cause of the flood. For years they have been talking about encroachment on rivers, streams. Concretisation has stopped groundwater recharging which has dropped the water level. When politicians are aware encroachment is a problem and instead of solving it but paying visits are useless. Politicians should focus on removing encroachment and take care of clean flowing river streams. It is time to wake up and focus on citizen’s welfare and sustainable development. Such visits only seem like a mere vote bank photo op. Vaishali PatkarRelief to affected farmers are delayedIndian economy majorly depends on agriculture. The basis of livelihood of rural households is agriculture. Agriculture provides employment to majority of population. And agriculture depends on rains. Even though the country has made many advances in improving agriculture production and conservation, the dependence on seasonal rains is a major factor for sustenance. The usual picture when natural disasters strike is the visit by elected members, politicians and their supporters. While the affected farmers and their families look upon them as their saviours, many are left disappointed. The visitors come, announce promises and leave. Most of the times, the compensation and relief announced at the media event remain on paper. Farmers are left to pick up the pieces and carry on with their lives.Mona AgrawalTake steps to mitigate lossesI think farmers are generally taken for granted. Though they are provided exemptions for farming and related activities, many end up not being the beneficiaries. A recent order stated that all agricultural, horticultural activities and those relating to harvesting, transportation, procurement, mandis, farming operations and the like are exempted from the lockdown. The damage to homes and farms in the recent flash floods due to heavy rains have badly affected the farmers who were already overburdened with the economic strain due to coronavirus situation. In these difficult times, the visits by political leaders should bring a ray of hope. While compensation packages announced by authorities do benefit them, steps should be taken to find ways to mitigate the losses caused by natural phenomenon like rains and floods. Aditi Narayanan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/yourspace-flood-affected-residents-need-timely-financial-assistance/story-3WQGLg3uqs38LW4X8lvhoK.html
26-10-2020||Pune||Shiv Sena leader shot dead in Lonavla; two detained||Former Shiv Sena local unit chief in Lonavla Rahul Shetty was shot dead on Monday morning a few metres from his house, police officials said.Two suspects have been detained by the Lonavla police in connection with the murder, who are being interrogated at the police station.Rahul Shetty is survived by his mother, ex-corporator wife Saumya Shetty, a son and daughter. Saumya is the complainant in the case.Pune rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh, said, “Two suspects who have been named in the FIR have been detained in connection with the murder. They have been indentified as Suraj Agarwal (43) and Deepali Bhilare (45). Prima facie their involvement and a previous rivalry has come to the fore. Rahul Shetty earlier was the city unit president of Lonavla and previously had as many as seven criminal cases, like attempt to murder and other crimes, lodged against his name at the Lonavla police station.”According to the police, two unidentified persons shot three bullets at Shetty, 43, while he was at tea stall near his house at Jaychand chowk in Lonavla, a hill station around 60 kilometres from Pune city. “One of them fired three rounds at Shetty when he was outside his tea shop,” said Deshmukh. The assailants also stabbed Shetty, son of former Sena leader Umesh Shetty, in his neck with a sharp weapon before they fled the spot at around 9am. “We have recovered the CCTV footage of the area. The motive behind the attack is being investigated,” said Deshmukh Police officials said that Shetty had sustained bullet injuries on head and chest. He was lying in a pool of blood when some people rushed him to a nearby private hospital. However, he was declared dead on arrival.His relatives and friends said that Shetty had informed the Lonavla city police station after receiving indications that he might be killed. Shetty’s father Umesh was also killed around 30 years ago in Lonavla as a result of personal enmity.Police inspector Manoj Kumar Yadav said, “The killing could be due to bitter rivalry regarding the behaviour of the victim in a 2012 case wherein he almost escaped death. The two sharpshooters involved in that incident are still at large and they had taken money to kill Shetty.”Meanwhile in another incident, one Ganesh Naidu was killed with sharp weapons near Hanuman Tekdi on Sunday around 10pm. One of the assailants also sustained injuries in the incident and he is undergoing treatment at a hospital. Lonavla city police are investigating both the incidents and are searching for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shiv-sena-leader-shot-dead-in-lonavla-one-detained/story-JXxvJrYufhunLzJbv4sIVN.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Won’t make any statement defaming Mahesh and Mukesh Bhatt: Livuena Lodh assures HC||Actor Livuena Lodh on Monday assured the Bombay high court that she will not make any defamatory and scandalous statement about film director Mahesh Bhatt and his producer brother Mukesh Bhatt.Advocate Prashant Pandey, who represented the actor, made the statement while responding to a defamation suit filed by Bhatt brothers, seeking damages of Rs. 1 crore from the actor.Senior advocate VR Dhond, who appeared for Bhatt brothers, mentioned an interim application filed in the suit for urgent hearing on Monday afternoon and pressed for urgent interim injunction against Lodh saying the actor was about to take a press conference and Bhatt brothers apprehended that she will reiterate the defamatory allegations.Justice AK Menon, however, refused to accept the request. “How can I restrain somebody from holding a press conference. How can you gag somebody like this,” asked justice Menon.Dhond, however, insisted for an interim order. The senior advocate pointed out the cause of action - a video of Lodh’s interview uploaded on Instagram on October 23, in which she has leveled serious allegations against both, Mahesh and Mukesh Bhatt.Dhond pointed out that in the video the actor had alleged that her husband, a close relative of Bhatts, was in the business of supplying drugs and women in Bollywood circles, and Mahesh Bhatt was aware of all this. Dhond said, in the video the actor goes on alleging that Bhatt is the biggest Don, he controls the entire system, and has ruined lives of several persons in Bollywood etc.Refuting that Lodh’s husband was not related to Bhatts, Dhond submitted that the Bhatts were unnecessarily dragged in the actor’s matrimonial dispute with her husband. He asserted that the allegations were per se defamatory and therefore Lodh was required to be restrained from making any such statements.Advocate Pandey opposed the request, by pointing out that the purportedly defamatory statements are directed against the actor’s husband, and the Bhatts are mentioned only to the effect that they were knowing her husband’s activities. He added that Lodh had filed a domestic violence complaint against her husband and she was willing to justify and make good the allegations.Justice Menon, however, noted that even the actor did not intend to defame Bhatt brothers and directed her from making any defamatory and scandalous allegations against them and also from further circulating the video uploaded on Instagram.HC, however, refused to direct Lodh to remove the offending video from her Instagram account, so that it is not further circulated some other person, after Pandey strenuously opposed the prayer. In this Pandey had complained that he was given notice about urgent hearing on the plea just a few minutes back and interim orders could not be passed by court without granting the actor opportunity to respond to the interim application.HC has now directed Lodh to file affidavit in reply to the suit and the interim application in four weeks. The court has granted two weeks thereafter to Bhatt brothers to file their rejoinder to her affidavits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/won-t-make-any-statement-defaming-mahesh-and-mukesh-bhatt-livuena-lodh-assures-hc/story-KYWFUyvK09JKKPMZXkzFOO.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi cop, accused of harassing, stalking women, to be dismissed from duty||A 35-year-old Delhi Police sub-inspector, who was arrested on Saturday for sexually harassing and stalking three women and a minor girl, is likely to be dismissed from duty by the evening, a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said. Between October 17 and 20, the cop had flashed, passed indecent remarks and stalked three women and a minor girl on the road in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka. The cop is currently in prison. Also read | Building contractor’s body found in bed box, friend missing“The order to dismiss the sub-inspector will be issued any time today,” the senior police officer quoted above said. Three incidents took place on October 17 at different places under the territorial jurisdiction of Dwarka South police station while another took place on October 20 under the Dwarka North police station’s territorial jurisdiction. Four separate cases were registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 354-D (Stalking), 354 (molestation), 354 A and 509 (sexual harassment) and sections 8 and 10 of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. While the minor girl and two women gave their complaints, one woman refused to file her complaint. The police spoke to her about the incident, took suo motu cognizance and filed a case. Also Read: Delhi: Building contractor’s body found in bed box, friend missingThe sub-inspector, Puneet Grewal, who was posted with the anti-terror squad Special Cell, was arrested from Janakpuri on Saturday. He has been sent to jail. He was briefly posted in the traffic unit as well, the police said. One of the senior officers said that the woman who did not file her complaint posted a video on October 21, on social media narrating the sexual harassment she faced from a grey car-borne man while cycling in Dwarka on October 17. The woman alleged that she was cycling near Dusshera Ground close to the DDA Sports Complex in Dwarka when she noticed a car following her. “While cycling I noticed a small grey car the rear glass of which was shattered and it was noticeable. As I was cycling near along the footpath, the car driver started driving parallel to me. Since I ignored it and did not look towards the driver, he honked. At this I signalled the driver to drive ahead. But the driver did not leave and he continued driving parallel to me,” the woman said in the video. She added, “When I realised that something was not right, the man started greeting me by saying Hello. As I stopped and looked at him, the man asked for directions to reach Dwarka Sector-14. Before I could reply, I saw that he had unzipped his pants and was flashing me. I screamed at him and asked him to leave. At this, he started saying nasty things...I realised there was nobody there, cars were passing by...I was thinking whether I should start recording his acts on my cellphone or leave the place...” According to the officer cited above, two more incidents had taken place on that day. One of the victims, a 17-year-old girl, had reported the incident to the police by calling the control room and filing a written complaint as well. The woman in the video did not file a complaint.“The woman in the video refused to file a complaint, even after we spoke to her on phone and counselled her. The other woman filed her complaint and we converted into an FIR on October 22, the day two more cases were registered. Apart from the three incidents on October 17, a similar incident took place on October 20,” said the officer. Since the three women and the minor girl gave similar descriptions of the car and the suspect, the police suspected that the same person was involved in all the crimes. The incidents were also almost identical – a man in grey car stalking, passing lewd remarks, touching the women and the girl inappropriately and making indecent gestures. Several teams were formed to investigate the cases, identify the suspect and bring him to justice. “We scanned footage from CCTV cameras installed around the crime scenes. The car was spotted. Our teams followed the routes the car took after the crimes and scanned footage from over 200 cameras. This exercise led us to the place where the car was parked. The suspect turned out to be a Delhi Police sub-inspector. We arrested him after collecting evidence. Till his arrest, we did not know that the suspect was a policeman as he was not in uniform during the crimes,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-cop-accused-of-harassing-stalking-women-to-be-dismissed-from-duty/story-SijYB3g78Pf1cLKAAgxJQJ.html
26-10-2020||Election:||Valmiki Nagar: The lone parliamentary seat going to by-polls in Bihar||Along with the Bihar assembly elections, polling will also be conducted in the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency of the eastern after the death of sitting member of Parliament and Janata Dal(United) leader Baidyanath Prasad Mahto earlier this year. Voting in the six assembly segments of Valmiki Nagar parliamentary constituency will be going to polls on November 7 during the third phase of Bihar assembly elections.The Election Commission announced a by-poll in the state’s Lok Sabha constituency on October 13. Votes will be counted on November 10.Here’s a look at the largely-rural Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency : 1. By-polls in the unreserved constituency of Valmiki Nagar were necessitated following the death of Baidyanath Prasad Mahto in February this year.2. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Mahto had won the seat as the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) nominee on a JD(U) ticket after defeating the Congress candidate from the Grand Alliance, Shashwat Kedar Pandey, by a huge margin of more than 354,000 votes; securing 58% of the votes. 3. Mahto had won the seat for his party in 2009 as well as 2019 general elections; losing the seat in 2014 to Satish Chandra Dubey.4. The JD(U) has fielded Baidyanath Mahto’s son Sunil Kumar this year.5. Kumar has been considered the political heir to late Mahto as the other sons of Mahto, Ramakant Prasad and Manoj Kumar, are businessmen and it is only Kumar who has been in politics. Initially, speculations were rife about former Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey, the newly inducted member of JD(U), getting a ticket from the seat.6. The Congress has fielded Pravesh Kumar Mishra as its candidate of the Grand Alliance. Shashwat Kedar Pandey, who was the party’s candidate in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, has been campaigning on the seat but the party did not give him ticket for the elections. Shashwat Kedar Pandey is the son of former Congress MP Manoj Pandey and the grandson of former Bihar chief minister Kedar Pandey.7. The constituency, which is located in the West Champaran district of Bihar, has six assembly seats: Valmiki Nagar, Ramnagar, Narkatiaganj, Bagaha, Lauriya and Sikta.8. The voter turnout in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was 61.97 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-valmiki-nagar-the-lone-parliamentary-seat-going-to-by-polls-in-bihar/story-nqrJCyIfTd9OsdFP0ksnGJ.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||No train services in Punjab till October 29 as defiant farmers back on tracks||Three days after protesting farmers stopped an empty passenger train at Romana Albel railway station in Faridkot district and forced its return to Ferozepur, the Indian Railways on Monday announced the suspension of all trains, including goods services, in Punjab till October 29. Ferozepur divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Agarwal said the decision was taken as despite farmer organisations announcing the withdrawal of the rail blockade, protesters on tracks have again started disrupting rail traffic. He said no goods train will operate in Punjab till all tracks and railway stations are cleared of protesters. SUPPLY DISRUPTED TO PRIVATE PLANTS Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) members started an indefinite dharna to disrupt coal supply to private thermal plants by blocking the tracks last Friday. The BKU activists started squatting on the rail route to the Vedanta Group-owned Talwandi Sabo power project at Banawala village in Mansa district. On Saturday, they blocked the rail line to the Rajpura thermal power plant, a subsidiary of the Larsen and Toubro (L&T) Group, for an indefinite period. Train services to a mega foodgrain silo operated by the Adani Group in Moga district was disrupted by BKU activists on Friday. Incidentally, the Left-leaning trade union disassociated itself from other farmer organisations’ rail roko and ended blockades by its activists at various places on October 13. Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), the organisation that spearheaded the rail blockade since September 24, shifted the dharna from Devidas Pura to Jandiala Guru railway station on Monday. FRESH BLOCKADES PUT SERVICES OFF TRACK Agarwal said managing railway traffic is a complex activity that requires strict safety audit of tracks, engines and wagons. “On Friday, the protesters did not allow an empty train that required servicing. They disrupted the movement of goods trains, too. In such conditions, it’s become challenging to plan the safe movement of trains so it was decided to suspend all goods trains till rail blockades are cleared,” he said. Thirty-two goods trains plied on different routes of Punjab under the Ferozepur and Ambala divisions on October 22, a day after farmers announced lifting their three-week-long blockade. Agarwal said 173 goods trains were put on tracks in Ferozepur and Ambala railway divisions till October 23. However, the authorities had earlier suspended goods trains services on October 24 and 25 in view of fresh blockades of tracks at different places. FARMERS OPPOSE PRIVATE PLAYERS IN POWER SECTOR The BKU leadership said it was against the corporate sector in power generation and farmers would unite to keep private players out. They said the Punjab government will be forced to make the best use of state-run plants to run on full capacity to generate electricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-train-services-in-punjab-till-october-29-as-defiant-farmers-back-on-tracks/story-kBsd22AGI5HzOoYgVn4j5J.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Actor Payal Ghosh joins Ramdas Athawale’s RPI; appointed vice president of women wing||Bollywood actor Payal Ghosh on Monday joined Union minister Ramdas Athavale-led Republican Party of India (A). Athawale appointed her vice president of women’s wing of his party. Ghosh was recently in news after she accused filmmaker Anurag Kashyap of sexual harassment. Athawale has been supporting Ghosh and had even taken her to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari demanding justice for her. He has been demanding the arrest of Kashyap. Speaking at Ghosh’s induction event, Athawale said that RPI will get a good representative in the form of Ghosh. “The RPI always stands with the victims of injustice. I have been getting calls from West Bengal demanding justice for Ghosh.” “I asked Payal whether she is willing to join RPI, she expressed her readiness for the same,” said Athawale. Ghosh thanked Athawale for her induction. “I will use my post to give justice to all women who face atrocities,” said Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/actor-payal-ghosh-joins-ramdas-athawale-s-rpi-appointed-vice-president-of-women-wing/story-wHeacM46KFjl9GCEwLGEUJ.html
26-10-2020||City||Three held for running IPL betting racket in Goa||Three persons, all hailing from Gujarat, were arrested by the Goa Police Crime Branch for allegedly running a betting racket based on outcomes of the ongoing Indian Premier League. “Shakti Punjabi, Vishal Ahuja and Hitesh Keshwani, all residents of Gandhidham, Gujarat, were found accepting IPL bets on mobile phones. They were entering these bets on a high tech computer software in their laptop. They all have been arrested,” Superintendent of Police Shobit Saksena said. The police claimed that the trio had accepted bets to the tune of ₹1.17cr from their customers based in Gujarat. This is the fifth such raid in Goa this season alone. Prior to this, bookies operating from Goa with clients in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Delhi were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-running-ipl-betting-racket-in-goa/story-e4zodo7EfY9WGhaDAFHKAO.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur returns to work after recovering from Covid-19||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur returned to work at the Himachal Pradesh Secretariat on Monday after a three-week break during which he was recovering from Covid-19. “The chief minister is fully fit and will resume duty at his office in the secretariat on Monday. In all these days, he was keeping a tab on the day-to-day functioning from his official residence,” his principal private secretary RN Batta said. His first engagement was to preside over a health department meeting and take stock of the spread of coronavirus infection in Himachal Pradesh. Thakur, who tested positive on October 12, had quarantined himself at his official residence, Oakover, after attending the inaugural ceremony of Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass on October 3 as Banjar legislator Surender Shourie, who he was in contact with, tested positive. For the past two days, Thakur resumed work from his residence by chairing a meeting of the public works department during which he expressed displeasure over the delay in the execution of projects. He urged cabinet colleagues and bureaucrats to scale up working. He will preside over a meeting of the state cabinet on Tuesday. The cabinet is likely to decide on resuming schools in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-returns-to-work-after-recovering-from-covid-19/story-i6j0B9zVmGiVyeOQ5JMQxH.html
26-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Corruption taking place right under Nitish Kumar’s nose, says Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan Monday alleged corruption in Nitish Kumars flagship ‘Saat Nishchay’ (seven resolves) scheme and said if voted to power he will get it probed and send to jail those found guilty, including the chief minister. The LJP chief also raised accusing finger on Kumar in the implementation of prohibition laws in the state and accused the CM of gaining from smuggling of liquor into the state. “Why not, if found guilty. Just because he is chief minister he wont go to jail? Corruption is taking place right under his nose, Chirag told PTI-Bhasha over phone from Arwal when asked if he indeed intends to send Kumar to jail on charge of corruption in the implementation of seven resolves. “Saat Nishchay is a scheme formulated by him. We will get it probed after an LJP government is formed. And if found guilty, the chief minister will also go to jail,” he said. Earlier, talking to reporters at Patna airport before flying for his election rallies, Chirag said “12 crore Biharis, including ministers in his cabinet and media persons, know about widespread corruption in implementation of seven resolves”. Continuing with his tirade against Kumar, the LJP president alleged illegal trade in liquor is rampant in the state due to patronage of the bigwigs in the Nitish Kumar’s government. “Why doesn’t he gets this inquired too?” Chirag asked. While talking to PTI-Bhasha from Arwal, he made serious charge on Kumar saying, “he is promoting smuggling of liquor during prohibition and a fat sum of money from this illegal trade is going in his pocket for furtherance of his political ambition.” Kumar’s government has declared Bihar a dry state since April 2016. Chirag, who is campaiging for his party alone in the absence of his father late Ram Vilas Paswan, has been attacking Kumar on a daily basis in his election rallies as well as on social media. Addressing a poll rally in Nokha in Rohtas district, he alleged the chief minister “lied” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he has been able to build drainage and streets and provide piped water to everybody in the state. “The chief minister says there is no corruption in Bihar, whereas the corruption in Saat Nishchay is the biggest in the history of Bihar,” Paswan alleged. “Therefore, we have mentioned in our Bihar First Bihari First vision document that when voted to power we will identify those involved in corruption in Saat Nishchay and send them to jail, whether a small officer or the chief minister himself,” he said at his Nokha rally. Nitish Kumar had announced the Rs 2.70 lakh-crore ‘Saat Nischay’ scheme for Bihar’s development during the 2015 assembly election campaign. The scheme aims at making younger generation self- reliant through education, skill development and education loan, besides providing electricity connection to all villages, piped water to every household, and road and drainage in urban areas. The Bihar Cabinet had in February 2016 given nod to implement the scheme over five years. Until recently, the LJP was part of the NDA in Bihar whose primary constituents are the JD(U) and the BJP. After walking out of the NDA in the state, the LJP chief has been asserting that he would ensure that Kumar don’t return to power in the state. While, the chief minister himself is refraining from reacting to allegations of Chirag, his partymen and the NDA ally HAM hit back at the LJP chief. Bihar JD(U) president Basistha Narayan Singh has alleged that there was a “nexus between Chirag and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav and both are making baseless charges against Kumar to gain publicity and also for their political survival.” Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s headed Hindustani Awam Morcha, an associate partner of the JD(U) in the NDA, made a scathing attack on Chirag. “You (Chirag) are a ‘videshi chiriyan’ (foreign bird) who is seen in Bihar only during election. Before claiming yourselve as ‘yuva Bihari’ you should know about Bihar,” HAM general secretary Danish Rizwan said in a tweet and asked the LJP president to correctly spell name of the place Dumraon in hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-corruption-taking-place-right-under-nitish-kumar-s-nose-says-chirag-paswan/story-iGRKUTONkJPCispOHbARKK.html
26-10-2020||Pune||Techie shares intimate videos of friend, booked||A 40-year-old IT engineer was booked by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for shooting and sharing illicit videos of his former live-in partner, after she stopped living with him for lying about a previous marriage. The police are on the lookout for the 40-year-old who sent the illicit video that was shot without the complainant’s knowledge, according to the complaint lodged by the 38-year-old woman.The woman decided to quit her job after the accused sent the video to her boss through a social media platform on September 5, according to the 38-year-old complainant. “He stopped working in the company where he was employed around five to six months ago, from what we know so far. He went to his native place in Alwar, Rajasthan. We will be sending teams there to find him,” said senior police inspector Vivek Muglikar of Wakad police station who is investigating the case. The complainant met the man in 2016 when they were working at an MNC in Hinjewadi, according to the complaint. When they entered into a relationship, the woman was allegedly led to believe that the man was undergoing a divorce procedure with his earlier wife. However, the complainant told the police that she later found that he had not initiated the divorce procedure with his wife and had made false promises of marriage to her. In 2017, she moved to Australia for a year and the man started threatening her into sending him money while she was there. Through multiple transactions between April 20, 2018 and July 25, 2018, the woman allegedly gave Rs 5 lakh to the man. When she returned to India, she first took a job at a company located in Wagholi and then moved to a house in Wakad in 2019. The man allegedly found her addresses, went to her house where he verbally abused and beat her up in 2019 when she had lodged a complaint against the 40-year-old at Wakad police station.She approached the police again on Friday with the complaint of the man sending her threats through social media platforms and sending her video to her manager. A case under Sections 354(a), 354(c), 384, and 504 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(e), 67, and 67(a) of Information Technology Act was registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/techie-shares-intimate-videos-of-friend-booked/story-T3a9i2ZBETluqKrCGJ1kyK.html
26-10-2020||Pune||Pune hospitals find plasma therapy effective in moderate Covid-19 patients||The study spearheaded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has found that convalescent plasma therapy was not found effective in bringing down mortality rate among Covid-19 patients, city doctors, however, feel that the treatment has been found effective in case of patients with moderate symptoms. Doctors feel that the study had to be wider and also such conclusions can deter doctors from prescribing the therapy while donors might also become reluctant to come forward. After efforts by the administration to create awareness and encourage Covid-19 survivors to come forward to donate their blood for plasma, which had come up as a promising treatment method, the ICMR study has found that this therapy is not as promising in bringing down the mortality rate. Based on this study, the government is now contemplating removing the therapy as a treatment protocol for Covid-19. However, city doctors believe that such a step might just discourage donors to donate their blood. Currently, the Pune division has 42 blood banks which have been authorised to collect blood samples for the separation of plasma from people who have recovered from Covid-19. These banks are located in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Sangli, Satara, Solapur and Kolhapur. The 42 blood banks have received blood donations from about 2,916 donors who have donated a total of 5,875 units of 200ml of blood of which 5,545 have been distributed as of October 24 and currently, there are just 301 units remaining. Maximum donors have come forward from Pimpri-Chinchwad. Of 2,916 donors, 669 donated their blood at PCMC’s YCM hospital while Sassoon, the district’s biggest hospital, has received 136 donors. Professor Dr Rohidas Borse, deputy head of medicine department at BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, said, “We have found that plasma treatment is effective in Covid-19 patients showing moderate symptoms. Depending upon the impact of the virus on the patient’s lungs right from mild, moderate or severe, the treatment protocol is decided. Plasma therapy is found to be effective in those suffering from moderate symptoms as of 70 patients who were given this therapy, it was found to be effective in about 30-40 patients.” Doctors have also said that currently all the treatment protocols for Covid-19 are experimental, including the drugs being prescribed. Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director of Sahyadri Group of Hospitals, said, “The therapy is found to be effective in those suffering from moderate symptoms. We have stopped prescribing it now, but the final call is of the treating doctor. We have our blood bank where we do get requests for the plasma from other hospitals and relatives keep coming for the same. The therapy has no interference with regards to comorbidity or age and works the same if the therapy is started in the initial days of infection or when moderate symptoms start appearing. Also, it is not a very expensive treatment as the price is capped by the government. The ICMR study needs to be on a wider base with more samples and cases being studied.”Dr Subhash Salunkhe, epidemiologist and chairman, state technical committee on communicable diseases, who heads the committee, said, “The ICMR study has limitations as their sample size is only about 400-500 patients. Such studies need to be carried out on a larger scale and only then can such conclusions be drawn. Plasma therapy is only considered once the tests are considered properly. The therapy is found to be effective in some cases while not in some cases, but then again all the current treatment protocol is only experimental and so it must be left to the wisdom of the treating physician. Also, such statements by an institute like ICMR will only confuse the physicians. Completely ruling out the therapy or treating it as the last stop solution for Covid-19 would be two extremes and so we must keep an open mind and let the clinicians make the decision based on case-to-case situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-hospitals-find-plasma-therapy-effective-in-moderate-covid-19-patients/story-9S5JPhgmtxZuZzzKSTbMLK.html
26-10-2020||Pune||Norms in place as gyms set to reopen||Nearly 3,000 big and small gymnasiums are likely to reopen on Sunday after the state government’s nod to allow its functioning seven months after the pan India lockdown was rolled out. However, with the reopening questions of safety measures and customers’ return plague the people in the industry. From allowing limited members entry for a particular period to disinfection of equipment after every session are some measures which gym owners are implementing. Pune Fitness Club Association president Nilesh Kale said, “Every equipment will be disinfected and limited members will be allowed in batches to prevent crowding. The reopening will save the industry from extinction and feed the families of the gym staff who have sustained the heaviest setback of their lives. We will follow all the restrictions and regulations of the government and ensure that norms like physical distancing, cleaning, use of sanitisers and masks are followed very strictly. The industry is facing issues related to loans, unemployment and closure and we urge the state government to provide financial assistance to this important segment of the society,” he said.Nearly 3,000 families have been severely affected due to closure of the gyms with protests organised by different gym owners and organisations demanding their right to livelihood. Shivajinagar MLA Siddhartha Shirole had vociferously demanded reopening of the gyms on grounds that lack of exercise on a daily basis at gyms was lowering the immunity of the citizens and termed the restrictions as unfair. As many as 200 gyms have shut down in the city while hundreds of gyms are in debt and many trainers and supporting staff have lost jobs. According to industry insiders, the annual turnover of the industry was between Rs 800-1,000 crore and now they are facing huge losses running over Rs 500 crore.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) based on the guidelines from the Maharashtra government, issued detailed guidelines for the gyms cautioning them to take extreme precaution and safeguard citizens’ health.Shambhuj Chauhan, who used to go to the gym regularly, said, “The gyms were closed for a long time and it led to loss in our fitness as we were forced to exercise at home. Fitness centres boost immunity and gyms are centres of health promotion and ensure that fitness is maintained.”Gym enthusiast Pooja Sharma, said, “I have been practising yoga and other exercises at home due to the lockdown. Reopening of gyms will make me fitter than I was before and it is a welcome step. However, safety guidelines must be strictly followed.”Daniel Dorabjee, owner of Danny’s gym at Royale Heritage Mall, said, “We are following the highest standards of sanitisation and disinfection at our gym and will ensure that the guidelines of the PMC and district administration are observed. Cleaning and disinfection of gymnasium equipment, particularly frequently touched surfaces like hand rails, benches, fixtures, will be done after each exercise session, before it is used by the next member. Rigorous floor cleaning shall be taken up between exercise sessions.”Mandatory instructions:- Members must maintain a minimum distance of six feet -Use of face covers/masks is mandatory- Practice frequent hand washing with soap- Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed- Self-monitoring of health - Spitting should be strictly prohibited- Installation and use of Aarogya Setu app is advised for allDisinfection- All areas within the premises shall be disinfected using clinically approved disinfectants. -The areas to be disinfected include, but are not limited to, entrances to premises, building and rooms-All open areas used by staff and visitors must be disinfected-Washrooms and toilets must be disinfected-Shoe baths (Members will be encouraged to carry separate workout shoes)-All other frequently touched surfaces (doorknobs, handles, among others)- All equipment in gymnasiumsPlanning and scheduling of activities- Calculate the maximum capacity per session based on redesigned spaces. Accordingly schedule the session and inform members- For group fitness rooms and classes: Staggering class session times and allowing a minimum of 15-30 minutes between classes to avoid overlap between members arriving and departure- Offering group fitness classes online, wherever possible- Restricting the number of persons allowed per group fitness class based on the size of the room and the nature of the fitness activity||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/norms-in-place-as-gyms-set-to-reopen-today-customers-wary-of-safety/story-fR28j1TLIemPAnoH6iaTWM.html
26-10-2020||Kolkata||CPI(M) criticises Bengal governor for sharing photos of ailing ex-CM on social media||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has criticised West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for uploading photographs of Buddhadeb Bhattacharya after visiting the ailing former chief minister on Saturday evening. Dhankhar and his wife went to Bhattacharya’s two-room government apartment at Palm Avenue in south Kolkata to check on his health and offer greetings. Shortly after the visit, the Governor tweeted some photos of himself and his wife inside the apartment and Bhattacharya could be seen lying in bed. In the other photographs, Dhankhar could be seen talking to the former chief minister’s wife, Meera Bhattacharya. “Along with Mrs Sudesh Dhankhar today called on veteran communist leader and former Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya and his wife Meera ji and wished them subhoy Asthami and good health,” Dhankhar tweeted around 8 pm on October 24. Reacting, the CPI(M) tweeted, “While we at @CPIM_WESTBENGAL appreciate Shri @jdhankhar1ji’s (Governor of WB) genuflection of visiting our ex-CM Comrade Buddhadeb Bhattacharya at his residence to inquire after his health we are deeply hurt by the pictures that were taken during your visit & shared by you.” “Photographing him when he is most vulnerable and then publishing them on social media has deeply hurt the sentiments of not only @cpimspeak sympathizers spread all across the globe but also general people at large. We would be appreciative if those pictures were taken down,” the party said in the second tweet. The Governor, however, had not remove the photos from his Twitter page till 1pm on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/cpi-m-criticises-bengal-governor-for-sharing-photos-of-ailing-ex-cm-on-social-media/story-IzkblYs6eqnG7H2k9WfnhO.html
26-10-2020||City||Coal scam case: CBI court sentences former Union minister Dilip Ray to 3 years’ imprisonment||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Delhi on Monday sentenced former Union coal minister and ex-Odisha lawmaker Dilip Ray to three years of imprisonment over his role in the irregularities in the allocation of a Jharkhand coal block in 1999.Ray, a former minister of state (MoS) for coal in the then Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, was convicted on October 6 by special judge Bharat Prashar for criminal conspiracy and other offences under various sections, including 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant), 120B (criminal conspiracy) 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and various sections of the Prevention of the Corruption (PC) Act, 1988. The court had on October 14 reserved the verdict on the quantum of punishment, which was to be pronounced on Monday.Also Read: Former Union Minister Dilip Ray convicted in 1999 Jharkhand coal scamRay was immediately granted bail after he was sentenced to three years of imprisonment by a special CBI court in Delhi. Roy, who was asked to furnish a bail bond of Rs 1 lakh, did not comment on the judgement.Earlier,the CBI had sought life imprisonment for Ray and other convicts, arguing that white collar crimes are on the rise and maximum punishment would act as a deterrent Besides Ray, the court handed three years’ jail term to two former officials of the Union coal ministry -- Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam -- and also Mahendra Kumar Aggarwalla, director, Castron Technologies Limited. Banerjee and Gautam have been granted bail as well.A fine of Rs 10 lakh each was also imposed on all the convicts. A fine of Rs 60 lakh and Rs 10 lakh each was imposed on the corporate entities, Castron Technologies Ltd and Castron Mining Ltd, respectively.“There was a concerted effort by way of criminal conspiracy to facilitate misappropriation of the important nationalised natural resources of the country,” the court said.The court noted that they “had conspired together beyond shadows of all reasonable doubts to procure allocation of the Brahmadiha coal block in favour of Castron Technologies Limited”.The case pertains to allocation of 105.153 hectares (ha) of an abandoned coal mining area in Jharkhand’s Giridih district in favour of Castron Technologies Limited by the 14th screening committee of the Union coal ministry in 1999.Ray, an hotelier and one of the founding members of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in the 1990s, had parted ways with the regional party in 2002. In 2002, he was elected to the Rajya Sabha (RS) as an independent candidate with the support of some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers from Odisha. In 2004, he had joined the Congress and quit the party in 2009.He had joined the BJP the next year and was elected as a legislator from Rourkela constituency in the Odisha assembly polls in 2014.However, he had left the BJP in November 2018 after the CBI charge sheeted him in 2016 in the Brahmadiha coal scam case. There were speculations that he would rejoin the BJD last year ahead of the simultaneous assembly and parliamentary polls after he had met Odisha Chief Minister Navneen Patnaik a few times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coal-scam-case-cbi-court-sentences-former-union-minister-dilip-ray-to-3-years-imprisonment/story-qyV6UkV6Y1K39MynFUOQ2J.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar tests positive for Covid-19||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar tested positive for Covid-19 Monday. He has been admitted to Breach Candy hospital.“My Covid-19 test report is positive. On the doctor’s advice and as a precaution I have been admitted to Breach Candy hospital. I would like to tell everybody that there is no need to worry. I’m fine and will be with you after taking some rest,” the deputy chief minister said in a statement issued on Monday.Pawar had been unwell for the past few days. His first report for Covid-19 was negative but he had quarantined himself at home as a precautionary measure.Also Read: 45,149 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally past 7.9 million; lowest single-day spike since July-endHe also could not attend the induction ceremony of senior leader Eknath Khadse in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) last week leading to speculations that he was not happy with the developments. NCP chief Sharad Pawar had then clarified that no one in the party was upset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-deputy-chief-minister-ajit-pawar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-wBhVi7vYW0BU1II3bOoL5K.html
26-10-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Idol immersion in River Ichamati to be a low-key affair this year||The idol immersion in the Ichamati river, located around 70 kilometres (km) east of Kolkata in the adjoining North 24 Parganas district, which used to attract thousands of revellers from both India and neighbouring Bangladesh every year, will be a muted affair this year because of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. A local puja committee is only the one that will keep up with the tradition in the river, which forms a natural boundary between the two countries. The public from both India and Bangladesh used to gather on opposite banks of the river every year on the day of Bijoya Dashami, when dozens of idols would be immersed. “This year, there is no demand for immersion in the river because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, around a dozen idols were immersed in the middle of the river. We have received an application from a single puja committee,” said Somnath Mukherjee, chairman, Taki Municipality, North 24 Parganas. Also Read: 45,149 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally past 7.9 million; lowest single-day spike since July-endThe members of the Durga puja committee in Taki, a small municipal town in North 24 Parganas in south Bengal, will load the idols on country boats and take them to the middle of the river for immersion on the lines of their counterparts at Satkhira in Bangladesh.Satkhira is located on the other bank of the river.The Border Security Force (BSF) and Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) personnel will patrol the river on speed boats and create a virtual line of control with the help of ropes in a bid to prevent infiltration from either country. Mukherjee said that out of the 44 pujas organised at Taki around a dozen would immerse in the river every year. “A few hundred boats, carrying thousands of visitors, would take to the river to watch the immersion of idols every year. However, this year, 50-odd visitors’ boats have requested permission. Each boat, depending on its size, will be allowed a maximum of 15 and 20 people, respectively,” said a police official. The North 24 Parganas district, where the annual event is organised, has recorded around 71,000 Covid-19 cases to date and is second to Kolkata as far as the viral outbreak is concerned. Kolkata tops the viral infection chart in Bengal with 76,000 Covid-19 cases. North 24 Parganas district and Kolkata have been reporting over 900 Covid-19 cases daily in the past few days amid growing panic about the contagion among the public.“Restrictions have been enforced regarding a cap on the number of visitors, who will be allowed to take a ride on a boat. Precautionary measures such as face masks and hand sanitisers have been made mandatory. Barricades have also been put up in a bid to maintain social distancing among the revellers. A fair, which used to be organised on the sidelines of the immersion, has been cancelled this year,” said an official of the North 24 Parganas district administration. The Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal is the longest international border in any state across the country. Out of the 4096.7 km border, Bengal shares 2,216 km with the neighbouring country. In south Bengal, the border is over 900 km, of which around 60% is riverine, including the Sunderbans delta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-idol-immersion-in-river-ichamati-to-be-a-low-key-affair-this-year/story-IJvPBe6pQoa9MSsj89hReN.html
26-10-2020||City||J&K government to install smart meters; to begin with Jammu, Srinagar||The J&K government has decided to install smart meters and will begin with the winter capital of Jammu and the summer capital of Srinagar. The process of installation will begin from November 15.Power development department principal secretary Rohit Kansal on Sunday convened a meeting to review the Centrally Sponsored Schemes and installation of smart meters. “During the meeting, the Project Implementing Agency (PIA) informed that installation of smart meters shall be started in Srinagar and Jammu cities from November 15. In the first phase 20,000 meters would be installed and the process would continue in a phased manner till all of the 200,000 meters sanctioned under the Prime Minister’s Development Package (PMDP) are installed,” the official spokesman said.Briefing the meeting, officers said that with smart meters, people will be able to know their electricity consumption pattern and bill on real-time basis, which will help them manage the load and also monitor their monthly bill. The consumers will also know the status of power supply and load in use when away from home, they added.Smart meters will bring about transparency in metering, billing and collection which will eventually reduce power losses and will ensure quality and reliable power supply to consumers,” the principal secretary said.Consumers can recharge their smart meters in the same manner as mobile phones, thus eliminating the requirement of manual meter reading and paper bill distribution. “The meters will be read remotely at the data centre in Srinagar and data recovery centre in Jammu, which will also allow the distribution corporations to know the status of power supply at consumer’s end and take prompt action in case there is disruption in the service,” he said.Out of 11 packages of independent power development scheme and PMDP- Urban schemes sanctioned at a cost of Rs 1,590 crore, six packages will be completed in this year in December and four in March, and one in June, 2021, the officials said. “Out of 19 packages of PMDP-Rural schemes, sanctioned at a cost of 1,777 crore, four packages will be completed in February 2021, and the remaining 15 in March, 2021. Out of the 28 town projects sanctioned at a cost of Rs 1,665 crore, 12 towns will be completed in November this year, 11 in June, 2021 and the remaining five in December 2021,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-government-to-install-smart-meters-to-begin-with-jammu-srinagar/story-SkIuDfoG6M1OOeE2V8ei3H.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s daily caseload declines by nearly 50% in four weeks||There has been a steady decline in Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 caseload in the past four weeks, with the case trajectory seeing an almost 50% decline. In the first 25 days of October, 260,574 cases were reported, against 508,216 cases between September 1 and 25—a drop of 48.72%.The number of fatalities too has seen a significant drop in this period. Between September 1 and 25, the state reported 10,178 deaths, while between October 1 and 25, the fatalities dropped by 35% with 6,602 deaths reported. On Sunday, Maharashtra reported its lowest one-day Covid-19 death toll since June 18 (in 129 days) as 112 fatalities took the count to 43,264. Also Read: 45,149 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally past 7.9 million; lowest single-day spike since July-endThe state also reported 6,059 new infections on Sunday, taking the tally to 1,645,020. The state continued to report under 10,000 cases for the eighth day straight. Health experts said that the next three weeks are going to be crucial with the festive season in full swing. “With further unlock measures and a festive season, it’ll be crucial that people do not become lax. Though the numbers are on a decline, the next two to three weeks will be crucial to see if this curve continues to move downwards or reverses,” a health department official said requesting anonymity. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1,222 new infections on Sunday pushing tally to 251,281. It also reported 46 deaths, taking city’s death toll to 10,105.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-maharashtra-s-daily-caseload-declines-by-nearly-50-in-four-weeks/story-YllDowhJD9yXlzf1vdl2uI.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court clears land required for stalled Pune Metro work||The Bombay high court last week vacated a June 2006 status quo order regarding some plots of government land at Pune and paved the way for resumption of Pune Metro project work in Yerawada section. The Metro project was stalled for want of a 5,213 square metre area out of the government land.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni also directed the Pune district collector to hand over in fifteen days the 5,213 square metres of land required for the project to Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MMRCL). MMRCL had moved the court seeking a direction to the Pune collector to hand over the land urgently required for the Metro project.Also read | Authorities can’t scuttle down welfare schemes: Bombay high courtSenior advocate SK Mishra, who represented MMRCL, pointed out that in November 2019, deputy collector (land acquisition) had informed MMRCL that as per revenue records, this land belonged to the state government and hence, there was no requirement to acquire the land.Mishra further pointed out that the Pune collector had, however, expressed difficulty in handing over the plot in view of a high court order of June 7, 2006, which came to be passed on a petition filed by Dr. FF Wadia.Dr. Wadia has challenged an October 1995 order of then revenue minister, by which two orders were passed by Pune district collectorate way back in 1954 in connection with a group of lands, including the land required for Pune metro project.Acting on Dr. Wadia’s petition, on June 7, 2006, the high court had restrained the revenue authorities from creating any third party rights in the lands by making any allotment or by changing status of the lands in any manner. MMRCL claimed that this June 2006 order prevented the district collector from handing over the land for the Pune Metro project.Shri. Mukund Bhavan Trust had also filed a separate petition challenging the same decision of the revenue minister passed in connection with some watan lands.Dr. Wadia’s counsel, however, accepted that he was not asserting any private right in the land required by MMRCL for Pune Metro. As regards the Trust, Mishra pointed out that the Trust had signed consent terms before a civil court at Pune and relinquished its rights over certain parts of the land in dispute and thus, there was no legal hurdle in handing over the plot to MMRCL.The bench said, “It is quite clear to us that neither Dr.Wadia has any claim over the said land nor the trust can have any objection for the land admeasuring 5213.84 sq.metres in Survey no.141 and Survey no.233 to be handed over to the MMRCL as per its requirement.” “If this be the case, it would be necessary as also in the interest of justice that the interim order dated 7 June 2006 passed be modified so as to enable the State Government / Collector, District Pune to hand over the said land to MMRCL for the Pune Metro Project,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-clears-land-required-for-stalled-pune-metro-work/story-QBnUM4nebrqwVvsZbdccIM.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Building contractor’s body found in bed box, friend missing||The semi-decomposed body of a building contractor (27) with multiple stab wounds was found inside a bed box in his rented flat at Sant Nagar in north Delhi on Saturday evening. The contractor’s childhood friend, who was sharing the flat with the deceased for the past three months, is missing, Delhi Police said. The murder victim’s family members have alleged that he was killed for money, as around Rs 2.5 lakh in cash is missing from the flat. The police are conducting a probe on the lines of personal enmity and stolen cash. A murder case under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been filed at the Burari police station. The deceased, Sameer Malik, belonged to Moradabad in western Uttar Pradesh (UP). Also Read: 18-year-old woman found dead in Delhi’s TahirpurHe lived in a rented flat on the first floor of a building at Sant Nagar and worked as a building contractor. Malik also supplied labourers to construction sites in the neighbourhood. Malik’s childhood friend, identified by his first name Salman, was his business partner. Salman had moved to Malik’s flat around three months ago, a police officer, who is conducting the probe, said, requesting anonymity. Malik’s landlord in his statement told the police that the flat was locked from outside and both the deceased and Salman were not seen since Friday and their mobile phones were also switched off. On Saturday, the landlord saw Malik’s scooter lying in a drain near the building following which he went to his flat to check if he had returned. “The landlord became suspicious, when he found that the flat was still locked and a foul smell was coming from inside. Soon, he informed Malik’s brother, Zarif, about his suspicion,” the officer said. Later, Malik’s family members broke open the flat’s main door. They found his body stuffed in the bed box and blood was spilled in the room. Burari police station authorities were informed about the murder, who reached the spot and sent Malik’s body to an adjoining government-run hospital for post-mortem examination and also collected evidence from the flat. During the preliminary enquiry, Malik’s family members told the police that on Friday he had informed his brother-in-law about receiving a payment of Rs 2.5 lakh. “Salman is our prime suspect, as he is missing. The motive behind the murder can be ascertained after we nab and interrogate him,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-building-contractor-s-body-found-in-bed-box-friend-missing/story-qWxl3K4duyArOxUjaTVpqM.html
26-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Chandrashekhar Azad’s convoy shot at, alleges Bhim Army||The Bhim Army, a Dalit rights organisation, has accused some goons of firing at the cavalcade of its chief Chandrashekher Azad in Bulandshahar in western Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Sunday. Azad’s media coordinator Dr Kush said the Bhim Army chief addressed a rally in Bulandshahar on Sunday in support of Azad Samaj Party’s candidate Hazi Yameen, who is contesting in the upcoming assembly by-election for the Bulandshahr Sadar seat slated to be held on November 3. He said that Azad was returning from Bulandshahr in the evening, when some unidentified goons fired at his cavalcade and disappeared. Azad’s supporters gathered at the spot and protested against the firing incident.Also Read: Indian democracy is being hollowed outHowever, SK Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Bulandshahar, denied the firing incident. He said the supporters of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) candidate Dilashad and Yameen had a dispute among them and hurled chairs at each other. He claimed that local residents also have also denied the firing incident. The Bulandshahr Sadar seat has fallen vacant after the death of the sitting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Virendra Sirohi. The ruling BJP has fielded Sirohi’s wife as its candidate in the bypoll. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has nominated Hazi Yunus. Praveen Kumar Singh is the joint candidate of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in the multi-cornered contest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-bhim-army-chief-chandrashekhar-azad-s-convoy-shot-at-alleges-organisation/story-w3kRQUlxb0WCdpHNFN81bM.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air ‘very poor’ for fourth consecutive day||Delhi’s air quality remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday morning for the fourth consecutive day as per the data uploaded by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) reading at 7am was 344, a marginal improvement from Sunday’s 349.Air quality enters the ‘very poor’ zone between the 301-400 mark and crosses over to the ‘severe’ zone after exceeding 400.On Sunday, Delhi’s air quality plunged to ‘severe’ in at least three areas and remained in the ‘very poor’ zone for most other parts. On Saturday, the city’s overall AQI reading was 345.While scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have predicted that an improvement in wind speed might spell good news for the city, it could be negated by the likely high import of smoke from stubble burning from Punjab and Haryana, keeping the pollution levels in the ‘very high’ zone till Tuesday.Also Read: Delhi chokes on particles as farm fires rage in Punjab and HaryanaStubble fires in the two neighbouring agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana are major contributors to particulate matter (ultrafine particles with size ranging between 2.5 and 10 microns) in Delhi’s air. The particles can enter a person’s lungs and even the bloodstream, causing respiratory and cardiovascular diseases.As per data uploaded on the CPCB’s Sameer app till 6pm on Sunday, air quality was ‘severe’ in Jahangirpuri, Anand Vihar and Bawana with AQI readings of 403, 401 and 405 respectively.When AQI is in the ‘severe’ zone, the air affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. On Friday, the air quality at 10 of the 36 monitoring stations in Delhi was in the ‘severe’ zone.The data showed that barring Lodhi Road and Dr Karni Singh shooting range, which were in the ‘moderate zone’, all other stations reported AQI in the ‘very poor’ zone.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that on Sunday the wind speed was nearly 8kmph, blowing from the north-western direction, bringing smoke from the states of Punjab and Haryana where stubble burning is at its peak now.“The weather conditions are likely to remain pretty similar on Monday, which means that even though we will get some wind, there will be no visible improvement in the air quality because the winds continue to carry smoke from Punjab and Haryana,” Srivastava said. He added that things might start improving from Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-very-poor-for-fourth-consecutive-day/story-aSpoVJdjisE99H5CykoG5K.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Number of active Covid-19 cases lowest in two months||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has dropped to its lowest in the past two months. On Sunday, the number of active cases in Mumbai was 18, 307. Prior to this, the lowest number of active cases in the city was 17, 931, recorded on August 24.Over a month ago, active cases had peaked at 34,136 on September 18, the highest number of active cases recorded in Mumbai since the beginning of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in March. The number of active Covid-19 cases is the total number of patients that are receiving treatment at present and the ones that are quarantined. As per the Mumbai civic body’s data, nearly 50% of the city’s Covid-19 beds are vacant as of Monday. Also Read: Recovered from Covid? Get flu shot to keep pollution impact at bay: ExpertsCivic officials said that early admissions and better treatment protocols are key reasons for the reduction in the number of active cases. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The active cases gradually came down since mid-September even though the number of fresh Covid-19 cases rose. This is because people are much more aware and sensitive when it comes to getting admitted immediately after Covid-19 symptoms develop. This helps in quicker recovery. Also, treatment protocols are being stringently followed by all Covid-19 health centres, which is why the recovery rate has also increased.” Mumbai’s recovery rate has increased to 88%.The number of fresh Covid-19 cases has also reduced since September when there was a surge in the number during festivities with 2, 000-2, 600 cases being reported in Mumbai every day since the second week of September. The number has now come down to 1,000-1,400 in the past week. This is despite the increase in the testing capacity by 43%. The daily testing figures went up from 4,000-5,000 in June to up to 15,000- 16,000 in September and August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-number-of-active-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-two-months/story-gd79Wa0H3t8bxlXuYMG0PM.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||Cops convicted for 1997 CP encounter released||Ten Delhi cops who gunned down two innocent men during a botched operation in Connaught Place in 1997 were released from prison on Saturday, more than 23 years since they were first arrested over an incident that was then seen as a symbol of police excesses and prolonged trials in the country.On March 31, 1997, the ten policemen were part of a Crime Branch squad that opened fire on a blue sedan at the Barakhamba intersection, killing two of the three occupants -- Jagjit Singh and Pradeep Goyal. The target of the operation was a gangster named Mohammed Yasneen, who was also meant to be in a blue sedan.“In March 2020, the sentence review board (SRB) unanimously recommended the names of the 10 police officers for release. On Friday, after receiving an approval from the Union home ministry, the Delhi government’s home department issued an order,” said a prisons officer, asking not to be named.The case gained public attention at the time, becoming the subject of documentaries and films. The notoriety stemmed from the nature of the policemen’s actions: having realised that they killed the wrong people, the team planted weapons to show them as criminals. The day after the murders, the police held a press conference to claim a successful operation targeting gang members. Soon, the families of the victims began speaking up and the case was transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). But, if the crime and the aftermath exposed the many flaws of India’s criminal justice system, the time the men spent behind bars and their conduct in this period may support the case for reformation of convicts.“What happened 23 years ago happened in the line of duty. It was such a bad coincidence that we spotted the vehicle of the same colour, at about the same time and in the same place. Maybe we would have been released sooner had we not tried to cover up our mistakes. But we were young then,” said Anil Kumar, who was then an inspector and was among the ten, after his release. “Life is about mistakes and correcting them. We spent more than 16 years behind bars. Spending even a night in prison is difficult. We saw what life is in prison. I will work for the underprivileged sections of the society. I have made this my aim to ensure that people do not suffer because they are poor”.Except for those convicted of terrorism or multiple murders, prisoners serving life terms are eligible for release after they have been behind bars for at least 14 years. The 10 policemen spent 16 of the last 23 years in Tihar jail, having secured bail while the case dragged on prior to their conviction in 2007.Unlike other cases relating to prisoners in Tihar, the release of the cops needed the Union home ministry’s nod, instead of the lieutenant governor’s as is usually the case. This is because cases investigated by CBI need to approved for early released by the central government. The 10 former police personnel were given good recommendations by the jail superintendent and the welfare officer, which helped their case, according to a second prisons official, asking not to be named. The most senior officer among the 10 -- former assistant commissioner of police SS Rathi -- studied law and later mastered in the subject. His then deputy Kumar helped prisoners with their cases using his knowledge of police work and started an in-house prisoner’s magazine, Tihar officials said. Former Delhi police’s additional commissioner Ashok Chand, who worked in police for over three decades, said: “I knew some members of the team. They were excellent officers who made a mistake in the line of duty. They paid for their mistake. The law has also taken its course. They have served their life imprisonment. It is time for them to move on. I wish them the best of luck.”Families of the victims could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cops-convicted-for-1997-cp-encounter-released/story-NWho03Kj3inA9ZcMF1OtJJ.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi chokes on particles as farm fires rage in Punjab and Haryana||Farm fires in Punjab and Haryana surged on Sunday, according to satellite data and authorities monitoring pollution, raising fears of the air quality in the National Capital Region deteriorating further from the “very poor” levels recorded in recent days.According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) in Delhi stood at 349 on Sunday, close to the 345 registered a day before. The number of farm fires spotted from satellites rose from around 911 on Saturday to 1,619 on Sunday, according to data from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa).Experts have said in recent days that the over 30 million people in NCR are largely left at the mercy of weather conditions. If the winds die down in the coming weeks, as they normally do, and the pollutants from farm fires have not cleared, the region could experience the sort of extreme pollution that has been seen in the last four years. “Stubble fires reduced on Saturday. There were about 940 fires in Punjab on Saturday, and a lower number of fires in UP and Haryana also. But the fires seem to have increased today,” said Vijay Soni, scientist, India Meteorological Department (IMD air quality division).The highest number of farm fires spotted from satellites this season was 1,657 on Friday.Soni added that prevailing wind patterns are such that ultra-fine PM2.5 particles that are emitted as smoke from these fires are drifting in towards the Capital and adjoining areas. “Winds are northwesterly now, and they will remain the same for around a week,” he said, while adding that there could be a marginal improvement from Monday when winds are estimated to pick up. A second official agreed the wind patterns are bringing pollutants from the farm fires in. On Sunday, the wind speed was nearly 8 kmph, blowing from the north-west, bringing smoke from Punjab and Haryana, said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre. “The weather conditions are likely to remain pretty similar on Monday, which means that even though we will get some wind, there will be no visible improvement in the air quality because the winds continue to carry smoke from Punjab and Haryana,” Srivastava said.Union ministry of earth sciences’ air monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) also predicted that any possible improvement that could have happened because of increased wind speed will be nullified by the incoming farm fire smoke. “AQI is predicted to remain in very poor range for the next two days but without further deterioration. SAFAR synergised stubble fire counts recorded a reduction and stands at 867 on Saturday. However, the boundary layer wind direction is north-westerly and wind speed is moderate. This will lead to an increase in pollutant transport towards the Delhi region and hence the SAFAR model estimate of stubble burning share in PM2.5 is 19% today (Sunday),” Safar air quality summary said. Pawan Gupta, senior scientist, Earth Sciences at the Science and Technology Institute (STI), Universities Space Research Association (USRA) said, “On Sunday, crop fires were seen clearly all over the state of Punjab. Not just the count the burning is also being reported from a larger area now.” Paddy farmers in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh set fire to stubble left after mechanised harvesting as a cheap and quick method to clear their fields. This year, with the rains having stopped sooner than usual, the farmers began harvesting early. “Harvesting of early paddy varieties is almost over. About 2% to 5% may be left. Rest are Basmati and other varieties which are not a problem as far as stubble is concerned. The stubble from Basmati is usually used as fodder. But it’s true that this year, a very high number of stubble fires were seen because farmers were extremely angry with the Centre on farm bills and this was a way to oppose the bills,” said Rattan Singh Mann, Haryana chief of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-chokes-on-particles-as-farm-fires-rage-in-punjab-and-haryana/story-JO4HXCnm7YaV5bXlydMNLP.html
26-10-2020||City||Father-son booked for hitting car of woman doctor in Pinjore||A father-son duo was booked for hitting a parked car in Panchkula, the police said on Sunday.The owner of the car, Dr Vidhi Sharma of Amravati, Pinjore, told the police that on the night on October 13 at around 6.30pm, one Abhas Narula, 35, had hit her car that was parked outside her house and tried to run away. When she had tried to stop him, he had hurled abuses at her and even tried to hit in a state of intoxication, the doctor said in her complaint.The doctor mentioned in the FIR that “he and his family finally said that they will bear all the expenses of the damage. However, later Abhas and his father, Rajiv Narula, 57, started harassing me on a daily basis. They threatened that in the future they would intentionally hit my car and kill me.”A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-son-booked-for-hitting-car-of-woman-doctor-in-pinjore/story-fzxShuVzNwFXnLpkHJNenL.html
26-10-2020||City||A year on, Zirakpur MC finally floats tenders for advertisements||After a gap of one year, the municipal council of Zirakpur will finally float a cluster tender for display of advertisements on unipoles and other outdoor advertising media on October 29. The cluster includes Zirakpur, Lalru, Dera Bassi and Banur.The contract of the agency called Degraphics, which was allotted the tender in 2016 for a period of three years at a cost of ₹2.06 crore for three years, had expired in September 2019. The council had, however, extended it till June 30, 2020, and again by four weeks.MC executive officer Sandeep Tiwari said, “We have got the approval from the local bodies department and we will be floating the tenders on October 29. We have also started a drive to remove illegal hoarding from the township.” As per the new Punjab Outdoor Policy, 2018, every corporation and council has been directed to publish new tenders to generate revenue from advertisements.There are several illegal hoardings erected on the highway, but no effective drive has been conducted for the last two years. In 1995, the Punjab and Haryana high court had issued directions to all deputy commissioners to have illegal hoardings on national as well as state highways removed, saying that not only were they eyesores, they also diverted the attention of motorists leading to fatal accidents. Since then, the court has issued several reminders in this regard, but no action has been taken by the authorities concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/a-year-on-zirakpur-mc-finally-floats-tenders-for-advertisements/story-ZM7EbsNXIz4yngFgTp7n4O.html
26-10-2020||City||Dussehra a muffled affair in Mohali||The Dussehra ground in Phase 8, Mohali, wore a deserted look on Sunday, which would otherwise become a traffic management problem every year.The Dussehra committee performed a prayer on the ground and effigies of 2-feet were erected. The grounds in Phase 1-6 and 9 were also deserted.Mohali Dussehra and Ramlila committee organiser Madhu Bhushan said, “We were not able to call expert artisans for making the effigies as there were delays in permission from the administration. We call expert artisans from Saharanpur or Moradabad 10 days before Ramlila begins.”A Ravana effigy named ‘Corona’ went up in flames at Dera Bassi and Kharar on Sunday, but there were no spectators.However, small effigies were privately torched at many housing societies, but without any crackers.In Bhabat village of Zirakpur, Shri Sanatan Dharam Ramlila Club celebrated Dussehra with fanfare. Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma and senior Congress leader Deepinder Singh Dhillon were the chief guests. Police were deployed by the administration on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dussehra-a-muffled-affair-in-mohali/story-hK4KQlbhZzcuCpdSJc0jsL.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||3rd day of 4k+ cases in Delhi; Positivity rate past 8%||The positivity rate for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has started rising again in Delhi with 8.43% samples tested in the past 24 hours coming back positive, and new infections crossing the 4,000-mark for the third consecutive day as the resurgence of the viral outbreak in the Capital continued to worsen.Daily positivity rate — the fraction of tests that return positive – touched the highest in 34 days, sending the weekly average positivity rate rising again. Positivity rate is a crucial metric as experts say it shows how widespread the virus is in the community, and when coupled with an increase new cases, indicates that the virus is spreading fast.Cases, meanwhile, also continued to rise at an alarming rate – a total of 4,136 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Sunday, the highest single-day rise in infections in Delhi in 38 days, taking the total number infections in the Capital to 356,656. This rise in cases as well as the positivity rate is particularly worrisome because it comes right at the start of the festive season – a time of the year when people in the city tend to more socially active.The rising graph of cases in the city -- days after it was starting to come under control -- is being attributed to more people coming out of their homes in the festive season, and poor mask discipline and lack of adherence to safety protocols due to Covid fatigue.The seven-day average positivity rate is now at 6.84% and has been rising for the 13 consecutive days and is at its highest in nearly a month (it was 6.95% on September 27). This number was 5.88% the week before, and 5.49% the week before that.According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control there. Delhi has never dropped below this threshold. The lowest the average positivity rate dropped in Delhi was for the week ending October 8 when it touched 5.34%, but has been rising again since.The seven-day average of daily cases, also known as the case trajectory, has also seen a strong upward trend for the third time since the start of the pandemic in Delhi. It has now has been rising for 13 straight days – it has risen from 2,661 on October 12 to 3,663 on Friday – highlighting a clear trend in rise in new infections.The Delhi government, however, said the situation is “contained” because they have prepared hospital beds and Covid facilities in the city to prepare for a larger surge during the winter.“The Covid-19 expert committee led by [Niti Aayog member] Dr VK Paul had said that due to cold and festive season, cases [per day] can spike up to 12,000-14,000, but right now it’s around 4000 so the situation is contained. We are focused on containment, contact tracing and isolation to tackle the situation. Hence, no relaxation in restrictions unless the vaccine arrives. Masks and social distancing absolutely mandatory. We will continue taking strict precautions,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/3rd-day-of-4k-cases-in-delhi-positivity-rate-past-8/story-B8reY6G47MnG9hjzfr6Q9J.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Gurlal Brar murder: Aide of man who supplied motorcycle to shooters arrested||Probing into the murder of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s close aide Gurlal Brar outside a city mall on October 10, Chandigarh Police made another arrest on Sunday.The accused, Gurmeet Singh, alias Geeta, 25, is an aide of Gurvinder Singh, alias Dhadi, 23, who was the first to be arrested in the case on October 21. A member of the Davinder Bambiha gang, Gurmeet, along with Gurvinder, had provided the motorcycle used by the shooters to gun down Brar, 26, outside a mall in Industrial Area, Phase 1. Both hail from Rurki Pukhta village in Kharar, Mohali.Following his arrest on October 21, Gurwinder had told the police about Gurmeet’s involvement. He was nabbed from the Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 43 while trying to escape the city, and will be produced in a court on Monday.According to police, Gurmeet was lodged in Nabha jail in an attempt to murder case where he met active members of the Davinder Bambiha gang. He used to cook for them, clean their dishes and wash their clothes. Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, who is running the Bambiha gang, had asked Gurmeet and Gurvinder to provide a motorcycle with a fake number plate to the shooters, Neeraj Chaska and Mani.Police said Gurmeet, himself a drug addict, also sold drugs. So, he was assured by Gaurav of 20gm heroin in exchange for the motorcycle. Gaurav was also going to provide him money to visit Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra.Gurmeet is already facing attempt to murder, NDPS and rioting cases in Kharar and Kurali going back to 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gurlal-brar-murder-aide-of-man-who-supplied-motorcycle-to-shooters-arrested/story-X2aZG96Wn8Hb3GcwjuQGfN.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dussehra celebrated with prayers, small effigies in Chandigarh||Due to difficulty in getting permissions and the challenges posed by the pandemic, the city celebrated Dussehra this year in a different vein, with people turning to prayers rather than burning effigies.President of the Chandigarh Kendriya Ramleela Mahasabha, Bhagwati Prashad Gaur, said, “Even though no Ramlila committee set up effigies this year, the stage was still kept occupied and aarti was performed. A 24-hour pooja to honour Lord Ram was carried out on Dussehra to mark the end of Navratri.”The Youth Welfare Club of Maloya was the only association to have permission to organise a Dussehra function, but they instead chose to take out a rath yatra. President Sobhit Kaushal said, “The yatra started at 3pm and we took a round around Maloya dressed in our festive garb. We followed all instructions by the administration for everyone’s safety.”Ashok Chaudhary, adviser of the Joint Ram Leela Sangh, who plays the character of Ravana in the Sector 20 Ramlila, said that despite the lockdown the actors had a lot of fun and the audience also enjoyed it.On Sunday evening, children in some areas had made their own effigies of Ravana, and the sound of crackers could be heard in the city even though no large functions were organised anywhere.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/dussehra-celebrated-with-prayers-small-effigies-in-chandigarh/story-pwPR2l0VMJ3FOZMiU6APsO.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||With no big effigies on fire, Chandigarh breathes easy this Dussehra||As no major effigy burning functions were organised in the city on Dussehra, the city’s air quality index (AQI) during the festival fared better than the last year.Against the AQI of 147 on October 8, when Dussehra was celebrated last year, on Sunday, the figure was 122, as recorded at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) in Sector 25. Both figures fall in the ‘moderate’ bracket. The air quality is measured through the AQI. Lesser the AQI count, better the air quality. An AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe. AQI up to 100 can cause minor breathing discomfort among sensitive people, while that up to 300 can cause breathing discomfort among patients of lung and heart diseases. AQI between 301 and 500 is considered hazardous.According to officials of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), the AQI remained around 120 throughout the past week.“This time, Dussehra was held a bit late as compared to previous years. By October end, the city’s AQI usually shoots past 200. However, this year, despite the cooler weather, it remained around 120 for a week, which is a big achievement,” said Debendra Dalai, vice-president, CPCC.Last year on Dussehra, AQI had reached 149, followed by 206 on October 25. It had peaked to 335 in the first week of November 2019 after Diwali celebrations on October 27.Pandemic also had a positive impactDalai said apart from the subdued Dussehra celebrations, the pandemic also played a part in cleaner air. “Normal life hasn’t resumed completely, keeping vehicular emissions lower than usual. Even though AQI generally rises with drop in temperature, a green Diwali can help keep it low this year,” he added.Meanwhile, officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said there was no rain on the cards. So, if the AQI starts getting worse, it will take some time to return back to normal as rain helped clean the air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/with-no-big-effigies-on-fire-chandigarh-breathes-easy-this-dussehra/story-rMo9oQnK55rbn1UZwWXDqI.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: In pandemic, a new beginning||This is how it was before the coronavirus pandemic: The walls had seen so many shifts of seasons that it would have been impossible to determine their original colour. The wood of the closets had been softened by time. The door looked like a precious collectible making one wonder why it hadn’t yet been stolen.Founded within a corner of an old mansion in 1938, the one-room Premier Shoe Factory in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazar was arguably the most curious shoemaker’s establishment in the entire Delhi region. Everything looked shabby but also looked beautiful — and the shoes were always new and gleaming. Ruling over this little world was the frail Jawaharlal Sherawat, quietly rustling out one shoe after another.As the coronavirus reached our part of the world, and as the ensuing lockdown forced many businesses to shut down, one could legitimately worry about the well-being of the shoemaking shop and of its owner. The infection can be lethal to the elderly and Mr Sherawat is in his 70s — could he still hold on to his establishment? It had been founded by his father, but lately he was the only one running it, his children having picked up other professions. Was there any way for the legacy to go on?As it happens, the shoe place as we knew it vanished. But this weekday afternoon, Mr Sherawat is still here, busy making shoes. It’s all looking very different, though. Gone are the familiar walls and the wooden closets. The world is looking like as if it were created just this morning. “My advocate son got the shop renovated during the lockdown,” Mr Sherawat mutters, as casually as if he was talking of the weather.The floor is now cushioned with a red carpet, and the walls are painted white. The shoes are stacked on gleaming glass racks, and a red plastic chair stands instead of the weather-beaten one. As for the old door, it is still there but has been painted white too, and hints nothing of its earlier past. The elderly owner is sitting, as always, on the floor. His rusty black century-old Singer sewing machine has remained, and so has his made-in-Germany equipments.Mr Sherawat has been in this trade since he was 15. Today, he must be one of the Delhi region’s oldest surviving shoe makers — if not the oldest one — to have worked continuously for decades, and even during the ongoing pandemic.That the old shop not only outlived the lockdown but also exploited the difficult period to reinvent itself fills one with positivity. Indeed, it is a rare place, for which the coronavirus has been a portal to bright beginnings. You ought to visit it for inspiration, and to personally see how boldly and optimistically it is coping with the times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-in-pandemic-a-new-beginning/story-L5lRYLM6ADrEytH9THecXP.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Trash piles up in Chandigarh as garbage collectors’ strike enters Day 3||With no headway in talks between the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) and door-to-door garbage collectors, heaps of trash were seen at Sehaj Safai Kendras across the city on Sunday, which marked the third day of sanitation workers’ strike. Most of the city’s sectors and rural areas have been affected as the protesting garbage collectors enforced the withdrawal of services with more severity. Even as residents dumped their household garbage in safai kendras, sanitation workers, who are agitating under the banner of Safai Karamchari Union, didn’t clean those up. In some areas, there were complaints about people discarded trash in parks, parking and back lanes.“The problem is getting acute in some areas, while at many places, people are cooperating with each other. But, the state of safai kendras is getting worse with each passing day as nobody is clearing it of garbage,” said Col (retd) Gursewak Singh, adviser, Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC).On Saturday, the meeting between MC officials led by municipal commissioner KK Yadav and garbage collectors’ unions had ended in a deadlock. The protesting sanitation workers and garbage collectors have threatened to step up their protest from Monday against the MC for not accepting their demands.Om Prakash Saini, president of Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said, “The MC is working against the interests of the garbage collectors and sanitation workers. Not long ago had they called us corona warriors for our dedicated work during the peak of pandemic. But now, they are ready to bring in our replacements at DC rates.”Fresh round of talks between civic body officials and MC sanitation committee headed by former mayor Rajesh Kalia are also expected on Monday. “It is an indefinite strike which will continue till the MC accepts our demands. If municipal officials ask us to meet them on Monday, we will surely oblige,” Saini said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/trash-piles-up-as-chandigarh-garbage-collectors-strike-enters-day-3/story-FDfSiA1AYbQL3xfX8T6PVN.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Govt lab technician shot at outside his house in Chandigarh’s Sector 22||A 48-year-old man was shot in the right leg right outside his house in Sector 22-D on Sunday morning.The victim, Amrik Singh, was returning home from a local gurdwara when a youth, who seemed to be in his 20s, shot at him and fled on foot.Amrik, who works as a lab technician for the Punjab health department in Kharar, told the police that he visited the gurdwara around 5am and started walking back home at 6.10am. As he reached home, a youth, who was wearing a hooded sweatshirt, shorts and a face mask, shot at him. Hearing the onlookers raising the alarm, the shooter fled the spot.Amrik was rushed to PGIMER, where he is stated to be stable.A live cartridge and a used cartridge were recovered from the spot. Locals said the unidentified youth had been waiting for Amrik.Superintendent of police (SP, City) Vineet Kumar visited the spot after the police were informed. So far, investigators have not established the motive behind the firing.They said there was no CCTV camera near the spot. “Since the suspect was masked, it will be hard to track him,” an official said. The incident happened right besides an outpost for a security guard. However, he wasn’t present there when Amrik was shot at.A case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act was registered against the unidentified accused at the Sector 17 police station. Had recently recovered from CovidWhile Singh was undergoing treatment at PGIMER, his son, Jashanjot Singh, paced outside their house in Sector 22-D, answering calls from worried relatives and friends.“My father had recently recovered from Covid. But, he will come through this just like he did with the virus,” he said. His father will undergo a surgery on Monday to remove the bullet from his thigh.According to his son, Amrik, a devout Sikh, visits the Sector 22 gurdwara everyday before 6am when the prayers start. He did the same on Sunday and was targeted by the shooter on his way back. “Our family has no enmity with anyone. It’s unfathomable why my father was attacked,” Jashanjot said.FOURTH SHOOTING IN OCTOBEROctober 10: Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s close aide and former SOPU leader Gurlal Brar was shot dead in his car in Industrial Area, Phase 1 on October 10October 11: Three shots were fired outside EskoBar Club in Sector 9 during a fight between two groups. TikTok star Saurav Gujjar was injured in the firingOctober 11: Lawrence Bishnoi’s aide Monty Shah fired a shot in Sector 45 to intimidate deceased realtor Sonu Shah’s brother Praveen Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-lab-technician-shot-at-outside-his-house-in-sector-22/story-VRu2NEMbqHadfzayqMs9cK.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Three caught with illegal arms at Sector-8 checkpoint in Chandigarh||Three persons were caught with illegal weapons and cartridges in two separate cases last night, Chandigarh Police said on Sunday. In light of the recent string of firing incidents, checkpoints were set up to maintain law and order near night clubs. Both the arrests were made at one such naka set up on Madhya Marg in Sector 8. A white Maruti Swift bearing Himachal Pradesh number was stopped for checking around 12.50am when the person sitting in the co-passenger seat tried to escape. He was caught by cops and later identified as Pardeep, 24, of Himachal’s Manakpur. The driver, Mandeep Singh, 29, of Rupnagar, was arrested with one countrymade pistol and two live cartridges. Pardeep was also carrying two live cartridges with him. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against the duo at the Sector-3 police station. At the same naka around the same time, a Hyundai Creta with a Haryana registration number was stopped for checking and its driver Husandeep Singh Hundal, 34, of Amritsar was caught with 19 live cartridges of different makes hidden in a box. As he failed to produce any licence/permit to support the possession of ammunition, a similar FIR was registered against him. Shots fired at car escaping through nakaCops resorted to opening fire at a Hyundai Verna, whose driver broke the same naka when he was stopped for checking. However, the driver managed to flee.The police said they were trying to track down the car, though no case has been registered against the unidentified driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-caught-with-illegal-arms-at-sector-8-checkpoint-in-chandigarh/story-DAAFJhZVeQKxuU8WxB2UPM.html
26-10-2020||Election:||Bihar campaign reaches fever pitch as first phase draws near||Chief minister Nitish Kumar lashed out at dynastic politics on Sunday in an apparent reference to the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), training his guns on the main rival of his coalition government on the penultimate day of the campaign for the first phase of assembly elections in Bihar on October 28.“For others, wife, son, daughter...are the families, but to me, the whole Bihar is my family,” Nitish Kumar said at a public rally in Phulparas constituency. “Serving people is my duty,” he said.He reminded the audience of the situation that prevailed in Bihar before 2005, when the RJD was in power. “Bihar was in a pathetic situation. A lot of crime happened here. The development rate was almost zero.” He added, referring to his Janata Dal (United), or JD (U): “We controlled everything. We kept saying right from the beginning we’ll go on the path of progress with justice.” He asked young people who were raising slogans against him to ask their parents about the situation in Bihar before 2005. “One could dare to go out after sunset. We improved law and order,” he said.. The reference to dynastic politics was clearly aimed at the RJD, whose chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is the chief ministerial face of the party this time. Prasad’s wife Rabri Devi was also chief minister for five years until 2005. Another rival of his is Chirag Paswan, son of the late Ram Vilas Paswan, founder of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) , who has pulled the party out of the National Democratic Alliance in Bihar citing ideological differences with the Bihar chief minister. “We have worked against crime, corruption and communalism and tried to create an atmosphere of brotherhood and harmony in Bihar. We believe in the development of every section,” Nitish Kumar said.“Women are getting their due respect. There was no female participation in public representation. We provided them a platform and a chance... Development is not possible unless women get the opportunity to work shoulder to shoulder {with men}. Furthermore, we have done a lot for women’s upliftment,” he said. Tejashwi Yadav was to address a dozen public meetings on Sunday, but had to restrict himself to six when his helicopter developed a technical glitch. Addressing a public meeting in Islampur, in the home district of Nitish Kumar, Yadav said: “Nitish Kumar has become energy-less, conservative and narrow-minded. He is questioning how I will provide jobs.” Yadav has promised a million government jobs to Bihar’s young if the alliance between his RJD, the Congress and three Left parties is voted to power. LJP president Chirag Paswan,who addressed meetings in Sitamarhi, said that if voted to power his party will construct a temple for the goddess Sita in the district that will be bigger than the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. “Lord Ram is incomplete without goddess Sita, and vice versa. So, a corridor connecting Ayodhya’s Ram Temple and Sitamarhi should be constructed,” Paswan said. Paswan, who also campaigned in Karagahar and Chenari in Rohtas district on Sunday, said the next government in the state will be “Nitish-mukt” (Nitish Kumar-free) . “I request you to please vote for LJP candidates to implement #Bihar1stBihari1st. Everywhere else vote for the BJP. The coming government will be a #Nitish-free government,” Paswan tweeted in Hindi.At Sheikhpura, All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi and Rashtriya Lok Samta Party president Upendra Kushwaha addressed a joint rally. Owaisi criticised the amended citizenship law and the proposed National Register of Citizens; Kushwaha said Lalu Prasad and Nitish Kumar had pushed Bihar back 30 years during their combined spells in power. “Assam is a case in point. As many as 20 lakh people don’t find themselves in the NRC list there. Out of which only 5 lakhs are Muslims, the rest 15 lakhs are Hindus,” said Owaisi, adding that the government should instead focus on education, employment and health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-campaign-reaches-fever-pitch-as-first-phase-draws-near/story-HvV3IAAPhOLWO0vLVBsAeI.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Six Chandigarh cops suspended for Friday night’s violent brawl||Two days after police teams from the crime branch and Sector 26 station came to blows, leaving two cops injured, three police personnel from each team were suspended on Sunday. Those suspended include inspector Satvinder Singh, sub-inspector (SI) Neeraj and constable Sanjay, deputed with the crime branch of Chandigarh Police, and SI Navin Kumar, constable Kavipal and constable Sompal, all posted at the Sector-26 station. Inspector Satvinder and SI Navin are batchmates.Considering his injuries, no action has been taken against ASI Ramesh Hodd, who had suffered a fracture in the fight that took place in Sector 26. He was stationed at a check post and had intervened after noticing the commotion.Show-cause notice to team leaders The department has also issued show-cause notice to inspector Harinder Singh Sekhon, in-charge, crime branch, and inspector Narinder Patial, station house officer (SHO), Sector 26 police station. “They have been issued notices to explain why the matter was not handled maturely and the policemen were allowed to indulge in such unruly behaviour that has come as a major embarrassment for the force,” said a senior police official.The teams were out to catch “suspicious elements” moving in the city when they had come to blows on Friday night. Besides ASI Hodd, inspector Satvinder had also suffered a hairline fracture on the nose in the melee. Initially, senior officials tried to pass it off as an incident of “manhandling” due to “miscommunication” as the crime branch team was in civvies. But, a report on the incident was sought, which prompted action against the six cops. “We will not tolerate indiscipline. So, all policemen involved in the fight from both the teams have been suspended,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. “Show-cause notices have also been issued to the crime branch in-charge and Sector 26 SHO for explanation on how the matter went out of control,” he added.The brawl has once again brought to fore a long-standing tussle and “credit war” between the crime branch and police stations in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-chandigarh-cops-suspended-for-friday-night-s-violent-brawl/story-T0YWPiyxUNwKkf3dWoExkM.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||87% PEC graduates unwilling to attend virtual convocation this year||A majority of graduates of the Punjab Engineering College (PEC) have expressed willingness to have a physical convocation for the 2019-20 academic year when the situation normalises, rather than a virtual one this year.Last month, the dean alumni of the institution, professor Divya Bansal, was authorised by the PEC senate to conduct a survey of graduating students on their willingness to attend a virtual convocation in November.Of the total 544 students of BTech and MTech who had participated in the survey, 87.2% said they would rather attend a physical convocation when the situation normalises.As approved by the PEC senate, the students were given the option that their degrees will be posted to their homes in November (for those who apply for them) and then a physical convocation will be conducted whenever possible and a majority agreed for it.PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said, “We will wait for a few months to organise a physical convocation when the situation will allow us.”Professor Bansal said, “We are empowering our students in taking the key decisions of the institution and about their education, and this in turn promotes critical thinking.”The PEC has to give degrees to a total of 850 students of which 630 are graduates of various branches, 200 are MTech students and 20 are PhD scholars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/87-pec-graduates-unwilling-to-attend-virtual-convocation-this-year/story-H5WY5KMM0gSv9tqfViP2CO.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh heritage items to be auctioned in Paris on October 27||Heritage items designed by architect Pierre Jeanneret, ranging from ₹64 lakh to ₹1.05, will be auctioned at Paris’ Cornette De Saint Cyr in France on October 27. The items include armchairs and a daybed. Notably, the UT administration had taken up the issue of the auction of Chandigarh heritage items with a visiting French delegation last week. The French authorities had assured help in stopping such auctions by exploring legal avenues available in India and abroad.This is the second major auction to take place within this month. A Chandigarh heritage item, ‘Committee’ table had fetched ₹71.57 lakh in an auction held by London auction house Bonham on October 15. Heritage furniture items from the city were sold for ₹2.11 crore during the auction. As many as 10 heritage items designed by architects Le Corbusier and Pierre Jeanneret had gone under the hammer even as the Indian Embassy raised the issue of Chandigarh Heritage furniture with London police and others, including Bonham’s auctioneer.What’ll go under the hammerPair of ‘Easy’ armchairs designed by Pierre Jeanneret in teak and wickerSet of six ‘Office’ armchairs, also in teak and wickerA daybed in teak and cowhideA pair of ‘Advocate’ armchairs in teak and hide||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-items-to-be-auctioned-in-paris-on-october-27/story-nisr3HDi0NnLCHynrmQTmK.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Former PU professor, renowned art historian Karuna Goswamy dies at 80||Art historian Karuna Goswamy, a former professor at Panjab University, died after her lungs collapsed at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Sunday. She was 80.Karuna was suffering from Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) and had got admitted to the hospital last month. Married to another well-known art historian, BN Goswamy, she is survived by husband and two children: Apurva and Malvika. The Goswamy couple was quite prominent in the city’s elite social and cultural circles. Devoted to arts, they would give classical music and dance concerts to each other as birthday gifts. Former PU vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover said, “She was a great lover of art and eminent among the intellectual and cultural fraternity in Chandigarh. Every year on her birthday, an event was organised by her husband and son wherein art lovers were invited.”A former fellow at the All India Institute of Advanced Studies, she had authored several books, including Dussehra of Kulu Valley: History and Analysis of a Cultural Phenomenon and Sacred Trees and Indian Life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-pu-professor-renowned-art-historian-karuna-goswamy-dies-at-80/story-FzjytFIzORoMKmsMWS2nlI.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sensory park for people with disabilities to come up at Sector 22||A special park will come up in Sector 22, which will focus on sensory engagement and be designed to encourage people of all abilities to play together, especially children. The project is being anchored by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) and its board of directors will be presented with the final plan on October 27 for the approval.“The board will also finalise its location. Earlier, it was planned in Sector 35, but after failing to obtain approval from the UT administration, the location was shifted to Sector 22,” said NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL. The sensory park, which would come up at a cost of ₹2 crore, will boast of features that address multiple aspects of an individual, including mobility disability, motor skills, hearing and speech disability, cognitive disability, and intellectual skill disorders.The purpose of this initiative is to provide individual and combined sensory opportunities to users who may not normally experience them. “It will contain features that are accessible to the disabled individuals, such as scented and edible plants, tactile sculptures and sculpted handrails, water features designed to make sound and play over the hands, textured touch-pads, magnifying glass screens, braille signages and audio induction loop descriptions,” Sharma said.Depending on the user group, other provisions may further integrate sound and music more centrally to combine the requirement of younger users with their sensory needs.“At first glance, a sensory playground looks similar to an everyday playground. However, there are some key differences and considerations for such a facility,” Sharma added. A fenced-in playground will be constructed to prevent kids from wandering due to over-stimulation. “The floor will be specially prepared to protect children with autism. Impact-ready surfaces will be introduced that can soften a fall as children with autism have a tendency to climb higher or take riskier paths that could lead to falls,” the chief general manager said. Quiet spaces of refuge, such as grassy areas, domes, niches or playhouse, will also be created in the park. Adequate gaps between equipment will be provided to prevent children from running into each other and giving kids with mental disabilities their space.“Games a child can play himself or herself, such as learning/engaging panels, will be a part of equipment. These could include labyrinth, chimes, kaleidoscope, mirror, clock panels, variety of shapes and colours and music wall,” Sharma said.What’s special about this facility Fenced-in playground to prevent kids from wandering due to over-stimulationImpact-ready surfaces that can soften a fallQuiet areas of refugeAdequate space between equipmentLearning/engaging panelsLabyrinth, chimes, kaleidoscope, mirror, clock panels, variety of shapes and colours, music wallSENSORY FEATURESScented and edible plantsTactile sculptures, sculpted handrailsTextured touch-padsBraille signs and audio induction loop descriptions||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sensory-park-for-people-with-disabilities-to-come-up-at-sector-22/story-dVsZl3GmvMUJkWNgJDxmvJ.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP’s interest lies in toppling govts: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for being only “interested in toppling governments” and said that his former ally should rather focus on improving the economy.Addressing the Sena’s annual Dussehra rally, Thackeray said, “World over the economy is disrupted and during such a time, if BJP is interested in toppling governments instead of paying attention to the country’s economy, then I think, we are inviting anarchy.” The CM dared the BJP to topple his 11-month-old government and advised the Centre to protect its own government first. “If your foundation stone has weakened, you have no culture, no thoughts, then such a government will not last for long. I challenge you to topple our government but first protect your government. Because one-day people will look beyond you and say anybody is fine but not you. This thought has already started,” Thackeray said in a veiled attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Shiv Sena parted ways from its three-decade old ally, BJP, and formed government in Maharashtra by joining hands with Nationalist Congress Party and Congress in November last year after assembly polls. The Sena chief also slammed the BJP for indulging in politics during Covid-19 pandemic. “Despite Covid-19, the governments are being toppled in the country... give at least some attention to the country as it is going to the nether world.” Thackeray also hot out at BJP over Goods and Services Tax issue, Sushant Singh Rajput case and party’s free vaccine promise in Bihar assembly polls. State BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye alleged that Thackeray had nothing to highlight about his government’s functioning. “We expected that Uddhav Thackeray will speak about his government’s performance... but he spent his entire speech criticizing central government and the BJP. He does not have anything to narrate even before his party workers,” he said in a series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-s-interest-lies-in-toppling-govts-uddhav-thackeray/story-lYunTfDdWlIf1IhLdKAv7O.html
26-10-2020||City||Minister Sidhu lays foundation stone of cattle pound in Balongi||Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday laid the foundation stone of a cattle pound set to come up on 10 acres leased by gram panchayat of Balongi. Member of Parliament (MP) Manish Tewari, Mohali SSP Satinder Singh, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary And Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu) vice-chancellor Dr Inderjit, and Swami Chinnamya Nand and Swami Gurkripa Nand of Kamadhenu gaushala, Noormahal, were among those present on the occasion. Sidhu, who is also Mohali MLA, said that ‘Bal Gopal Gau Basera’ will be built in lines with modern cattle pounds for which expert advice would be sought. “Stray animals will be kept and cared for in appropriate conditions with separate enclosures for healthy and sick animals. Cattle breeding will be undertaken with the advice of experts,” he added. Sidhu said that a special place for stray dogs would also be set up in the cow shelter. “After the completion of pound, there would be no problem of housing stray animals in the city,” the minister said. He thanked all Mohali industrialists who came forward to share the construction and operational cost of the project, and the Balongi gram panchayat for leasing 10 acres for 33 years. MP Tewari said that setting up of a cattle pound was a commendable step “by the people of Mohali, for the people of Mohali”. It will be a cow shelter of its kind in Punjab, he said and added that other gaushala operators will also seek guidance from this state-of-the-art facility. While Swami Chinnamya Nand shared detailed information about the care of cows, Gadvasu V-C Dr Inderjit spoke about the breeding and care of animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minister-sidhu-lays-foundation-stone-of-cattle-pound-in-balongi/story-pXMgmo1ZkPJ42vHUzjIeGL.html
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh-based social worker finds mention in PM’s Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised a Chandigarh-based social worker, Sandeep Kumar, for running a mobile library providing free books to poor children.In his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat, PM Modi said, “In Chandigarh, Sandeep Kumar who runs an NGO, has set up a mobile library in a minivan, through which, the poor children are given books to read free of cost.”Kumar’s mention came when Modi was speaking about people’s initiative in providing cost-free help to the poor in their quest for knowledge and education.Kumar, founder of NGO Open Eye Foundation, had started collecting books in 2016 from various places to help students who can not afford them. He at times would organise camps in schools.During the lockdown, Kumar organised a small library in his minivan, filled with books and writing materials collected from various houses, and started visiting slums and colonies to help students in need. He also gave away masks and sanitary napkins along with study materials. The motto of his foundation is ‘education from trash’.Kumar has collected about 40,000 books in the last three years and distributed almost 10,000 books to the children in the area during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-based-social-worker-finds-mention-in-pm-s-mann-ki-baat/story-hcTNFfyWAJoT55y1LfxmaJ.html
26-10-2020||City||Engineering institutes in Maharashtra fear SEBC quota verdict, CET results may delay admissions for first-year courses||Days after the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) released a circular stating the new academic calendar for 2020-21 academic year, colleges in Maharashtra are worried about being able to adhere to the new deadline. With results for the state common entrance test (CET) yet to be announced and a petition against the implementation of the Socially and Economically Backward Classes (SEBC) Act that mandates 12-13% reservation for the Maratha community still being heard at the Supreme Court, engineering college heads feel that the November 30 deadline given by AICTE for admissions might be difficult to meet. “Due to the prolonged emergent conditions in the country and requests from various state governments and looking at the ongoing admissions, the council has extended last date of admissions for first-year engineering courses (undergraduate and diploma lateral entry) to November 30. Accordingly, classes of the first year will commence on December 1, 2020,” states the circular released by AICTE last week. “The entire admission process, which includes the registration process as well as the seat allotment rounds, takes at least four to five weeks. However, the process can’t start unless there’s clarity in the status of reservation for admissions,” said the principal of a Pune-based private engineering institute. While CET exams were conducted in the first week of October, the state government decided to hold another session of the entrance exam for those students who could not attempt the paper in the first session either because they had contracted Covid-19 or were living at a quarantine zone. Registrations for the second phase ended recently and the exam will be held soon. “If the state and central government work together, it might be possible to finish the admissions process within a month to ensure that the new academic year begins on December 1 for the new batch. But it all depends on the fate of the SEBC Act in court,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal, Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/engineering-institutes-in-maharashtra-fear-sebc-quota-verdict-cet-results-may-delay-admissions-for-first-year-courses/story-bfAQKiPhMg0zDCurOt3fEL.html
26-10-2020||City||NCP leader Eknath Khadse attacks Devendra Fadnavis again over his daughter’s defeat in Maharashtra Assembly polls||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse, who recently quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has again hit out at former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis for his daughter Rohini’s defeat in the Assembly election last year. He also alleged that those who “betrayed” him had the backing of the party leadership at a higher level, as no action was taken against them. Khadse had on Friday, too, squarely blamed Fadnavis for his decision to quit the BJP and said that he has no grievances against any other state or central-level leaders of the party, which he had served for four decades. On Sunday, while addressing his former Assembly constituency Muktainagar on the occasion of Dussehra, Khadse renewed his attack on his former colleague.“I was denied candidature by the party leadership during the Assembly elections, and just to create a rift between me and my daughter, it was offered to her. She had never asked for any ticket. Later, party workers whom I had mentored were used to defeat my daughter Rohini. I had submitted videos and CDs as proof against the betrayers, but no action was taken against them. Not even a notice was sent out to them. This shows that they had the backing of party leadership. Fadnavis, who was the then CM and controlled the party affairs, was behind all this,” he said. Khadse said that he had experienced “political exile” in the BJP and added that had he not quit the party, he, too, would have been sent to “political banishment” like many senior leaders at national level.Meanwhile, Fadnavis has refused to comment on the allegations. Last week, when Khadse had hurled allegations at Fadnavis, the former CM said that the newly-inducted NCP leader was making him a villain and that he would speak at an appropriate time. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said that Fadnavis had in the past replied to all the allegations made against him. State leaders tried to end my political career: Pankaja Munde BJP national secretary Pankaja Munde on Sunday said that a leader from her district Beed and some others from Maharashtra are conspiring to finish her politically. “A corona-infected leader from [Beed] district and some infected leaders from the state are conspiring to make me the ‘Abhimanyu’ of politics, but they perhaps do not know that I have excelled the skill of exiting the chakravyuh,” Munde said while referring to the character from Mahabharat. She was addressing a virtual rally on the occasion of Dussehra from Bhagwangarh in Beed. Munde said that like his father, late Gopinath Munde, she too, will hold a grand rally at Mumbai’s Shivaji Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncp-leader-eknath-khadse-attacks-devendra-fadnavis-again-over-his-daughter-s-defeat-in-maharashtra-assembly-polls/story-Xb3O7i56A21Q5U2y7RhB9I.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Our Hindutva is not about clanging bells, utensils: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray attacks BJP at Sena’s Dussehra rally in Mumbai||Launching a blistering attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday, Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, during his speech at his first Dussehra rally after becoming the chief minister, advised his ally-turned-foe to protect their government as the mood of the people was turning against the Centre and that people would accept any alternative to the BJP. At the event held at Savarkar Memorial in Shivaji Park, Thackeray took on the BJP on several issues ranging from Hindutva, governance, Goods and Services Tax (GST) system, political mudslinging and personal attacks on his family and the Shiv Sena. A total of 50 people, including Thackeray family members, party ministers, leaders, MPs, legislators were present. “If your foundation stone has weakened, you have no culture, thoughts… nothing, then such a government will not last long. I again challenge you to topple our government, but first protect your government. Because one day, people will look beyond you and say anybody will be fine, but not you. This thought has already started,” Thackeray said.“World over, the economy is disrupted and during such a time, if the BJP is interested in toppling governments instead of paying attention to the country’s economy, then I think, we are inviting anarchy…”Thackeray slammed the BJP for questioning the Shiv Sena’s Hindutva. He said his father Balasaheb Thackeray’s Hindutva was not “clanging bells and utensils”. Thackeray’s sharp comment came after a standoff with Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who questioned the chief minister’s stance on ‘Hindutva’ after he did not allow the reopening of religious places in the state. Thackeray quoted Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat’s speech on Sunday morning in Nagpur and in an indirect reference to Koshyari said that the RSS chief’s followers do not understand the meaning of Hindutva. “Those who wear black caps on their head agree with what the Bhagwat has said about Hindutva in his speech or not… RSS chief said there are people who are creating doubts on Hindu, Hindutva and Hindu Rashtra. Who are these people? Do you know? Where do they live? ‘Hindutva this term has been made narrow by associating it with pooja’. Why don’t you reopen the temples? Have you abandoned Hindutva, become secular… Our Hindutva is not narrow, is comprehensive,” he said. Thackeray and Koshyari were at loggerheads recently over opening of temples through exchange of letters between them over the issue. The governor had questioned if Thackeray had turned ‘secular’ and it had stirred controversy after the letter got public. “They say my Hindutva is different from that of Balasaheb Thackeray. Your Hindutva is about clanging bells and utensils, our Hindutva is not like that. Those questioning our Hindutva now were hiding with tail between their legs when Babri mosque was demolished,” said Thackeray, referring to tasks given by PM Modi during the lockdown. Referring to actor Kangana Ranaut’s remarks comparing Mumbai to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir, Thackeray said those who come to Mumbai for livelihood are abusing Mumbai by comparing it with PoK. “You are able to put your foot in PoK. But, if a PoK is being created in a country that is ruled by Modi, then it is the failure of PM and is not of the state,” he said. Thackeray asked PM Modi to accept the failure of the goods and services tax (GST) system and rectify it and appealed to chief ministers of all other States to get together and revert to old taxation system if new tax system cannot be rectified. The Centre owes ₹38,000 crore in GST compensation dues to Maharashtra. “We are not getting our rightful GST dues and everyone (other non-BJP state governments) is complaining about it. The country is not a property that belongs to one political party.” Thackeray backed the Mumbai Police and said it would have found out if there was any wrongdoing in the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, without naming the actor. On the portrayal of the lawlessness in the state and use of drugs, Thackeray said he is proud of Mumbai and Maharashtra Police as it is the only force that has caught a terrorist alive. “He might have become Bihar’s son suddenly, but you started mudslinging on Maharashtra’s sons? On Maharashtra government, Thackeray family and on Aaditya [Thackeray]... You cannot do anything as we are clean,” said Thackeray, on the conspiracy theories following the actor’s death by suicide. Targeting the BJP for promising free Covid-19 vaccination in election manifesto in Bihar, Thackeray said, “You are talking about giving free vaccines in Bihar. Is the rest of the country Pakistan or Bangladesh or Kazakistan? Those speaking like that should be ashamed of themselves. You are the central government.” Thackeray also asked if BJP has turned secular by allying with Nitish Kumar or has the latter turned pro-Hindutva. “We expected that Uddhav Thackeray will speak about his government’s performance in last one year, but he spent his entire speech criticizing central government and the BJP. He does not have anything to narrate even before his party workers,” said Keshav Upadhye, chief spokesperson, Maharashtra BJP, said in a series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/our-hindutva-is-not-about-clanging-bells-and-utensils-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-attacks-bjp-at-dussehra-rally-in-mumbai/story-x4r4D5uzEZo0TzOSKMHuSK.html
26-10-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Police suspend entire police outpost for inaction action against illegal mining||In a major action against police personnel for not taking action against illegal mining, senior superintendent of police (SSP), US Nagar district on Sunday suspended ten police personnel - the entire staff of an outpost - and attached eight police personnel of another police outpost with the district police lines. According to US Nagar police, the action by SSP Daleep Singh Kunwar has been taken after complaints were received that police was not taking action against the illegal mining activities in the areas under the jurisdictions of Bannakhera outpost and Majhola outpost in the district.After looking into these complaints, SSP suspended the whole police staff of Bannakhera outpost (ten police personnel), including its in-charge, on Sunday evening. In another case, the entire police staff of Majhola outpost (eight police personnel) were attached to police lines.“We were receiving complaints from Bannakhera area of Bazpur and Majhola area of Khatima regarding police inaction against illegal mining. After looking into the matter, I have taken action against police personnel of these outposts, suspending ten and attaching 8 with the police lines,” stated Daleep Singh Kunwar, SSP US Nagar.New police personnel have been deployed by the SSP at both the outposts. They have reached their respective police outposts, said the police.Illegal mining is rampant in many parts of Kumaon in Uttarakhand, especially in Nainital and US Nagar districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-suspend-entire-police-outpost-for-inaction-action-against-illegal-mining/story-hKMs2US2PwAkU8iz2AKBiM.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees lowest Covid-19 death toll since June 18||Maharashtra on Sunday reported its lowest one-day Covid-19 death toll since June 18 (in 129 days) as 112 fatalities took the count to 43,264. The state also reported 6,059 new infections, taking the tally to 1,645,020.Mumbai, which crossed the 10,000 mark for deaths two days ago, remained on top, in terms of mortalities, with 46 more deaths taking the toll to 10,105. Following Mumbai; Pune and Nagpur reported nine and six deaths, respectively, on Sunday. Out of 36 districts and 27 cities, 35 districts and cities did not report any death in the past 24 hours. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state, however, remained at 2.63%. An official from the health department said the lower number of cases and deaths is also because of holidays for the heath machinery for the past two days.Maharashtra’s CFR has, however, been hovering around 2.65%, when it has been dropping significantly at the national level and in some other states. From 3.24% on August 25, it dropped to 2.67% on September 26 and 2.63% on Sunday.Pune district clocked the second-highest number of cases, 651 (298 in city, 203 rural parts and 150 in Pimpri-Chichwad), after Mumbai. Nagpur added 396 infections, Sangli 433 and Nashik 194. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) remained the highest contributor to the state’s tally with 36.47% or 2,210 cases. The recovery rate, however, improved to 88.8%, after 5,648 patients were reported to have recovered on Sunday, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,460,755. The number of active patients dropped to 140,486, including 25,110 in Pune, 21,950 in Thane.“The CFR is highest in Mumbai as the cases from neighbouring cities are referred here due to the high standard health infrastructure. In some of the rural parts, the health infrastructure is still poor, leading to the deaths. The tracking of the contacts of the infected people has reduced and this has been resulting in late referral of patients to health facilities. Patients coming on 3rd or 4th day of symptoms leads to the high CFR,” said an official from health department, requesting anonymity.The daily caseload of infection has been steadily coming down over past four weeks, taking it to the level of cases reported in August. In first 25 days of October, 260,574 cases and 6602 deaths have been reported, against 508,216 cases and 10,178 deaths between September 1 and 25. In August, 281,705 cases and 7,800 deaths were reported in 25 days. Dr Sanjay Pattivar, public health consultant, has a word of caution. He said that if the daily caseload remained at low till November 15, we can say that downward trend has begun. “We will have to wait for at least two incubation cycles of 14 days each to assess if the unlocking measures, festive season have led to spread of infection. It is true that for last four weeks, the infections are on a decline, but people should not let their guard down. It may lead to a rise in infections. At least half the citizens on the street do not follow the Covid-19 protocol and norms of personal hygiene. Government should launch a campaign to create awareness about importance of these things,” he said.60,891 tests were conducted in 24 hours at a positivity rate of 9.95%, against the overall positivity rate of 19.11%. The has 2,518,016 people under home quarantine and 13,572 under institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-lowest-covid-19-death-toll-since-june-18/story-fQPYflbnI0uIV8mdBCXW0J.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Stubble burning continues in Greater Noida villages, air quality deteriorates to near severe||Noida: Even as some areas of Gautam Budh Nagar choked on ‘severe’ air quality on Sunday, stubble burning continues unabated in rural pockets of Noida, despite curbs.Several large mounds of stubble were set afire late Saturday on the agriculture field along the Yamuna Expressway near Jewar and Rabupura areas, with officials yet to inspect the areas. According to experts, instances of stubble burning are set to increase towards the first week of November, when paddy harvesting is in its last stage.Meanwhile, officials of the Uttar Pradesh agriculture department – which is responsible for checking stubble burning and acting against violators – said they will look into the matter and will visit the spot to ascertain the scale of burning, and take action.“We will get the said area checked and act against violators. We are vigilant about stubble burning and are aiming to minimise and discourage it. We act on the basis of satellite images and receive the reports on a daily basis, which contains coordinates of the suspected area that shows high light or fire intensity. A local official is sent to inspect the suspected area and based on the confirmation, penalties are imposed,” said Manveer Singh, deputy director, agriculture, Gautam Budh Nagar.He added that so far, one FIR has been registered against a farmer in Dankaur for alleged stubble burning.“We have so far found only one defaulter in Dankaur area and an FIR was registered against him. Since our aim is to discourage stubble burning and it was a first time offence, the department did not impose a penalty,” said Singh.He added that the penalty against stubble burning is ₹2,500 for a farm up to two acres, ₹5,000 for farm up to four acres and ₹15,000 for above four acres.“We are taking steps to encourage farmers through advertisements and awareness campaigns not to burn stubble. Farmers are also being encouraged to convert stubble into fodder or manure. However, instances still occur and are also dealt with strictly. We are actively monitoring such cases,” said AN Mishra, joint director, state agriculture department, Meerut.Meanwhile, experts said that stubble burning is responsible for at least 15-20% of the city’s air pollution.“As winters are approaching, the mixing height reduces and pollutants aggregate near the surface. Stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh makes it worse by contributing up to 20% (of the air pollution). The main contribution of stubble burning is the pollutant PM2.5, which mixes in the blood stream and affects health. Instances of stubble burning are likely to increase by the first week of November and that’s when the air quality will further deteriorate. In Noida, it’s already in the ‘very-poor’ category, while one monitoring station showed ‘severe’ air quality. Immediate curbs, such as discouraging stubble burning at least at the local level, are a must,” said Shambhavi Shukla, program officer, air quality at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).On Sunday, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 362 or ‘very poor’ against 347 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was at 379, also ‘very poor’, against 356 a day earlier.Meanwhile, Greater Noida turned out to be the most polluted area in the National Capital Region, with an AQI of 392, eight points shy from reaching the ‘severe’ category, on Sunday against 356 a day earlier.According to data from the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), AQI at the Knowledge Park-V metro station in Greater Noida was 419 on a scale of 0 to 500, or ‘severe’.“The main reason of deterioration in the air quality in Greater Noida area is meteorological, but other sources such as unauthorised industrial and domestic waste burning, etc., aid the scenario. In the last three days, we have imposed penalties on five such violators and are actively monitoring any such violations,” said Archna Dwivedi, regional officer, UPPCB, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/stubble-burning-continues-in-greater-noida-villages-air-quality-deteriorates-to-near-severe/story-RwTGNxHD1qCzsNDnt6j2QO.html
26-10-2020||Noida||Concessionaire floats tenders for safety rigs along Yamuna Expressway||GREATER NOIDA: The Jaypee Infratech Limited (JIL), the concessionaire of the Yamuna Expressway, has started the process to select a contractor who can install guard rail and crash barriers, among other safety features, on the 165km expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra. This is being done based on the safety audit report of the expressway by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi, which had suggested that crash barriers be installed on two sides of the divider on the expressway for safety to motorists. The audit was conducted following directions from the Supreme Court.The JIL has invited bids from contractors or private agencies who can apply for this project, tenders for which have been advertised on JIL’s website. “Contractors or private agencies can apply for the project till December 26, 2020. All information on this is available on www.jaypeeinfratech.com. The guard rails and metal crash barriers have to be installed on two sides of the divider,” said Anuj Jain, the interim resolution professional, in a statement via this advertisement. According to officials of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), once the agency is hired, the work may take up to a year.IIT-Delhi was hired in August 2018 by Yeida to conduct a safety audit of this expressway. Following criticism from the Supreme Court on a petition seeking motorists’ safety on the expressway, the Uttar Pradesh government had, several times in the past, directed officials to beef up enforcement to contain speeding and other traffic violations, to contain the incidents of accidents and casualties on the expressway. In a follow up to the apex court’s directions, Yeida has asked JIL to take multiple measures for passengers’ safety, including installation of metal crash barriers. As per the deadline, JIL was told to install all safety features by March-end this year. “However Jaypee could not install all safety features so far. The metal crash barriers and guard rails are crucial for passengers’ safety because if a vehicle is met with an accident then the crash barrier can minimise the damage to a vehicle,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.The seven points suggested in IIT-Delhi’s safety audit report are additional signage (distance bar markings) before exit ramps, remove lane system, installation of rumble strips at entry and exit ramps, installation of crash attenuators at exit ramps, audible shoulder markings throughout corridor, removal of all signposts from the shoulders, shoulder guard rails to be reinstalled as per standard specifications, crash barriers and replacement of existing raised median (divider) with flush median, and central guard rail as per the standard. The management of JIL could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/concessionaire-floats-tenders-for-safety-rigs-along-yamuna-expressway/story-fQ7mT9zKZi1GBkFtZT4idN.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi marks a dull Dussehra||Dussehra in Delhi was a low-key affair this year, with restrictions in light of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic forcing several Ramlila programmes to shift online and only four organisers permitted to carry on with the effigy-burning ritual, as against 800 small and big ones last year.Senior officials in the Delhi revenue department said that last year, around 800 Ramlila organisers had got permission for the ritual, where effigies of Ravana, Kumbhkaran and Meghnad are burnt at open spaces in public view. The height of the effigies can range from a few feet to over a hundred feet. Such events are often marked by gatherings, food courts, fairs and public celebrations across the city, most of which are restricted this year to prevent the further spread of Covid-19.“My greetings to everyone on this day which marks the victory of good over evil. Soon, humanity would stand victorious against the covid-19 demon,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia thanked residents of the city for keeping celebrations low-key in the light of the pandemic and rising air pollution. He said, “We must resolve to defeat today’s evils — pollution and Covid-19.”Delhi on Sunday recorded 4,136 new cases of Covid-19, taking the cumulative number of infections to 356,656 — even as 323,654 people have recovered and 6,258 have died of the disease. Some of the prominent Ramlila-Dussehra event committees in the city refrained from organising any programmes this year, so they did not seek any permission from the district administration and the police at any stage. The most prominent of these is the Luv-Kush Ramlila Committee, which organises the event every year in the Red Fort premises — an event attended by VIPs and senior political figures, cutting across party lines.“This is our contribution in ensuring a Covid-free and pollution-free Delhi. We have tried to set an example. Now we shall be campaigning for a firecracker-free Diwali too,” said Arun Kumar, the committee’s general secretary, who met Sisodia at his residence on Sunday, where the committee organised a symbolic celebration.Several other organisers in the city followed suit.“It is unsafe to organise anything that can lead to gatherings, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are performing the temple rituals, but there will be no Ramila and effigy burning,” said Yogesh Pahuja, office bearer in the resident welfare association in Lajpat Nagar 2, which is one of the prominent Ramlila organisers in the city.Some of them went on to organise laser-light shows and cake-cutting ceremonies instead, with no gatherings.The four organisers who got permission are in Shastri Park, Vinod Nagar, GTB Enclave and Karkardooma, and the size of the permitted effigies in these areas range between 30 and 70 feet. However, the crowd size was limited to 200 in the venues. As a workaround, organisers said they would stream the event live on their Facebook pages.“We have installed sanitiser dispensers at the gates, and all visitors will be thermally scanned. This year, we will burn four effigies. The fourth one will represent the coronavirus,” said Hareesh Chaudhary of Vishnu Avatar Ramlila in Shastri Park.Another revenue department official said that around 50 organisers in the city sought permission to burn effigies around a fortnight ago, but were not issued no-objection certificates (NOC) owing to safety reasons.In the last one month, a lot has gone into convincing these organisers for giving up on plans for the festivities this year, government officials said.“In one district alone, we have engaged with around 600 temple committees who participate in the Dussehra festivities. We communicated the problems that any potentially large gathering could entail. People have to be more cautious during the festive season”, said Neha Bansal, district magistrate (West Delhi).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-marks-a-dull-dussehra/story-tIwvwHETGTgwcuZK2It9aM.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||18-year-old woman found dead in Delhi’s Tahirpur||An 18-year-old woman was found dead in a house on Sunday afternoon in northeast Delhi’s Tahirpur, where she lived with her uncle and aunt. Police said investigation revealed the woman’s uncle and aunt begged for a living. Police said the woman’s uncle, who is the prime suspect, is on the run. “The victim did not have any visible injury on her body. We are probing the cause of the murder,” a senior police officer said.The woman had recently cleared her class 12 board exams, the police said, and her parents live in Bihar.The matter was reported around noon when Nand Nagri police station received a call informing them about the murder. The police team that reached the spot found the woman’s body in the house. “A woman, who introduced herself as the aunt of the deceased, told police that she and her husband work as beggars. She said the dead woman was her niece and lived with them. She said that when she returned home on Saturday night, she found the door locked from outside. She waited for her husband to return home, but when he did not return, she slept in the neighbour’s house,” said a police officer who wished not to be named. The officer said that when the woman returned home on Sunday morning, the door was still locked and her husband had not returned. “She then broke open the door with the help of her neighbours and found her niece lying unconscious on the floor,” he said.The police then took the woman to a hospital, where she was pronounced dead and her body shifted to a mortuary for a post-mortem examination. Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said a case of murder has been registered. “We are searching for the woman’s uncle who is absconding. He is our prime suspect. The woman did not have any apparent fatal injuries and an autopsy will confirm the cause of death,” Surya said.Police have also not ruled out the possibility of sexual assault and are waiting for the post-mortem reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/18-year-old-woman-found-dead-in-delhi-s-tahirpur/story-JOEtzSk6spoVWEEfsWoYTJ.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||AAP attacks BJP over strike by municipal doctors||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party over non-payment of salaries to doctors of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao hospital. While Delhi health minister Satyender Jain said that the MCDs, which are ruled by the BJP, have funds for putting up hoardings but not for paying doctors, AAP incharge of MCD affairs Durgesh Pathak said the North civic body was harassing senior doctors who were supporting their protesting colleagues. The BJP rejected the charges as baseless. “Salaries are paid by the Municipal Corporation of Delhi. Instead of paying doctors’ salaries, don’t know where MCD is spending its funds. They have money for hoardings but not for salaries,” Jain said. He said that the government has written a letter to the civic bodies asking them to hand over hospitals to Delhi government if they were not able to properly run them properly. “It is evident that the municipal corporations are not able to properly run and manage their hospitals. We have written a letter to BJP led MCD to handover hospitals to Delhi govt, to avoid any further inconveniences to the medical, para-medical staff, and the patients coming to the hospital,” he said.The resident doctors of the Hindu Rao hospital, the biggest municipal hospital in Delhi, and Kasturba Hospital are protesting to demand salaries of the last three months. Both facilities are run by North MCD. In a statement issued on Saturday, the Municipal Corporation Doctors’ Association (MCDA) had said it has already has given sufficient time to concerned authorities to resolve the issue and pay the salaries, “but they have not done anything to solve the problem, and instead appear to be unconcerned with the plight of doctors”.Pathak said, “Doctors in the MCD hospital are protesting for not having received their salaries for around five months now. It is shameful that instead of disbursing their salaries, the BJP-led North MCD is threatening to remove four senior doctors who stood in support of the protesting resident doctors and nurses. Their transfer orders have already been issued.” He further said, “We demand that the BJP-ruled MCDs revoke the transfer orders against the four senior doctors, stop harassing them and pay salaries of the pending employees. If they cannot do so, they should hand over the charge of their hospitals to the Delhi government.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that Pathak’s statement on transfer of doctors is “baseless”. He further said: “North MCD has not transferred any doctor. It is a matter of short deputation from one hospital to another in the light of temporary staff shortage. Delhi BJP advises AAP leaders to stop playing dirty politics during the health emergency. Instead, the AAP government should come forward and extend financial package immediately to help ending the strike including of doctors in the MCD hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-attacks-bjp-over-strike-by-municipal-doctors/story-hY7r0uux0O4vGQpC6TyLKP.html
26-10-2020||Mumbai||Stubble burning: Researchers look for tech solutions as daily fire count crosses 1,000 mark in Punjab, Haryana||Burning of rice stubble has started earlier than usual this year with daily fire counts crossing the 1,000-mark in Punjab and Haryana combined, revealed the data by Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), an independent policy research institution, on Thursday.Stubble or straw is the residue left behind in large quantities after harvesting the paddy crops. Most farmers are forced to burn the stubble as a quick way of getting rid of the residue so they can begin sowing the next crop. This mass burning of agriculture residue leads to emission of particulate matter (PM-10 and PM-2.5) and greenhouse gases (GHG), which contribute to the poor air quality in Punjab, Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). Between September 1 and October 20, the CEEW has recorded more than 9,000 fires. Simultaneously, the air quality in Delhi-NCR has dropped to a very poor category with air quality index (AQI) crossing the 300 mark. AQI value over 300 represents hazardous air quality.The harvest of rice in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, which usually peaks at the end of October, will mature early this year. In July a labour shortage induced by the Covid-19 pandemic forced farmers to sow their rice seeds directly in the fields instead of transplanting seedlings from nurseries. With rice crop maturing eight to 10 days earlier than usual, harvest season has kicked off, as have rice stubble burning incidents. While the central and state governments are trying out a host of policy measures and alternatives for collection and disposal of stubble, science and technology institutes are also working on interventions for processing the waste.Addressing problem at the rootPunjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, which has seen moderate success with the widely used happy seeder—a tractor-operated machine that can sow wheat seeds even in standing paddy stubble—has also developed hybrid straw management systems (SMS). A super seeder is a tractor-mounted machine that can plough the stubble and sow wheat seeds simultaneously. “It is a combined harvesting system,” said Mahesh Kumar Narang, principal extension scientist, farm machinery and power engineering, PAU. However, the super seeder throws the ploughed straw to the centre of the field and additional labour may be required to remove the straw. To address this, the PAU has developed Super SMS, which can be fitted to the super seeder. The Super SMS chops the ploughed straw evenly and distributes it evenly over the field. This helps manage the entire straw residue within the field. The super seeder is currently priced at ₹1.10 lakh, he added. “For a farmer, the price for using the super seeder is almost ₹350 to ₹400 more per acre than using a happy seeder. However, the labour cost of mulching the stubble is eliminated,” said Narang. Along similar lines, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, has designed a stubble removing machine (SRM) and collection trolley, which can cut the stubble and collect the residue in a trolley at the same time. Happy seeder, super seeder and SRM are comparatively cheaper than traditional balers that are priced at ₹7-8 lakh, said Narang.High yield and green alternative to coalThe rice straw holds potential as an alternative to coal in thermal power plants is widely accepted. However, paddy residue has seen very little success in its use as fuel in power plants because it has to be processed before it can be used as a fuel in a thermal plant.The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Physical Laboratory (CSIR-NPL) in Delhi, proposes heating the straw at very high temperatures in controlled conditions to convert the residue into high-yield bio coal—an environment-friendly alternative to coal.“There are inherent problems in using raw rice straw as fuel because there is high moisture content and the gross calorific value (GCV) is low, which makes it difficult to use in large scale,” said Sanjay Dhakate, chief scientist and head of advanced carbon products group, CSIR-NPL. The solution proposed by Dhakate is using heat in a controlled environment to convert agri-waste into coal-like material. This is called torrefaction. As a pilot, NPL has set up a small stainless-steel plant in its lab for torrefying rice straw by applying heat from 250 to 400 degrees Celsius. The plant redirects the gases emitted to generate power to back the plant in turn. “We have found that on torrefaction at 250°C, the GCV of the residue is 3,762 kcal/kg and it further increases to 4,342, 5,129 and 5,339 kcal/kg with an increase in torrefaction temperature from 300°C to 400°C,” said Dhakate. This is comparable to the calorific value of coal used in thermal plants (6000-8000 kcal/ kg). The NPL is currently working with National Thermal Power Corporation Limited for large-scale implementation of torrefaction of rice straw. Darpan Das, a postdoctoral fellow at Johns Hopkins University, USA, also endorses torrefaction. He offers the concept of ‘briquetting’ of rice straw to curb emissions, a process involving compaction of fuel to an energy-densified material. Formerly a PhD student at IIT-Bombay, Das has used the same, as a strategy to reduce emissions from domestic applications of coal in cookstoves. “This can be used for agro-residues for efficient conversion to bio-briquettes which can cater to the household energy needs of the country. Briquettes can also serve as additional support to the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana scheme of providing LPG to every citizen,” said Das.Cost, feasibility a challenge for implementation, say expertsCollection of rice straws is a labour-intensive and expensive process, even with the machines in place, say experts. In Punjab alone, around 13,000 happy seeders and 200-odd super seeder machines were deployed last year, according to Narang. For a state that generates 19.7 metric tonne of paddy straw, the CEEW estimates the requirement of 35,000 happy seeder machines.“While there is a rise in takers for the machines with the subsidy offered by the government, there is a big gap in the number of machines that are required and are available,” said LS Kurinji, research analyst, CEEW. Large-scale dissemination of technology is a challenge in implementation, agreed Das.There are 290 manufacturers of various straw management machines empanelled with the government of India. In Punjab, individual farmers get a 50% subsidy on the purchase of a machine and cooperatives can avail a subsidy of 75%. “The subsidy for buying straw management machines should continue for at least three more years so that farmers continue to invest in them,” said Ajay Vir Jakhar, chairperson of the Punjab state farmers’ and farmworkers’ commission.For power plants to substitute coal with biomass, too, is not an easy task. “Technologically it is possible to use rice straw as fuel in thermal power plants. The problem is the plants are too far away from the paddy fields. This adds to the transportation cost. Ideally, Punjab and Haryana should buy up the agri-waste to fuel the power plants within the states,” said Ajay Mathur, director-general of The Energy and Resources Institute.“Instead of dictating a policy to promote the use of biomass as a coal substitute in power plants, the government should set out guidelines for disposing of rice straw in an environment-friendly way. This will give entrepreneurs and researchers to find disruptive solutions to the problem,” said Jakhar, adding that to promote innovation, the government should set up funds for competitions seeking solutions. BOX:The problem: The air quality in north India, particularly along the Indo-Gangetic plains, stoops to dangerously low levels between October and November every year. This is also the time when farmers in the region set fire to their agricultural waste after harvesting their paddy fields.Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are the biggest producers of rice in the country in the Kharif season between May and November every year. In 2017-18, almost 62% of all the rice procured by the Food Corporation of India came from these states. Harvesting begins in October and peaks by the end of the month. At the end of the harvest, stubbles of paddy are left rooted in the fields. Farmers usually have barely two weeks to clear this stubble so they can start sowing the next crop, which is wheat. Left with a heap of unwanted rice stubble, with little time to dispose of it, farmers set fire to the heaps and use the ash as a fertiliser. However, stubble burning emits greenhouse gases and harmful particulate matter into the air, which leads to pollution. Punjab alone generates 19.7 million metric tonnes of rice straw in a year. Burning of rice straw releases particulate matter and harmful gases such as carbon monoxide and nitrous oxide. These emissions pose severe health risks and can be detrimental to lung functions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stubble-burning-researchers-look-for-tech-solutions-as-daily-fire-counts-crosses-1-000-mark-in-punjab-haryana/story-DHS8EBwXu1o7efGtjxTTjL.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||How Delhi’s RK Puram improved its air quality||In October last year, the air in south Delhi’s RK Puram was thick with pollutants. Smoke from garbage being burnt, dust from construction, and noxious fumes from vehicles zooming past Ring Road and Outer Ring Road had pushed this residential area into the infamous list of most polluted areas in the national capital. But this year, things are different. Data data shows that RK Puram — one of the city’s 13 pollution hot spots, where pollution levels are considerably higher than the rest of Delhi — showed the highest reduction in PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels compared to the other highly polluted spots. This, officials said, was brought on by stricter enforcement of anti-pollution norms and better participation by residents and the general public.In January this year, when the national capital experienced its worst spell of air, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that PM2.5 levels in RK Puram went down by 42% compared to 2019. This was the biggest improvement seen in any of the 13 hot spots. Similarly, levels of PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometers) in January 2020 came down by as much as 34%, compared to the same period in 2019.In February, when enforcement teams withdraw from areas as wind speeds pick up, the reduction in PM 2.5 levels was 37% this year, even as eight hot spots saw spikes as compared to 2019. PM10 levels also recorded a marginal 2% drop.Data recorded between October 1 and October 25, also spells out a similar reduction. On Friday and Saturday, when Delhi’s air plunged to the ‘very poor’ category, and most hot spots slipped into the ‘severe’ zone, RK Puram managed to maintain an AQI value in the ‘very poor’ category throughout the day. Officials from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said that strict enforcement and public participation led to this change. Since 2018, when RK Puram entered the list of hot spots, enforcement teams said they have been able to control several local sources of pollution, a drive that resident welfare associations (RWAs) kept alive. Open garbage burning, which was one of the biggest problems in the area, has been controlled to a great extent. Open air eateries that relied on unclean fuel have either been shut down or have switched to cleaner alternatives. “RK Puram is among the few areas in the list [of hot spots] where controlling pollution sources was relatively easier, because it is a residential area, with no large polluting industries or transport hubs in the vicinity, as is the problem with some other areas like Bawana, Mundka and Anand Vihar,” a senior DPCC official said. The official also said that while garbage-burning cannot be controlled completely, engagement programmes with local RWAs helped greatly reduce their occurrences. “Since this is largely a middle-class residential colony, engaging residents helped our cause. There are still some problem areas, mainly some of the slum clusters in sectors 12, 7 and 5, where waste is burnt in the open when it gets cold, but we are trying to find alternatives for them,” the official added. Apart from the local sources, DPCC officials said the area has also benefitted from the completion of two major construction projects. The Delhi Metro in 2018 wrapped up work on its Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar), which stretches through the Ring Road crossing RK Puram sectors 12, 13 and Moti Bagh. On the other side of the locality, the long-pending construction of the new Rao Tula Ram (RTR) flyover was also completed in 2019. These projects have also eased traffic jams, in turn bringing down vehicular emission levels, the officials said. Residents here, however, said a lot can be done here to further bring pollution under control. Sumedha Suri, a resident of Sector 8, said road dust and vehicular pollution are issues that agencies continue to ignore. “After 9-10pm, when the winds become calm, you can see the haze because of the dust flying around. Municipal agencies had promised mechanised sweeping, but none of us have ever seen the machines,” Suri said. The data backs Suri’s fears up. CPCB records show that while there was a marked improvement in PM2.5 levels, there was a negligible drop in the levels of PM10, which is primarily dust. The air in the area is also hampered by the presence of Ring Road and Outer Ring Road — two arterial roads that see high vehicular volume. Bhure Lal, chairperson of the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA), said these hot spots were marked to target action in these places. “The idea is to redress the issue that each of these 13 hot spots is facing. That is what we intend to do by focusing on these areas. Monitoring agencies are continuing to keep a close watch on sources of pollutions in each of these areas to find the best enforcement measures here,” Lal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/how-rk-puram-improved-its-air-quality/story-fBWInd7274OuRz8lfuezuN.html
26-10-2020||Delhi||Man being quizzed in car theft case dies after falling off 1st floor of police station||A 52-year-old man who was called in for questioning regarding a case of vehicle theft died after being seriously injured while in police custody at the Lodhi Colony station on Saturday. While the police suspect the man died after falling from the first floor of the station while trying to flee, a police officer was suspended and a judicial inquiry ordered. Police said the man, Dharambir Singh, was called to the station because his auto-rickshaw had been used by two men who had stolen a car in Lodhi Colony on Thursday. A police spokesperson said officers rushed the man to the hospital after finding him unconscious in the station’s courtyard. He, however, died during treatment, the police said.The two alleged thieves were arrested on Saturday.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said a car theft was reported at Lodhi Colony police station on October 22 (Thursday), and that CCTV footage showed two men arriving in an autorickshaw and fleeing with the car.“Our team then traced the auto-rickshaw owner and found that his father, Dharambir, had rented out the vehicle to one Satish, a resident of Fatehpur Beri. After interrogating Dharambir on Friday, we managed to nab Satish on Saturday, who was one of the suspects spotted in the CCTV footage. On Satish’s information, we also arrested his accomplice Ghewar Ram Chowdhary, who also lives in Fatehpur Beri and is involved in at least 32 previous criminal cases,” the DCP said. Police said Dharambir had been summoned to by an assistant sub-inspector, who was probing the case.“On Saturday, when Dharambir was being questioned on the first floor of Lodhi Colony police station, ASI Vijay went to the restroom around 2:45pm. When he returned, he did not find Dharambir in the room. When he looked out of a window, he saw Dharambir on the floor in the central courtyard of the police station. He was rushed to the AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he died during treatment,” the DCP said. Thakur said Dharambir’s family members were informed, and his body sent for a post-mortem examination. Police said they suspect Dharambir fell off the first floor while attempting to flee the station, fearing he would be arrested.“The matter was reported to the chief metropolitan magistrate for needful action. Disciplinary action has been initiated and ASI Vijay and has been suspended. A judicial enquiry is underway,” Thakur added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-being-quizzed-in-car-theft-case-dies-after-falling-off-1st-floor-of-delhi-police-station/story-5WAb94ae09wRCa5VZfJWXK.html
26-10-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: Oxford shot sees immune response, Fauci makes a verdict||The world, keenly waiting for a vaccine to defeat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), might just be able to turn a corner with Oxford University’s candidate showing promising results. This could signal relief for ravaged economies and overworked healthcare systems in major nations battling the viral contagion that has claimed 1.15 million lives.According to British and Swedish drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc, the drug AZD1222 has shown immune response in older and younger adults, with reduced adversarial effects among the elderly. Officials from the vaccine developer have said that it is ‘encouraging to see immunogenicity responses were similar between older and younger adults and that reactogenicity was lower in older adults, where the Covid-19 disease severity is higher’.“The results further build the body of evidence for the safety and immunogenicity of AZD1222,” an AstraZeneca spokesperson said.Here are the other Covid-19 vaccine developments you need to know today:- Fauci says vaccine verdict due by early DecemberStating that a verdict on safety and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccine is likely to emerge in early December, US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said more widespread vaccination would not be likely until later in 2021.“We will know whether a vaccine is safe and effective by the end of November, the beginning of December,” Fauci said, according to Reuters. “When you talk about vaccinating a substantial proportion of the population so that you can have a significant impact on the dynamics of the outbreak, that very likely will not be until the second or third quarter of the year,” Fauci said.- Qatar signs deal to buy Moderna Covid-19 vaccineJoining the league of countries queuing up to buy Moderna Inc’s Covid-19 vaccine, Qatar has signed an agreement with the drugmaker. The country will buy the potential vaccine once it clears the approval round and is made available for global use, Reuters reported.“Negotiating early and securing a number of agreements enhances our chances of getting sufficient quantities of the vaccine early,” said Abdullatif al-Khal, chair of a national Covid-19 health group and head of infectious diseases at Hamad Medical Corporation.Moderna, it said, is on track to produce 20 million doses of its vaccine by the end of the year, while maintaining its goal of readying 500 million to 1 billion doses in 2021.- Israel in global race of Covid-19 vaccine human trialsAnnouncing its plan to join the global race of running human trials of Covid-19 vaccine, Israel said its potential drug will be developed by a research institute and will be overlooked by the country’s defence ministry on November 1 after receiving regulatory approval.- UK not hopeful of Covid-19 vaccine this yearA top UK official on Monday said he saw abysmal hopes of the country securing a Covid-19 vaccine and said that it is placing its central expectations in the first half of 2021. “On my central expectation, I would expect the bulk of the rollout to be in the first half of next year,” Matt Hancock, the British health secretary, said. On some people receiving a vaccine this year, he replied: “I don’t rule that out but that is not my central expectation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-oxford-shot-sees-immune-response-fauci-makes-a-verdict/story-qCJIINWDaMFFQHEIYfyG4K.html
26-10-2020||World||UK judge rejects Nirav Modi’s bail request. It was his sixth||Diamantaire Nirav Modi, who was arrested in London in March 2019, was on Monday denied bail for the sixth time after the Westminster Magistrates Court refused to accept a ‘change of circumstances’ since his last application.The magistrates court has now refused him bail four times; the high court of England and Wales, as well as the appeals court, had earlier rejected similar requests. “There was a hearing for bail application today, it was not granted. The next hearing is listed for November 3,” a spokesperson of the Westminster Magistrates Court said.Nirav Modi, 49, remains lodged in the Wandsworth prison, awaiting further hearings in his extradition case. The case was heard over five days in September and is scheduled for further hearings on November 3 and December 1 in the magistrates court. The grounds mentioned by his legal team for seeking bail have included his worsening medical condition and threats to him in jail.Modi has offered progressively higher amounts (4 million pounds in March) and to follow more stringent conditions as part of bail packages, but judges have rejected the applications on the ground that he potentially poses a flight risk.Modi is the subject of two extradition requests; one processed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the other by the Enforcement Directorate. Under UK extradition rules, the court needs to determine whether there is a prima facie case based on material supplied by the Indian government.Also Read: ‘Nirav Modi won’t get fair trial in India’: Ex-SC judge Katju tells London courtThe charges against Modi involve loans in excess of Rs 11,300 crore extended by the Mumbai branch of Punjab National Bank (PNB) to his companies.The CBI case accuses him of large-scale fraud by fraudulently obtaining loan agreements, formally referred to as Letters of Understanding (LOUs); the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of this alleged fraud.The second extradition request was made on the basis of two additional offences as part of the CBI case. It was certified by home secretary Priti Patel on February 20 as required under the 1993 India-UK extradition treaty.The additional offences relate to allegations that Modi interfered with the CBI investigation by “causing disappearance of evidence” and intimidating witnesses (”criminal intimidation to cause death”).India’s case is that Modi and his companies obtained loans without credit facilities in place; without providing the requisite cash margin; without proper documentation; without paying a proper commission and LOUs not being properly recorded in PNB’s systems; and the proceeds of which were wrongly diverted either to repay earlier loans and/or to the benefit of a series of linked Modi-controlled companies.The Indian government, which is represented in the court by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), has alleged that the fraudulent LOUs would not have been issued without the active involvement of the co-accused PNB officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-judge-rejects-nirav-modi-s-bail-request-it-was-his-sixth-application/story-iy9RgtnORuhD8qW69m3GeO.html
26-10-2020||World||Germany warns of ‘consequences’ if Thai king breaches law||Germany warned of “immediate consequences” if Thailand’s King Maha Vajiralongkorn broke the law on its soil as thousands of protesters gathered outside its embassy in Bangkok on Monday, stepping up the pressure in their campaign for changes to the monarchy.The demonstrators submitted a letter questioning the king’s legal status in the European country and requesting Germany to probe whether he has exercised royal authority during his time there in violation of the country’s law. The petition is meant to help Thailand return “to the path of truthful constitutional monarchy,” according to a joint statement issued by protest organizers.“We have not only been looking into that in recent weeks, but on a regular basis,” German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said at a news conference. “If there are things we consider to be illegal, that will have immediate consequences.”The king, who is currently in Bangkok, spends much of his time in Germany. Calls to the Bureau of the Royal Household seeking comments went unanswered.The march came as lawmakers began a debate on the pro-democracy demonstrations that pose a challenge to the royalist elite that has run Thailand for much of its history. The protesters want Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-Ocha to resign, changes to a constitution written after a 2014 coup and greater accountability and transparency for the monarchy — the most powerful institution in the country.Parliament DebatePrayuth, who has ignored calls to quit, said on Monday parliament will consider the process of charter amendment next month with a target to wrap it up in three readings in December. But the new constitution will not come into force until extensive public hearings are concluded, he said.The prime minister has previously said the government is open to amending some unspecified parts of the constitution though parliament last month stalled the charter amendment process. Protesters say the constitution, which allows a military-appointed Senate to vote for the prime minister, was instrumental in helping Prayuth maintain power.Sompong Amornwiwat, a leader of the opposition Pheu Thai Party, said Prayuth must resign to de-escalate the situation and urged the government to consider protesters’ demand for amending the constitution without any delay. He also called for the immediate release of arrested pro-democracy activists and an end to harassment of those opposed to the government.The protesters said the parliament sitting was being used to insult and slander the anti-government movement. “If politics is good, there would be no protests today,” the Thammasat group said on Facebook.The protesters also asked Germany to clarify if King Vajiralongkorn will be liable to pay inheritance tax given his long stay in the European country and investigate the human rights record of the king and his courtiers, a copy of the letter released by the pro-democracy groups show.Prayuth has struggled to quell the protest movement, forcing him to withdraw a state of emergency in the capital within a week of its imposition and asking protesters to “take a step back” to de-escalate the situation. But protesters rejected the olive branch and called for more protests.Prayuth’s PerformanceAn opinion poll by Suan Dusit University showed that more than 62% of respondents felt discontent with Prayuth’s performance was the key reason for the escalating protest movement. Another survey by the National Institute of Development Administration showed 59% of the 1,336 respondents are worried the protests will lead to violence and conflict.The Thai government may be drawn into a “prolonged stand-off with the protesters, coupled with the arrests and harassment of leaders, in hopes of the movement’s losing momentum,” said Christopher Ankersen, associate professor at New York University’s School of Professional Studies Center for Global Affairs.If the government is forced to make some compromise, a drafting of a new constitution -- “a slow, long and arcane process” — could be used to buy time, Ankersen said, adding that Prayuth’s resignation could also be on the table.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-warns-of-consequences-if-thai-king-breaches-law/story-ye1mDLiIbv7ezczaFSt37K.html
26-10-2020||World||Imran Khan drags India into his letter to Facebook opposing Islamophobia||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has written a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, calling for a ban content promoting Islamophobia on the social network, and took potshots at India while championing his newly found cause.“I am writing to draw your attention to the growing Islamophobia that is encouraging hate, extremism and violence across the world and especially through the use of social media platforms including Facebook,” he wrote.Noting that Facebook took steps to ban any posting that criticises or questions the Holocaust, a similar pogrom against Muslims in different parts of the world has been witnessed.In response to Khan’s appeal, a Facebook spokeswoman told Reuters the company was against all forms of hate and that it did not allow attacks based on race, ethnicity, national origin or religion.“We’ll remove this hate speech as soon as we become aware of it,” the spokeswoman said in an emailed statement, adding that the company had “more work to do”.In some states, Muslims are being denied their citizenship rights and democratic personal choices from dress to worship, Khan said in the letter.“In India, anti-Muslim laws and measures such as CAA and NRC as well as targeted killings of Muslims and blaming Muslims for coronavirus are reflective of the abominable phenomenon of Islamophobia,” he said.He added that in France, Islam has been associated with terrorism and publication of blasphemous cartoons targeting Islam and the Holy Prophet has been allowed. “This will lead to further polarisation and marginalisation of Muslims in France. How will the French distinguish between radical extremist Muslim citizens and the mainstream Muslim citizenry of Islam?”PM Imran said marginalisation of any community leads to extremism, adding this is “something the world does not need.”“Given the rampant abuse and vilification of Muslims on social media platforms, I would ask you to place a similar ban on Islamophobia and hate against Islam for Facebook that you have put in place for the Holocaust,” the Pakistan PM urged the Facebook CEO.Imran Khan said that the message of hate must be banned in totality. “While hate messages against some are unacceptable, they cannot be allowed against others.”The world should not have to wait for a pogrom against Muslims, which he claimed is “ongoing in countries like India” before Islamophobia is banned. “This in itself is reflective of prejudice and bias that will encourage further radicalisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-drags-india-into-his-letter-to-facebook-opposing-islamophobia/story-ttTfvAzIIovaZ4ywL9t3KO.html
26-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: What is early voting and how will it impact the White House race?||Eight days before the November 3 US presidential elections, early voting has surpassed all the pre-poll ballots from 2016. The US Election Project run by the University of Florida said that as of October 25, more than 59 million people have already voted early in the elections. In 2016, 57 million people had voted early or by mail, according to the US Election Assistance Commission website.Here’s everything you need to know about early voting:What is early voting?Early voting is a convenient way of voting in which people are allowed to vote before the scheduled election day. This can be done either in- person at early voting stations or by post. This is a complex process as different states in the United States have different rules with respect to early voting. Also, voting early does not mean voting easily as in-person polling stations can also have long lines and some states have elaborate mail-in ballot processes. Why are people voting early in the elections?The major reason attributed to the increase in early voting is the Covid- 19 pandemic. Standing in long lines on the election day is certainly not conducive to the social distancing measures that need to be adopted because of the pandemic and thus more and more people are choosing to vote early. Also, at least US 30 states have made adjustments to make it easier for people to vote early and through absentee ballots. Also Read: Trump deploys 2016 playbook, Biden expands 2020 battle groundWhat is the stand of President Donald Trump and former vice president Joe Biden on early voting?Trump has been claiming since the beginning of the election cycle that mail-in ballots can lead to voter fraud even though he voted early in person in Florida. On the other hand, Democratic nominee Biden has continuously encouraged early voting.Will early voting impact the election?An increase in early voting will obviously increase the overall turnout of the election. This means that counting of the votes will take much more time and the results of the election could be delayed. President Trump has also claimed that postal voting leads to fraud in the elections although there has been no evidence of fraud in the system. But the results of the elections could be questioned by Trump if they aren’t in the favour of the Republican Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-what-is-early-voting-and-how-will-it-impact-the-white-house-race/story-ph443pCkImuZJn45mBfmYI.html
26-10-2020||World||China to sanction US firms over arms sales to Taiwan||China will impose unspecified sanctions on Boeing Co.’s defense unit, Lockheed Martin Corp. and Raytheon Technologies Corp. after the US State Department approved $1.8 billion in arms sales to Taiwan last week.The sanctions will be imposed “in order to uphold national interests,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters Monday in Beijing. Boeing Defense would be among those sanctioned, he said.The action follows the State Department’s approval last week of $1.8 billion in new weapons for Taiwan and submission of the package to Congress for a final review. The new arms sale, and an earlier one involving Lockheed F-16 fighters, have taken place amid rising tension between the superpowers ahead of the U.S. election next week.The new package includes 135 SLAM-extended-range land attack missiles from Boeing, Himars mobile artillery rocket systems from Lockheed, and Raytheon surveillance and reconnaissance sensors to be mounted on aircraft.Shares of Boeing, down almost 50% this year, slipped 1.5% from Friday’s closing price to $164.85 in premarket New York trading on Monday. Boeing Defense is one of the Chicago-based aerospace manufacturer’s three business units, according to its website. It also makes aircraft such as the 787 Dreamliner and 737 Max that are sold to Chinese airlines.Boeing emphasized the firm’s 50-year relationship with China in aviation, citing the company’s role in helping the country’s “safe, efficient and profitable aviation system to keep pace with the country’s rapid economic growth” in an emailed statement. “It’s been a partnership with long-term benefits and one that Boeing remains committed to.”One China PrincipleLockheed Martin said foreign military sales are government-to-government transactions. It works closely with U.S. authorities and its presence in China is limited, it said in an email.“We do business with more than 70 nations around the world, and all of our international sales are strictly regulated by the U.S. government,” the Bethesda, Maryland-based defense contractor said.Representatives from Raytheon weren’t immediately available for comment outside of normal U.S. business hours.In August, the U.S. and Taiwan completed the sale of 66 new model F-16 Block 70 aircraft from Lockheed. Zhao, the Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, condemned it at the time, saying it violates the One China principle, interferes in China’s internal affairs and will have a “major impact” on U.S.-China relations.In July, China -- which considers Taiwan part of its territory and resists any recognition of its de facto independence -- had announced sanctions on Lockheed Martin for a previous arms sale to the island.Taiwan will continue to urge the U.S. to fulfill its security pledge and sell weapons to the Asian country for defense needs, its foreign ministry spokeswoman, Joanne Ou, said in a statement delivered by text.Sales LimitsUS arms manufacturers face strict limitations on what kind of business they can do with countries deemed by Washington to be strategic rivals, such as China. Lockheed generated 9.7% of its revenue in the Asia-Pacific region last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, though that’s not broken down by individual countries.China has previously threatened to sanction U.S. companies, including General Dynamics Corp. and Honeywell International Inc., on numerous occasions over arms sales to Taiwan. It also warned it could blacklist FedEx Corp., while Ford Motor Co.’s main joint venture partner in China was fined 162.8 million yuan ($24.3 million) last year, days after the U.S. put a ban on doing business with Huawei Technologies Co.While China has often invoked the threat of putting U.S. companies on a blacklist -- or list of “unreliable entities” -- in response to various actions by U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration over the past year, it has yet to name any, at least publicly.Delicate TimeFor Boeing, China’s action comes at a delicate time. The company, reeling from the hit to air travel from the coronavirus pandemic, is trying to get its besieged 737 Max plane back into the air after two fatal crashes saw it grounded around the world. China was the first place to ground the plane also has the world’s biggest 737 Max fleet.“There are a number of intangibles that could affect recertification of the Max in China and this could potentially add another dimension,” said John Strickland, director of JLS Consulting. “China took the lead in grounding the Max and it is very conscious of its role in aviation safety. There’s also the dimension of the trade tensions with the U.S., as well as the U.S. presidential election and how that turns out.”Europe’s top aviation regulator said earlier this month the plane will be safe enough to fly again before the end of this year. U.S. Federal Aviation Administration chief Steve Dickson flew the Max in September and said the controls were “very comfortable.”China, which had nearly 100 Max planes in operation prior to the grounding, doesn’t have a clear timetable for allowing the plane back into the air, Feng Zhenglin, director of the Civil Aviation Administration of China, told reporters in Beijing last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-sanction-us-firms-over-arms-sales-to-taiwan/story-2WCzjTKPJUbQfSdN4GEU3K.html
26-10-2020||World||UK hospital told to prepare for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in November: Report||Staff at a major London hospital trust have been told to be ready to receive the first batches of the vaccine being developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc, The Sun newspaper reported on Monday.The Sun said the hospital was told to prepare for the vaccine from the “week commencing the 2 November.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-hospital-told-to-prepare-for-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-in-november-report/story-yi7GEjt7L3tMqtQposilmN.html
26-10-2020||World||What you need to know about the coronavirus right now||Here’s what you need to know about the coronavirus right now:Oxford vaccine produces immune responseThe Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the University of Oxford produces a similar immune response in older and younger adults, and adverse responses were lower among the elderly, British drug maker AstraZeneca Plc said on Monday.A vaccine is seen as a game-changer in the battle against the novel coronavirus, which has killed more than 1.15 million people, hammered the global economy and shuttered normal life across the world.Europe sees difficult months aheadEuropean leaders warned of difficult months ahead as a string of countries reported record increases in Covid-19 cases. France posted more than 50,000 daily cases for the first time on Sunday, while the continent passed 250,000 deaths.Governments have been desperate to avoid the lockdowns which curbed the disease at the start of the year at the cost of shutting down entire economies. But the steady rise in new cases has forced them to ratchet up controls steadily.Despite deaths, South Korea urges flu vaccinationsSouth Korea urged citizens to get vaccinated against influenza and reduce the chances of an outbreak that coincides with the battle against the coronavirus, as it began free inoculations for the last eligible group.Public anxiety over the safety of flu vaccines has surged after at least 48 people died this month following vaccinations.Authorities have said they found no direct link between the deaths and the flu shots and have sought to reassure South Koreans about the safety of the vaccines against flu.Pandemic gives African money transfer firms a boostAfrica-focused money transfer companies are seeing a boom, despite predictions from the World Bank of a historic 20% drop to $445 billion in remittances to poorer countries this year due to a pandemic-induced global economic slump.Many migrant workers are turning to digital transfer services, often for the first time, to send money back home to African countries, according to executives in the mobile financial services industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-you-need-to-know-about-the-coronavirus-right-now/story-eCUKjOfwytFGQ6e0eA4yNK.html
26-10-2020||World||German chancellor Angela Merkel’s party postpones congress to elect new leader: Reports||The executive committee of German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats (CDU) has decided to postpone the party congress planned for Dec. 4 to elect a new leader, sources within the CDU told Reuters on Monday.The executive committee voted unanimously in favour of a proposal by party leader Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer to decide on Jan. 16 whether it will be possible to hold the meeting with 1,001 delegates in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic.If the pandemic situation is still unclear, the party will have to consider holding a virtual congress and allowing delegates to vote by mail, the sources said, although this would pose logistical challenges.Merkel, in power since 2005, has said she will not seek re-election in federal elections due by October 2021. Kramp-Karrenbauer said in February she no longer wanted to succeed Merkel and would stand down as CDU leader.So far, Armin Laschet, premier of the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia, erstwhile Merkel rival Friedrich Merz, and foreign policy expert Norbert Roettgen are running to be chairman.Laschet, who is positioning himself as the continuity candidate to succeed Merkel, had pushed for a postponement of the party congress, saying the CDU could not justify holding a conference at a time of rising coronavirus infections.Merz, in contrast, has spoken out against a delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/merkel-s-party-postpones-december-4-congress-to-choose-new-leader-sources/story-LGApyS8cj6einLQMmMJaOK.html
26-10-2020||World||Democrats ask Mike Pence to skip Barrett vote over Covid-19 risk||A deeply torn Senate is set to confirm Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court, but Democratic leaders are asking Vice President Mike Pence to stay away from presiding over Monday’s session due to potential health risks after his aides tested positive for Covid-19.Barrett’s confirmation is not in doubt, as Senate Republicans are overpowering Democratic opposition to secure President Donald Trump’s nominee the week before Election Day. Pence has not said if he plans to attend as is customary for landmark votes.But Democrats said in a letter to Pence on it’s “not a risk worth taking,” according to copy obtained by The Associated Press.Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer and his leadership team wrote that not only would Pence’s presence violate Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines, “it also be a violation of common decency and courtesy.”Under the Constitution, the vice president serves as the largely ceremonial role of Senate president and can break a tie vote. Pence’s vote isn’t expected to be needed. Senate Republicans control the chamber and steered their majority to seize the opportunity to install a third Trump justice, securing a conservative court majority for the foreseeable future.“Nothing about your presence in the Senate tomorrow can be considered essential,” the Democrats wrote. They warned of the risk not just to senators but the police, restaurant workers and others who keep the Capitol running.The 48-year-old appellate judge’s rise opens up a potential new era of rulings on abortion, gay marriage and the Affordable Care Act. A case against the Obama-era health law is scheduled to be heard Nov. 10.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell scoffed at the “apocalyptic” warnings from critics that the judicial branch was becoming mired in partisan politics as he defended its transformation under his watch.“This is something to be really proud of and feel good about,” the Republican leader said Sunday during a rare weekend session.McConnell said that unlike legislative actions that can be undone by new presidents or lawmakers, “they won’t be able to do much about this for a long time to come.”Pence would typically preside over Monday’s vote, but after a close aide and others on his staff tested positive for the coronavirus, it was unclear whether he would attend. He is scheduled to hold a campaign rally in Minnesota, arriving back in Washington ahead of the expected evening vote.Schumer, of New York, said the Trump administration’s drive to install Barrett during the coronavirus crisis shows “the Republican Party is willing to ignore the pandemic in order to rush this nominee forward.”To underscore the potential health risks, Schumer urged his colleagues Sunday not to linger in the chamber but “cast your votes quickly and from a safe distance.” Some GOP senators tested positive for the coronavirus following a Rose Garden event with Trump to announce Barrett’s nomination, but they have since said they have been cleared by their doctors from quarantine.The confirmation was expected to be the first of a Supreme Court nominee so close to a presidential election. It’s also one of the first high court nominees in recent memory receiving no support from the minority party, a pivot from not long ago when a president’s picks often won wide support.Barrett presented herself in public testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee as a neutral arbiter and suggested, “It’s not the law of Amy.” But her writings against abortion and a ruling on “Obamacare” show a deeply conservative thinker. She was expected to be seated quickly on the high court.“She’s a conservative woman who embraces her faith. She’s unabashedly pro-life, but she’s not going to apply ‘the law of Amy’ to all of us,” the Judiciary Committee chairman, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said on Fox News Channel.At the start of Trump’s presidency, McConnell engineered a Senate rules change to allow confirmation by a majority of the 100 senators, rather than the 60-vote threshold traditionally needed to advance high court nominees over objections. It was escalation of a rules change Democrats put in place to advance other court and administrative nominees under President Barack Obama.On Sunday, the Senate voted 51-48 to begin to bring the process to a vote by launching the final 30 hours of Senate debate. Two Republicans, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine, voted against advancing the nominee, and all Democrats who voted were opposed. California Sen. Kamala Harris, the vice presidential nominee, missed the vote while campaigning in Michigan.Monday’s final tally was expected to grow by one after Murkowski announced her support for the nominee, even as she decried filling the seat in the midst of a heated race for the White House. Murkowski said Saturday she would vote against the procedural steps but ultimately join GOP colleagues in confirming Barrett.“While I oppose the process that has led us to this point, I do not hold it against her,” Murkowski said.Collins, who faces a tight reelection fight in Maine, remains the only Republican expected to vote against Trump’s nominee. “My vote does not reflect any conclusion that I have reached about Judge Barrett’s qualifications to serve,” Collins said. “I do not think it is fair nor consistent to have a Senate confirmation vote prior to the election.”By pushing for Barrett’s ascension so close to the Nov. 3 election, Trump and his Republican allies are counting on a campaign boost, in much the way they believe McConnell’s refusal to allow the Senate to consider Obama’s nominee in February 2016 created excitement for Trump among conservatives and evangelical Christians eager for a Republican president to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia.Barrett was a professor at Notre Dame Law School when she was tapped by Trump in 2017 for an appeals court opening. Two Democrats joined at that time to confirm her, but none is expected to vote for her now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-ask-mike-pence-to-skip-barrett-vote-over-covid-19-risk/story-wjidID42yTHoJ37wyMqBBP.html
26-10-2020||World||House already won? Nancy Pelosi thinks so, and reaches for more||Speaker Nancy Pelosi once predicted she’d have the House majority won by November — of 2019.Now, days before the November 3 election, she seems to have done it.With control of the House hardly contested, Pelosi is expanding her reach to fortify Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and win extra House seats in case Congress is called on to resolve any Electoral College dispute with President Donald Trump.Pelosi said she feels so confident Democrats will keep the House this election, she’s already preparing to win the next one in 2022.“This year, I’m trying to win it two years in advance — by being so substantial in this election that as soon as we start into the next year, people will see our strength,” Pelosi told The Associated Press in an interview.“We intend to hold the House and grow our numbers,” she said about the election Nov. 3, and “contribute to winning the Senate and the presidency.”It’s a stunning turnaround for the speaker, who just two years ago was being challenged for her job leading House Democrats. Pelosi rose as the face of party, the House impeached the president and emboldened Democrats are on the march to pick up House seats deep into Trump country.Democrats are working to reelect some 40 House freshmen elected in the 2018 midterm to win the majority, most of them from districts Trump won in 2016. They’re digging deeper for additional seats in historically out-of-reach Republican strongholds including Nebraska, Indiana and even Alaska and Montana, where winners could tip the balance in an Electoral College dispute.To wrest control, Republicans need to gain some 20 seats, but even the House GOP leadership has downplayed their chances. Strategists say Trump is a drag at the top of the GOP ticket. Even though Republicans recruited more female and minority candidates to compete with Democrats in suburban swing districts, the battle for the House is something of an afterthought in the marquee contests for control of the White House and the Senate.“A rising tide lifts all boats, and right now it seems a Democratic tide is rising,” said Michael Steel, a Republican strategist and former top aide to House GOP leadership.Steel said it has less to to with Pelosi’s planning than the national political environment. “I attribute the presumed success of her efforts to keep the majority more to Trump’s failures than to her stated leadership,” he said.Those close to Pelosi’s political operation did not always join her prediction that Democrats would handily keep control.Trump wasn’t on the ballot when they picked up the majority two years ago, and freshmen are often the most vulnerable to defeat as they seek reelection, especially this class of lawmakers now having to run alongside the president in districts often off-limits to Democrats.Pelosi pushed ahead with the risky House vote to impeach the president in late 2019 over his dealings with Ukraine only to see the Senate, controlled by Republicans, vote to acquit him of the charges in a highly charged political environment early this year.When the coronavirus pandemic hit, the Capitol abruptly shuttered. Pelosi engineered a rules change to allow the House to vote by proxy and work online, but it left lawmakers largely away from Washington. Now Pelosi is holding out for a robust Covid-19 aid package with the Trump administration, another risky move, seeking a $2 trillion-plus deal Republicans don’t want to give.Rep. Cheri Bustos, D-Ill, who is the chairwoman of the party’s campaign arm in the House, said she counseled the new lawmakers not to get swept up in the national political debate but “run your race like you’re running for mayor” — meeting with constituents and responding to issues close to home.“When we set out to do this work in 2019 we had no idea what this cycle would hold,” said Lucina Guinn, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s executive director.The goal, she said, was to make the incumbents “as strong as possible” while also recruiting new candidates “to set up a big battlefield.”Money helps. Pelosi is on track to be a $1 billion fundraiser for her party — an eye-popping sum during nearly two decades in leadership.This election cycle she raised $227.9 million for Democrats — most of it for the House campaign arm — but she also shoveled $4 million for Biden from an August event and sent nearly $5 million to the state parties.“We are ready,” Pelosi said.She said she believes Democrats would sweep if the election were today, but it’s still a week out. “It doesn’t keep me up from the standpoint of worrying about it,” she said, “but it does get me up early to do something about it.”It’s another surprising turn that the Affordable Care Act, which helped cost Pelosi her House majority in the 2010 election after Democrats passed “Obamacare,” is now a political calling card being used to win over Trump voters during the Covid-19 crisis.Voters have come to rely on the health care law’s guarantees that those with preexisting health conditions can access insurance and parents can keep their adult children on family policies. A decade after President Barack Obama signed the ACA into law, Republicans are still trying to undo it, including in a court case heading to the Supreme Court a week after the election.“Progressive ideas are actually popular, not just with progressives but also with moderate voters, with independent voters and maybe even with some Republican voters,” said Rep. Pramila Jayapal, D-Wash., a co-chair of the progressive caucus.As Pelosi, of California, becomes an even more public presence for the party, Republicans run countless campaign ads against her. But she also has a following from those celebrating her high-profile standoffs with Trump. Since the spring Covid-19 crisis, she has appeared 20 times on the Sunday morning news shows and done more than 150 national television and radio interviews, her office said.“I would not miss any opportunity, on behalf of my colleagues, to make sure that there’s clarity on where we’re coming from on some of these issues,” she said.She plans to run again for speaker, if Democrats keep control of the House: “Definitely.”But that’s for later. Pelosi notes experts have suggested Democrats will pick up between five and 15 House seats.“Our goal originally was to hold the House,” she said. “Everything we get after that will just be a further enhancement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/house-already-won-nancy-pelosi-thinks-so-and-reaches-for-more/story-wtlq9cPgheIatSQX9wOE5J.html
26-10-2020||World||Joe Biden calls Russia as ‘the biggest threat’ to US security, alliances||US President Donald Trump’s Democratic challenger Joe Biden says he thinks the biggest security threat to America is Russia.“I think the biggest threat to America right now in terms of breaking up our-- our security and our alliances is Russia. Secondly, I think that the biggest competitor is China. And depending on how we handle that will determine whether we’re competitors or we end up being in a more serious competition relating to force,” Biden said in an interview with CBS’s Norah O’Donnell.During the final round of the presidential debate, Trump claimed that Biden had received $3.5 million from Russia through Russian President Vladimir Putin.Trump also said during the debate that Biden’s son, Hunter, allegedly maintains business relations with Elena Baturina, the wife of former Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov.Biden rejected ever taking “a penny” from foreign sources and also expressed a belief that Russia did not want his victory in the November election.Putin refused to comment on Trump’s claims that Russia allegedly sponsored Biden. “No comment,” the Russian leader said on Sunday, as aired by the Rossiya 1 broadcaster.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Friday commenting on the final US presidential debate that the contenders in the presidential race in the United States “compete for who dislikes Russia more.”The Kremlin has repeatedly denied any attempts to meddle in the US domestic affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-calls-russia-as-the-biggest-threat-to-us-security-alliances/story-9l1UXqSIzqu3tdwUXmcECN.html
26-10-2020||World||‘Smear campaign’: Joe Biden dismisses Republican questions on son Hunter||Joe Biden dismissed Republican questions about his son Hunter Biden’s business entanglements as a “smear campaign” and suggested the possibility that the release of documents allegedly belonging to the younger Biden was part of a Russian disinformation campaign.(Click here for full US Election 2020 coverage)“When you put the combination of Russia, Giuliani, the president, together -- it’s just what it is,” Biden said, referring to President Donald Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani. “It’s a smear campaign because he has nothing he wants to talk about. What is he running on? What is he running on?” the Democratic presidential nominee said in an interview on CBS’s “60 Minutes.”The interview with the former vice president aired Sunday but was conducted on Oct. 19, just as Trump began a week of publicizing unverified documents from a laptop that he and his allies purport belonged to Hunter Biden as proof of a son eager to make money off his father’s name. He also accused Joe Biden of profiting from his son’s foreign business dealings, a claim the Democratic nominee has flatly denied.(Read: Facebook prepares ‘emergency’ measures to calm possible violence during US elections)Evidence of corruption has failed to materialize regarding the laptop documents or claims made by Tony Bobulinski, who says he is a former business associate of Hunter Biden.Biden has argued that the documents could be emerging as part of a Russian disinformation campaign.“From what I’ve read and know the intelligence community warned the president that Giuliani was being fed disinformation from the Russians,” he said on “60 Minutes.” Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, he added, “is trying very hard to spread disinformation about Joe Biden.”’(Read: Trump, Biden to step up campaigning in final week before polls)Biden’s claim has not been substantiated. He said during Thursday’s debate that “there are 50 former national intelligence folks who said that what he’s accusing me of is a Russian plant,” the letter he referred to doesn’t conclude that Russia planted the documents. Rather, the letter noted that Russian spies had targeted Giuliani and that they were thus “deeply suspicious” that the Russian government had a role in the effort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/smear-campaign-joe-biden-dismisses-republican-questions-on-son-hunter/story-XkeCai2U2oFL1zmM4pAymO.html
26-10-2020||World||Japan will achieve zero carbon emissions by 2050, announces PM Suga||Japan will achieve zero carbon emissions by 2050, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga declared Monday, outlining an ambitious agenda as the country struggles to balance economic and pandemic concerns.The policy speech at the outset of the parliamentary session was Suga’s first since he took office on September 16 after his boss Shinzo Abe resigned over health reasons. It reflects Suga’s pragmatic approach to getting things done, though it’s unclear he will have the political heft needed to overcome vested interests in weaning this resource-scarce nation from its reliance on imports of oil and gas.Suga just returned from a trip last week to Vietnam and Indonesia, where he pushed ahead with Abe’s efforts to build closer ties and promote a regional vision for countering growing Chinese influence.Now out of Abe’s shadow, back home Suga has been pumping out consumer-friendly policies. He has earned a reputation as a cost cutter.He said he intends to make a sustainable economy a pillar of his growth strategy and “put maximum effort into achieving a green society.” That includes achieving a carbon-free society by 2050.The European Union and Britain have already set similar targets for net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, and China recently announced it would become carbon-free by 2060. Japan previously targeted a 80% reduction by 2050.Suga portrayed the need to shift away from fossil fuels to counter climate change as an opportunity rather than a burden.“Global warming measures are no longer obstacles for economic growth, but would lead to industrial and socio-economic reforms and a major growth,” he said. “We need to change our mindset.”Japan’s current energy plan, set in 2018, calls for 22-24% of its energy to come from renewables, 20-22% from nuclear power and 56% from fossil fuels such as oil, coal and gas.Progress toward reducing reliance on fossil fuels has been hindered due to the prolonged closures of most of Japan’s nuclear plants after the meltdown of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant due to the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in the northeastern Tohoku region.Energy experts are now discussing revisions to Japan’s basic energy plan for 2030 and 2050. The 2050 emissions-free target would require drastic changes and likely prompt calls for more nuclear plant restarts.About 40% of Japan’s carbon emissions come from power companies, and they must use more renewable sources of energy while stepping up development of technologies using hydrogen, ammonia and other carbon-free resources, experts say.Suga said he will speed up research and development of key technologies such as next generation solar batteries and carbon recycling. He also promised to reduce Japan’s reliance on coal-fired energy by promoting conservation and maximizing renewables, while promoting nuclear energy.Environmental groups welcomed his announcement. “Carbon neutrality is no longer a lofty, faraway dream, but a necessary commitment,” in line with international climate change agreements, Jennifer Morgan, Executive Director of Greenpeace International, said in a statement.In the short term, Japan’s top priority is to curb the pandemic while reviving the economy, Suga said.Turning to Japan’s biggest long-term problem, a low birthrate and shrinking population, Suga reiterated a pledge to provide insurance coverage for infertility treatments. He also said he would promote paternity leaves for working fathers to ease the burden of child-rearing and home-making on working mothers. He promised more help for single-parent households, more than half of which are living in poverty.Among other highlights, Suga said:—The Japan-US alliance, a cornerstone of Japanese diplomacy and security, is key to achieving a “Free and Open Indo-Pacific” regional economic and security framework to counter China’s sway.—Japan, meanwhile, seeks to have stable ties and cooperate with China.—Japan is open to meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un to resolve conflicts over abductions of Japanese citizens years ago and wartime compensation and to normalize diplomacy with Pyongyang.—South Korea is “an extremely important neighbour,” but it should drop its demands for compensation over Korean wartime forced laborers to restore “healthy” bilateral relations.Since taking office Suga has crafted a populist and pragmatic image, winning public support for his relatively modest background and low-profile, hardworking style.He has ordered his Cabinet to step up implementation of pet projects such as lowering cellphone rates and accelerating use of online government, business and medical services.“I will break administrative divisions, vested interests and bad precedents to push for reforms,” Suga said.But he also said Japanese should try to help themselves before looking to the government for assistance, in line with what experts say is a conservative stance that is unsympathetic to the disadvantaged.Suga is best known for his effectiveness in corralling powerful bureaucrats to force through Abe’s policies.His hardline approach has sometimes drawn criticism. Earlier this month, he was accused of seeking to muzzle dissent by choosing not to appoint six professors out of a slate of 105 to the state-funded Science Council of Japan.The flap triggered massive protests from academics and took the public support rating for his Cabinet down about 10 points to just above 50%.Opposition lawmakers are expected to raise the issue during the 41-day session through December 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-achieve-zero-carbon-emissions-by-2050-announces-japan-pm-suga/story-2GU64BvBu01yqNBSs1BPSM.html
26-10-2020||World||Malaysian PM faces calls to resign after king declines proposal for Covid-19 emergency||Malaysia’s prime minister faced calls to resign from both sides of the political aisle Monday after the king rebuffed his proposal for a coronavirus emergency that critics saw as an undemocratic attempt to hold onto power.Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin’s proposal for the king to declare a state of emergency over a new Covid-19 outbreak would have suspended Parliament and let him dodge an imminent test of his support.Sultan Abdullah Sultan Ahmad Shah “is of the opinion that there is currently no need for His Majesty to declare a state of emergency in this country or any part of Malaysia,” the palace said Sunday.Malaysia’s coronavirus cases doubled to more than 26,000 in just three weeks following a new outbreak, mainly in Sabah state on Borneo island. Politicians from both sides of the divide as well as legal and medical experts have said an emergency declaration is unnecessary and there are sufficient laws to curb public movement and impose penalties to curb the virus.Some have warned that declaring an emergency could ruin the economy and plunge Malaysia into a dictatorship. Emergency laws were last invoked nationally in 1969 during deadly racial riots.In the statement from the palace, the king said the government has handled the pandemic well and he believed Muhyiddin was capable of coping with the crisis, though he also called for a halt to “all politicking” that could disrupt the government’s stability.Hours later, Muhyiddin said the Cabinet noted the king’s decision and will further discuss the decree. Local media said the Cabinet is expected to meet later Monday. His aide couldn’t be immediately reached for comment.“The priority of the Cabinet and the government at this time is to protect citizens from the Covid-19 disease,” he said in a brief statement. He also welcomed the king’s advice to ensure his government’s stability.Muhyiddin took power in March but holds only a two-seat majority in Parliament. Opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim says he has majority support but needs the monarch’s approval to form a new government, and the biggest party in the ruling coalition is angry about being sidelined in Muhyiddin’s government.A key test comes in early November when his government is due to seek approval for its 2021 budget in Parliament. If he is unable to pass the bill, pressure will build for him to resign or call new elections. A state of emergency could allow him to approve the budget without a vote and consolidate support, and he could govern through ordinances that could not be challenged in court.“In whatever way you look at it, indications are that the PM has realized that he has effectively lost his majority,” said Ahmad Fauzi Abdul Hamid, political science professor at Malaysia’s University of Science.Calls for Muhyiddin to resign were being made on both sides.Puad Zarkashi, a senior official in the biggest Malay party in his ruling coalition, said the king thankfully wasn’t influenced by the political game that could plunge the country into a deeper crisis. He wrote on Facebook that “Muhyiddin should step down.”Opposition lawmaker Wong Chen called for the premier to resign or fire ministers who proposed the emergency.Despite the king’s rejection of the call for a state of emergency, his endorsement of Muhyiddin’s government could offer a reprieve and help the premier get the budget bill passed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysian-pm-faces-calls-to-resign-after-king-declines-proposal-for-covid-19-emergency/story-sZyPKfKWjj2aJzLlIFzRaL.html
26-10-2020||World||Donald Trump again shadowed by coronavirus as he enters final swing||President Donald Trump enters the final week before Election Day with a surge in US coronavirus cases and another White House outbreak threatening efforts to reverse his political fortunes with a string of barnstorming rallies.Trump started the weekend on a strong note, with campaign aides believing his improved performance in the final debate against Democratic nominee Joe Biden could provide a boost among voters still making up their minds.But once again, coronavirus intervened.On Saturday night came news that several people in Vice President Mike Pence’s inner circle had contracted the potentially deadly virus.Those testing positive included Pence’s longtime political adviser, Marty Obst, and the vice president’s chief of staff, Marc Short. Another member of Pence’s staff has also been diagnosed with the virus in recent days, according to people familiar with the matter.Pence had been mostly untouched by the coronavirus cases that swept through the White House in the past month, infecting Trump, the first lady, their teenage son, and several top aides. In a twist, Pence also happens to lead the White House coronavirus task force.Despite the new outbreak within his office -- and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines that suggest he should quarantine unless performing essential work, which should be conducted wearing a mask -- Pence said he would proceed with his official and campaign schedules.“The Vice President will maintain his schedule in accordance with the CDC guidelines for essential personnel,” Pence press secretary Devin O’Malley said in a statement.Those duties were expected to include a visit to the Senate Monday night to preside over the vote to confirm Amy Coney Barrett -- Trump’s third nominee to the US Supreme Court.“As vice president I am president of the Senate. And I’m going to be in a chair,” Pence said Friday, before the outbreak in his inner circle became known. He added that he would not “miss that vote for the world.”The vice president’s office didn’t respond to a request for comment on Sunday about whether Pence would continue with his plans. But his attendance would risk making coronavirus once again the center of attention at what was intended as a celebratory moment for the White House, as it did in the flurry of cases that followed Trump’s Sept. 26 Rose Garden announcement of Barrett’s selection.In a letter on Sunday, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, a New York Democrat, urged colleagues to “cast your votes quickly and from a safe distance” and avoid congregating on the Senate floor.“Their carelessness with the health and safety of their colleagues and Capitol employees mirrors their carelessness with the health and safety of Americans during this crisis,” Schumer wrote.Meadows RemarksDeepening the administration’s woes were comments from White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, who in an interview Sunday with CNN said the US was “not going to control” coronavirus, which has killed more than 225,000 Americans.“We are not going to control the pandemic,” Meadows said. “We are going to control the fact that we get vaccines, therapeutics and other mitigation areas.”Top Democrats -- including former President Barack Obama -- seized on the remarks to argue that the Trump White House was abandoning efforts to suppress the virus.“Eight months into the pandemic, as new cases are breaking records, we need an administration that’s not going to wave the white flag,” Obama tweeted Sunday.Biden, in a statement, said the comments from Meadows signaled that “they’ve given up on their basic duty to protect the American people.”The latest White House outbreak and Meadows’ comments were amplified by a rising national case load.The US on Saturday reported record coronavirus infections for the second day in a row, adding 85,317 cases, with the nation averaging over 800 deaths a day. Hospitalizations are rising steadily, and Trump’s first Food and Drug Administration commissioner, Scott Gottlieb, warned Sunday that the nation had hit “a dangerous tipping point.”Poll NumbersThe administration’s pandemic response has weighed on Trump’s campaign all year. The RealClearPolitics national polling average shows Biden with an 8-point advantage. Some 57% of Americans disapproved of Trump’s handling of the virus with just 39% approving, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released last Wednesday.It’s also distracted from the president’s efforts to pivot to what he considers winning issues, from Biden’s remarks during last week’s debate saying he wanted to eliminate federal support for the oil industry, to questions over foreign business dealings by the Democratic nominee’s son.Still, Trump hopes a breakneck campaign schedule can help activate voters in the swing states he needs to win. The president plans three rallies in Pennsylvania on Monday, with a trip to Michigan, Wisconsin, and Nebraska slated for Tuesday.One plus for Trump is that many Republican voters aren’t that worried about Covid-19. CBS polling released on Sunday showed that in Florida, Georgia and North Carolina, only between 12% and 15% of likely Trump voters said they were “very concerned” about getting the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-again-shadowed-by-coronavirus-as-he-enters-final-swing/story-kvDRWcKcTaaOhfF01f44dO.html
26-10-2020||World||South Korea’s Celltrion says received US authorisation for its Covid-19 test kit||South Korea’s Celltrion Inc said on Monday it has received emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the US Food & Drug Administration (FDA) for its rapid Covid-19 testing kit Sampinute, which boosted shares of the company and its affiliates.Celltrion said Sampinute delivers coronavirus test results within 10 minutes, with a sensitivity of around 94%.The authorisation came three months after requesting approval in late July and the product has already been launched in the United States in August, according to the company statement.“(The company) is planning to supply Sampinute across the United States through local wholesalers as it believes the demand for rapid diagnosis kits will be high, mainly among large businesses and government agencies that are about to return to work after telecommuting,” it said in a statement.Shares of Celltrion Inc surged as much as 4.6%, while Celltrion Pharm and Celltrion Healthcare jumped 4.6% and 1.6%, respectively. Broader KOSPI, however, was trading down 0.1% as of 0208 GMT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-s-celltrion-says-received-us-authorisation-for-its-covid-19-test-kit/story-VtZP9FwckQxvQA4sIVFHNI.html
26-10-2020||World||Oxford Covid-19 vaccine trials produce robust immune response in elderly||The Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc produces a robust immune response in elderly people, the Financial Times said on Monday, citing early results.A vaccine that works is seen as a game-changer in the battle against the novel coronavirus, which has killed more than 1.15 million people, hammered the global economy and shuttered normal life across the world. The Oxford vaccine triggers protective antibodies and T-cells in older age groups, the FT said https://on.ft.com/3kxKyJI, citing two people familiar with the finding.Immunogenicity blood tests carried out on a subset of older participants echo data released in July which showed the vaccine generated “robust immune responses” in a group of healthy adults aged between 18 and 55, the newspaper reported.Oxford and AstraZeneca did not immediately respond to a request by Reuters for comment. Details of the finding are expected to be published shortly in a clinical journal, the FT said. It did not name the publication.The FT cautioned that positive immunogenicity tests do not guarantee the vaccine will ultimately prove safe and effective in older people.AstraZeneca, which is developing the vaccine with Oxford University researchers, is seen as a frontrunner in the race to produce a vaccine to protect against COVID-19.OXFORD VACCINEThe vaccine is expected to be one of the first from big pharma to secure regulatory approval, along with Pfizer and BioNTech’s candidate.The vaccine is likely to provide protection for about a year, CEO Pascal Soriot said in June.Called AZD1222 or ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, the vaccine was developed by Oxford University scientists and licensed to AstraZeneca in April, which took on the task of scaling trials and production.The British drugmaker has signed several supply and manufacturing deals with companies and governments around the world as it gets closer to reporting early results of a late-stage clinical trial. AstraZeneca resumed the U.S. trial of the experimental vaccine after approval by U.S. regulators, the company said on Friday.Staff at a major London hospital trust have been told to be ready to receive the first batches of the vaccine being developed by the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca Plc, The Sun newspaper reported on Monday.The Sun said the hospital, which was not identified, was told to prepare for the vaccine from the “week commencing the 2 November”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxford-covid-19-vaccine-trials-produce-robust-immune-response-in-elderly/story-Ix7h4epigxh0kaLbnlvCEJ.html
26-10-2020||World||Archbishop Wilton Gregory to be Vatican’s first Black Cardinal from US||Pope Francis on Sunday named 13 new cardinals, including Washington DC Archbishop Wilton Gregory, who would become the first Black US prelate to earn the coveted red hat.In a surprise announcement from his studio window to faithful standing below in St. Peter’s Square, Francis said the churchmen would be elevated to a cardinal’s rank in a ceremony on Nov. 28.Francis asked for prayers so the new cardinals “may help me in my ministry as bishop of Rome for the good of all God’s faithful holy people.”The selection of Gregory won praise from LGBTQ advocates in the United States, days after Pope Francis grabbed headlines for voicing support for civil unions for gay couples.Other new cardinals include an Italian who is the long-time papal preacher at the Vatican, the Rev. Raniero Cantalamessa, who is a Franciscan friar; the Kigali, Rwanda, Archbishop Antoine Kambanda; the Capiz, Philippines, Archbishop Jose Feurte Advincula, and the Santiago, Chile, Archbishop Celestino Aos Braco.Another Franciscan who was tapped is Friar Mauro Gambetti, in charge of the Sacred Convent in Assisi. The pope, when elected in 2013, chose St. Francis of Assisi as his namesake saint. Earlier this month, the pontiff journeyed to that hill town in Umbria to sign an encyclical, or important church teaching document, about brotherhood.Gambetti was so surprised, at first he thought the pope was joking when he heard he was named, convent spokesperson the Rev. Enzo Fortunato said. Gambetti quickly pledged to “put himself at the service of humanity at a time so difficult to us all,” including offering compassion to the needy, Fortunato said in reference to the coronavirus pandemic.In a reflection of the pope’s stress on helping those in need, Francis also named the former director of the Rome Catholic charity, Caritas, the Rev. Enrico Feroci, to be a cardinal.The prestigious Washington archdiocese traditionally brings elevation to cardinal’s rank, so the appointment of Gregory, 73, last year by the pope had positioned him to be tapped for the honor.Still, the timing of his rise to cardinal is noteworthy, coming in the thick of increased US attention on racial injustice following the police killing of George Floyd, a Black man, in Minnesota this year. Gregory was publicly critical of US President Donald Trump’s visit to the St. John Paul II National Shrine in Washington a day after civil rights demonstrators were forcibly cleared from a square to facilitate the president’s visit to an Episcopal church in the US capital.Gregory has had his pulse on factions in the US Catholic Church, which has both strong conservative and liberal veins since he served three times as the head of the US Conference of Bishops.Conservative prelates in the United States have openly lambasted Francis for his more liberal stands, including his support for same-sex civil unions that came out in a new documentary this week.Gregory said in a statement that becoming a cardinal would allow him to work more closely with the pontiff in caring for the Catholic Church.While Gregory headed the Atlanta diocese earlier in his career, he wrote positively in a column about his conversations with Catholic parents of LGBTQ children. An advocate for LGBTQ Catholics, Francis DeBernardo, told The Associated Press that choosing Gregory for a cardinal’s post signals Francis wants “LGBTQ people to be part of the church, and he wants church people to respect them.”DeBernardo linked the appointment to Francis’ recently reported comments supporting civil unions for same-sex couples.He also praised the elevation to cardinal’s rank of a Vatican bishop who comes from Malta, a tiny, traditionally Catholic nation which has made significant progress in LGBTQ civil rights and protections in recent years.DeBernardo was referring to Mario Grech, 63, who serves at the Vatican as secretary general of the Synod of Bishops office and who formerly headed the diocese on the Maltese island of Gozo.“Since naming cardinals also affects who the next pontiff will be, the pope also shows that he is planning for the future of the church to continue in this affirming posture on issues of sexual orientation and gender identity,” the US-based DeBernardo said in a written statement.Not all of the pope’s picks might stir positive recollections.In 2010, while preaching at a Good Friday service attended by the then-pope, Benedict XVI, Cantalamessa upset both Jewish and sex abuse survivors’ groups when he likened allegations that the pontiff had covered up sex abuse cases against clerics to the “more shameful aspects of anti-Semitism.” The Vatican quickly distanced Benedict from Cantalamessa’s remarks.Nine of the new cardinals are younger than 80, and thus eligible to elect the next pontiff in a secret conclave. Some cardinals head powerful Vatican offices, and pontiffs frequently turn to cardinals for advice.No details were immediately given by the Vatican about the formal ceremony to make the churchmen cardinals, especially in view of travel restrictions involving many countries during the Covid-19 pandemic.As he has in other groups of cardinals he tapped in his papacy, Francis in this selection reflected the global nature of the Catholic Church and his flock of 1.2 billion Catholics.Others receiving the honor include Monsignor Marcello Semeraro, an Italian serving as prefect of the Vatican office which runs the saint-making process; Bishop Cornelius Sim, a Brunei native who serves as apostolic vicar of Brunei; the Italian archbishop of Siena and nearby towns in Tuscany, Augusto Lojudice; the retired bishop of San Cristobal de las Casas, Mexico, Monsignor Felipe Arizmendi Esquivel; and an Italian former Vatican diplomat, Archbishop Silvano Tomasi.Churchmen over 80 who are named cardinals are chosen to honor their life of service to the church. Those in this batch too old to vote in a conclave are Cantalamessa, Tomasi, Feroci and Arizmendi Esquivel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/archbishop-wilton-gregory-to-be-vatican-s-first-black-cardinal-from-us/story-nY2HwsOZ8ndyDmP2KFYL0J.html
26-10-2020||World||Singapore halts usage of South Korean flu vaccine as precaution||Singapore has temporarily halted the use of two influenza vaccines as a precaution after some people who received them in South Korea died, becoming among the first countries to publicly announce a halt of the vaccines’ usage.South Korea reported that 48 have died as of Saturday after getting flu shots, but said it would carry on with the state-run vaccination programme as they found no direct link between the deaths and the shots.No deaths associated with influenza vaccination have been reported in Singapore to date, but the decision to halt the use of SKYCellflu Quadrivalent and VaxigripTetra was precautionary, the health ministry and the Health Sciences Authority (HAS) said in a statement late on Sunday.The HSA is in touch with the South Korean authorities for further information as they investigate to determine if the deaths are related to influenza vaccinations. SKYCellflu Quadrivalent is manufactured by South Korea’s SK Bioscience and locally distributed by AJ Biologics, while VaxigripTetra is manufactured by Sanofi
26-10-2020||World||New analysis shows Mexico’s Covid-19 deaths higher than earlier estimates||Mexican health authorities acknowledged Sunday that the country’s true death toll from the coronavirus pandemic is far higher than thought, saying there were 193,170 “excess” deaths in the year up to September 26, with 139,153 of those judged to be attributable to Covid-19.That is about 50,000 more deaths than Mexico’s official, test-confirmed death toll of about 89,000, and about 56 per cent higher than the previous estimate of 103,882 pandemic deaths.Mexico has an extremely low testing rate, and officials had previously acknowledged that many people didn’t get tested or their tests were mishandled. Authorities had earlier presented the estimated Covid-19 death toll of 103,882 after taking into account mishandled tests and some other factors.But the Health Department said experts had now analyzed databases of death certificates up to late September — the latest date for which complete data was available — to come up with the latest figure of 139,153.The analysis picked up symptoms related to Covid-19 mentioned on death certificates even if they weren’t listed as the cause of death.Excess deaths are calculated by comparing the expected number of deaths from an average of previous years to those in 2020.The department did not explain the other 54,000 “excess” deaths, but experts in other countries have suggested that more people may have died from non-coronavirus causes simply because hospitals were crowded with Covid-19 patients, or people were wary of seeking medical attention for other illnesses because they feared getting infected.Mexico has a policy of testing only people who show serious symptoms of coronavirus infection, as well as a tiny sample of the wider population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-analysis-shows-mexico-s-covid-19-deaths-higher-than-earlier-estimates/story-hbTab4BCP17nAzA80lewyM.html
26-10-2020||World||Nagorno-Karabakh conflict: Armenia, Azerbaijan accuse each other of violating US-brokered truce||Armenia and Azerbaijan accused each other on Monday of violating a new U.S.-brokered ceasefire in fighting over the mountain enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, casting doubt over the prospects of the latest international push to end a month of clashes.The third truce in just over two weeks came into force at 8 a.m. local time (0400 GMT). Within minutes, Azerbaijan’s defence ministry said in a statement that Armenian forces had shelled villages in the Terter and Lachin regions.The Nagorno-Karabakh defence ministry denied this and said Azeri forces had launched a missile attack on Armenian military positions on the northeastern side on the line of contact. Armenia’s defence ministry said in a statement that the Azeri side violated the ceasefire at around 9.10 a.m. local time.The latest fighting in Nagorno-Karabakh, a mountainous part of Azerbaijan populated and controlled by ethnic Armenians, erupted on Sept. 27 and is the worst in the South Caucasus since the 1990s. Two Russian-brokered ceasefires have failed to hold.World powers want to prevent a wider war that might draw in Turkey, which has voiced strong support for Azerbaijan, and Russia, which has a defence pact with Armenia. The conflict has also strained relations between Ankara and its NATO allies.The latest ceasefire was agreed on Sunday after separate talks in Washington between U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and the foreign ministers of Armenia and Azerbaijan.Representatives of the OSCE Minsk Group, formed to mediate the conflict and led by France, Russia and the United States, also participated in the talks. The group said its co-chairs and the foreign ministers agreed to meet again in Geneva on Oct. 29.Commenting on the talks, U.S. President Donald Trump wrote on Twitter: “Congratulations to Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan and Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev, who just agreed to adhere to a cease fire effective at midnight. Many lives will be saved.”Nagorno-Karabakh has said that 974 of its military personnel have been killed since Sept. 27. Azerbaijan says 65 Azeri civilians have been killed but has not disclosed its military casualties.Russian President Vladimir Putin said last week that 5,000 people might have been killed in the fighting.Pashinyan, the Armenian prime minister, wrote on his Facebook page that the Armenian side “continued to adhere to the ceasefire.”About 30,000 people were killed in a 1991-94 war over Nagorno-Karabakh. Armenians regard the enclave as part of their historic homeland; Azeris consider it illegally occupied land that must be returned to their control. (Reporting by Nailia Bagirova and Margarita Antidze, Writing by Robin Paxton; Editing by Tomasz Janowski)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nagorno-karabakh-conflict-armenia-azerbaijan-accuse-each-other-of-violating-us-brokered-truce/story-DW2pRP6V1vTr9axTOfNh8L.html
26-10-2020||World||US Elections 2020: Facebook prepares ‘emergency’ measures to calm possible violence||The US tech giant Facebook may introduce emergency measures to regulate viral content in case of election-related conflicts and unrest in the United States, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing informed sources.According to the media outlet, citing sources, Facebook intends to calm the possible violence with tools that were specially developed for so-called countries at-risk.(Click here for full US Election 2020 coverage)“We’ve spent years building for safer, more secure elections. ... We’ve applied lessons from previous elections, hired experts, and built new teams with experience across different areas to prepare for various scenarios,” Facebook spokesman Andy Stone said, as quoted by the newspaper.(Read: Trump, Biden to step up campaigning in final week before polls)The tools, which Facebook is planning to deploy, were earlier designed for “at-risk” countries and have already been used in Myanmar and Sri Lanka. They allow holding back the spread of viral content and lower the threshold for the identification of potentially inflammatory posts.Facebook will implement such measures only in case of a critical situation that may cause election-related violence, the paper wrote, noting that if the company decides to use those tools, they will transform the information that millions of Americans receive.(Read: Nearly 59 million Americans have already voted, but wait for poll result could be long, says report)The Wall Street Journal added that this plan has been criticized by some members of the Facebook team and the representatives of the Republican and Democratic parties, who believe that the implementation of content regulation measures will hamper political discussion.The US presidential election, in which Trump is facing off Democratic nominee Joe Biden, is set for November 3. Early voting has already started in some states. (ANI/Sputnik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-facebook-prepares-emergency-measures-to-calm-possible-violence/story-xbZR6vnA0WUihB8QCXsE5M.html
26-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: Trump, Biden to step up campaigning in final week before polls||President Donald Trump plans to intensify an already breakneck travel schedule in the final full week of the presidential campaign, overlooking a surge of coronavirus cases in the US and a fresh outbreak in his own White House.(Click here for full US election 2020 coverage)Trump is expected to hit nearly a dozen states in his last-ditch effort to recover ground from Democrat Joe Biden, including Sunday’s trip to Maine and Tuesday’s to Nebraska. Both states award electoral votes by congressional district and could be crucial in a tight election. He will hold 11 rallies in the final 48 hours alone.Biden, too, plans to pick up his travel schedule, aiming to hit the six battleground states the campaign sees as key to his chances, some with socially distanced in-person events and others with virtual events. On Tuesday the former vice president is travelling to Georgia, a state that hasn’t voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in more than a quarter-century but where polls show a tight race.The final week of the campaign is colliding with deepening concerns about a public health crisis in the US Trump is eager for voters to focus on almost anything else, worried that he will lose if the election becomes a referendum on his handling of the pandemic. Biden is working to ensure the race is just that, hitting Trump on the virus and presenting himself as a safer, more stable alternative.Also Read | Americans are learning to die with coronavirus: BidenThe stakes were clear this weekend as the White House became the locus for a second outbreak of the virus in a month. Several close aides to Vice President Mike Pence tested positive for the virus, including his chief of staff, Marc Short. Pence, though, was insistent on maintaining his aggressive political calendar, even though he was deemed a “close contact” of his adviser, claiming the privileges of being an “essential employee.”The latest outbreak has served as a potent metaphor for the divergent approaches the Trump and Biden campaigns have taken to the virus. On Sunday, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said that “we’re not going to control the pandemic” and the focus should be on containment and treatment. Trump aims to pack thousands of people, most without face coverings, across some of the upper Midwestern states bearing the brunt of the surge.“We want normal life to resume,” Trump said Sunday. “We just want normal life.”Meadows, pressed to explain why the pandemic cannot be reined in, said, “Because it is a contagious virus just like the flu.” He told CNN’s “State of the Union” that the government was focused on getting effective therapeutics and vaccines to market.Biden, in a statement, said Meadows’ comments continued with the Trump administration waving “the white flag of defeat” in the face of the virus.Biden’s team argues the coronavirus is likely to blot out any other issues that might come up in the final days of the campaign — including Biden’s recent debate-stage comment in which he affirmed he’d transition away from oil, later walked back as a transition away from federal subsidies. That strategy appeared to pay off as the outbreak in Pence’s staff refocused the national conversation once again on the pandemic.Trump and his team, meanwhile, have struggled to settle on a closing message, with the undisciplined candidate increasingly trusting his gut over his advisers. He’s grasped for dirt on his Democratic rival and used apocalyptic terms to describe a Biden presidency, but Biden has thus far proven more resilient to such attacks than Trump’s 2016 rival.“You can certainly expect that (Biden) will focus on Covid as it continues to, unfortunately, rise all across the country,” Biden deputy campaign manager Kate Bedingfield said in an interview. “It’s disrupting people’s lives and people are looking for a leader to put in place plans to get it under control.”With more than a third of the expected ballots in the election already cast, it may become increasingly challenging for Trump and Biden to reshape the contours of the race. Biden is leading Trump in most national polls and has an advantage, though narrower, in many key battlegrounds.Biden is also sitting on more campaign cash than Trump and is putting it to use, blanketing airwaves with a nearly 2-to-1 advantage over the final two weeks. The incessant campaign ads from Biden feature a mix of his aspirational message with stinging critiques of Trump’s handling of the pandemic.Also Read | How Trump plowed through USD 1 billion, losing cash advantageIt’s part of what Josh Schwerin, the senior strategist for Democratic super PAC Priorities USA, says has helped Biden gain an advantage.“Those dual messages — continuing to draw a contrast with Trump, but also offering that positive aspirational message, giving people a reason to vote for Biden and not just against Trump — continues to be the best way forward. And we’re seeing it work,” he said.Indeed, Biden has seen his favorability ratings steadily rise over the course of the campaign, despite a barrage of attacks from Republicans, while Trump remains underwater in such polls. Democrats have been heartened, too, by their lead in the record numbers of early votes that have been cast across a number of battleground states — though they caution that Republicans are more likely to turn out on Election Day and certain to make up ground.Still, multiple Democrats described the “2016 PTSD” that’s keeping them up at night a week out from Election Day. In 2016, Hillary Clinton also enjoyed a lead in national and some state polls, and Democrats say their complacency then doomed their candidate. Now, with the pandemic and record numbers of mail and absentee ballots injecting a greater level of uncertainty into the election, Democrats are reluctant to let their guard down.Biden’s campaign will focus in the final week on turning out what they’ve dubbed the “Biden coalition” — Black and Latino voters, as well as suburban, college-educated whites, women and older voters disaffected by Trump.“What we see consistently is there aren’t a whole lot of undecided voters left, and at this stage of the race it’s really about turnout. It’s about educating voters to make sure they know how to vote, and it’s about making sure that that they turn out,” Bedingfield said.Biden’s campaign has emphasized the need for Democrats to stay engaged even as the polls seem to favor their candidate. In a recent memo, Biden campaign manager Jen O’Malley Dillon said that “in a number of critical states we are functionally tied,” and warned supporters that “every indication we have shows that this thing is going to come down to the wire.”Bedingfield says that’s a message the campaign will continue to push through Nov. 3.“One thing that we have been very vocal about is that we do believe the race is tighter than a lot of the public polling would suggest,” she said. “We are constantly working to ensure that people understand that there is an urgency here, and that we can’t get complacent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-trump-biden-to-step-up-campaigning-in-final-week-before-polls/story-mk116Z1SMmToGKcOATqAcP.html
26-10-2020||World||Global Covid-19 cases near 43 million, India with highest recoveries||The coronavirus cases worldwide have neared the 43 million cases mark, as per the latest updates by Johns Hopkins University (JHU), as of Sunday.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)The total cases currently stand at 42,923,311 cases of which 1,152,978 patients globally have succumbed to the virus, according to the University’s global tracker.JHU further stated that as many as 28,898,316 patients have recovered from the disease worldwide. As per the tracker, India has the highest number of recovered patients in the world with the number of recovered patients in the country crossing the 7 million recoveries mark at 7,078,123.The US continues to be the worst affected country from the pandemic with 8,633,194 cases across the country and 225,215 fatalities.As many as 3,422,878 patients in the United States have recovered from the infection.According to the tracker, India and Brazil are the second and third most affected country from Covid-19. India has reported 7,864,811 cases and 118,534 fatalities whereas Brazil on the other hand reported 5,380,635 cases and 156,903 deaths across the country.Russia is the fourth worst-affected country from the virus with 1,503,652 Covid-19 cases and 25,875 deaths. France has 1,130,143 cases of Covid-19 with 34,673 fatalities.Meanwhile, Argentina (1,090,589 cases and 28,896 deaths), Spain (1,046,132 cases and 34,752 fatalities) and Colombia (1,015,885 cases and 30,000 deaths) are the other three countries that have breached the 1 million cases mark, as per the university.The World Health Organization has declared Covid-19 as a pandemic in March, this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-cases-near-43-million-india-with-highest-recoveries/story-cpqDplD76zNlWIRxCjNhSK.html
26-10-2020||World||US Election 2020: Nearly 59 million Americans have already voted, but wait for poll result could be long, says report||More than 58.7 million Americans have voted in the 2020 presidential election so far, surpassing all early ballots cast in the 2016 polls, but an unprecedented number of mail-in ballots has given rise to the possibility that the result could be delayed as counting of votes may stretch beyond November 3, according to a media report.(Click here for full US Election 2020 coverage) The report in the CNN said that according to a survey of election officials in all 50 states and Washington DC conducted by the US-based network, Edison Research and Catalist, more than 58.7 million Americans have voted so far in the election, with still 9 days left for November 3.(Read more: Early US voting surpasses 2016, nine days before election) The report said in 2016, around 58.3 million pre-election ballots were cast, including ballots in the three vote-by-mail states that year. That early vote accounted for about 42 per cent of all ballots cast in the 2016 presidential election. “Pre-election voting for the November election has surpassed all 2016 early ballots cast with 9 days left until Election Day,” the report said. “Pre-Election Day voting is skyrocketing nationwide amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, and states are reporting record-breaking turnout as voters are energised to vote by mail or early in person before November,’ it said. Another CNN report, however, noted that despite the unprecedented mail-in voting, there is a possibility that full results of who between President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden will win the Presidential election may not be known on election night. “Election night can be synonymous with unpredictability - just look at 2016 - but this year might be even murkier than usual. The pandemic has changed the way millions of Americans vote for president,” the report said. While voters have already cast an unprecedented number of mail-in ballots, in many locations, including potential battleground states, the mail-in ballots will not be counted until after the election, “potentially leading to long delays in the news media’s ability to call the election on election night,” it said. CNN cited media experts to say that the counting could go longer than election night and could last until the next morning or until the next afternoon or even later.It said that 54 per cent of those 58.7 million votes already cast this cycle comes from 16 most competitively ranked states, which will play a crucial role in determining who wins the presidency this year. Among those states, Minnesota has currently seen the largest percentage increase in early voting turnout compared to last cycle, according to Catalist data from both years in 14 key states. The report added that younger voters (aged 18-29) are also casting significantly more ballots and make up a greater share of the pre-Election Day vote than they did around the same time four years ago in all of the key states with information available. Across all 14 of these key states, voters below the age of 30 have seen upticks in their share of the early vote compared to this point in 2016, it said. The report analyses the turnout in several key states that Trump had won by the narrowest of margins in 2016. Trump had won Florida by a little over one percentage point in 2016 and capturing the state again this year is critical to his re election prospects, it said. The report added that 35 per cent of likely voters in Florida say they have already cast a ballot. Of that group, 71 per cent said they support Biden and 27 per cent back Trump. In North Carolina, Democrats are also outpacing Republicans in their percentage of the pre-election votes, but that margin is narrowing amid a surge in early voting. The report said that about 40 per cent of the early votes that Catalist has analysed comes from Democrats compared to 30 per cent from Republicans so far. In Pennsylvania, a crucial state that Trump won by less than one percentage point in 2016, Democrats continue to hold a significant advantage over Republicans in their share of ballots already cast, according to Catalist party data. About 70 per cent of pre-election votes have come from Democrats so far, compared to about 20 per cent from Republicans, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-election-2020-nearly-59-million-americans-have-already-voted-but-wait-for-poll-result-could-be-long-says-report/story-ERa6lKyB9tOT5f7BIC8uPP.html
26-10-2020||World||South Korea urges people to get vaccinated against influenza amid Covid pandemic||South Korea urged citizens to get vaccinated against influenza and reduce the chances of an outbreak that coincides with the battle on the coronavirus, as it kicked off free inoculations for the last eligible group.Public anxiety over the safety of flu vaccines has surged after at least 48 people died this month following vaccinations, while, last month, about 5 million doses had to be disposed of after not being stored at recommended temperatures.Authorities have said they found no direct link between the deaths and the flu shots and have sought to reassure South Koreans about the safety of the vaccines against flu, a disease that kills at least 3,000 each year.“Vaccination offers far greater benefits compared to side effects, and both the WHO and domestic and overseas experts agree,” Health Minister Park Neung-hoo told a briefing on Sunday, in a reference to the World Health Organization.Last year, more than 1,500 elderly people died within seven days of receiving flu vaccines, but those deaths were not linked to the vaccinations, the government said.As South Korea presses on with its inoculations, southeast Asia’s tiny city state of Singapore became one of the first nations this week to call a temporary halt to the use of two influenza vaccines, as a precaution.Singapore has reported no deaths linked to flu vaccinations.South Korea ordered 20% more flu vaccines this year to ward off the prospect of what it calls a “twindemic” of concurrent major flu and coronavirus outbreaks in winter.At least 1,154 instances of adverse reactions have been reported from among more than 9.4 million people inoculated since the effort began in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-urges-people-to-get-vaccinated-against-influenza-amid-covid-pandemic/story-KqJQxihHSFu40Dh67SqbmJ.html
26-10-2020||World||Thailand’s parliament meets to debate political protest tensions||Thailand’s parliament began a special session Monday that was called to address tensions as pro-democracy protests draw students and other demonstrators into the streets almost daily demanding the prime minister’s resignation.As Speaker of the House Chuan Leekpai began the session, only 450 of the total of 731 members of both houses had signed in for the meeting.The demonstrations by student-led groups in the Bangkok and other cities have three main demands: that Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha step down, the constitution be amended to make it more democratic and reforms be made to the monarchy to make it more accountable.Public criticism of the monarchy is unprecedented in a country where the royal institution has been considered sacrosanct, and royalists have denounced the protesters for raising the issue.“The only way to a lasting solution for all sides that is fair for those on the streets as well as for the many millions who choose not to go on the streets is to discuss and resolve these differences through the parliamentary process,” Prayuth said last week.The non-voting session of Parliament is expected to last two days.The protesters have little confidence in the parliamentary path, declaring the government’s efforts insincere.They noted the points of discussion submitted by Prayuth’s government for debate dealt not with the protesters’ concerns but were thinly disguised criticisms of the protests themselves.They concern instead the risk of the coronavirus spreading at rallies, the alleged interference with a royal motorcade by a small crowd earlier this month, and illegal gatherings and the destruction of images of the royal family.The protesters allege Prayuth, who led a coup in 2014 as the army chief, was returned to power unfairly in last year’s election because laws had been changed to favor a pro-military party. The protesters also say the constitution, written and enacted under military rule, is undemocratic.Parliament in September was scheduled to vote on six proposed constitutional amendments but instead set up a committee to further consider such proposals, and then recessed.Constitutional changes require a joint vote of the House and the Senate, but the proposals lack support in the Senate, whose members are not elected and are generally very conservative and hostile to the protesters.Instead of confronting lawmakers and counter-protesters on Monday, the pro-democracy protest organizers have called for an afternoon march to the German Embassy, apparently to bring attention to the time King Maha Vajiralongkorn spends in Germany.Germany’s foreign minister, questioned in Parliament by a member of the Green Party, recently expressed concern over any political activities the king might be conducting on the country’s soil.Protesters’ criticism of the royal institution has roiled conservative Thais. Self-proclaimed “defenders of the monarchy” mobilized last week online and in rallies in several cities, in many cases led by local civil servants.A small group of royalist demonstrators were outside Parliament on Monday morning, saying they were there to let lawmakers know of their opposition to any changes in the status of the monarchy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailand-s-parliament-meets-to-debate-political-protest-tensions/story-wdHNAgojTJqo2zWho6m3dK.html
26-10-2020||World||China launches emergency testing to control new Kashgar outbreak||China has tested nearly three million people in Xinjiang province to tackle a cluster of coronavirus cases, in the latest example of the country’s aggressive approach to bring new outbreaks under control.A 17-year-old teenager in Kashgar prefecture was found through routine testing to have contracted the virus. Subsequent testing found 137 cases, all related to a factory where the teenager’s parents worked. Each of the cases were asymptomatic, according to Xinjiang’s health authorities.Free testing is being rolled out for nearly 4.75 million people in Kashgar, in the far west of China. As of 2 p.m. Sunday, 2.83 million people had undergone testing, while results for 334,800 people have already come out negative.Authorities have implemented controls on mobility within 10 kilometers of the county where the cluster was found, but transportation in the region remains open and residents can leave if they tested negative within the past seven days. No restrictions are placed on external visitors.While new infections in China had remained below 100 a day since mid-August, with most of them imported, the country continues to see small flare-ups, with the most recent in the eastern port city of Qingdao earlier this month. It has managed to stamp out these clusters -- including an outbreak in Beijing in June -- through mass testing campaigns that screen millions of citizens for the virus within days.The new outbreak in Kashgar reflects the difficulty of stamping out the coronavirus entirely in any one country. Other Asian nations like Thailand and New Zealand have maintained long stretches of virus-free periods, only to see the pathogen appear again. Still, China so far has been able to stamp out each new cluster, even as the U.S. and Europe struggle with fresh waves of record infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-launches-emergency-testing-to-control-new-kashgar-outbreak/story-Unpkik3COmDkGPdcgaEZLO.html
26-10-2020||World||Seven held after British army boards threatened oil tanker in English Channel||British soldiers on Sunday boarded an oil tanker off England’s south coast and detained seven suspects, the defence ministry said, after the crew were forced to take shelter from stowaways who threatened them.The alert had been raised for the welfare of the crew of the Nave Andromeda tanker around 1000 GMT after they were forced to retreat to a safe area.“In response to a police request, the Defence Secretary and Home Secretary authorised Armed Forces personnel to board a ship in the English Channel... that was subject to suspected hijacking,” the Ministry of Defence posted on Twitter.“Armed forces have gained control of the ship and seven individuals have been detained,” the ministry said, adding that the crew were “safe and well”.Stowaways “had made verbal threats towards the crew” but “no-one has been reported injured”, police in the southern county of Hampshire said earlier, adding that they had imposed a three-mile (five kilometres) exclusion zone around the tanker.The ship was around six miles off the Isle of Wight on England’s south coast, police added.Britain’s coastguard and border protection agencies were called in to help defuse the incident.A coastguard spokesman said two helicopters had been sent to support the police.Law firm Tatham & Co., which represents the ship’s owners, told the BBC that the incident was “100 percent not a hijacking”.Rather, the stowaways resisted being locked in a cabin after being discovered, the lawyers added.A source close to the shipping company also told the BBC that crew had been aware of stowaways on board for some time, but that they had turned violent as the vessel approached Britain.The crew then retreated to the ship’s secure citadel, where attackers are unable to enter, added the source.The boat left Nigeria last week carrying 42,000 tonnes of crude oil and was due to dock in Southampton earlier Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/seven-held-after-british-army-boards-threatened-oil-tanker-in-english-channel/story-W2aTBJE9dlkL1Zk9LS9g1J.html
26-10-2020||World||Chileans vote in favour of rewriting Constitution||Amid a year of contagion and turmoil, Chileans turned out Sunday to vote overwhelmingly in favor of having a constitutional convention draft a new charter to replace guiding principles imposed four decades ago under the military dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet.The country’s conservative government had agreed with the center-left opposition to allow the plebiscite after the outbreak of vast street protests that erupted a year ago in frustration over inequality in pensions, education and health care in what has long been one of South America’s most developed nations.The Electoral Service said Sunday night that with nearly all polling stations reporting, about 78% ballots of the 7.3 million votes counted favored drawing up a new constitution, while just under 22% were opposed. About 79% supported having the charter be drafted by a convention of 155 elected citizens rather than a convention with half its members elected citizens and half members of congress.In a speech to the country, center-right President Sebastián Piñera said acknowledged the victory for those seeking a new charter but cautioned it is only the start of a long process.“It is the beginning of a path, which together we will have to go through to agree on a new constitution for Chile,” said the president, who had opposed having a new constitution though he had conceded earlier in the day that it likely would be supported by voters.The special convention would begin drafting a new constitution that would be submitted to voters in mid-2022.As Piñera spoke, thousands of people celebrated in a central square of the capital used for festivities and protests. Similar gatherings were held on the outskirts of Santiago.“What happened in the social outburst is now reflected in the outcome of the plebiscite,” said one celebrant, Paulina León. “I was part of the marches a year ago and I have to take care of my decision and help build a dignified constitution.”Felipe Caviedes also joined in, saying that “I am part of the social diversity that was marginalized 30 years in this country and now, at last, we can create it ourselves. Now there are real changes coming.”Chile’s current constitution was drafted by the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, and was sent to voters at a time where political parties had been banned and the country was subject to heavy censorship.It was approved by a 66%-30% margin in a 1980 plebiscite, but critics say many voters were cowed into acceptance by a regime that had arrested, tortured and killed thousands of suspected leftist opponents following the overthrow of an elected socialist government.“I think that many people went to vote out of fear,” said political scientist Claudio Fuentes, who wrote a book about that plebiscite titled, “The Fraud.”“The current constitution has a flaw of origin, which is that it was created during the military dictatorship in an undemocratic process,” said Monica Salinero, a 40-year-old sociologist who supports drafting a new charter.The free-market principles embodied in that document led to a booming economy that continued after the return to democracy in 1990, but not all Chileans shared.A minority was able to take advantage of good, privatized education, health and social security services, while others were forced to rely on sometimes meager public alternatives. Public pensions for the poorest are just over $200 a month, roughly half the minimum wage.Luisa Fuentes Rivera, a 59-year-old food vendor, said hopes that “with a new constitution we will have better work, health, pensions and a better quality of life for older people, and a better education.”But historian Felipe Navarrete warned, “It’s important to say that the constitution won’t resolve the concrete problems. It will determine which state we want to solve the problems.”Claudia Heiss, head of the political science department at the University of Chile, said it would send a signal about people’s desires for change, and for a sort of politics that would “allow greater inclusion of sectors that have been marginalized from politics.”Conservative groups fear the revamp could go too far, and endanger parts of the constitution that have helped the country prosper.“The people have demonstrated saying they want better pensions, better health, better education. and the response of the political class” is a process that won’t solve the problems and will open a period of uncertainty,” said Felipe Lyon, 28-year-old lawyer and spokesman for the group “No, Thanks” that opposes the change.The decision to allow the vote came after hundreds of thousands of Chileans repeatedly took to the streets in protests that often turned violent.The vote was initially scheduled for April, but was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic which has killed some 13,800 Chileans, with more than 500,000 people infected by the new coronavirus.Officials trying to ensure voters felt safe barred infected persons or those close to them from the polls, and long lines formed at voting places. Voters had to wear masks — dipping them only briefly for identification purposes — and brought their own pencils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chileans-vote-in-favour-of-rewriting-constitution/story-HmlrE3ZQuz9XJchhoV1XKJ.html
26-10-2020||World||Australia’s second Covid-19 wave epicentre records zero new cases||Australian health officials on Monday reported no new coronavirus cases or deaths in Victoria state, which has spent months under onerous restrictions after becoming the epicentre of the country’s second wave.It was the first 24-hour period without any new Covid-19 cases reported in the state since the five million residents of Melbourne were locked down after security bungles at quarantine hotels housing returned international travellers sparked a major outbreak in July.Under the lockdown, people in the city -- Australia’s second-biggest -- have been barred from leaving their homes for non-essential reasons and spent months under an overnight curfew.Some restrictions were lifted last week, allowing haircuts and golf games to return, but further easing planned for Sunday was delayed to assess thousands of test results after a small outbreak in the city’s north.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicPressure is mounting on state authorities to allow the city more freedoms, with a litany of rules still in place despite the falling number of cases.Masks are mandatory, restaurants are limited to takeaways and deliveries, non-essential shops have to remain closed and there is a ban on travel outside the greater Melbourne area or more than 25 kilometres (16 miles) from home.The city’s second round of stay-at-home restrictions began in July, when the state of Victoria saw around 190 new cases a day, rising to 700 in August.The rest of Victoria state is already enjoying fewer restrictions, with gyms set to reopen and outdoor live music to resume from Tuesday.Australia has been relatively successful in containing the spread of the coronavirus, with about 27,500 cases and 905 deaths in a population of 25 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-s-second-covid-19-wave-epicentre-records-zero-new-cases/story-Yjam60kry703ThAQee56yH.html
26-10-2020||World||US sees highest number of new Covid-19 cases in past two days||The United States has seen its highest ever number of new Covid-19 cases in the past two days, keeping the pandemic a top election issue as Vice President Mike Pence travels the country to campaign despite close aides testing positive.The United States reported 79,852 new infections on Saturday, close to the previous day’s record of 84,244 new cases. Hospitalizations are also rising and have hit a two-month high and deaths are trending upwards, according to a Reuters tally. So far in October, 29 states have set records for increases in new cases, including five considered key in the Nov. 3 presidential election: Ohio, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.Cases in the Midwest set a new record on Saturday and the number of hospitalized Covid-19 patients in that region hit an all-time high for the ninth day in a row.Hospitals are strained in several states including North Dakota, which is the hardest hit based on recent new cases per capita, according to a Reuters analysis. The city of El Paso in Texas is asking residents to stay home for the next two weeks and the wider El Paso County closed its parks and recreational facilities for 14 days.In addition, an El Paso County judge ordered late Sunday a 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew due to the Covid crisis. The curfew order went into effect immediately, but it does not apply to essential workers or people traveling.Over the last three weeks, the number of hospitalized Covid-19 patients in the El Paso area has tripled to a record 786, according to state data. “If we continue on this trend, we risk detrimental effects to our entire healthcare system,” the city’s public health director, Angela Mora, said in a statement.“For the sake of those hospitalized and the frontline healthcare workers working tirelessly each day to care for them, we ask you to please stay home for two weeks and eliminate your interactions with those outside your household until we can flatten the curve.” On Saturday, Texas Governor Greg Abbott asked the federal government to allow the use of an army medical center at Fort Bliss by non-coronavirus patients to ease the burden on hospitals. On Sunday, Abbott said state emergency management officials will open an alternate care site this week, initially with 50 beds, at the El Paso Convention and Performing Arts Center. New White House outbreakPence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, tested positive on Saturday as well as multiple other senior aides. Despite the outbreak, the White House said the vice president would press ahead with campaigning, visiting North Carolina on Sunday and Minnesota on Monday. The new infections offered a reminder of the way Trump - who was hospitalized for three nights this month after contracting Covid-19 - and those around him have downplayed the advice of public health experts to wear masks and observe social distancing guidelines to stem Covid-19 transmission.Asked on CNN’s “State of the Union” why Pence was not following US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines to quarantine for 14 days after such exposure, Meadows on Sunday cited the vice president’s status as “essential personnel.”The latest outbreak follows what health experts described as a super-spreader event at the White House on Sept. 26 where President Donald Trump announced his nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sees-highest-number-of-new-covid-19-cases-in-past-two-days/story-ygqKeKCykW6fmE7hDo4RRI.html
26-10-2020||World||Kamala Harris to campaign in Texas on last day of early voting||A massive number of people have already voted in Texas since early voting started on October 13, leading experts to predict that the state could reach overall turnout levels unseen so far this century.Over seven million people have already voted in the state of Texas ahead of next week’s general election, a figure that accounts for nearly 43 per cent of all registered voters in the state. A total of 25,658 people voted in person Sunday and 560 mail ballots were returned while 1,090,445 people in Harris County have cast a ballot so far as per Harris County Clerk. President Trump won Texas in 2016, as has every Republican presidential nominee for several decades, but Democratic nominee Joe Biden’s campaign is hoping a surge in early and mail-in voting will turn the state blue for the first time since the late 1970s. Meanwhile, Sen. Kamala Harris, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate, will head to Texas Friday, the last day of early voting in the state, as polls show a close race at the top of the ballot here.Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden’s campaign sent an email to Democratic lawmakers Sunday saying the travel plans “will be publicly released momentarily,” the Texas Tribune reported. It’s not clear yet where in the state Harris, a US senator from California, will campaign.According to US Rep Lloyd Doggett, D-Austin, the trip comes amid massive voter turnout in Texas.“As the most recent statewide polls showing Vice President Biden ahead and the historic voter turnout in Central Texas and urban areas across the state indicate, we are changing Texas,” Doggett said in a statement. “Sen Harris would not be here near election eve were this not a winnable state. And, as Texas changes, we will change our country and our world for the better.” Biden’s wife, Dr Jill Biden, and Harris’ husband, Doug Emhoff, have made campaign stops in Texas in recent weeks. Joe Biden, however, has stuck to more traditional battleground states such as Pennsylvania.A Dallas Morning News/UT-Tyler poll among likely voters released Sunday shows Biden with a narrow lead over President Donald Trump, 48 per cent to 45 per cent, within the margin of error. The poll was conducted October 13-20.Texas has seen high voter participation during the early voting period, which began Oct. 13. As of Saturday, nearly 7 million Texans had voted, according to the Texas secretary of state’s office, or roughly 40 per cent of all registered voters.A Quinnipiac University poll conducted Oct 16-19 and released Wednesday found that Texans who are casting their ballots at early voting locations are more likely to back Biden, with 48 per cent of early voters for Biden and 46 per cent for Trump. Among those who said they will vote in person on Election Day, 62 per cent support Trump and 32 per cent back Biden. And among those who are voting by mail or absentee ballot, 63 per cent said they are voting for Biden and 31 per cent for Trump. The survey also showed Sen John Cornyn’s (R-Texas) lead over Democrat MJ Hegar slipping since September.Cornyn now has an 8-point lead over Hegar. He had an 11-point advantage in the September poll.Republicans have pounced on Biden’s remarks about the oil industry at the Thursday debate, which they believe could hurt the Democrat in Texas and other states.“And how do they propose to ‘transition’ 270 million cars with internal combustion engines? What will that cost?” Cornyn tweeted last week.The October poll shows that Trump’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic continues to be a major political problem.Forty-four per cent of Texans said they have no confidence in Trump’s ability to keep the public safe from the virus, up from 32 per cent who said so last month.The poll, however, shows that Texas voters continue to feel more confident about Trump’s ability to manage the economy compared with Biden, validating GOP lawmakers and strategists who have said for months that the economy is the president’s biggest advantage. The poll shows Biden leading Trump among voters aged 18 to 44 and Trump winning those 45 years old and older. Trump has support from 56 per cent of Texas voters older than 65, his best age group. A spokeswoman for the president’s reelection campaign said volunteers knocked on 131,000 doors and made 838,000 phone calls to Texans last week.“The Democrats talk a big game but are falling short in the face of Trump Victory’s superior ground game and spirit,” spokeswoman Samantha Cotten said Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-to-campaign-in-texas-on-last-day-of-early-voting/story-ldFDncASboATiMLZ4vI7bP.html
26-10-2020||World||Typhoon Molave displaces thousands of villagers, floods villages in Philippines||A fast-moving typhoon forced thousands of villagers to flee to safety in provinces south of the Philippine capital Monday, flooding rural villages and ripping off roofs, officials said.There were no immediate reports of casualties from Typhoon Molave, but authorities reported at least one person was missing and seven others were rescued after their yacht sank off Batangas province south of Manila.The typhoon has sustained winds of 125 kilometers (77 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 180 kph (112 miles) per hour and was blowing westward at 25 kph (15 mph). Molave is expected to start blowing out of the country into the South China Sea on Monday, government forecasters said.At least 25,000 villagers were displaced with about 20,000 taking shelter in schools and government buildings which were turned into evacuation centers, according to the Office of Civil Defense.“Villagers are now asking to be rescued because of the sudden wind which blew away roofs,” Humerlito Dolor, governor of Oriental Mindoro province, told DZMM radio.Dolor said pounding rains overnight swamped farming villages in his province then fierce winds toppled trees and power posts early on Monday, knocking off power. Authorities were clearing roads of fallen trees and debris in some towns after the typhoon passed, he said.More than 1,800 cargo truck drivers, workers and passengers were stranded in ports after the coast guard barred ships and ferry boats from venturing into rough seas.About 20 typhoons and storms annually batter the Philippines, and the Southeast Asian archipelago is seismically active, with earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, making it one of the world’s most disaster-prone countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/typhoon-molave-displaces-thousands-of-villagers-floods-villages-in-philippines/story-oNbIncejZpWFySX2rdkiaI.html
26-10-2020||World||Early US voting surpasses 2016, nine days before election||Early voting in the 2020 US election has surpassed all the pre-election ballots from four years earlier, an independent vote monitor said Sunday, with nine days still to go before the November 3 poll.Millions of Americans wary of crowded polling booths during the coronavirus pandemic and energized by an election fight that both President Donald Trump and his Democratic rival Joe Biden have framed as existential are smashing records for casting ballots, whether by mail or in person.The tally by the independent US Election Project, run by the University of Florida, said that as of Sunday more than 59 million people had voted so far.That is higher than the 57 million who voted early or by mail in 2016, according to the US Election Assistance Commission website. So far, Democrats -- who have encouraged early voting -- have been leading the way, but whether that means Biden can breathe easy remains to be seen.Trump for months has been claiming, without evidence, that mail-in ballots lead to fraud, and many Republicans are expected to vote on Election Day.With coronavirus cases spiking across the country, however, Michael McDonald -- a political science professor at the University of Florida who administers the Election Project -- warned that the strategy “looks all the more risky.”“What if at least some of his voters decide not to vote? What if a polling place becomes unavailable or an election office shuts down?” he tweeted.The Election Project has predicted that turnout this year could top 150 million in total. Some 137 million ballots were cast in the 2016 election.Some states key to the 2020 outcome were also firmly on the path to breaking records, such as Texas, where the Election Project said Sunday that 80 percent of the early 2016 vote had already turned out.“Folks, Texas still has in-person early voting until Friday, plus Election Day. No doubt Texas turnout will be above 2016. Question is, how much?” McDonald tweeted.The election in Texas, traditionally a conservative bastion which has backed Republican candidates since 1980, is under close scrutiny, with some polls showing Biden in a position to edge out Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/early-us-voting-surpasses-2016-nine-days-before-election/story-0pOAhe3OlnRhTL4n0mI7GP.html
26-10-2020||World||Winds send California fire risk soaring, forcing blackouts||Violent winds are rattling Northern California, sending the risk of wildfires soaring and prompting the state’s largest utility to cut power to prevent live wires from toppling into dry brush and sparking blazes.PG&E Corp. has cut electricity to 225,000 homes and businesses in areas north of San Francisco earlier on Sunday and will turn off power to an additional 136,000 in areas including the East Bay and South Bay in the evening, impacting an estimated 1.1 million people as gusts exceeding 50 miles (80 kilometers) an hour swept through an area already bone-dry from heat and drought. Utilities in Southern California warned they may need to cut power, too.“This is the strongest event we have seen so far this year,” said Karleisa Rogacheski, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Sacramento. It’s some of most dangerous weather the state has seen since the Camp Fire erupted in 2018, killing 85 people, she said.PG&E said it may restore power starting Monday afternoon, though some customers may be left in the dark through Tuesday.By mid-afternoon Sunday, at least three blazes had broken out north of Sacramento, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.The brutal winds, fires and blackouts are the latest blow for a state that’s been battered by violent weather and has already seen a record 4.1 million acres (1.66 million hectares) scorched this year. PG&E has previously cut power four times in 2020 to prevent falling wires from igniting blazes in a region that’s tinder dry from heat and drought. This round is the biggest yet as an estimated 4.2 million people are at risk from extreme fire conditions, according to the National Weather Service.The winds, fueled by a low pressure system in the Pacific Northwest, were gusting as high as 52 mph in Northern California at 10:30 a.m. local time. Gusts in canyons and atop ridges could hit 70 mph, just shy of hurricane strength.Fire fighters were battling three new blazes in Shasta County, including the Point Fire which had burned 275 acres and was 70% contained by about 6 p.m. Local time, Cal Fire said. The nearby Dersch Fire had burned at least 50 acres.Come Monday, humidity will be as low as 6% in Redding and just 5% in Grass Valley, according to the National Weather Service. It comes as the state is already riddled with dry brush and grasses due to some of the warmest temperatures record over the last nine months, according to the US National Centers for Environmental Information.PG&E is cutting power in stages. It began at 10 a.m. local time Sunday in the Northern Sierra region and will continue through Monday evening, the company said. The outages will hit 36 counties that include the San Francisco Bay area, the Sierra Nevada foothills, the Central Valley and the Central Coast.The blackouts may hit densely populated parts of the San Francisco metropolitan area, including portions of Oakland, Berkeley and Marin County -- cutting power to many residents as they are working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic. The city of Berkeley advised residents living in the hills to evacuate due to the fire risk, according to a statement.In Southern California, Edison International said about 75,000 customers could lose power beginning Monday. That’s about 225,000 people based on the size of the average California household. Sempra Energy’s San Diego Gas & Electric Co. is considering about 21,000 outages.And Pacific Power, owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said it could switch off power in Northern California and Southern Oregon on Sunday due to the gusts, according to a statement.Much of the U.S. West is at risk from wildfires as dry weather and stiff winds turn hillsides, forests and scrub land into tinderboxes. In Colorado, two of the largest fires in state history have forced the closure of Rocky Mountain National Park and triggered the evacuation of nearby towns.More than 8 million people across California will be in high-risk zones, including the cities of Sacramento, Stockton, and San Bernardino, the U.S. Storm Prediction Center said in its long-range forecast.The outages come on the heels of a blistering heat wave that gripped California earlier this month, driving temperatures to record daily highs. In August, a freak lightning storm sparked more than 150 wildfires in 24 hours. Days before that, the state’s grid operator ordered the first rotating outages since the Enron-era energy crisis of 2001 as scorching weather sent electricity demand surging.PG&E began resorting to preventative shutoffs after its equipment caused some of California’s worst blazes, forcing the company into bankruptcy last year. PG&E emerged from Chapter 11 in July after paying $25.5 billion to resolve fire claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/winds-send-california-fire-risk-soaring-forcing-blackouts/story-8Zu34dFCyXAeOWAxn2Px0I.html
26-10-2020||World||Pak soldiers did not even have weapons during Kargil war, claims Nawaz Sharif||While addressing the third anti-government rally of Pakistan opposition’s 11 -party alliance, the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), Pakistan Muslim League-N (PML-N) supremo Nawaz Sharif said that a few generals, were behind the 1999 Kargil war between India and Pakistan, and not the army.“The task of initiating the Kargil war, which witnessed the deaths of our brave soldiers, and disgraced Pakistan in front of the world, was not done by the Army, but by a few generals. They threw not only the Army but the country and community in the war in such a place, that nothing could be achieved from it. The moment was painful for me when I learnt that our brave soldiers lamented that when they were sent to the peaks, without food. They did not even have weapons. They sacrificed their lives. But what did the country or community achieve?” said Sharif, who spoke through a video link from London.He said these generals, who were behind the Kargil war, were also the ones who plotted a coup on October 12, 1999 and declared martial law to hide their actions and escape punishment.”Pervez Musharraf and his companions used the Army for personal gains, and disgraced them,” he added.Sharif said the PDM has risen against unconstitutional power “that has made Pakistan hollow from inside and out”, reported Dawn.”Looking at this enthusiasm, I am sure that no one will be able to violate the respect for the vote now. I saw this enthusiasm in Gujranwala and Karachi, and now I’m seeing it in Quetta,” said the former Prime Minister from London.Also Watch | Pakistan opposition parties unite to oust Imran Khan govt: Key details He criticised the PTI government’s performance and claimed that he was disqualified as premier over a “flimsy charge”, according to Dawn.In his speech, Sharif also addressed the arrest of PML-N leader retired Captain Mohammad Safdar, stating that it was “shameful” how police officials barged into the room and violated the privacy of his daughter Maryam Nawaz Sharif and her husband.”On whose order is the privacy of people violated? On whose orders are doors broken down. If even the province’s chief minister doesn’t know, then who is behind it?” he said.The third anti-government rally of Pakistan opposition’s 11-party alliance, PDM, took place in Quetta, Balochistan on Sunday.PDM had earlier organised two mammoth rallies in Gujranwala and Karachi as part of countrywide agitations, calling for the resignation of Imran Khan. Earlier, the police had “arrested” Safdar Awan, from the hotel they were staying in Karachi, hours after the PML-N vice-president had lashed out at Prime Minister Imran Khan and the PTI government at the second power show of PDM.”Police broke my room door at the hotel I was staying at in Karachi and arrested Capt. Safdar,” Maryam tweeted early Monday.Several police officers on Tuesday applied for leave in order to “come out of the [...] shock” caused by the registration of an FIR and arrest of Safdar, according to Dawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-soldiers-did-not-even-have-weapons-during-kargil-war-claims-nawaz-sharif/story-i2RCOjiw3pj9Xa6AHSlrIL.html
26-10-2020||World||US Senate advances nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to Supreme Court||The US Senate on Sunday voted to advance President Donald Trump’s nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court, paving the way for a full Senate confirmation vote probably to happen Monday.Sunday’s procedural vote meant to break a Democratic filibuster in the Republican-controlled upper chamber, where the GOP senators needed only a simple majority to advance the nomination, and the result was 51-48.If confirmed, which is all but assured given the Republican resolve to do so, Judge Barrett, a conservative, will be a Supreme Court justice who has gone through one of the quickest confirmation proceedings in modern U.S. history, replacing the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a liberal icon.Democrats opposed the installation of Barrett on the high court for the lifelong tenure, citing the proximity to the Nov. 3 presidential election.Having grilled Barrett over issues from Obamacare and abortion rights during the 48-year-old appellate court judge’s confirmation hearings earlier this month, Senate Democrats, however, conceded that they didn’t have the tools to prevent the Republicans from speeding up the process.Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska was one of just two GOP senators who opposed a full Senate vote on the Barrett nomination, but she announced Saturday she will vote yes if the Senate does take up a vote.Susan Collins, Republican senator from Maine who also expressed concerns that the nomination was too close to the election, is still expected to vote not to confirm Barrett.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senate-advances-nomination-of-judge-amy-coney-barrett-to-supreme-court/story-WQF2ZWlUJtmkpYbEXxSjcP.html
26-10-2020||World||WHO chief warns against ‘vaccine nationalism’||The head of the World Health Organization (WHO) on Sunday called for global solidarity in the rollout of any future coronavirus vaccine, as the number of cases soared across the world.In a video address at the opening of the three-day World Health Summit in Berlin, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the only way to recover from the pandemic was together and by making sure poorer countries had fair access to a vaccine.“It is natural that countries want to protect their own citizens first but if and when we have an effective vaccine, we must also use it effectively. And the best way to do that is to vaccinate some people in all countries rather than all people in some countries,” he said.“Let me be clear: vaccine nationalism will prolong the pandemic, not shorten it.”Scientists around the world are racing to develop a vaccine against Covid-19, which has killed over 1.1 million people.Several dozen vaccine candidates are currently being tested in clinical trials, ten of which are in the most advanced “phase 3” stage involving tens of thousands of volunteers.The European Union, the United States, Britain, Japan and a slew of other nations have already placed large orders with the companies involved in developing the most promising vaccines.But concerns are growing that countries with smaller wallets could be left at the back of the queue.The WHO has launched an international scheme known as Covax to help ensure equitable access to jabs, but it has struggled to raise the funds needed.‘Greatest crisis’The WHO on Sunday reported a third straight day of record new infections across the world, calling on countries to take further action to curb the spread of the disease.The agency’s figures showed that 465,319 cases were declared for Saturday alone, half of them in Europe.“This is a dangerous moment for many countries in the northern hemisphere as cases spike,” Tedros said.But he added that people weren’t powerless against the virus, stressing the importance of social distancing, hand washing, and meeting outdoors instead of inside.“Again and again we have seen that taking the right actions quickly means the outbreak can be managed.”Speaking at the same summit, which is being held online this year, United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres in his video message called the pandemic “the greatest crisis of our times”.“We need global solidarity every step of the way,” he said, echoing the plea for developed countries to support those with fewer resources.“A vaccine must be global public good,” Guterres said.“Vaccines, tests and therapies are more than life savers. They are economy savers and society savers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-warns-against-vaccine-nationalism/story-ITyAavfrPGPfsnLfodA7JP.html
26-10-2020||World||Fire set in Boston ballot drop box; FBI asked to investigate||A fire was set Sunday in a Boston ballot drop box holding more than 120 ballots in what appears to have been a “deliberate attack,” Massachusetts election officials said.The state has asked the FBI to investigate the fire that was set around 4 a.m. in a ballot drop box outside the Boston Public Library downtown, Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth William Galvin’s office said.In a joint statement, Galvin and Boston Mayor Marty Walsh called it a “disgrace to democracy, a disrespect to the voters fulfilling their civic duty, and a crime.”“Our first and foremost priority is maintaining the integrity of our elections process and ensuring transparency and trust with our voters, and any effort to undermine or tamper with that process must be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” they said in the emailed statement. “We ask voters not to be intimidated by this bad act, and remain committed to making their voices heard in this and every election.”Boston Police said an arson investigation is underway and released surveillance images of a person near the ballot box at that time, urging the public to help identify the individual.Officers called to the scene saw smoke coming out of the box before firefighters managed to extinguish the fire by filling the box with water, police said.There were 122 ballots inside the box when it was emptied Sunday morning, and 87 of them were still legible and able to be processed, Galvin’s office said. The box had last been emptied around 2:30 p.m. on Saturday.Voters can go online to see whether their ballot was processed. Those who used that dropbox between Saturday afternoon and 4 a.m. Sunday and can’t confirm the status of their ballot online should contact the Boston Elections Department immediately, officials said.Voters whose ballots were affected can either vote in person or by a replacement ballot that will be mailed to them, officials said. If those voters don’t submit a new ballot, “their original ballot will be hand-counted to the extent possible,” Galvin’s office said.An email seeking comment on whether the FBI is investigating was sent to an agency spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fire-set-in-boston-ballot-drop-box-fbi-asked-to-investigate/story-qyFg5KLuyHJDmtbSIp7FaM.html
26-10-2020||World||Covid-19: Malaysia’s king rejects PM’s proposal to declare state of emergency||Malaysia’s king on Sunday rejected a proposal by embattled Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin to declare a state of emergency to fight a new outbreak of the coronavirus.The plan by Muhyiddin, which involves suspending Parliament, has sparked national outrage, with critics slamming the move as an undemocratic means for him to hang on to power amid challenges to his leadership.The palace said in a statement that Sultan Abdullah Sultan Ahmad Shah “is of the opinion that there is currently no need for His Majesty to declare a state of emergency in this country or any part of Malaysia.” Muhyiddin met with the monarch on Friday to seek royal assent but hasn’t made any public comment. The palace’s statement came after the king conferred with other royal households earlier Sunday to discuss the prime minister’s proposal. Sultan Abdullah said the government has handled the pandemic well and believes that Muhyiddin is capable of implementing measures to cope with the crisis. But the monarch called for a halt to “all politicking” that could disrupt the government’s stability. The king can declare a state of emergency that allows the country to be governed through ordinances that cannot be challenged in court. Muhyiddin took power in March after instigating the cause of the former reformist alliance, but his government is shaky, with only a two-seat majority in Parliament. Opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim has alleged that he has the support of a majority of lawmakers to topple Muhyiddin, but hasn’t managed to secure the monarch’s support. Still, Muhyiddin faces a key test early next month when his government is due to seek approval for its 2021 budget in Parliament. If he is unable to pass the bill, pressure will build for him to resign or call new elections. A state of emergency could allow him to delay that vote and consolidate support. The king said there was “no need for MPs to continue with irresponsible actions that can affect the stability of the government.” He stressed that the budget is crucial in the fight against Covid-19 and to restore the economy, and urged Malaysians to unite to stem the virus’s spread. Malaysia’s coronavirus cases doubled to more than 26,000 in just three weeks following a new outbreak, mainly in Sabah state on Borneo island. Politicians from both sides of the divide as well as the Bar Council, the medical association and other groups have said there is no need for an emergency decree because there are sufficient laws to curb public movement and impose penalties to curb the virus. Some also have warned that declaring an emergency could plunge the country into a dictatorship and ruin the economy. Some media outlets have cited sources as saying that Muhyiddin wanted an “economic emergency” to merely suspend Parliament, without any curfew. The last time emergency laws were invoked nationally was in 1969 during deadly racial riots. Muhyiddin withdrew his party from Anwar’s reformist alliance that won 2018 elections and joined with the opposition to form a Malay-centric government in March. Then-Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad resigned in protest, saying he wouldn’t work with the corruption-tainted opposition that he ousted in 2018 polls. Apart from Anwar, Muhyiddin also faces threats from the key ally in his ruling coalition, which is angry about being sidelined despite being the biggest party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-malaysia-s-king-rejects-pm-s-proposal-to-declare-state-of-emergency/story-W47FuZtCcsYQtKfySJcF8O.html
26-10-2020||World||Killing of Al-Qaeda leader points to its links with Taliban: Afghan govt||Afghan forces have killed a top al Qaeda militant wanted by the US, as the government on Sunday accused the Taliban of still keeping close ties with the Islamist militant group.Abu Muhsin al-Masri, an Egyptian national believed to be the group’s number two in the Indian subcontinent, was targeted in eastern Ghazni province, Afghanistan’s intelligence agency said in a statement.The National Directorate of Security did not provide further details about the operation or when it was carried out.Masri’s killing was an indication of the relationship between the Taliban and al Qaeda, Afghanistan’s interior minister Masoud Andarabi claimed on Sunday without providing details.“The killing of one of the key al Qaeda member, al-Masri by the National Directorate of Security demonstrates close ties of the Taliban with the terrorist groups that are operating against the Afghan government and its people,” he tweeted.“They still keep close relations with the terrorist groups and they are lying to different sides.”The Taliban’s sheltering of al Qaeda was the original reason for the US invasion of Afghanistan after the September 11, 2001 attacks.In a landmark deal with the US in February, the Taliban agreed to not allow Afghan soil to be used by foreign extremists including al Qaeda, in return for Washington withdrawing its troops from the country.Masri, who also goes by the name Husam Abd-al-Ra’uf, is on the FBI’s Most Wanted Terrorists list. A US warrant for his arrest was issued in December 2018 after he was charged with providing support and resources to a foreign terrorist organisation and plotting to kill US nationals, according to the FBI.A source at the Afghan intelligence agency, who did not want to be named, told AFP that an aide to Masri who was “in contact with the Taliban” was also detained during the operation in Ghazni province, a volatile region where Taliban fighters are very active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/killing-of-al-qaeda-leader-points-to-its-links-with-taliban-afghan-govt/story-7PGywB3ElvisYmSKUi0wEO.html
26-10-2020||World||Treaty banning nukes ratified but US, major powers not on board||The United Nations has announced that 50 countries have ratified a UN treaty to ban nuclear weapons triggering its entry into force in 90 days, a move hailed by anti-nuclear activists but strongly opposed by the US and the other major nuclear powers.As of Friday, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, known as the TPNW, had 49 signatories, and UN officials said the 50th ratification from Honduras had been received.  “This moment has been 75 years coming since the horrific attacks on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and the founding of the UN which made nuclear disarmament a cornerstone,” said Beatrice Fihn, executive director of the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons, the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize-winning coalition whose work helped spearhead the nuclear ban treaty. “The 50 countries that ratify this Treaty are showing true leadership in setting a new international norm that nuclear weapons are not just immoral but illegal.”“The United Nations was formed to promote peace with a goal of the abolition of nuclear weapons,” Fihn said. “This treaty is the UN at its best — working closely with civil society to bring democracy to disarmament.”The 50th ratification came on the 75th anniversary of the ratification of the UN Charter, which officially established the United Nations and is celebrated as UN Day. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres commended the 50 states and saluted “the instrumental work” of civil society in facilitating negotiations. The US had written to treaty signatories saying the Trump administration believes they made “a strategic error” and urging them to rescind their ratification. The US letter, obtained by The Associated Press, said the five original nuclear powers - the US, Russia, China, Britain and France - and America’s NATO allies “stand unified in our opposition to the potential repercussions” of the treaty.It says the treaty “turns back the clock on verification and disarmament and is dangerous” to the half-century-old Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty, considered the cornerstone of global non-proliferation efforts.“The TPNW is and will remain divisive in the international community and risk further entrenching divisions in existing non-proliferation and disarmament fora that offer the only realistic prospect for consensus-based progress,” the letter said. “It would be unfortunate if the TPNW were allowed to derail our ability to work together to address pressing proliferation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/treaty-banning-nukes-ratified-but-us-major-powers-not-on-board/story-xOMMMJgOOti3wD0cSorfSP.html
26-10-2020||World||Donald Trump warns GOP may lose Senate||US President Donald Trump has privately told donors that it will be “very tough” for Republicans to keep control of the Senate in the election because he would not support some of its candidates, the Washington Post reported.“There are a couple senators I can’t really get involved in. I just can’t do it. You lose your soul if you do. I can’t help some of them. I don’t want to help some of them,” Trump told a fundraiser last week, the paper reported on Sunday citing an attendee. Republicans hold a 53-to-47 majority in the Senate. To control the upper chamber, Democrats need to win three seats if Joe Biden wins the presidency in the November 3 polls.Trump, meanwhile, appears to have gone back to the 2016 playbook for the final nine days of the race, hoping to pull off a similar win. Biden, on the other hand, has kept the focus on the present and is seeking to expand the battleground states. On Saturday, Biden and his former boss Barack Obama hammered Trump at separate rallies on his failure to contain Covid-19.“There’s something going on. It happened this time four years ago. This time more,” Trump told supporters in Ohio, a battleground state he had won in 2016 but now leads Biden by a razor-thin margin of 1.5 percentage points in the FiveThirtyEight weighted average of polls.Trump has striven to paint Biden as a corrupt politician just as he did with his 2016 rival Hillary Clinton, and indulgently watched his supporters chant “Lock him up,” a 2020 version of “Lock her up”.Trump campaign manager Bill Stepien told Post, “There are striking similarities to the president’s campaign in 2016 — a tight race, an enthusiasm advantage and clear momentum down the stretch for Donald Trump.”Trump had trailed Clinton in polls at this stage in 2016 by similar margins — by 6.1 percentage points in the FiveThirtyEight average on October 24, 2016. Four years since, Trump trails Biden by 9.1 percentage points.Biden is seeking to expand his advantage by taking the battle into Republican territory: Georgia, where he will address two rallies on Tuesday.Obama was scathing in his remarks on his successor. “Eight months into this pandemic, new cases are breaking records,” he said. “He can’t even take the basic steps to protect himself.” That was a reference to Trump’s own bout with Covid-19. Vice-President Mike Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, has tested positive for coronavirus along with key adviser Marty Obst, raising the prospect of another outbreak within the White House. Pence himself has tested negative and will continue to campaign for Trump’s re-election, his office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-warns-gop-may-lose-senate/story-JyU2q5pBKi7afjf2iYGGtI.html
26-10-2020||World||Pak joint oppn holds massive rally in Quetta||Pakistan’s joint opposition on Sunday held a massive rally in Quetta, despite a blast in a different part of the city earlier that left three people dead.Addressing the Pakistan Democratic Movement’s (PDM) third march against the Imran Khan government, Pakistan Muslim League-N chief Nawaz Sharif asked Army Chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa to answer for the country’s current situation. “Gen Bajwa, you will have to answer for record rigging in the 2018 elections, for horse-trading in the Parliament, for making Imran Niazi prime minister against people’s wishes and by tearing apart the Constitution and laws, for pushing people towards poverty and hunger,” he said via video link from London. He accused Inter-Services Intelligence Director General Lt Gen Faiz Hameed of “interfering in politics for several years with impunity” in violation of his oath. PDM had held two mammoth rallies in Gujranwala and Karachi in the past weeks seeking the ouster of Prime Minister Imran Khan.Earlier in the day, at least three people were killed and six others wounded when a bomb exploded in a suburban neighbourhood of Quetta, home to several separatist and Islamist insurgencies. The bomb was concealed in a motorcycle. No group immediately claimed responsibility for the attack.Prime Minister Khan said on Sunday that French President Emmanuel Macron has “attacked Islam” by encouraging the display of cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad. He was responding to Macron paying tribute to a French teacher beheaded by an Islamist who wanted to avenge the use of cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad in a class on freedom of expression.“Sadly, President Macron has chosen to deliberately provoke Muslims, incl his own citizens, through encouraging the display of blasphemous cartoons targeting Islam & our Prophet, ” Khan tweeted. Khan said Macron had “chosen to encourage Islamophobia by attacking Islam rather than the terrorists”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-joint-oppn-holds-massive-rally-in-quetta/story-fdK9yEUYcvMbDC4D58ZAFJ.html
26-10-2020||World||After 3 days of record Covid-19 cases, Spain declares virus emergency||Spain declared a national state of emergency on Sunday to tackle a second coronavirus wave as the World Health Organization reported a third straight day of record new infections across the world.The WHO has warned that some countries are on a “dangerous track”, with too many witnessing an exponential increase in cases, and called on governments to take further action to curb the spread of the disease.The UN agency’s figures showed 465,319 cases were declared on Saturday alone, half of them in Europe.The WHO has said that the northern hemisphere was at an especially critical juncture with winter looming.After Spain became the first EU member state to pass one million cases, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez announced the new state of emergency and overnight curfews across the entire country except for the Canary Islands.Italy, the epicentre of the first European outbreak, also ramped up restrictions on daily life, ordering the closure of theatres, cinemas and gyms and shutting bars and restaurants early.Dozens of far-right protesters in Rome clashed with riot police overnight during a demonstration against a curfew, setting off fireworks, burning bins and throwing projectiles.In Britain, Scotland Yard officers facing anti-lockdown demonstrations in central London made 18 arrests, with three officers receiving injuries following clashes with the protesters.Large groups of protesters were seen marching through the city on Saturday with banners and placards calling for “freedom” and an end to Covid-19 restrictions, which has currently placed the UK capital under Tier 2 – under which any gatherings over the “rule of six” are prohibited.The Metropolitan Police said that it made arrests for a variety of offences, including breaching coronavirus regulations, assaulting an emergency service worker, violent disorder and for being wanted.In Germany, several people attacked the Robert Koch Institute, the country’s national disease control centre, with incendiary devices in the national capital early on Sunday.  Criminal police has taken over the investigation on suspicion that the attack may have been politically motivated. In Poland, Warsaw police detained 278 people on Saturday after thousands protested against new curbs.US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said on Sunday it would be clear whether a vaccine was safe and effective by early December, but that more widespread vaccination would not be likely until later in 2021.“We will know whether a vaccine is safe and effective by the end of November, the beginning of December,” he told the BBC.“Vaccinating a substantial proportion of the population, so that you can have a significant impact on the dynamics of the outbreak, that very likely will not be until the second or third quarter of the year.” New York and New Jersey reported the most new Covid-19 cases since May, while daily infections across the US reached a record of more than 83,000. New Jersey extended a public health emergency for another month. Illinois had the most new cases since the pandemic began.Data from Johns Hopkins University showed that 83,718 new cases in the US were reported on Saturday, nearly matching the 83,757 infections reported on Friday. Before that, the most single-day cases in the US had been 77,362, on July 16.The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington currently forecasts that the country’s Covid-19 death toll could exceed 318,000 by January 1.In South America, Colombia became the eight country to reach 1 million confirmed Covid cases on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-declares-virus-emergency/story-1OxL8kNVEAfp5HvQxR9jTL.html
26-10-2020||World||Pakistan PM writes to Facebook CEO seeking ban on Islamophobic content||Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan has written a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg seeking a ban on Islamophobic content on the social networking site, the government said on Sunday.In the letter, shared by the Pakistani government on Twitter, Khan said that “growing Islamophobia” is encouraging extremism and violence “across the world” - especially through social media platforms such as Facebook.“I would ask you to place a similar ban on Islamophobia and hate against Islam for Facebook that you have put in place for the Holocaust,” Khan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-pm-writes-to-facebook-ceo-seeking-ban-on-islamophobic-content/story-lESyxNj6dJprGrwijqXTVL.html
26-10-2020||World||Turkey tried to open a back door for Pakistan at FATF, China bailed out||Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s Turkey, the only country to back Pakistan at the plenary meeting of the global anti-money laundering watchdog, had proposed a special visit to Islamabad to make an onsite assessment of the Imran Khan government’s implementation to plug holes in its legal framework to curb terror financing.The suggestion at the plenary last week before February 2021 was seen as an effort to let Pakistan off the hook for now and immediately place it on the white list but was not supported by any other country including ‘all-weather ally’ China and Malaysia. Turkey, Pakistan and Malaysia have been trying to emerge as a new radical Islamic axis to upstage the established order led by Saudi Arabia.The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) eventually decided to retain Pakistan on its grey list, comprising countries whose controls over terror financing are deemed inadequate and are placed “under increased monitoring”. It was also handed out a sharp warning by FATF president Marcus Pleyer, who told Islamabad that it couldn’t take forever to deliver.Indian counter-terror officials said Turkey’s unsuccessful attempt to pull Pakistan out of the grey list reflected a lack of diplomatic support across the member states for Pakistan that is often described by India as an epicentre of terrorism in South Asia.“It does appear that Pakistan’s efforts to exit the grey list have reached a dead end, not unless it takes substantive and not cosmetic steps to tighten control over terror financing over the next four months,” a top counter-terror official in New Delhi said. Prime Minister Imran Khan, who already faces a combined opposition offensive, hadn’t said a word on the FATF decision. Global dirty money watchdog FATF is scheduled to review Pakistan’s status again in 4 months.If the FATF’s plenary concludes that Pakistan has completed the 27 action points, the watchdog will move to the next stage to send a team to Islamabad to evaluate if the measures in place are working effectively. It is only if Pakistan clears this test that the FATF would consider letting Pakistan emerge out of the grey list.Indian officials said this is going to be a big ask that Islamabad is unlikely to be able to deliver on, particularly given the deep linkages between the terror groups and the establishment that uses them as tools to serve its interests in Jammu and Kashmir and Afghanistan.Enacting laws is the easier part. Enforcing them on the ground will be difficult, an Indian official said, pointing to allegations from the opposition that Imran Khan went on an overdrive not to get out of the FATF grey list but arm himself with laws to target opposition leaders.“It is going to be unlikely that Pakistan will crack down on terror groups that the establishment has conceived, birthed and nurtured,” a second official said. By way of example, he pointed to the long list of terrorists designated by the United Nations who have a free run in Pakistan.“The UNSC 1267 Sanctions List has 130 names from Pakistan, which claims that it can locate only 19,” the second official cited above added, wondering if the Pakistan Army - which the opposition alleges holds the remote control to the government - can throw Pakistan’s terror leadership behind bars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-is-trying-to-eject-from-fatf-grey-list-could-run-into-a-dead-end/story-bdbLLJX1mL6B8Ol2K8BC8H.html
26-10-2020||India||PM SVANidhi scheme for street vendors: Benefits, loan amount, tenure||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday virtually distribute loans to nearly 300,000 street vendors under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana or PM SVANidhi Scheme. PM Modi will also interact with the beneficiaries. Uttar Pradesh has so far received 557,000 applications from vendors, the highest across the country.“The scheme intends to facilitate collateral-free working capital loans of up to INR10,000/- of one-year tenure, to approximately 50 lakh street vendors, to help resume their businesses in the urban areas, including surrounding peri-urban/rural area,” the ministry has said.Here’s everything you need to know about the scheme:1. PM SVANidhi or Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi scheme was launched on June 1, 2020, by the ministry of housing and urban affairs to help street vendors, who were impacted by the coronavirus pandemic, resume their livelihood activities.2. The scheme aims to provide working capital loans up to Rs 10,000 at a subsidized rate of interest. The interest subsidy on timely or early repayment of the loan is at 7 per cent and street vendors will be allowed to repay the loan in monthly instalments in one year.3. If someone can pay earlier than the tenure, an interest subsidy of 7% per annum will be credited to the bank accounts of beneficiaries every quarter. And, there will be no penalty on early repayment of the loan.4. Also, there is a monthly cash-back incentive on digital payments. The benefits can be availed by street vendors or hawkers in urban, pre-urban and rural areas.5. Scheduled commercial banks, regional rural banks, small finance banks, cooperative banks, Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), micro-finance institutions and Self-Help Group (SHG) Banks will be providing loans under the scheme.6. Applying for the loan can be done in many ways. The documents required for KYC are Aadhaar card, voter’s identity card, driving licence, MNREGA card and PAN card. Application for the loan can be filled on the website www.pmsvanidhi.mohua.gov.in or by visiting a nearby banking correspondent (BC) or the agent of microfinance institution (MFI). Documents can also be uploaded on the PM SVANidhi mobile application.7. The PM SVANidhi scheme is available for beneficiaries belonging to only those states and Union territories which have notified rules and scheme under the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. However, beneficiaries from Meghalaya, which has its own state street vendors act, can also avail of the scheme’s benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-svanidhi-scheme-for-street-vendors-benefits-loan-amount-tenure/story-oPK5gtff1ZgX2pQIbWyqbK.html
26-10-2020||India||Availability of graveyards, cremation grounds should be as per community population: Sakshi Maharaj||In yet another statement that may stoke a controversy, BJP’s Unnao MP Sakshi Maharaj has said the availability of graveyards and cremation grounds should be in proportion to the population of communities living in an area. Addressing a nukkad meeting for his party’s candidate for the Bagarmau assembly bypolls, Sakshi Maharaj said, “If there is only one Muslim in a village, the graveyard is very big. You people, on the other hand, cremate your dead on the side of a farm or Gangaji. Is this not unfair?” “Graveyards and cremation grounds should be as per population,” the Unnao MP said. There should not be any test of “our patience and decency”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/availability-of-graveyards-cremation-grounds-should-be-as-per-community-population-sakshi-maharaj/story-CISSmsV0XxlUuRBknZlerL.html
26-10-2020||India||‘Can’t be tolerated’: BJP condemns burning of PM’s effigies on Dussehra||BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Monday condemned the burning of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s effigies on the occasion of Dussehra in Punjab. Chugh described it as “unfortunate” and said such incidents have hurt sentiments of millions of people in the country. He alleged that effigies of the PM were set on fire at the behest of the Congress-led government in the state and said it showed how the ruling party could “stoop to such a level” just for the sake of “petty politics”. “It cannot be tolerated,” he said. Chugh claimed that the Amarinder Singh-led dispensation in the state was trying to create tension through such acts in order to “please” Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Meanwhile, in a letter to Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore, Chugh sought action against those behind the burning of effigies. Punjab farmers on Sunday burnt effigies of the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi at several places in protest against the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-t-be-tolerated-bjp-condemns-burning-of-pm-s-effigies-on-dussehra/story-UTdZTcLe7YenUpBUXyiBPJ.html
26-10-2020||India||‘Live-streaming court proceedings open to misuse’: CJI Bobde||“Sunlight is the best disinfectant,” the Supreme Court had observed in September 2018 in a judgment that paved the way for live streaming of court proceedings. Two years down the line, Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde on Monday said that in practice, live streaming will be misused as he is already facing several complaints over the virtual hearing taking place over the videoconferencing app VIdyo.Sharing thoughts on live-streaming as part of suo moto proceedings for Court’s functioning during Covid-19 pandemic, CJI Bobde, heading a 3-judge bench said, “In principle, I agree that there should be live streaming but in practice, you must hear me. As CJI, I have to deal with so many complaints over the virtual court proceedings.”The observation followed a suggestion by Attorney General KK Venugopal who insisted that since Gujarat High Court had taken the lead in live-streaming the proceedings, the Supreme Court can follow suit. In September 2018, the Supreme Court had considered this issue in a PIL filed by Swapnil Tripathi and gave it’s go-ahead considering all constitutional aspects involved in this exercise.Venugopal reminded CJI, “Now there is a judgment requiring the Court to have live-streaming. I was satisfied watching the live streaming of proceedings in the Gujarat High Court.” The bench, also comprising Justices DY Chandrachud and LN Rao said, “There can be some negative use or abuse of live streaming.” Justice Chandrachud, who heads the e-committee of the Supreme Court responsible for enhancing virtual court proceedings, told Venugopal that a delay of 20 seconds occurs between the live streaming and actual proceedings in the Gujarat High Court. This ensures a check on nothing untoward going live.Also read: ‘Abductor’ boards train with 3-year-old toddler, turns out to be her fatherJustice Chandrachud revealed that at present the Supreme Court is focusing on enhancing the video conferencing facility. “The idea is to have one video conferencing facility for all High Courts and district courts and a separate facility for Supreme Court. Bids have been invited for managing the entire videoconferencing facility,” Justice Chandrachud said.The rules for conducting such hearing have been finalised by a committee of High Court judges. District courts too would be able to virtually record evidence during trial as 11 out of 25 High Courts have adopted these rules as per area-specific requirements and changes. The remaining High Courts have the option to adopt Rules framed by the e-committee, the bench said.For better connectivity, the CJI sought Centre’s help to access optical fibre network. “In states which do not have fibre optics coverage, we have to rely on satellites,” CJI Bobde said. The Supreme Court e-committee is also working on setting up E-Seva Kendras, one each in over 3,300 court complexes across the country, to provide easy access to lawyers who face difficulties in accessing virtual courtrooms.On the aspect of providing optical fibre network, senior advocate Harish Salve, who was appearing in another case, entered the matter through videoconferencing and offered help on behalf of his client, Reliance Jio. Though Jio is not party to the current proceedings, Salve said, “My client Jio has the best optical fibre network and they offer it at an inexpensive rate.”The bench allowed Salve to tell his client to formally make an offer to the e-committee. The Court also entertained an application filed by senior advocate Vikas Singh, who suggested that even when the Court resumes physical hearing during normal days, videoconferencing should be continued for a certain category of cases with waiting room facility for lawyers and kiosks for media persons to witness the proceedings virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-streaming-court-proceedings-open-to-misuse-cji-bobde/story-HmZ5cu168Rb5IsnwvAo9QK.html
26-10-2020||India||Terrorist killed, another surrenders during encounter in Jammu and Kashmir||An unidentified terrorist was killed, while another surrendered during an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, a defence spokesperson said.A joint operation was launched by the security forces at Noorpora in the district’s Awantipora area on the basis of inputs provided by police, the Army said.While one terrorist was eliminated during the gunbattle, another ultra responded to appeal for surrender.“The terrorist, a resident of Gulshanpora area, was apprehended,” he said.The apprehended terrorist had been missing since September 25 this year, he added.One AK rifle and other incriminating material were recovered from the scene of the encounter, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-another-surrenders-during-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir/story-cXBhIFTdSimYzu6AovPDzN.html
26-10-2020||India||Kamal Nath violated poll advisory, says Election Commission||The Election Commission on Monday said former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath had violated its advisory related to campaigning by using the word “item” against a woman BJP candidate and advised the Congress leader not to use such terms in public during the period of the Model Code of Conduct. The poll panel had issued a notice to Kamal Nath after he had used the jibe against BJP candidate Imarti Devi at a poll rally a few days ago, drawing an angry reaction from the ruling party. Addressing a poll meeting last week in Gwalior’s Dabra town, where the BJP has fielded Imarti Devi, Kamal Nath had said the Congress candidate was a “simple person” unlike his opponent who was an “item”. Bypolls to 28 Madhya Pradesh Assembly seats will be held on November 3. Following a complaint by the state BJP and reference by the National Commission for Women, the EC had served the notice to Kamal Nath. The Commission on Monday issued orders against the Congress leader. “ ... the Commission, hereby advises Kamal Nath, ex-chief minister Madhya Pradesh that while making public utterances he should not use any such word or statement during the period of Model Code of Conduct,” the order said. It said Kamal Nath used the word “item” for a lady and that “this constitutes violation” of advisory issued by the Commission relating to the model code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-nath-violated-poll-advisory-says-election-commission/story-UtC9tbVuXoos5yhvjaYPnM.html
26-10-2020||India||Delhi records 54 Covid-19 deaths, highest in over 3 months||The national capital recorded 54 Covid-19 deaths on Monday, the highest in over three months, while the infection count rose to 3.59 lakh, according to Delhi government data.The case positivity rate stood at 8.23 per cent, a slight improvement from 8.43 the previous day. The cumulative positivity rate was 8.17 per cent.Authorities recorded 2,832 Covid-19 cases on Monday. The number of new cases was 4,136 on Sunday, 4,116 on Saturday and 4,086 on Friday.According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, 54 fatalities, the highest in around 100 days, took the number of deaths to 6,312.The last time the city reported such a high number of deaths was on July 16 (58).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-54-covid-19-deaths-highest-in-over-3-months/story-8RCNVwWWAoWH4BJ1K9AyqK.html
26-10-2020||India||LAHDC-Leh Election 2020 result: BJP bags 15 seats out of 26, Congress wins 9. Complete list here||By bagging 15 seats, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday won the election to the 26-member Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh. The Congress won nine seats. Calling the BJP’s victory in Leh ‘historic’, the party chief JP Nadda tweeted: “BJP’s victory in Leh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Leh election is historic. BJP has won 15 out of 26 seats. I congratulate Shri @Jtnbjp and all karyakartas of @BJP4Ladakh unit. Gratitude to the people of Ladakh for their faith in BJP.”Here’s the final aggregate result of 6th LAHDC-Leh Election 2020.BJP won in:1. Turtuk - Gulam Mehdi2. Hundar - Kunzang Lotus3. Panamik- Tsering Sandup4. Diskit - Tsering Angchok5. Tegar- Rigzin Lundup6. Tangtse - Tashi Namgyal Yakzee7. Korzok- Karma Namdak8. Kyungyam- Thinless Nurboo9. Martselang- Stanzin Chospel10. Thiksey- Stanzin Chosfail11. Skumarkha- Sonam Nurbu12. Chuchot-Mirza Hussain13.Lamayuru- Morup Dorjay14. Lingshed- Tashi Gyaltson15. Khaltsi- Lobzang SherabThe Congress won in:1. Igoo - Sonam Thardos 2. Sakti- Rigzin Tsering3. Basgo- Tsering Nurboo4. Saspol- Smanla Dorjay Norbu5. Lower Leh - Tsering Namgyal6. Phyang- Tundup Nurbu Cheeta7. Upper Leh - Phunsog Stanzin Tsepag8. Skurbuchan- Lundup Dorjey9. Temisgam- Sonam DorjayIndependents won in:1. Chuchul- Konchok Stanzin2. Nyoma- Ishey Spalzang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lahdc-leh-election-2020-results-bjp-bags-15-seats-out-of-26-congress-wins-9-complete-list-here/story-0d6LKb1DtDDukAqnb2Iz0M.html
26-10-2020||India||What is BECA and what does it mean for India and US?||India and the United States will sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), the last of four so-called foundational agreements for sharing sensitive information, sales of advanced military hardware and geospatial cooperation, during the 2+2 ministerial dialogue on Tuesday ahead of the November 3 US presidential elections. US secretary of state Michael Pompeo and secretary of defence Mark Esper are holding talks with their respective counterparts external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh.What is BECA?The Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) is essentially an agreement proposed between the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency of the US department of defence and the defence ministry that will allow India and the US to share military information which includes maps, nautical and aeronautical charts, commercial and other unclassified imagery, geodetic, geophysical, geomagnetic and gravity data. Most of the information that will be shared will be that of the unclassified category but there is a provision of sharing classified information as well with proper safeguards in place to ensure that the information is not shared with any third party. What happened before BECA?India and the US have already signed three key foundational agreements - the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) in 2002, the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 and Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) in 2018. BECA has been under negotiations for over a decade as the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was concerned about the impact of the agreement on the country’s national security. What will India gain from the agreement?The agreement will allow US armed forces to provide advanced financial navigational aids and geospatial intelligence which will improve the military’s accuracy of automated hardware systems and weapons like cruise missiles, ballistic missiles and drones. BECA will also help India and US counter the growing Chinese influence in the Indo-Pacific region thereby strengthening the Quad. The agreement will also help India at a time of standoff with the Chinese army in Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-beca-and-what-does-it-mean-for-india-and-us/story-dpXC8wMONMLZ2w4lm3bEfP.html
26-10-2020||India||PNB scam case: UK court rejects Nirav Modi’s latest bail attempt||A UK court on Monday rejected the latest bail plea of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who has been lodged in a London prison since his arrest on an extradition warrant in March last year. The application was reportedly made on the basis of “new evidence”, but Westminster Magistrates’ Court District Judge Samuel Goozee was not convinced to reverse previous bail rejections in Modi’s case.The 49-year-old jeweller, fighting extradition to India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has made around six previous attempts at bail – at the magistrates’ court as well as at the High Court level. However, each of the applications, which came with an offer stringent conditions akin to house arrest and a bail bond security of 4 million pounds, have been rejected each time as he has been deemed to have the financial means and motivation to abscond.“The repeated rejection of bail application is a result of excellent coordination among the CBI, the Ministry of External Affairs and Crown Prosecution Service of the United Kingdom,” a senior CBI official said in New Delhi, commenting on Monday’s development. At Modi’s last High Court bail hearing in March this year, Justice Ian Dove had said, “My central concern of a risk of absconding are not obviated by the measures presented.” Modi’s legal team had offered a package of measures, which included a 24-hour electronic tag as well as a private security guard service and strictly-monitored access to gadgets and telephones. The court has also repeatedly been told of Modi’s fragile mental health and that his psychological condition was “deteriorating with the ever-increasing detention”.“He has increasingly suffered from severe depression and the latest assessment shows he is on the threshold of being subject to hospitalisation unless given proper treatment… and his fitness to plead may be in doubt here or in the requesting state (India) given a high risk of suicide,” Modi’s barrister, Clare Montgomery, had told Westminster Magistrates’ Court last month as part of the defence arguments against inadequate prison conditions in India.Modi is next scheduled to appear via videolink from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London on November 3, for the hearing in his extradition case when Judge Goozee will be presented with arguments to determine the admissibility of the evidence provided by the Indian authorities. There is at least one further final hearing in the case, expected either in December or early next year, for closing submissions by both sides. A judgment in the case is expected only after the closing submissions. At a five-day hearing held in September, Justice Goozee presided over arguments for and against the case for his extradition brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED).The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, played videos in court in support of additional charges of Modi’s disruption of the CBI’s investigation by causing the disappearance of evidence and criminal intimidation of witnesses. Assurances of adequate prison conditions were also provided by the Indian government, including additional commitments of appropriate mental health care for Modi on being extradited. The defence team, led by Montgomery, sought to not only establish that Modi’s actions related to PNB-issued letters of undertaking (LoUs) did not amount to fraud but also deposed witnesses to highlight mental health concerns. The defence has claimed that the conditions at Barrack 12 in Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where Modi is to be held on being extradited, do not meet the UK court’s human rights criteria.The first set of hearings in the case took place back in May, with the hearings in September completing the process to establish a prima facie case and determine if the jeweller has a case to answer before the Indian courts. The case is being heard in a partial remote setting to accommodate coronavirus-related social distancing norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pnb-scam-case-uk-court-rejects-nirav-modi-s-latest-bail-attempt/story-tXITh8Fc8MvenYf1LMv3mK.html
26-10-2020||India||Air pollution may hinder India’s fight against Covid-19, say scientists||The causal link between air pollution and Covid-19 cases is yet to be established conclusively but long-term exposure will certainly make people more vulnerable to lung infections, warn scientists as the skies over large parts of north India, including Delhi, turn smoky and the air quality deteriorates rapidly.Their concerns come amid several global studies pointing to the possible connection between higher air pollution levels and increased Covid-19 cases and deaths.(Click here for full coverage of Covid-19 )A study by researchers at Harvard University in the US in September showed that an increase of only one microgram per cubic metre in PM 2.5 is associated with an 8 per cent increase in the Covid-19 death rate.“Given the current limited literature, the surge of PM2.5 level in Delhi may be associated with increased Covid-19 cases... Although the literature is relatively sparse at this stage,” Xiao Wu, corresponding author of the Harvard study, told PTI.He said the relationship between long-term air pollution and Covid-19 has been documented in many studies, which indicate that adverse health impacts of air pollution can make people prone to the infection or exacerbate the severity of Covid-19 symptoms once infected.This is interesting, especially considering Covid-19 causes viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome, and severe inflammation to the heart and circulatory system, the scientist said.Another study by the University of Cambridge in April found an association between living in an area of England with high levels of air pollution and the severity of Covid-19, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.“Based on our findings, I would expect to see an association between higher levels of air pollution in India and Covid-19 in the winter, similar with what we found in England,” said Marco Travaglio, corresponding author of the Cambridge study.“If the levels of air pollution have been consistently above the legal limits for several months or years before this coming winter, I would expect to see a relationship between those levels and Covid-19 burden across different parts of India in November and thereafter,” Travaglio told PTI.He noted that a key component of PM2.5 toxicity is its composition which may vary considerably between countries.“Nonetheless, the WHO legal limits for PM2.5 are currently set at 10 μg/m³ (microgrammes per cubic metre) annual mean. Levels beyond 500 μg/m³ are extremely high and may have considerable impact on people’s health in relation to Covid-19 but also beyond it,” said Travalgo.The level of small particulate matter (PM2.5) levels in Delhi have averaged around 180-340 μg/m³ in the past few weeks while that of bigger pollution particles (PM10) has hovered between 120 and 450 during the time.Long-term exposure to chronically high PM2.5 levels weakens the ability of the lungs to fend off infections, therefore making people more susceptible to Covid-19, the scientists said.In addition, studies from Italy have shown that traces of SARS-CoV-2 RNA, the genetic material of the virus, can be found on pollution particles, meaning that increased air pollution may act as a vehicle to increase Covid-19 transmission in highly polluted places.The air quality in north India is expected to deteriorate further from November to February due to several factors such as stubble burning, festive fireworks and low wind speed conditions which lead to an uptick in vehicular and industrial pollution being trapped in the lower atmosphere.Also Read | Delhi’s air ‘very poor’ for fourth consecutive day“In view of this evidence, high levels of PM2.5 in Delhi may lead to a higher number of Covid-19 cases,” Travalgo added.Studies in humans have shown that toxic air particles can penetrate airways and cause widespread infiltration of lung cells.This chronic state of inflammation may induce or aggravate health conditions such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes, experts said.Because these conditions have been widely found to be associated with increased risk of contracting Covid-19 or incurring into critical illness, it is likely that air pollution acts as a risk factor to increase the susceptibility to Covid-19.India has the world’s second-highest caseload of over 7.9 million and the third-highest death toll with more than 115,000 from the novel coronavirus.The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has warned that Delhi is likely to report around 15,000 Covid-19 cases daily in winter because of the prevalence of respiratory illnesses during this season that worsen the symptoms of the disease. On Sunday, the national capital recorded 4,136 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in 38 days.D J Christopher, head of pulmonary medicine at the Christian Medical College in Tamil Nadu, noted that the increased severe form of Covid-19 among patients would lead to an increased ICU hospitalisations, thereby increasing the burden of the healthcare system.“The lung is the gateway to the body and takes the first impact from inhaled pollutants. It causes an inflammatory response which damages the lung and makes it more susceptible to infections,” Christopher told PTI.‘Let us hope the numbers are not so high. There is a chance of hospital beds getting filled and shortage of ICU beds,“ he added.Prof Rajneesh Bhardwaj concurred, saying there is growing scientific evidence that airborne respiratory droplets carrying the virus travel and contaminate the air after an infected person coughs. He added that pollution may help this airborne droplet to remain suspended for a longer time and may increase the spread of Covid-19.Also Read | Recovered from Covid? Get flu shot to keep pollution impact at bay: Experts“PM2.5 are finer particles which remain suspended in the air for a long time and hence droplet or viral particles can cling on to these particles to increase the risk. They may increase the number of cases as pollution increases especially with large PM2.5 levels,” Bhardwaj, associate professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, told PTI.He said the government should make contingent plans to deal with an expected large number of cases and warned that any healthcare system can be overwhelmed by a larger number of cases.According to pulmonologist Anurag Agarwal, however, the relation between air pollution and Covid-19 cases is very complex. While in general high air pollution increases risk of respiratory infections, it is difficult to say much more, he said. “Studies finding more infections and deaths in areas with high pollution have tried to statistically adjust for higher population density in polluted cities. Such adjusted correlations are interesting but do not represent proof,” Agarwal, director of the CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, told PTI.“Nevertheless, it is clear that air pollution is bad for health and Covid-19 is more dangerous in unhealthy people. So the message is clear - we must take steps to reduce air pollution for many reasons,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-may-hinder-india-s-fight-against-covid-19-say-scientists/story-GsJLDVNnjWJkW7vEksvLOM.html
26-10-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Key UAE-based conspirator brought back to India, arrested by NIA||In a key development in Kerala gold smuggling case, key conspirator, Rabins K Hameed, who was running the whole operation from Dubai, was brought to India on Monday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and taken into custody at Kochi airport in Kerala, people familiar with the development said. HT was first to report on September 2 that Hameed, 42, a native Ernakulam district, Kerala, was the mastermind who used to send the gold consignments to India using different modes including the diplomatic baggage. The NIA, during a trip to Dubai in August, had questioned him there and had confirmed his involvement. Over the past few months, irrefutable evidence was provided to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) authorities through proper channels to convince them for his deportation which was approved a few days back, people cited above said. As part of the deportation process, an NIA team travelled to Dubai last week and brought him at the Kochi International Airport on Monday morning after which he was arrested. The case pertains to the seizure of 30 kilograms of gold worth Rs 14.82 crores on July 5 at Air Cargo of Trivandrum International Airport by Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Cochin, from the diplomatic baggage. Over two dozen people have already been arrested in the case. Also read: Kerala gold smuggling - NIA probe shows Rabins Hameed ran racket in UAEThe NIA, earlier this month, also claimed before a Kerala court that two accused in the high profile case – identified as KT Ramees and M Sharafuddin - have links with underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. Ramees and Sharafuddin even visited Tanzania several times to meet a contact of Dawood known as Feroze ‘Oasis’ and had discussed ways to smuggle firearms to India, the NIA claimed. Agency spokesperson, Sonia Narang, said on Monday that “Rabins Hameed, while being in the UAE and India, had conspired with the arrested accused Ramees KT and Jalal AM, among others, besides arranging funds and purchasing gold in Dubai for smuggling to India through diplomatic baggage.” Ramees KT is the key India link in the whole scandal and is currently in judicial custody. Narang said that a special court at Ernakulam had issued a non-bailable warrant against fugitive Rabins Hameed. “He is also learnt to have arranged for the concealment of gold in electronics or electrical equipment and household items in the UAE for smuggling the contraband to Thiruvananthapuram through diplomatic baggage,” she added. Before the NIA’s visit to Dubai in August, it was believed that another suspect there – Fazil Fareed – was the main conspirator. However, it turned out that Rabins Hameed had contacted Fareed for the last consignment of 30 kilograms of gold which was intercepted in diplomatic baggage on July 5. Hameed’s residence in Ernakulam was also raided the same month wherein several hard disks and incriminating material was recovered. “Hameed coordinated the smuggling from the UAE while another arrested accused Ramees KT, who is from Kerala’s Perinthalmanna, allegedly ran the racket in Kerala,” an officer who didn’t want to be named said. People cited above said deportation of Fazil and two more people - Sidhiqul Akbar and Ahammed Kutty - is also being pursued with the UAE authorities. Recently, the NIA also took over two more gold smuggling cases - pertaining to seizure of 18.5 kilograms of gold in Jaipur by Rajasthan police on July 3 and transportation of gold bars weighing over 83 kilograms by the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) on August 28 - to investigate foreign terror link. Both the cases aren’t linked to the Kerala case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-key-uae-based-conspirator-brought-back-to-india-arrested-by-nia/story-iinuKFlkHFjpNR3YmI6YmI.html
26-10-2020||India||China’s hand seen in Myanmar’s insurgent group targeting India-backed Kaladan project||The Arakan Army, an insurgent group whose activities have severely affected the India-backed Kaladan multi-modal transport project in Myanmar, has benefited from the clandestine transfer and smuggling of Chinese-made weaponry, people familiar with developments said on Monday.The group, designated a terrorist organisation by Naypyitaw, clashed with Myanmarese troops on nearly 600 occasions last year, and a majority of the skirmishes occurred in close proximity to the $480-million Kaladan project. There have also been at least four instances of Arakan Army cadres targeting the shipment of materials for the infrastructure project or attacking Myanmar troops providing security to the project, the people said on condition of anonymity. In 2019, just as a key phase of the Kaladan project was nearing completion in Rakhine and Chin states, the Arakan Army shifted its area of operations to these regions, they added.“The Arakan Army has always kept its anti-Kaladan activities below a certain threshold to not raise the ante. But its activities have had the overall impact of severely impeding the execution of the project,” one of the people cited above said.India and Myanmar are currently working to operationalise Sittwe port by early next year as part of the massive transport and transit project that will connect with Kolkata port and help in moving goods to the landlocked northeastern states via Kaladan river.On June 23, the Thai military seized a consignment of Chinese-made weapons, including AK-47 assault rifles, machine guns, anti-tank mines, grenades and ammunition, in Mae Sot district bordering Myanmar’s Karen state. The weapons, worth 30 million baht (almost $1 million), were meant to be supplied to the Arakan Army and Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA), both active in Rakhine, the people said.There are also reports that another large consignment of Chinese-made weapons, including hundreds of assault rifles and machine guns, was smuggled into Rakhine state via Monakhali beach near the junction of Myanmar and Bangladesh in the third week of February this year. These weapons too were destined for the Arakan Army, the people added.“This illicit flow of Chinese-made weaponry into Myanmar poses a threat to regional security and stability and has implications for the Kaladan project. There are strong suspicions that China is orchestrating the actions of the myriad ethnic armed groups in Myanmar to further its objectives,” said a second person from the security establishment who declined to be named.One of the reasons for the push against the Kaladan project is that it is seen as a rival to the China-Myanmar Economic Corridor (CMEC) centred around a port at Kyaukpyu in Rakhine state, the second person said.“This approach isn’t new. China used the same tool against India when it trained and provided arms to insurgent groups in the northeastern states in the 1960s and 1970s. In Myanmar, China appears to be using the Arakan Army to limit India’s inroads through the Kaladan project,” the second person added.Days after the seizure of weapons at Mae Sot in Thailand, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, the commander-in-chief of Myanmar’s armed forces, told the media during a visit to Russia that a country might not be able to tackle terror groups “when there are strong forces behind” them. At the time, most experts took this to be a tacit reference to China.The people said there were growing signs that Myanmar’s military is acting to curb China’s economic influence, and has had a hand in cancelling or curtailing projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The $3.6-billion Myitsone dam project remains suspended despite Chinese pressure, while Kyaukpyu port project was scaled down from $7.3 billion to $1.3 billion and the Myanmar government issued an open tender inviting bids from across the globe for executing the venture.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said it appeared China was trying to undermine the viability of the Kaladan project after being unable to convince Myanmar to give up on it. “The Chinese, when they begin work on the CMEC, will show they have a faster pace of execution because they have access to greater resources, and they will also try to show up India as lagging behind. They will try to convince Myanmar it isn’t viable to invest in Kaladan by propping up such elements and making the security environ difficult,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-s-hand-seen-in-myanmar-s-insurgent-group-targeting-india-backed-kaladan-project/story-W4PBPgq1Ym1ae7pM8kdl2M.html
26-10-2020||India||Southwest monsoon withdrawing from Odisha: IMD||After overstaying in Odisha for about a fortnight, the Southwest Monsoon on Monday started the process of withdrawing from the state, the Meteorological Centre here said. The Southwest Monsoon has completely withdrawn from eight districts of Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Deogarh, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Subarnapur, Bolangir and Nuapada, it said.“It has also withdrawn from some parts of Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Angul, Boudh, Kandhamal, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur and Koraput districts of interior Odisha today,” it said. Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the South West Monsoon from the rest of the coastal state during next 48 hours and also from the entire country around October 28, it added.The South West Monsoon generally withdraws from the state by October 15 but this time it has been delayed by about a fortnight, H R Biswas, the director of the Regional Meteorological Centre here, told PTI. The monsoon had arrived in the state on June 11 and it was a normal monsoon this year, the weatherman said.“Monsoon withdrawal has no specific date like birthdays. But, taking an average of 30 years, we have concluded that it takes place in Odisha by October 15,” Biswas said. During monsoon, wind generally moves in south-westerly direction which changes to north-easterly route after its withdrawal, he said. “However, it depends on the height of a place,” Biswas said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-withdrawing-from-odisha-imd/story-vGrTYVM7SPuTrTqGVHGuZJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Storm in favour of Grand Alliance now in Bihar similar to that for Modi in 2014: Rajeev Shukla||Senior Congress leader Rajeev Shukla on Monday claimed that there is a storm in favour of the RJD-headed Grand Alliance in Bihar now, which is akin to the pro-Narendra Modi wave during the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The “unexpected and unprecedented” poll outcome of Bihar is going to have an impact in the entire country as the mandate will change people’s mind everywhere, Shukla said.“As per the information I received, there is not a wave, but a storm for the Grand Alliance. There is a storm blowing in favour of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and the Congress- led alliance, which is similar to Narendra Modi’s wave during 2014 Lok Sabha elections,” Shukla told reporters here. Yadav is the chief ministerial candidate of the Grand Alliance which has the RJD, Congress, CPI(ML), CPI(M) and the CPI as constituents.Shukla claimed that the current Nitish Kumar-led NDA dispensation would be ousted after the elections and people have started protesting against the ruling alliance leaders in public meetings. “When people start protesting in front of leaders, it could easily be understood that it is not a wave sweeping against them. I am rather sensing a storm blowing in favour of the Grand Alliance,” he said.Sensing this, the BJP has removed pictures of the chief minister and JD(U) boss Nitish Kumar from all hoardings and posters, the senior Congress leader claimed. “There is only one picture on the BJP’s posters and that is of PM Narendra Modi. They (BJP) have started considering Nitish Kumar as a liability and hence dropped him from its posters,” he said adding that this is the beginning of accepting one’s defeat.The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) is in the National Democratic Alliance at the Centre but it is opposing the JD(U) in Bihar and party chief Chirag Paswan is hellbent on sending the chief minister and JD(U) boss Nitish Kumar to jail, Shukla said. LJP chief Chirag Paswan has alleged corruption in Nitish Kumar’s flagship ‘Saat Nishchay’ (seven resolves) programme and said, if voted to power, he will get it probed and send to jail all the culprits, including the chief minister. Shukla said that youth power is against Nitish Kumar as the two prominent youth faces of the state - Tejashwi Yadav and Chirag Paswan are fighting against him, and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is also campaigning against the CM. Asked why Kumar has branded the RJD’s 15-year regime as ‘jungle raj’, Shukla said the chief minister has learnt this lesson from Narendra Modi. “Whenever Modi faces any problem, he starts blaming Jawaharlal Nehru for things that took place in the 1950s, ‘60s, or even during the British era. Similarly, Nitish Kumar is criticising things that have happened during the 15 years of RJD regime, since he has nothing to show to people,” he said. On why the Congress is playing second fiddle to the RJD, Shukla said “I think this is the best decision taken by the high command. We are fighting for our ideology which is important for us. There is no question of playing first, second or third fiddle.” The Assembly elections in Bihar would be held in three phases - on October 28, November 3 and November 7. Counting of votes will be taken up on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/storm-in-favour-of-grand-alliance-now-in-bihar-similar-to-that-for-modi-in-2014-rajeev-shukla/story-1JJqCOQ9AXAfQzq2ODf3wI.html
26-10-2020||India||Mysuru Dasara festival not be celebrated in big way this year: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said that the ‘Mysuru Dasara’ festival will not be celebrated in a big way this year due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.“Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we are not celebrating ‘Mysuru Dasara’ festival in a big way. We wish next year we are able to celebrate it in a grand manner,” Yediyurappa said.The Mysuru Dasara festival, which is traditionally celebrated with much pomp, is observing subdued celebrations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The festival is one of the biggest tourist attractions in the state and the country. It attracts tourists from around the world who come to take part in the festivities. The ten-day program begins on the first day of Navratri and ends on Vijayadashami or Dasara with massive celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-dasara-festival-not-be-celebrated-in-big-way-this-year-yediyurappa/story-wxVR3q78oFQIsQez4lumSM.html
26-10-2020||India||Tamil Nadu is India’s healthcare capital, says CM Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu has made great strides in strengthening the public health infrastructure and it is the nation’s healthcare capital and the hub of medical tourism, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said here on Monday.The state was a pioneer in providing top notch healthcare services, building public health infrastructure and nurturing human resources, he said.In 11 districts, including Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram and the Nilgiris, construction work was going on to set up government medical college hospitals following the Centre’s approval, he said, unveiling a new hospital of the Fortis Health Care here.The new institutions would provide 1,650 more graduate medical seats in the public sector, the Chief Minister said.Presently, according to the government, the state has 5,550 MBBS seats -- 3,600 in the government and 1,950 in private sector colleges -- and with the proposed additions, the total is set to go up to 7,200.The new colleges are expected to become functional in the next academic year.Palaniswami pointed to a slew of government healthcare schemes like the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, Amma Maternity Nutrition Kit and financial assistance of Rs 18,000 to pregnant women and said 99.9 per cent institutional deliveries showed the success of these schemes.Citing several other measures and honours like award to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here by the Centre and to the state for being a leader in maximum number of organ transplants consecutively for five years, he said, “Tamil Nadu is India’s healthcare capital and hub of the country’s medical tourism”.The state’s healthcare infrastructure would be judged only by assessing the kind of amenities available for poor patients, he said.Last year, Tamil Nadu’s Infant Mortality Rate declined one point to 15 per 1,000 live births, he said.As many as 254 new Primary Healthcare Centres have been set up and 166 PHCs upgraded with more facilities, the chief minister said.In the past three years, various diagnostic equipment, including CT (computerised tomography) scan, have been provided to state-run hospitals and Cath Lab facilities (catheterisation laboratory with imaging equipment to detect heart related illness) established in 18 government institutions, he noted.Linear Accelerator devices have been provided to ten government hospitals at a cost of Rs 190 crore for cancer treatment, Palaniswami added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-is-india-s-healthcare-capital-says-cm-palaniswami/story-kVE0Q1JNJ6VfqVU87FjXPL.html
26-10-2020||India||Curtains come down on Dasara celebrations without crowds||The curtains came down on the 10- day Dasara celebrations here on Monday without people’s participation in thousands on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the key attraction was the ‘Jamboo Savari’, the procession of the city’s presiding deity Goddess Chamundeshwari, an avatar of Durga, mounted on a golden howdah (seat) on the caparisoned elephant Abhimanyu. It was accompanied by other caparisoned pachyderms.Behind them were the tableaux, the cultural troupes of dancers of various art forms such as Yakshagana, Dollu Kunita and Nadaswaram players. Earning the recognition of the ‘Naada Habba’ or state festival, the Dasara celebrations were dedicated to the coronavirus warriors with a tableau of a nurse wearing a mask following the Jamboo Savari. Unlike the five-km-long procession from the Mysuru palace to Banni Mantapa, the Jamboo Savari procession was taken out to a distance of only 400 metres. Amid the chant of Vedic hymns, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa performed the Nandi Dhwaja by showering petals on the idol of Chamundeshwari Devi in front of the Balarama Gate along with the Mysuru royal family members.The heir of Mysuru royal family, Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar took out the Vijaya Yatra from the Amba Vilas Palace. Wadiyar’s aunt Pramoda Devi, who adopted him to continue the lineage of the royal family, and his wife Trishika Devi too attended the celebrations.Speaking to reporters, Yediyurappa said the Mysuru Dasara has its own tradition, which has been passed on for a long time. He said the Mysuru Dasara is an event to showcase the art and culture of Karnataka. “Due to Covid-19, we are organising it in a simple manner by sticking to the basic rituals this year. To avoid crowds, many of the events were dropped. Besides Covid-19, a large number of people are in distress due to floods,” the Chief Minister said. The Dasara procession is held on ‘Vijayadashami’, signifying the victory of good over evil.The rulers of Mysuru or the Wadiyars had been the worshippers of Durga and had established their family Goddess atop a hillock, which has been named as Chamundi Hills. Raja Wadiyar I (1578-1617), the first ruler of independent Mysore kingdom in 1610, had started the Dasara festivities and they have since been on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curtains-come-down-on-dasara-celebrations-without-crowds/story-03huj0CcrONHBMHKZ51izH.html
26-10-2020||India||At India Energy Forum, PM Modi says India’s energy future bright and secure||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday India is “well on track” to meet its renewable energy target of adding 175 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy to its electricity grid by 2022 and that the country would continue to “fight climate change”. India’s energy plans aim to ensure energy justice, the Prime Minister said, adding that this will be secured while fully following the country’s global commitments for sustainable goals. He said India is one of the most active nations in furthering renewable sources of energy.“India is well on track to meet its COP21 commitment of raising electricity generation from renewable energy sources to 175 gigawatts by 2022,” PM Modi said at the India Energy Forum by IHS CeraWeek. “A self-reliant India will also be a force multiplier for the world economy. Energy security is at the core of our efforts... With a smaller carbon footprint, our energy sector will be growth-centric, industry-friendly and environment-conscious,” he added.Lauding India’s efforts of energy conservation, PM Modi said, “In the last six years, over 11 million smart LED street lights were installed. This has enabled an estimated energy saving of 60 billion units per year. The estimated greenhouse gas emission reduction with this programme is over 4.5 crore tonnes of CO2 annually.”The Prime Minister also said that India will drive the global energy demand as he pointed out his government’s recent reforms in the sector to global investors. He said the coronavirus pandemic had resulted in global energy demand falling by one-third, impacted investment decisions and predictions of a contraction in demand over the next few years. But India is likely to see energy consumption double over the long term, he said.Stating that India saw transformational reforms in the energy sector in the last five years, the Prime Minister highlighted changes in oil and gas exploration and production regime as well as gas marketing. “India’s reform journey has been on the high speed in the last five years,” he said.India will grow oil refining capacity to 450 million tonnes by 2025 from the current 250 million tonnes, PM Modi said in his virtual address. Modi said India’s energy future is bright and secure, adding that access to energy should be affordable and reliable.Pitching a gas-based economy, PM Modi said, “Our refining capacity will increase from about 250 to 400 MMT per annum by 2025. Increasing domestic gas production has been a government priority as well. We plan to achieve One Nation, One Gas Grid and shift towards a gas-based economy.”The fourth edition of India Energy Forum, convening an international group of speakers and a community of delegates from India and more than 30 countries, was inaugurated by PM Modi. The speakers at the event will include Union minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan, Saudi Arabia’s energy minister Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud and US secretary of energy Dan Brouillette among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-india-energy-forum-pm-modi-says-india-s-energy-future-bright-and-secure/story-gL6LPhNGRAGJBq9JzzYQZN.html
26-10-2020||India||Key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case brought back from Dubai, arrested: NIA||The National Investigation Agency on Monday confirmed the arrest of the key accused, Rabins K Hameed, in the Kerala gold smuggling case from Dubai. The investigative agency has accused Hameed of managing the complete smuggling operation in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).“Investigation in the case has revealed that Rabins Hameed (A-10), while being in UAE and India had conspired with the arrested accused Ramees K. T. (A-5), Jalal A. M. (A-6) and others besides arranged funds and purchased gold at Dubai, for smuggling to India, through diplomatic baggage. The NIA Special Court at Ernakulam had issued non-bailable warrant of arrest against the fugitive Rabins Hameed (A-10,” NIA said. pic.twitter.com/0akOZALlvbAlso read | Kerala gold smuggling: NIA probe shows Rabins Hameed ran racket in UAE“He is also learnt to have arranged for the concealment of gold in electronics or electrical equipment and household items in the UAE, for smuggling the contraband to Thiruvananthapuram, through diplomatic baggage,” it added.Hindustan Times had earlier reported that 42-year-old Hameed, a Dubai-based businessman, allegedly ran a racket that is believed to have been involved in the smuggling of 30kg of gold, which was recovered at the Thiruvananthapuram airport in July, people familiar with the investigations into the matter said. The gold was being smuggled in baggage addressed to the UAE’s consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-deported-from-dubai-arrested-nia/story-49HsBjwWVG4aUMuJThf4XP.html
26-10-2020||India||What is the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council?||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday won 15 seats and the Congress won nine seats in the elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC). The remaining two seats have been won by Independent candidates. The elections on 26 seats of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council election were held on October 22 and the counting took place on Monday.Here’s a look at the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council which manages the local governance issues of the newly-carved Union territory and the elections that happened:1. The Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Leh is an autonomous district council that administers the Leh district of Ladakh. The council was created under the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council Act of 1995. The council came into being after holding the first elections on August 28, 1995.2. On October 22, the sixth Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh polls were conducted. LAHDC-Leh has a total of 30 seats and four councillors are nominated by the government. An electorate of 89,776 including 45,025 women, were eligible to exercise their franchise in 294 polling stations spread over 26 constituencies across Leh district.3. In the first democratic exercise after Ladakh became a Union territory last year, 94 candidates were in the fray. Besides Congress and the BJP, which both fielded 26 candidates each, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also fielded 19 candidates for the first time, while the remaining 23 are Independent contestants. The regional parties including the National Conference (NC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stayed away from the election.4. Since 1995, the council has always been ruled by one party. Congress had swept the polls thrice, while the Ladakh Union Territorial Front had won the elections in 2005. The BJP took control of the council from Congress for the first time in the last elections by winning 18 out of 26 seats.5. Despite the coronavirus pandemic, the voter turnout was 65.07 per cent as 89,789 voters cast their ballot. For the first time, electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used for polling.6. Leh, which is a Buddhist-dominated district of Ladakh, has demanded the implementation of the sixth schedule for the Union territory to guard against demographic change and dilution of the unique cultural and tribal identity.7. During the poll campaign, the BJP promised a list of developmental activities including a new medical college, central university, and developmental packages. Congress promised the implementation of the sixth schedule. The AAP promised a Delhi-like development model for the UT.8. The election was important for the BJP as it had to prove its popularity in view of the Union territory status granted to Ladakh on August 5 last year. A win for the BJP will also mean huge support for the party at a time of standoff with the Chinese army in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-ladakh-autonomous-hill-development-council/story-r8FMlXbxv5apZUut9sK0wO.html
26-10-2020||India||Taxpayers may have to pay interests on outstanding income tax exceeding Rs 1 lakh||Taxpayers having tax outstanding exceeding Rs 1 lakh should not wait for the last date to file income tax returns (ITR) as they could be charged interest on the unpaid tax amount even as the government on Saturday extended the deadline for filing ITRs, officials and experts said.The government on Saturday extended deadlines for furnishing various ITRs and audit reports as a relief to taxpayers from Covid-19 pandemic, but there is no clarification on the aspect of interest waiver. Unless clarified explicitly, taxpayers would have to pay interest on the outstanding amount with effect from July 2020, at least five tax experts and officials said requesting anonymity.“The CBDT (Central Board of Direct Taxes) has extended the due date for filing of the ITR for the Assessment Year 2020-21 to 31-12-2020 for non-audit cases and 31-01-2021 for audit cases, but no relief has been provided from the interest chargeable under Section 234A if the tax liability exceeds Rs. 1 lakh,” Naveen Wadhwa, DGM at tax consultancy Taxmann said. CBDT, an arm of the Union finance ministry, regulates matters related to the income tax. Also read: At India Energy Forum, PM Modi says India’s energy future bright and secureThe recently amended income-tax law provides for the levy of interest at the rate of 1 per cent per month on the outstanding tax liability for the period of default in filing of return of income. The recently amended law - the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Act, 2020 – exempts small taxpayers, such as salaried class and pensioners having a single source of income, from interest burden during the extended period provided their individual tax liabilities do not exceed Rs 1 lakh, people mentioned above said.“The CBDT will issue necessary notification with regard to the extension of the deadlines in due course, which may clarify issues such as interest charged on the outstanding tax amount,” one of the officials, who works in the finance ministry, said. Email queries sent to the finance ministry and the CBDT went without any response.If the total tax deposited by way of tax deducted at source (TDS) and advance-tax fall short of the actual tax liability, the deficiency in payment of tax is met by payment of self-assessment tax, Wadhwa said.“Thus, if self-assessment tax liability of a taxpayer exceeds Rs 1 lakh, he would be liable to pay interest under section 234A from the expiry of original due dates, i.e., 31-07-2020 or 31-10-2020. The interest under section 234A shall not be levied if the self-assessment tax liability of taxpayer does not exceed Rs 1 lakh and ITR is filed within the extended due date, i.e., 31-12-2020 or 31-01-2021,” he said.Archit Gupta, founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of financial technology platform ClearTax, said, “Please note, no formal notification is issued by the (income-tax) department so far. Responses are based on the press release (issued on October 24).”Kapil Rana, chartered accountant and founder of HostBooks Ltd, a cloud-based accounting platform, said that small taxpayers whose, self-assessment tax liability is up to Rs 1 lakh, would not be required to pay interest on the outstanding amount. “Other taxpayers who do not fall under this category shall have pay interest under Section 234A from the due date as mentioned under Income Tax Act... as may be applicable,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taxpayers-may-have-to-pay-interests-on-outstanding-income-tax-exceeding-rs-1-lakh/story-aouvIYNCjuAJXof3NEA2PM.html
26-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand to probe alleged financial irregularities in Rajaji Tiger Reserve||The Uttarakhand forest department has instituted an inquiry into alleged financial irregularities in the Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) during last five years. Jai Raj, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Uttarakhand forest department said on Sunday that he has ordered an inquiry into the allegations of financial irregularities in Rajaji Tiger reserve during the last five years. “I have ordered the constitution of a four-member probe committee in this regard which will submit its report within two months”, he said. HT has a copy of the order issued on Friday (October 23).It says the inquiry has been ordered following complaints in 2018 by three men involved with wildlife issues - Dinesh Chandra Pandey, Rajeev Mehta and Aditya Sharma. An earlier probe had found irregularities in the Motichur range of RTR. The report in the matter was submitted in March 2019 which stated that there were financial irregularities in the range, especially with regard to approving receipts without scrutiny, removal of Lantana grass, food receipts of patrolling staff and so on. According to the PCCF’s order, when range officers/forest officials were asked about the irregularities in Motichur range, they said such things were happening in other ranges of RTR also. This makes it clear that financial irregularities have been committed in RTR on a big level, the order states. The four-member probe committee constituted by PCCF includes additional PCCF (administration), chief conservator of forests (personnel), financial controller state forest department and honorary warden RTR. RTR spread over 820 sq km in three districts of Uttarakhand- Haridwar, Dehradun and Pauri Garhwal, was established in 1983. In April 2015, Rajaji was declared as a tiger reserve, becoming the second tiger reserve in the state after Corbett Tiger Reserve. RTR is home to 23 species of mammals and over 300 species of birds. It has 38 tigers while the whole Rajaji landscape has 52 tigers, as per the latest All India Tiger Estimation Report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-probe-alleged-financial-irregularities-in-rajaji-tiger-reserve/story-1VDweRCKEUi3flEbMrZ6RI.html
26-10-2020||India||Seaplane service from Sabarmati riverfront to Statue of Unity to start from Oct 31||The seaplane that will connect Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad to Statue of Unity in Kevadia, Narmada landed into Kochi from Male, Maldives. The seaplane will reach Gujarat on Monday and will be inaugurated on October 31st by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to mark the 146th birth anniversary of Sardar Patel.The seaplane is a Twin Otter 300 registered in the name M/s Spicejet Technic, which will be operated by SpiceJet. A 19-seater seaplane which will be used for flights between the Sabarmati riverfront and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s Statue of Unity in Gujarat as a part of regional connectivity scheme between Sabarmati riverfront and Statue of Unity.The 19-seater seaplane will be able to accommodate 12 passengers at the cost of Rs 4,800 per person. The aerial distance between Ahmedabad and Kevadia is around 200 kilometres. The seaplane will take about 45 minutes to cover the distance.“Sea plane for Kevadia takes off from Male, Maldives. Regular sea plane service, 4 times a day will connect 2 great & visionary projects given by Hon’ble Prime Minister to the nation —Sabarmati River Front & #StatueOfUnity. A gigantic leap in making Kevadia a truly international tourist spot”, Dr Rajiv Kumar Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary (Forest & Environment Dept), tweeted.The aircraft, which landed safely in Venduruthy channel for a transit halt, is scheduled to reach Ahmedabad on Monday where the country’s maiden seaplane service will be launched between the Sabarmati riverfront and the Statue of Unity in Narmada district.“The seaplane was provided assistance with berthing facility at Naval jetty and refuelling for its onward journey” a defence spokesperson said.“Seaplanes are a natural choice of connectivity between mainland and Lakshadweep islands. Inland water channels in Kochi and sheltered lagoons in islands offer an ideal space for the seaplanes to land and take-off”, he said.Representatives of SpiceJet, Indian Navy, Cochin International Airport Limited and district administration were present to supervise the transit halt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seaplane-service-from-sabarmati-riverfront-to-statue-of-unity-to-start-from-oct-31/story-hbRzkmNObDITWtuev0gKiK.html
26-10-2020||India||Congress hopes to stop Chenari’s sitting MLA and party hopper in Bihar Assembly Election||The Chenari assembly constituency is among the 71 constituencies which will go to the polls in the first phase of the Bihar assembly election on October 28. The results will be declared on November 10.Chenari is a reserved constituency for Scheduled Castes. It is located in Rohtas district of Bihar and comes under the Sasaram (SC) Lok Sabha constituency.In 2015, the assembly seat had 2,77,549 registered voters. Of them, 1,50,682 were male voters and 1,26,840 were female voters. The Rashtriya Lok Samta Party’s (RLSP) Lalan Paswan won the 2015 assembly election from Chenari defeating Mangal Ram of the Congress by 9,781 votes. Paswan got a total of 68,148 votes, while Mangal Ram secured 58,367votes. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Ramendra Ram secured a mere 5,455 votes and forfeited his deposit. There were 12 candidates in the fray.The RLSP bagged 45.11 per cent of the votes and the Congress received 38.64 per cent while the BSP could manage only 3.61 per cent of the votes. Chenari was among the two seats the RLSP had won in 2015.Click here for full coverage of Bihar Assembly Election 2020.In May 2019, Paswan joined Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) and will contest once again from Chenari on the party’s ticket. Murari Prasad Gautam of the Congress is his main rival. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has fielded Chandra Shekhar Paswan, a nephew of BJP’s sitting Sasaram Member of Parliament (MP) Chedi Paswan. Chenari is one of the seats where the LJP has fielded a candidate against the JD(U). Lalan Paswan had also lost the 2010 assembly election. He was then with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) of Lalu Prasad.A party hopper, Paswan had been with the JD (U) when he won the seat in 2005.The Congress has won the Chenari seat five times and finished second another six times. The erstwhile Janata Dal has won it twice, the Janata Dal (U) has won the seat thrice while the RJD bagged the seat once.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hopes-to-stop-chenari-s-sitting-mla-and-party-hopper-in-bihar-assembly-election/story-LMxmjtU031cz7LSijMjHgN.html
26-10-2020||India||Hurt over Mehbooba Mufti’s actions and words, 3 PDP leaders resign||Three leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have resigned citing Mehbooba Mufti’s “actions and undesirable utterances”, reports said on Monday. The PDP leaders TS Bajwa, Ved Mahajan and Hussain A Waffa, who resigned from the PDP, wrote to party president Mufti citing their reasons.According to according to news agency ANI, they said in the letter that they are “feeling quite uncomfortable over some of her actions and undesirable utterances especially which hurt patriotic sentiments”.“Instead of overcoming the challenges from within and outside by a process of broader consultations and trust, some elements within the party pulling the party and leadership in a particular direction, thus deviating from the basic principles, agenda and philosophy, making it difficult to face the saner voices in the society,” they added.Also read | J&K coalition is anti-BJP, not anti-national, says Farooq AbdullahThe three leaders said that some of the actions and utterances are unpardonable and unforgettable by the people, for the party, to emerge out and move in the direction of its fundamental approach and identity besides regaining it’s image as a political alternative to the people. “In view of this, we feel uncomfortable and suffocated in the party, forcing us to take difficult decision of leaving the party,” they wrote.Mufti had said last week that her party’s members would not raise the tricolour unless they are allowed to raise the flag of Jammu and Kashmir, the right to which had been conferred on the erstwhile state by the now-defunct Article 370 of the Constitution. The PDP president, who was recently released from detention, said the relationship of J-K with the national tricolour was not independent of the erstwhile state flag. “When this flag comes in our hand, we will also raise that (Indian) flag as well.” Mufti had said J&K’s flag had been taken away by “dacoits.”She has also joined the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a grouping of six political parties in Jammu and Kashmir. National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah has been as its chairperson and Mufti his deputy, giving shape to an alliance that they have formed to demand the restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status.The Centre on August 5, 2019, had revoked the erstwhile state’s special status and bifurcated it into Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-pdp-leaders-resign-cite-mehbooba-mufti-s-actions-and-words/story-SQq6m3SUIpkLkpJyO7i6ZO.html
26-10-2020||India||China has ramped up military presence across LAC. Ladakh isn’t only target||China has been massively ramping up its military infrastructure, not just around the stand-off locations but along other stretches of the Line of Actual Control under the People’s Liberation Army’s Western Theatre Command. The deployment and the renewed focus on infrastructure upgrade has prompted Indian officials to suspect that the rapid militarisation of the border may be also linked to continuing efforts by President Xi Jinping to drive sinicization of Tibet with Han domination over Buddhist Lhasa.“We would ordinarily have expected the mobilisation and the focus of the infra upgrade to be limited to the stand-off points, mostly aimed at warding off any armed threat from India to occupied Aksai Chin. But this is not the case,” a top national security planner said. “There has been a clear effort to militarise the autonomous region through infrastructure upgrade”.The official cited recent satellite imagery of the Tibet region that shows shelters to house fighter jets in an excavated hill at Gonggar airbase in Lhasa, massive storage facility at Golmud in Qinghai province, a new road between Xinjiang region’s Kanxiwar, used as forward deployment base during 1962 war, to the Hotan airbase and border upgrade at Nyangulu and Nyingchi across Arunachal Pradesh. Nyangulu, 60 kilometres from the Arunachal border, was again used as a forward PLA camp in the 1962 war.Also Read: Dalai Lama and Tibet card hold key in future India-China border escalation | AnalysisThe development of Shiquanhe a mere 82 kilometres from the Demchok Line of Actual Control and construction of shelters near Mabdo La camp in occupied Aksai Chin means that while the focus of the global community will be on India-China stand-off, the Chinese communist leadership will continue to put its indelible stamp on Tibet.A second official pointed to paramount leader Xi Jinping’s call on 20 August 2020 to build an “impregnable fortress” to maintain peace and stability in Tibet and spoke of an ironclad shield to ensure stability in the region. Speaking at Communist Party Symposium on Tibet Work, Xi directed the party leaders to solidify border defences, ensure frontier security in Tibet and plant “the seeds of loving China in the depths of the heart of every (Tibetan) youth.”The Chinese concern over Tibet has heightened with the US appointing Robert A Destro, Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor as the new special coordinator for Tibet issue on October 14 after a hiatus of four years. Tasked with a mandate of promoting dialogue between the People’s Republic of China and the 14th Dalai Lama to protect the unique religious, cultural and linguistic identity of Tibetans, Destro met Lobsang Sangay, head of Tibetan government-in-exile, a day later in Washington. This was the first time that a US State Department official met the leader of the Tibetan government-in-exile in six decades.Also Read: Xi’s call for bolstering defences in Tibet ‘misguided’ and ‘unrealistic’: Lobsang SangayWhile China has fiercely opposed the appointment of a US coordinator on Tibetan affairs, intelligence reports confirm that for Tibetan Buddhist the 14th Dalai Lama is still considered a living god with his pictures being displayed prominently in houses in the outskirts of Lhasa. Beijing calls the Dalai Lama, who is treated by India as an “honoured guest” and a spiritual leader, a splittist and a terrorist.China is already preparing for the succession of the temporal leader of Tibetans so that the communist party can control Buddhist culture while the PLA builds a military wall on the border with India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-has-ramped-up-military-presence-across-lac-ladakh-isn-t-only-target/story-VZTPSUmIcsbRyeSKpvPH6O.html
26-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Actor Payal Ghosh joins Union minister Ramdas Athawale’s party and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Actor Payal Ghosh joins Union minister Ramdas Athawale-led Republican Party of India (A)Actor Payal Ghosh has joined Union minister Ramdas Athawale-led Republican Party of India (A) in Mumbai and has been named as the vice president of its women’s wing, reports said on Monday. Ghosh had recently accused Anurag Kashyap of rape, a charge denied by the filmmaker. Read moreBihar Assembly Election: Will give momentum to growth in Bihar, if voted to power, says Nitish KumarBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday exhorted voters to bring him back to power so that the development initiatives taken by his government in the past 15 years could be continued. Read moreMike Pompeo, Mark Esper arrive in New Delhi for India-US 2+2 dialogueUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper arrived in New Delhi on Monday afternoon for the 2+2 dialogue. The talks will be held on Tuesday. Read moreHardik Pandya takes a knee during IPL 2020 match to show support to Black Lives Matter movementIndia allrounder Hardik Pandya became the first player in Indian Premier League 2020 in the UAE to take a knee to show support to the Black Lives Matter movement. Pandya made the gesture during Mumbai Indians’ IPL 2020 match against Rajasthan Royals in Abu Dhabi on Sunday. Read moreIndian Film Festival of Melbourne to honour Irrfan, Rishi Kapoor, Sushant Singh Rajput with special screenings of their filmsLate actors Irrfan Khan, Rishi Kapoor and Sushant Singh Rajput will be honoured at the Indian Film Festival of Melbourne. As a part of IFFM’s tribute section, the festival will be screening Irrfan’s Song of Scorpion, Rishi’s 102 Not Out and Sushant’s Kedarnath this year. Read moreAirtel IQ cloud-based communication platform launched in India: Here’s what it doesAirtel is making its presence even stronger in the enterprise segment by introducing Airtel IQ. It is a cloud-based communication platform that enables secure and easy communication between customers and businesses.Read moreIndian, Pakistani women diagnosed with more aggressive breast cancer at younger age: StudyIndian and Pakistani women are diagnosed with breast cancer, including more aggressive forms, at a younger age, according to a study that provides an insight into understanding the risk factors influencing the disease. Read moreMan covers himself with over 6 lakh bees, bags record. Video creates buzzGuinness World Records often takes to Facebook to share such videos of records which are astonishing, shocking or awe-inspiring. Chances are their throwback video, posted a few hours ago, will make you feel all of these things at once. It shows how a man named Ruan Liangming made his record involving bees, a lot of them. Read moreBihar: Tejashwi offers onion garland to CM Nitish, Chirag questions liquor banRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday said that besides unemployment, inflation is the biggest issue in Bihar Assembly Elections as onion prices are skyrocketing.”Inflation is the biggest issue. BJP people used to wear a garland of onions. Now it is about to touch Rs 100/kg. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-actor-payal-ghosh-joins-union-minister-ramdas-athawale-s-party-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gJNDQfX7vsilZNNErHYdMN.html
26-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: RJD will look to retain Munger constituency||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has nominated Avinash Kumar Vidyarthi from the Munger assembly constituency with an aim to win from the seat once again in Bihar Assembly Election 2020. Other candidates who are in the fray from the Munger seat are Pranav Kumar Yadav of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and MD Mokim of Nationalist Congress Party, Subodh Verma of the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) and Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP’s) Subodh Tanti among others.In the last assembly elections in Bihar, the RJD’s Vijay Kumar ‘Vijay’ had defeated Pranav Kumar Yadav of the BJP by a margin of 4,365 votes. The RJD has changed its candidate this year but the BJP has retained Pranav Kumar Yadav. Voter turnout was 54.26% in the Bihar Assembly Election 2015 and it was 54.85% in 2019 Lok Sabha polls.Click here for full coverage of the Bihar Assembly Election 2020Polling for the Munger assembly constituency, which is in Munger district of Bihar and comes under the Munger Lok Sabha seat, will take place in the first phase on October 28. Out of the total population of 456,751, 52.22% is rural and 47.78% is urban, the 2011 census data shows. The Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) ratio is 9.63 and 0.3, respectively. As per the voter list of 2019, there are 330,355 electorates and 335 polling stations in this constituency.Also read | Bihar campaign reaches fever pitch as first phase draws nearThis year the total electorates are 336,912, including 1,81, 832 men, 1,55,052 women and 28 from the third gender. There were 311, 957 electorates in 2015, including 54.55% of men and 45.44% of women voters.Along with 70 other assembly seats, voting for the first phase of Bihar assembly elections will be held on October 28 in Munger constituency as well. The second-phase voting on November 3 will cover 94 seats and the third phase of voting on November 7 will cover 78 assembly seats. Counting of votes will be carried out on November 10.Also read | Plight of migrant labourers in focus, state government cites skill mapping, job creationLalu Prasad Yadav’s RJD had emerged as the single largest party in the 2015 Bihar assembly election with 80 seats, the Janata Dal(United) won 71 seats and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got 53 seats.This year, the BJP is fighting these elections along with the JD(U); the Congress has joined hands with the RJD and three other Left parties to form the Mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance to challenge the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). The LJP, led by Chirag Paswan, is going solo this time in the Bihar assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-rjd-will-look-to-retain-munger-constituency/story-kl6NjYcq5xk2KikaGcQERP.html
26-10-2020||India||Man arrested for sexually assaulting friend in southeast Delhi||A 27-year-old man was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting his friend in southeast Delhi’s Govindpuri area, police said on Monday. The accused, identified as Lalu Kumar, is a resident of Patna in Bihar, they said. On October 19, police got information that a woman was lying injured under a foot over-bridge at Harkesh Nagar. She was shifted to All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) Hospital, a senior police officer said. The woman’s husband said that his 25-year-old wife was missing since October 18 from her home under suspicious circumstances when he and his son had gone to attend a birthday party in Tughlakabad village, police said. He did not report the matter and searched at his own level, they said. During investigation, CCTV footage and technical surveillance revealed that the victim left her home alone and was seen with Kumar at Govindpuri metro station, police said. “Later, it was found that Kumar, who works at a hardware shop in Govindpuri, was missing. He went to his home without informing anyone. Police went to Patna and arrested him from his village,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) R P Meena said.During interrogation, he said that he was in a relationship with the victim. On the intervening night of October 18 and 19, they both went to Chandiwala park, where he sexually assaulted her, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-friend-in-southeast-delhi/story-CODLNgoFXiv9Wh3gRdCPWM.html
26-10-2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate National Conference on Vigilance and Anti Corruption tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the National Conference on Vigilance and Anti-Corruption on the theme ‘Vigilant India, Prosperous India’ at 4:45 pm on October 27 via video conferencing, officials said here on Monday.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) organises the National Conference coinciding with ‘Vigilance Awareness Week’, which is observed in India every year from October 27 to November 2.According to the Prime Minister’s Office, the inaugural session of the conference will be live-streamed and available on ‘pmindiawebcast.nic.in’ link.“Activities in this conference would be focused on vigilance issues aimed at raising awareness and reaffirming India’s commitment to promotion of integrity and probity in public life through citizen participation,” the statement said.The three-day conference would discuss the challenges in the investigation in foreign jurisdictions; Preventive Vigilance as a Systemic Check against Corruption; Systemic improvements for financial inclusion and prevention of bank frauds; Effective Audit as an Engine of Growth; Latest amendments to the Prevention of Corruption Act as an impetus to the fight against corruption; Capacity Building and Training; Multi Agency Coordination-an enabler for faster and more effective Investigation; Emerging Trends in Economic Offences, Cyber Crimes and Transnational Organised Crime-measures to Control and Exchange of Best Practices among Criminal Investigative Agencies.“The Conference shall bring policy-makers and practitioners on a common platform and will act as an enabler to combat corruption through systemic improvements and preventive vigilance measures, thereby ushering in good governance and accountable administration. This is a significant contributing factor for enabling ease of doing business in India,” the statement said.Union Minister of State (Independent Charge), Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh will also address the inaugural session.Heads of Anti-Corruption Bureaux, Vigilance Bureaux, Economic Offence Wings/CID from States and Union Territories; CBI officials and representatives from various Central agencies will also participate in the event. The inaugural session will also be attended by Chief Secretaries and Director Generals of Police of various states and Union Territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-national-conference-on-vigilance-and-anti-corruption-tomorrow/story-4pLJo87wLev0QIh8rE12RJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Ladakh-Leh council polls: BJP takes home 12, Congress gets 6, independent 2 so far||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won 12 seats, followed by the Congress with six wins and independents two out of the 26 up for grabs in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh elections on Monday afternoon. The results of six other seats are yet to be declared. “By 2.26 pm, the BJP had won 10 seats. It was followed by the Congress and independents two each, while the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was yet to open its account. There are a total of 26 constituencies and the results of 12 are yet to be announced,” officials said. BJP’s Ghulam Mehdi won the Turtuk seat by defeating independent candidate Ghulam Hussain by a margin of 367 votes. Kunzang Lotus of the BJP won the Hundar seat by defeating the Congress candidate Stanzin Chotar by a margin of 420 votes. BJP’s Tsering Angchuk won the Diskit seat by defeating the Congress candidate Tsewang Rigzin by a margin of 570 votes. BJP’s Rigzen Lundup won the Tegar seat by defeating the Congress’s Jigmet Stobgais by a margin of 416 votes. The BJP also won the Panamik and Tangtse seats by comfortable margins. However, the Chushul seat was won by independent candidate Konchok Stanzin, who defeated BJP’s Konchok Tsepel by 309 votes. The BJP also won the Kungyam, Korzok, Martselang and Thiksay seats. The Congress wrested Igoo and Sakti seats by a narrow margin of 20 and 79 votes from the BJP and AAP candidates, respectively. The BJP has managed to sweep all the five seats of the Nubra valley, which has a significant Muslim population. The council, which has 30 seats, includes four nominated members. The BJP and the Congress had contested all the 26 seats, while the AAP had put up candidates in 19 seats. Altogether, 23 candidates were also in the electoral fray.Residents of Leh have been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule of the Constitution. Chering Dorjay, a former BJP minister and ex-president of the party’s Ladakh unit, had cautioned the Centre on September 28 about a sustained campaign in case the Apex Body of People’s Movement, an apolitical body, was hoodwinked about its long-pending demands. The body has former BJP Member of Parliament (MP), Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin, the head of Thiksey monastery, and Nawang Rigzin Jora, a former minister, as it’s members. It has been demanding constitutional safeguards under the sixth schedule of the Constitution to Ladakh on the lines of the north-eastern states. The umbrella group includes political parties and religious organisations and the all-powerful Leh-based Ladakh Buddhist Association. The safeguards will also guarantee more teeth to the two hill development councils of Leh and Kargil with legislative powers. Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah had given an ultimatum to a delegation, which later withdrew its call to boycott the council polls. Chhewang had resigned from his post and primary membership of the BJP in November 2018 after the Centre did not confer on the union territory (UT) status to the Ladakh region and other promises made by the ruling BJP in the run up to the 2014 parliamentary elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leh-council-polls-bjp-takes-home-10-congress-lags-behind-with-2-independent-1-so-far/story-ExkRUHsH44Q8GTm40toO0O.html
26-10-2020||India||With polls close by, politics heats up over a proposed museum in Assam||With assembly polls in the state just few months away, ruling and opposition parties in Assam have started targeting each other over setting up a museum dedicated to the people, predominantly Muslims, living in sandbars and small river islands.The issue came to public notice last week following a letter written by Sherman Ali Ahmed, an opposition Congress MLA, to the director of museums in the state seeking setting up of a museum “reflecting the culture and heritage of the people living in ‘char-chaporis’” (sandbars and small river islands). In Assam, these sandbars and islands, which spread across the state, cover about 3.6 lakh hectares and are home to around 24.90 lakh people (according to the directorate of char areas development) mainly comprising those who migrated from erstwhile East Bengal and present day Bangladesh over many decades. “I would therefore like to request you kindly to expedite the process of establishment of the same,” Ahmed wrote seeking setting up of the museum in Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra, a cultural complex set up by the government in Guwahati, Ahmed’s letter went viral on social media with many questioning how a “Miya museum” can be set up in the state with government funding. Miya is a term used for Bengali speaking Muslims from Bangladesh who started settling in Assam from British days onwards. The term is also used to denote illegal immigrants from the neighbouring country. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the state, which has recently upped the attack on ‘Mughals’, an indirect reference to the Muslim migrants, in view of the coming assembly polls, soon got involved in the issue. “In my understanding, there is no separate identity and culture in Char Anchal of Assam as most of the people had migrated from Bangladesh. Obviously, in Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra, which is the epitome of Assamese culture, we will not allow any distortion. Sorry MLA ‘sahab’,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted on Saturday attaching a copy of Ahmed’s letter. On Monday, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal told journalists that Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra has been set up with ideals of the Srimanta Sankardeva (a 15th-16th century saint-scholar) and the state government would ensure that they are upheld. The BJP, which came to power in Assam for the first time in 2016, with a staunch anti-immigrant stance, is facing flak from some sections for backing the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The legislation seeks to grant citizenship to religious minorities from three neighbouring countries including Bangladesh - a move many indigenous groups in Assam oppose vehemently. “Sorry Himanta Biswa Sarma Sir. Ancestors of these people (residents of ‘char-chaporis’) migrated from erstwhile Bengal, which was integral part of undivided India. Kindly don’t distort history more just (for) sake of getting power,” Congress Lok Sabha MP from Assam Abdul Khaleque tweeted. The matter took a turn on Sunday when journalist-turned-politician Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, who entered Rajya Sabha earlier this year with support from opposition Congress and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), posted a series of tweets on the issue. “The char-chapori museum was recommended by DRSC (departmentally related standing committee-on education) whose majority members are from BJP and its ruling coalition. Now, after passing a recommendation with support from majority members, BJP is politicizing the whole issue to garner political mileage. What a shame,” Bhuyan, who floated a political party in June, called Anchalik Gana Morcha, tweeted on Sunday. Though Ahmed’s letter had mentioned about the DRSC’s recommendations, it was only after Bhuyan’s tweet it became clear that the 15-member committee, which presented its recommendations to the Assam assembly in March this year, was chaired by a ruling Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) MLA and had 6 members from BJP, 2 from AGP and two from Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), another partner of the ruling coalition. Congress’s Ahmed, who wrote the letter to the director of the museums, was also a member of the committee. Incidentally, besides setting up a char-chapori museum, the committee had also recommended that there will be a separate museum on the Gorha community of Assam at Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra. Assam goes to polls in March-April next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-polls-close-by-politics-heats-up-over-a-proposed-museum-in-assam/story-VbA1iOnuPlu8hNFvkYTFLN.html
26-10-2020||India||Cyclist mowed down in hit-and-run case in south Delhi, driver arrested||A 26-year-old man was arrested for allegedly mowing down a cyclist in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri area, police said on Monday. They said the accused identified as Rohit, a resident of Gwal Pahari in Gurgaon, was arrested on Sunday. He runs a food stall in the same village. The deceased man identified as Akhilesh, 30, was on a cycle when the incident took place. He used to work as a manager in a relative’s furniture workshop at Jaunapur village, police said. On Saturday around 8.40 pm, police received information regarding an accident near Rosewood Farm, Jonapur-Mandi Road. Police rushed to the spot where Akhilesh was found injured. He was shifted to AIIMS Trauma Centre where he died during treatment, a senior police officer said. During investigation, police analysed the CCTV cameras and found one Swift Dzire car on the road at the time of the incident. It came to light that the car was registered in the name of one Ramesh Kumar, who said that his car was driven by Rohit on Saturday night and it is with him, the officer said. “Police conducted raids at the residence of the accused and apprehended him. Rohit said that he has given the car at a showroom in Faridabad for repairing,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. Thereafter, the car with damage on the front side was recovered from Faridabad, the DCP said. PTI NIT HDA HDA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclist-mowed-down-in-hit-and-run-case-in-south-delhi-driver-arrested/story-YZ1u8x1aGVpVetoPxykCHM.html
26-10-2020||India||Karnataka fights back coronavirus. What does it mean for India’s third worst-hit state||The steep decline in the number of coronavirus cases and deaths in Karnataka indicate that the infections are shifting from high population density areas to other places, a noted epidemiologist said. After clocking up to 10,000 cases daily for over a week early this month with fatalities even touching 200 on certain occasions, the caseload has come down to about 5,000 to 6,000 in the last week. The fatalities too have dipped from three digits to two digits. According to epidemiologist Giridhara R Babu, the fall in the number of cases and deaths due to coronavirus is quite evident and an encouraging trend. Some experts, however, attribute the drop in daily cases to the high testing rates and early detection of infections. “This reduction indicates that the coronavirus infection is shifting from high population density areas to other areas,” Babu, an epidemiologist at the Indian Institute of Public Health, PHFI (Bengaluru) and a member of the Covid-19 technical advisory group for the Karnataka government, told PTI. He explained in the other areas, higher population density may not be there. “So, therefore, it might be in alignment with what’s happening in the country. So, let us wait and watch,” he said. However, chief of the Karnataka Covid-19 War Room, Munish Moudgil attributed the high testing rate to the slump in the number of new infections. In general, the cases are coming down as the infection is coming under control, Moudgil said. He said holidays too have seen reduction in cases. “But the general reduction trend is correct and proves the success of the Karnataka model of high testing leading to control of the disease,” he added. According to a health official, Karnataka has started conducting tests extensively and opened sample collection centres at crowded places in urban areas. It is a common sight to see people sporting PPE kits under a makeshift canopy in Bengaluru at crowded places such as KR Market, Kalasipalya, Majestic, Gandhi Bazaar, Kumaraswamy Layout, Banashankari, BDA complexes, near shopping malls and bus stands, he said. “We are taking the coronavirus head on. Instead of collecting samples at the designated places with unprecedented precautions, we have opened camps at every nook and cranny in urban areas and other crowded places,” the official added.According to him, health workers have turned into corona warriors in the true sense.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-fights-back-coronavirus-what-does-it-mean-for-india-s-third-worst-hit-state/story-Q7QEHcQcfux3Anq3OmNAyM.html
26-10-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 fatality rate at lowest since March 22: Health ministry||India’s Covid-19 fatality rate has dropped to 1.50 per cent, the lowest since March 22, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday crediting the focused efforts of the Centre, states and UTs on effective clinical management of hospitalised cases.There are 14 states and Union Territories including Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Bihar, Odisha, Assam and Kerala where the Case Fatality Ratio (CFR) is lower than 1 per cent, the ministry said.With an effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on holistic standard of care protocol across government and private hospitals, the number of new deaths has significantly dipped, it said. Less than 500 deaths (480) have been reported in a span of 24 hours in the country, according to the data updated at 8 am on Monday.“India has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world. The case fatality rate is lowest since March 22 and is continuously declining,” the ministry said as it underlined that the case fatality rate was 3.23 per cent on May 4.As part of the Covid-19 management and response policy, the Centre has had a sharp focus on not only containing the spread of the disease but to reduce deaths and save lives by providing quality clinical care to critical and severe patients, the ministry said. Collaborative efforts of the Centre, states, and union territories have resulted in strengthening of the health facilities across the country. Presently, 2,218 dedicated COVID hospitals are providing quality medical care, it said.As part of a unique initiative to build the capacities of ICU doctors in clinical management of critical patients towards reducing fatalities, e-ICU has been started by AIIMS, New Delhi, it said. Twice a week, on Tuesdays and Fridays, tele/video-consultation sessions are held by knowledge and domain experts for doctors manning the ICUs in the state hospitals. These sessions started from July 8. Till date, 25 tele-sessions have been held, and 393 institutions across 34 states and UTs have participated in them. Also, many states have conducted population surveys to map and identify the vulnerable population like the elderly, pregnant women and those with comorbidities.  This, with the help of technological solutions like mobile apps has ensured keeping the high-risk population under continuous observation, thus aiding early identification, timely clinical treatment and reducing fatalities. At the ground level, frontline health workers like ASHAs and ANMs have done a commendable job of managing the migrant population and to enhance awareness at the community level, the ministry said. “As a result, there are 14 states and UTs with CFR lower than 1 per cent,” the ministry underscored. The ministry said that 59,105 new recoveries were added in a span of 24 hours as against 45,148 new infections being reported during the same period.  The total number of recoveries have crossed 71 lakh (71,37,228). A higher number of single day recoveries is also reflected in the continuous increase in the national recovery rate, which is 90.23 per cent at present, the ministry highlighted. “India continues to report a trend of steadily decreasing active cases. Presently the active cases comprise merely 8.26 pc of the total caseload of the country standing at 6,53,717. This is the lowest since August 13 when the active cases were 6,53,622,” the ministry said. Seventy eight per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and a UT -- Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. Karnataka has contributed the maximum to the single day recoveries with more than 10,000 cases followed by Kerala with more than 7,000 cases. A total 45,148 new coronavirus infections were registered in a day in the country on Monday which is “the lowest since July 22 when 37,000 new cases were added”, the ministry said. Eighty two per cent of the new cases are from 10 states and a UT -- Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha.  Kerala and Maharashtra contributed the maximum to the new confirmed cases with more than 6,000 cases each followed by Karnataka, Delhi and West Bengal with more than 4,000 cases, the ministry said. Also, 480 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Of these, nearly 80 per cent are concentrated in 10 states and a UT -- Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. More than 23 per cent of the new fatalities were reported from Maharashtra (112 deaths).  India’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to  79,09,959 with  45,148  new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,19,014 with 480 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am on Monday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-fatality-rate-at-lowest-since-march-22-health-ministry/story-Wc3iYGgubnG0hXXOJTY7GN.html
26-10-2020||India||Stubble burning: SC suspends earlier order appointing Justice Lokur as one-man committee||The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday suspended its earlier order that was issued on October 16 appointing former apex court Judge Madan B Lokur as a one-man committee to enforce strict ban on stubble burning in neighbouring states of the national capital such as Haryana, Punjab and also western Uttar Pradesh (UP). The order was “kept in abeyance” by a three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, after Solicitor-General (S-G) Tushar Mehta informed the court about a comprehensive law being planned by the Centre to curb stubble burning. “The Centre has taken a holistic view of the matter and now a comprehensive law is being planned with a permanent body with the participation of neighbouring states,” Mehta said.Also read | Researchers look for tech solutions as daily fire count crosses 1,000 mark in Punjab, HaryanaHe stressed that in the past the SC had taken several ad-hoc measures to control pollution by stubble burning, but those steps did not yield desired results. “We will come out with a law within three-four days,” the S-G said while requesting the court to put in abeyance the earlier order appointing Justice Lokur as the interim panel head. “People are choking in this city (Delhi). It is something that should have been curbed by the government and not a matter to be decided in a public interest litigation (PIL). We will welcome the law, if it is appropriate,” the bench said. Earlier, senior advocate Vikas Singh, who had appeared for the petitioner Aditya Dubey, had informed the court it would take time to put a legal mechanism in place and until then, the Lokur Committee should be allowed to operate. The court had accepted the suggestion and decided to appoint Justice Lokur on October 16. Singh had pointed out that the matter could be taken up on Thursday, when the stubble burning cases being monitored by the apex court in the MC Mehta case would come up. The bench agreed to post the matter on Thursday, but also suspended the October 16 order. “There can be a conflict of perception between our committee and what the Union Government is contemplating,” CJI Bobde said. The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, “Having regard to the statement, we consider it appropriate that the measures adopted by this court on October 16 be kept in abeyance until further orders.”The order was passed on the basis of a PIL by two young environment activists, who had demanded urgent orders to curb stubble burning. The poor air quality could lead to a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) deaths, the petition had cited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stubble-burning-sc-suspends-earlier-order-appointing-justice-lokur-as-one-man-committee/story-KOJhG1sr5ZiNK1YceAw7AI.html
26-10-2020||India||BJP wins six seats in LAHDC polls as counting underway||The BJP won six seats while an Independent candidate bagged one seat on Monday, as counting is underway for polls to 26 seats in the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, officials said. BJP, INC and Independents are leading on three seats each, as per trends. BJP, INC, AAP and 23 Independent candidates contested the polls for 26 seats.  Leh recorded a 65.07 per cent turnout  in the 6th Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) elections on Thursday, an official spokesman said.BJP won seats of Turtik, Hundar, Diskit, Tegar,  Panamik, Tangtse, and only seat was won by an Independent is Chushul. BJP defeated INC candidates in the polls.Counting of votes started at the Amphitheatre of SSK, Tisuru, Leh around 9 am.An electorate of 89,776, including 45025 women, exercised their franchise in 294 polling stations spread over 26 constituencies across Leh district to seal the fate of 94 candidates including 26 each of the BJP and Congress.Besides the Congress and BJP, the Aam Admi Party (AAP) is also trying its luck for the first time by fielding 19 candidates, while the rest of the 23 contestants are independents. Regional parties including National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have chosen to stay away from the election.LAHDC-Leh has a total of 30 seats and four councilors are nominated by the government.Since the formation of the hill council in 1995, the Congress had swept the polls thrice, while the Ladakh Union Territorial Front had won the elections in 2005. The BJP wrested control of the council from Congress for the first time in the last elections by winning 18 out of 26 seats.Kargil district of Ladakh had a separate hill council which was elected in 2018 for a five-year term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-six-seats-in-lahdc-polls-as-counting-underway/story-pX3m34Fck6tiHylZIOwpFJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Mike Pompeo, Mark Esper arrive in New Delhi for India-US 2+2 dialogue||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and defence secretary Mark Esper arrived in New Delhi on Monday afternoon for the 2+2 dialogue. The talks will be held on Tuesday.The holding of the third US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue demonstrates the high-level commitment the two countries provide to shared diplomatic and security objectives, US State Department had said on Sunday.Before leaving for India, Pompeo had tweeted that he is grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners. “Wheels up for my trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia. Grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners to promote a shared vision for a free and open #IndoPacific composed of independent, strong, and prosperous nations,” he said in the tweet.Also read | Pompeo, Esper to push Trump’s anti-China message in IndiaBoth the countries are set to review their strategic and security ties and discuss ways to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific during the third round of 2+2 dialogue.The talks will focus on four themes - regional security cooperation, defence information sharing, military-to-military interactions, and defense trade, according to a US State Department statement last week.Watch | ‘PM Modi and President Trump get along very well’: Nikki Haley The first two 2+2 Ministerial dialogues were held in New Delhi in September 2018 and Washington DC in 2019.During their two-day visit, Pompeo and Esper will hold bilateral talks with their Indian counterparts S Jaishankar and Rajnath Singh and meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.Officials from both sides have pointed to the significance of Pompeo and Esper making an in-person visit at a time when most diplomatic meetings and interactions have moved online due to the pandemic, saying this reflects the importance attached to the relationship with India.Ahead of the 2+2 dialogue, the US State Department said that it welcomes India’s emergence as a leading regional and global power. It also said the US is looking forward to work closely with India during the latter’s upcoming UNSC term, starting January 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mike-pompeo-mark-esper-arrive-in-new-delhi-for-india-us-2-2-dialogue/story-yUU4N1SDQ5eWMexZs6XqyJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Alwar wine shop employee’s charred body found in freezer||The charred body of a 23-year-old man was found from a wine shop’s deep freezer in Kumpur village of Alwar district on Sunday, police said.The family members alleged that the victim was set on fire by the owners of the wine shop. However, police said the preliminary probe doesn’t support the claims.According to a first information report (FIR) lodged by the family members, Kamal Kishor used to work as a salesman at a wine shop owned by Rakesh Yadav and Subhash Chand. They claimed Kishor had not been paid for the last five months.The family said that on Saturday, the owners came to their house at 4 pm and Kishor left with him never to return. Around noon on Sunday, locals discovered that a container of the wine shop located behind it had caught fire. They informed the police and after the fire was put out, Kishor’s badly burnt body was found inside a deep freezer inside the container. There was no power connection in the container and the freezer was cooled by staking ice.“The deep freezer inside the container was for storing liquor. One of the owners has been down with dengue for the last few days and is undergoing treatment. Preliminary probe doesn’t hint at murder. However, we are yet to reach any conclusion. We are probing how the fire took place,” said Ram Moorty Joshi, superintendent of police, Bhiwadi.Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alwar-wine-shop-employee-s-charred-body-found-in-freezer/story-mS8V6ydQSvLPLwdS1jVAIP.html
26-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Chirag Paswan slams Bihar CM again, says people and I believe he is corrupt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘People and I believe he’s corrupt’: Chirag Paswan again attacks Nitish KumarA day after he ‘vowed’ Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar would be behind bars if his party is elected to power in the upcoming Bihar assembly polls, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan on Monday reiterated Kumar was ‘corrupt’ and if not, “it will be cleared in a probe.” Read moreNSA Ajit Doval’s speech not about China or any specific situation, govt officials clarifyThe National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval was speaking purely in a civilisational and spiritual context and was not referring to any country or specific situation at the religious function in Rishikesh on Saturday, government officials clarified. Read moreJ&K government to install smart meters; to begin with Jammu, SrinagarThe J&K government has decided to install smart meters and will begin with the winter capital of Jammu and the summer capital of Srinagar. The process of installation will begin from November 15. Read more West Bengal: Idol immersion in River Ichamati to be a low-key affair this yearThe idol immersion in the Ichamati river, located around 70 kilometres (km) east of Kolkata in the adjoining North 24 Parganas district, which used to attract thousands of revellers from both India and neighbouring Bangladesh every year, will be a muted affair this year because of the coronavirus disease pandemic. Read moreAstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine seen effective in elderly people: ReportBritish national pharmaceutical AstraZeneca’s vaccine for combating the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has seen a robust immune response in the elderly people, a report has claimed. Read more This Twitter profile is all about memes they are not just funny but respectful tooAre you a meme lover? Is the photo gallery of your phone filled with humorous images? Do you often convey complex emotions through aptly designed memes? If you answered ‘yes’ to any or all of the questions asked above, Read moreRaveena Tandon unveils first look from KGF Chapter 2 on birthday, introduces herself as ‘the gavel to brutality’Raveena Tandon is celebrating her birthday today and treated her fans with her first look from the film, KGF Chapter 2. The actor will be returning to the silver screen in a powerful role of Ramika Sen in the film. Read moreIPL 2020, MI vs RR: ‘Samson is the strongest man in the world,’ Sanju Samson talks about his six-hitting abilitySanju Samson had gone through a tough phase in the previous 5-6 games in the 13th season of the Indian Premier League. After starting the season with a bang with two back-to-back fifties, Samson tapered off as questions were raised on his consistency with bat. Read moreWatch: Seaplane to ferry passengers to Statue of Unity, flights from Oct 31A 19-seater seaplane which will be used for flights between the Sabarmati riverfront and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s Statue of Unity in Gujarat as part of a first-of-its-kind service in the country arrived here from the Maldives on Sunday. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-chirag-paswan-slams-bihar-cm-again-says-people-and-i-believe-he-is-corrupt-and-all-the-latest-news/story-jIxwsAu9IsdJfaMWTSixqL.html
26-10-2020||India||Why no Bharat Ratna for Savarkar yet? Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut asks BJP||A war of words between the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party has escalated a day after Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray slammed his former ally over Hindutva. BJP leaders questioned the Sena over Hindutva by allying with Congress, which had allegedly insulted Vinayak Damodar (Veer) Savarkar. Sena, in a counter attack, asked why is the BJP-led central government not awarding Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian honour, to Savarkar.BJP spokesperson Ram Kadam said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray gave a “lesson on Hindutva” from Savarkar Memorial during Sena’s Dussehra rally.“Question is why didn’t he utter a single word of praise for Veer Savarkar. Probably, he is afraid of his new friends who have been repeatedly using derogatory remarks against Veer Savarkar,” he said.Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, however, said that there was no change in the party’s stance on Savarkar. Talking to media persons on Monday, Raut said, “Shiv Sena never changed its stand on Veer Savarkar. Whenever an inappropriate comment was made to insult him, we stood by him. We’ve always had an emotional connection with him. Those who are criticising us must answer why didn’t they give him Bharat Ratna. They have been in power for six years now,” Raut said.Thackeray, during his speech at his first Dussehra rally after becoming the chief minister, on Sunday slammed BJP for questioning the Shiv Sena’s Hindutva. He said his father Balasaheb Thackeray’s Hindutva was not “clanging bells and utensils”. Thackeray even said that BJP must learn Hindutva from its ideological fountainhead, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-no-bharat-ratna-for-savarkar-yet-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-asks-bjp/story-ErtvqM6ZiguKhkvlIC2tEI.html
26-10-2020||India||Supreme Court stays MP high court order restraining physical campaigning for assembly bypolls||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed an order of the Gwalior bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court of October 20 restraining physical gathering during election campaigning by candidates in bye-elections to 28 seats. The order came on an appeal filed by Election Commission (EC) which said that the HC order paralyzed election process with few days remaining for the election on November 3. But the apex court also pulled up the EC for not taking a proactive role to enforce Covid-19 protocol at election rallies that led to the high court order. The HC had directed all campaigning to be held virtually and permission for physical gathering was to be given by district magistrate only if virtual mode was impossible. Any such permission by a DM was to have the EC’s approval and the candidate was asked to deposit money that is sufficient to purchase double the number of masks and sanitizer for those attending the event. A three-judge Supreme Court bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar, while granting stay, told the EC that had it taken a proactive role in enforcing the Covid SOPs of social distancing, the HC would not have interfered in the matter. Also Read: MP High Court frowns upon large political rallies amid Covid-19 pandemic“You should have intervened at the appropriate level and asked government to take steps. At public meetings you should have ensured SOP was followed and those candidates who were found to violate ought to have been issued notice. We wish you were proactive to supervise elections better. If parties maintained protocol, this situation would not have arisen,” the top court said.The appeals were filed by the EC and two BJP candidates Pradyuman Tomar and Munnalal Goyal. The BJP candidates appealed to the Court to allow the EC to consider their request granting additional time for campaigning in view of 7 days lost for campaigning. The bench left it to EC to take a call on any such representation that is moved by candidates or political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-mp-hc-order-restraining-physical-campaigning-for-assembly-bypolls/story-GAF6kFsb2QN2AeTOs42o4O.html
26-10-2020||India||NSA Ajit Doval’s speech not about China or any specific situation, govt officials clarify||The National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval was speaking purely in a civilisational and spiritual context and was not referring to any country or specific situation at the religious function in Rishikesh on Saturday, government officials clarified.The officials said any attempt to twist the NSA’s statement, made in a spiritual context, was uncalled for as he was not speaking about either China or the ongoing conflict in the Eastern Ladakh sector.The clarification came as certain media reports suggested that the NSA was speaking in the context of China and the Ladakh situation. Doval who was in Rishikesh’s Parmarth Niketan ashram on October 24 had addressed the devotees there about the spiritual power of India, where he also mentioned Swami Vivekanand.“You said we have never attacked anyone and there are many views about it. If there is a threat to the country, then we should have attacked as it is important to save the country,” the NSA had said.“We will fight where you want us to fight, that is also not mandatory. We fight where we feel the threat is coming. We have never done it for selfish reasons. We will fight a war on our land and others’ land too but not our selfish reasons but for the highest good of others,” he had further stated.The NSA suggested that states are bound by physical dimensions but the nation is an emotional bond which is bound by the common thread of spirituality and culture in which there is a collective sense of pride and role of our Gurus and spiritual centres is to guard this larger sense of collective identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-ajit-doval-s-speech-not-about-china-or-any-specific-situation-govt-officials-clarify/story-mK60VS07c335mkwDHvSsfO.html
26-10-2020||India||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar tests positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported.Pawar has been admitted to the Breach Candy hospital in Mumbai.The news comes days after former Maharashtra chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis tested positive for the disease.Fadnavis on Saturday said he had tested positive for coronavirus. The BJP leader was admitted to a government-run hospital in Mumbai and his condition is stable.With 1,41,001 total active cases, Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state by Covid-19 in the country. While 14,60,755 patients have recovered from the disease in the state, 43,264 have died so far.Covid-19 claimed lives of 112 people in the state in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry. Mumbai, which crossed the 10,000 mark for deaths two days ago, remained on top, in terms of mortalities, with 46 more deaths taking the toll to 10,105.However, this was the lowest one-day Covid-19 death toll since June 18 for Maharashtra.Out of 36 districts and 27 cities, 35 districts and cities did not report any death in the past 24 hours. The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state is at 2.63 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Q5F1Wol3eJmkbHq0xM6c1O.html
26-10-2020||India||Former Union minister Dilip Ray sentenced to 3-year imprisonment in coal scam case||Former Union minister Dilip Ray was on Monday sentenced to three-year imprisonment in a coal scam case. Ray was convicted in the case which pertains to irregularities in the allocation of a Jharkhand coal block in 1999.A Delhi court had earlier this month reserved the order for October 26 after hearing arguments from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) as well the convicts. The court directed the convicts to be present before it physically on that date.Besides Ray, former minister of state (coal) in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, the CBI had sought life imprisonment for other convicts - two senior officials of the Ministry of Coal at that time, Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam, and Castron Technologies Ltd’s (CTL) director Mahendra Kumar Agarwalla.Ray was convicted under various sections including 409 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which pertains to criminal breach of trust of trust by a public servant.“I am very surprised at conviction under section 409 of the IPC as the same court in the past has acquitted people in 409 IPC in view of three-judge bench judgement of Supreme Court. However, I welcome sentence not being harsh of three years having been imposed by the court,” said Vijay Aggarwal, advocate who represented various accused in 2G scam and is also representing various accused in coal scam cases.This was the first conviction in the coal scam.The judge had said that Ray “dishonestly facilitated allocation of the abandoned non-nationalised coal mining area in favour of CTL and that too in violation of the direction of law.”The case pertains to allocation of Brahmadiha coal block in Giridih in Jharkhand to CTL in 1999.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-minister-dilip-ray-sentenced-to-3-year-imprisonment-in-coal-scam-case/story-U7tBkZv9fgIqE2WGQLOdRP.html
26-10-2020||India||45,149 new Covid-19 cases take India’s tally past 7.9 million; lowest single-day spike since July-end||India on Monday continued its downward trajectory of novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases as the country reported 45,149 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking its caseload past the 7.9 million mark to 7,909,960, as per the Union health ministry’s dashboard.This marks the country’s lowest single-day spike since July-end. Earlier, on October 20, India had reported 46,790 new Covid-19 cases. This was the first time since July 23 that there were less than 50,000 new cases; 45,720 infections were recorded on the said date.(Read more: India records 46,790 new Covid-19 cases, 587 deaths; tally close to 7.6 million)The number of active cases in the country continue to stay below the seven-lakh mark and are currently at 653,717 or 8.50% of the country’s overall caseload. Recoveries, meanwhile, crossed the 7.1 million mark to reach 7,137,228 after 59,105 more people--higher than new infections--recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)India’s total recoveries constitute 90% of the country’s total cases. Meanwhile, with 480 new fatalities, the death toll due to the virus has reached 119,014 or 1.50% of the total cases.Also, in the last 24 hours, a total of 939,039 samples were tested for the disease, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, adding that with this, 103,462,778 samples have been tested in the country thus far.India continues to be the second worst-hit country after the United States, with Brazil in third place. However, it also has the highest number of recovered cases in the world.These latest numbers come at a time the country is opening up gradually, after four strict phases of nationwide lockdown between March 24 and May 31. However, with festival season around the corner, the government has warned the citizens to not get complacent or else there might be a rapid surge in new cases.Europe is witnessing a second wave of infections which has led to severe curbs in several countries there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-149-new-covid-19-cases-take-country-s-tally-past-7-9-million-lowest-single-day-spike-since-july-end/story-DYPbAXx3NL7VDA9V6BxRAP.html
26-10-2020||India||Rajasthan to appoint 29 sports medallists to govt services on out-of-turn basis||The Rajasthan government on Sunday announced its decision to appoint 29 sports medallists to the state services on an out-of-turn basis.The government has also decided to double the daily allowance of sportspersons. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved the related proposals, a government statement said. Of the 29 sportspersons, 11 players who are from category ‘A’ will be appointed to Rajasthan Police Services, Rajasthan Excise Services, Rajasthan Forest Services, Rajasthan Education Department and Technical Engineering Services. Out of these, six players will be appointed as deputy superintendent of police and five as assistant conservator of forest. In category ‘B’, 11 players will be appointed as sub-inspectors, one as excise guard, five as regional forest officer, and one as physical training instructor. Gehlot has also decided to double the daily allowance that players currently get. Now, the players participating in national level competitions will get Rs 1,000 instead of Rs 500 per day and the players participating in state level competitions will get Rs 600 instead of Rs 300. Sports minister Ashok Chandna said, “Across the Country, Rajasthan is the only state, which has such an out-of-turn policy. We have even included SAF games medallists in the policy, which no other state has done. Such initiatives by state will create an atmosphere of sports and maximum youth will get into sports. This will also help in reducing crime and addiction. Rajasthan in coming 5-10 years will be the leading state in sports.” “In couple of months, 450 youth under category ‘C’ will be given appointment,” he said.Chandna said soon those who earned medals before 2016; and the junior international medallists will also be provided the benefit of out-of-turn policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-appoint-29-sports-medallists-to-govt-services-on-out-of-turn-basis/story-WieE6E0Kjnoe6QqHeEjRbM.html
26-10-2020||India||Act against those violating Covid protocol during festivals, UP Chief Secy tells officials||Chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Sunday asked officials to ensure use of public address systems at religious and other crowded places to urge people to comply with the Covid-19 protocol related to social distancing and wearing of masks. At a meeting to review the pandemic, he said NGOs and volunteers could also be roped in to create awareness among people on the need to wear masks and maintain physical distance to keep the infection at bay. Stressing on the need for people to be more alert during festivals, the chief secretary cautioned that the number of positive cases had receded, but the pandemic was still there. Tiwari asked officials to resort to videography and rely on CCTVs to identify people who do not wear masks and maintain physical distance at crowded places and take action against them accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/act-against-those-violating-covid-protocol-during-festivals-up-chief-secy-tells-officials/story-CIoRqNveIuxzSC8yTzOxaL.html
26-10-2020||India||Gen Rawat asks tri-services to curb peace-time activities in deference to deployed troops in Ladakh||At a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Indians to light a “diya (lamp)” for soldiers deployed on Ladakh borders, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat has asked the three services to curb all peace-time activities in deference to deployed troops and be ready in case of a worst case scenario.It is understood that Navy’s marine commandos have been asked to be deployed in East Ladakh where the Indian Army is locked in a stand-off with People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Gogra-Hot Springs and both banks of Pangong Tso lake. The MARCOS will be deployed with the Indian Special Forces to gain experience in polar desert conditions with high wind chill factor and heavy snow.The deployed troops are waiting for last shipment of polar winter clothing and face masks, which are expected to arrive from US Army own reserve stocks by the first week of November. Just like the PLA, the Indian Army is prepared for a long haul and is in no mood to cede an inch of territory to the aggressive Chinese Army. The PLA has already deployed strategic jammers in Arunachal Pradesh and is going in for a massive infrastructure and storage capacity upgrade in both Xinjiang and Tibet.According to senior military commanders, Gen Rawat has made it clear to all the three services that these are not normal times with troops, artillery and tanks deployed along the 1597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and hence all peace-time activities must be curbed. “As situation in east Ladakh can get worse any time in case of an accident, the armed forces must be ready for any scenario. It cannot be that while the entire northern army command and western air command is battle deployed in frozen condition, the rest of us are celebrating the festival season and playing golf. Let nobody forget there is a war on in Ladakh,” said a South Block official.In lieu of this, the Indian Navy has been asked to focus on Andaman and Nicobar Island to monitor Chinese warship activity in Indian Ocean rather than get concerned about PLA Navy deployments off the coast of Africa. Indian Island territories of Lakshadweep and ANC are the key to national maritime security as they dominate the most important shipping lanes - from Persian Gulf to Malacca Straits—in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-rawat-asks-tri-services-to-curb-peace-time-activities-in-deference-to-deployed-troops-in-ladakh/story-TGSzOq5AxnQYe9878sGUrN.html
26-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to disburse SVANidhi loans to 300,000 street vendors on Tuesday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to disburse SVANidhi loans to 300,000 street vendors on TuesdayPrime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually distribute loans to nearly 300,000 street vendors under the PM SVANidhi Scheme (Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana) on Tuesday. Read moreNumber of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai lowest in two monthsThe number of active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has dropped to its lowest in the past two months. On Sunday, the number of active cases in Mumbai was 18, 307. Prior to this, the lowest number of active cases in the city was 17, 931, recorded on August 24. Read moreTemperature set to fall over NW India marginally this weekNight and day temperatures are likely to fall marginally this week, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi. The national Capital recorded a minimum temperature of 15.1 degrees Celsius (C), 1 degree C below normal on Monday early morning. The minimum temperature is likely to fall further, as November approaches. Read more‘Grateful for opportunity to connect with partners’, tweets Mike Pompeo as he leaves for India for 2+2 talksUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has left for India to take part of the 2+2 meeting which will largely be focussed on countering China’s growing global influence. US Secretary of Defence Mark T Esper is also accompanying Pompeo for the dialogue. Read moreHave you seen this pic where the Sun looks like a huge flaming jack-o’-lantern? It’s eerieHalloween is just a few days away. This festival has to do with everything spooky. In fact, social media platforms are flooded with various videos and images related to this upcoming holiday. Now, NASA has joined in with an eerie image of the Sun. Read moreMandira Bedi adopts 4-year-old daughter, introduces her as Tara ‘with eyes that sparkle like stars’Mandira Bedi was over the moon as she welcomed a new addition to the family - a daughter. The actor and husband Rraj Kaushal adopted the four-year-old girl in July and have now introduced her to the world as Tara Bedi Kaushal. They already have a son, Vir. Read moreCSK knocked out of IPL 2020 after RR beat MI - ExplainedChennai Super Kings regained some lost ground in the Indian Premier League 2020 on Sunday as they defeated Royal Challengers Bangalore by 8 wickets at the Dubai International Stadium. They had the faintest chance of getting into the IPL playoffs and CSK players gave their best on Sunday. Read moreIPL 2020, RR vs MI: Rajasthan Royals beat Mumbai Indians by 8 wicketsBen Stokes and Sanju Samson proved to be the heroes as Rajasthan Royals defeated the defending champions Mumbai Indians by 8 wickets in Abu Dhabi. Stokes smashed 107* in 60 balls, while Samson scored 54* in 31 balls, as RR chased down the total of 195 set up by Mumbai Indians in 18.2 overs. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-disburse-svanidhi-loans-to-300-000-street-vendors-on-tuesday-and-all-the-latest-news/story-P8oQ6Ap39rVFHstv7OzcqI.html
26-10-2020||India||UP tops in loan disbursal to street vendors under PM Svanidhi Scheme||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath has expressed satisfaction after the state in another first to its credit, secured the first rank in implementing one of the Centre’s most ambitious schemes – the PM Atmnirbhar Nidhi Scheme (Svanidhi Scheme), said a government statement.Uttar Pradesh has ranked first in all the categories – applications, sanctions and disbursements. The scheme was launched on June 1 by the central government to help the street vendors resume their livelihood activities that were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.According to official statistics of UP, loans under Svanidhi scheme would be disbursed to 2.51 beneficiaries by October 27, 2020 when the Prime Minister will address the street vendors of the state.The scheme aims at facilitating working capital loan up to Rs. 10,000 at a subsidised rate of interest, incentivising regular repayment of the loan and to reward digital transactions. The scheme aims at providing benefits to street vendors or hawkers in urban, semi-urban and rural areas.As many as 6,22,167 applications were received under the scheme in UP, the most in the country, out of which sanctions were given to 3,46,150 applicants while the loans were disbursed to 2,26,728 beneficiaries. Seven cities of UP also find place in the list of top 10 cities of the country with latest additions of Ghaziabad and Kanpur.Varanasi, Lucknow and Aligarh are the top three cities in the list while other cities of the state include Allahabad (4th), Gorakhpur (7th), Ghaziabad (9th) and Kanpur (10th). Other Indian cities in the list are Indore (5th), Bhopal (6th) and Hyderabad (8th).As far as the entire list of states is concerned, MP is in the second slot with loan disbursements to over 1.25 lakh beneficiaries followed by Telangana (53,777), Gujarat (18,747), Andhra Pradesh (15,992), Maharashtra (13,021), Chhattisgarh (8,993), Tamil Nadu (8,389), Jharkhand (6,413) and Rajasthan (5,533).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-tops-in-loan-disbursal-to-street-vendors-under-pm-svanidhi-scheme/story-0ps3JzOENAC4igCHTjYccI.html
26-10-2020||India||All citizens in the country to get free Covid-19 vaccine: Union minister Sarangi||Union minister Pratap Sarangi on Sunday said that all people of the country will be given free Covid vaccine, amidst the demand by opposition parties in the country for it and not only in poll-bound Bihar as announced by the BJP.The BJP announcement of free Covid vaccine for Bihar, where assembly polls begin this week, had kicked up a controversy with the opposition parties tearing into the NDA government alleging that the ruling party was using the pandemic for political reasons.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the announcement was in order as it was an election manifesto announcement.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced that all people will be provided free of cost vaccines. An estimated Rs 500 odd will be spent on vaccination of each person, Sarangi told reporters after addressing a campaign meeting for the November 3 assembly by-poll in Balasore.Modi had in a televised address to the nation on October 20 said that Indian scientists are in the process of developing several vaccines that are at different stages of clinical trials and the results seem encouraging.Sarangi, the union minister of state for animal husbandry, dairy, fisheries and micro, small and medium enterprises spoke in reply to question raised by Odisha Food Supplies and Consumer Welfare Minister, R P Swain.Swain had earlier in the day sought clarification from Dharmendra Pradhan and Sarangi, the two union ministers from Odisha questioning them for their silence on their party BJP’s stand on free Covid-19 vaccination for the people of the state along the lines of the one being promised in Bihar.The governments of Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Assam and Puduchchery have already announced free of cost Covid vaccines for the people of their states, while Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has demanded free vaccine for all citizens across the country.Swain had tweeted “I am asking questions to two Odisha union ministers from Balasore soil to clarify as to why the people of the state will not get free of cost Covid vaccine.The union ministers should clarify BJPs stand on the corona vaccination in Odisha.On the state governments steps for vaccination, Swain said it has signed an agreement with a vaccine manufacturer and is committed to extend the facility to all people of the state.He, however, did not say whether the state government will provide the vaccine to the people free of cost.BJP deputy leader in Odisha Assembly Bishnu Charan Sethi said the Centre has been supporting Odisha fully during the pandemic and has granted Rs 22,000 crore for the purpose.“But large scale lapses have been detected in the utilisation of the fund,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-citizens-in-the-country-to-get-free-covid-19-vaccine-union-minister-sarangi/story-cjTn6hpiqMv4L2vepSW6cP.html
26-10-2020||India||Four-day Army Commanders’ Conference begins in Delhi today||The four-day Army Commanders’ Conference, an apex level biannual event, which formulates important policy decisions through collegiate deliberations in the Indian Army, will begin in New Delhi from today.The event will be attended by senior officers of the Army including the Vice Chief of the Army Staff, all Army Commanders, Principal Staff Officers (PSOs) of the Army HQ and other senior officers.“The first day will be spent deliberating on matters related to Human Resource Management. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will address the conference on October 27, 2020. Prior to the Defence Minister’s address, the conference will be addressed by the CDS and all the three Service Chiefs (COAS, CNS & CAS),” Indian Army said in a release.The third day will be spent on in-depth discussions on the various agenda points projected by the various Army Commanders, including an update by CINCAN. This will be followed by brief updates on various issues by the various Principal Staff Officers.The last day of the conference will include an update by the Director-General of Border Roads (DGBR) on the various infrastructure development projects being undertaken by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and allied formations. Automation initiatives to optimise utilisation of manpower at various levels of the Army will also be discussed.The conference will close with the presentation of the Sports Trophy and Flight Safety Trophy, followed by the closing address by the COAS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-day-army-commanders-conference-begins-in-delhi-today/story-gHiExlBXv91q7IdI55vDVN.html
26-10-2020||India||Temperature set to fall over NW India marginally this week||Night and day temperatures are likely to fall marginally this week, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi.The national Capital recorded a minimum temperature of 15.1 degrees Celsius (C), 1 degree C below normal on Monday early morning. The minimum temperature is likely to fall further, as November approaches. The Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi, has forecast that there would be a gradual dip in both maximum and minimum temperatures by up to 3 degrees C over the next three-four days in the north-western parts of the country.Also read: Delhi chokes on particles as farm fires rage in Punjab and HaryanaIn Delhi, the minimum temperature has been below normal since October 23. On Sunday, the minimum temperature was 13.8 degrees C, three degrees C below normal. The lowest temperature recorded in October was 9.4 degrees C on October 31, 1937.A feeble western disturbance is affecting the north-western region. The weather condition will largely remain dry over the region. Scientists said both day and night temperatures would fall further.“The minimum temperature did not fall much on Monday, but there will be a gradual dip. Nights will record a higher dip than day temperatures. We are assessing what impact the western disturbance had in the upper reaches,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, Delhi.Most parts of north-western India, including Baghpat, Bhiwadi, Bulandshahr, Delhi, Faridabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram and Hisar, have recorded very poor quality air on Monday morning. Moradabad is in the severe category, as it has recorded 419 on the air quality index (AQI). AQI between 301 and 400 and 401 and 500 are considered in the very poor and severe category, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temperature-set-to-fall-over-nw-india-marginally-this-week/story-OCAYWt14iKwE2CWml7bObI.html
26-10-2020||India||PM Modi to disburse SVANidhi loans to 300,000 street vendors on Tuesday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually distribute loans to nearly 300,000 street vendors under the PM SVANidhi Scheme (Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana) on Tuesday. He would also virtually interact with the beneficiaries, additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said here on Saturday.Under PM SVANidhi scheme, street vendors can get working capital of up to Rs 10,000 at subsidised rates. Uttar Pradesh has so far received 557,000 applications from vendors, the highest across the country.Sehgal said the state government was working on ‘Mission Employment’. “Special effort is on to fill up vacancies in the government and recruitment process is being expedited. Efforts are also on to generate employment in the private sector and industry,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-disburse-svanidhi-loans-to-300-000-street-vendors-on-tuesday/story-CAGUHVkz0E5nPF5BRCmuyH.html
26-10-2020||India||‘Grateful for opportunity to connect with partners’, tweets Mike Pompeo as he leaves for India for 2+2 talks||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has left for India to take part of the 2+2 meeting which will largely be focussed on countering China’s growing global influence.“Wheels up for my trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia. Grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners to promote a shared vision for a free and open #IndoPacific composed of independent, strong, and prosperous nations,” Pompeo said on Twitter. Wheels up for my trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia. Grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners to promote a shared vision for a free and open #IndoPacific composed of independent, strong, and prosperous nations. pic.twitter.com/IoaJvtsHZCUS Secretary of Defence Mark T Esper is also accompanying Pompeo for the dialogue.Ahead of Pompeo’s visit, the State Department said that the holding of third US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue in just over two years demonstrates the high-level commitment the two countries give to shared diplomatic and security objectives.Also Read: What are 2+2 talks and what do they mean for US and India?During their visit to India, Pompeo and Esper will meet with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh for strategic talks after which they will travel to Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia.Pompeo’s visit marks the fourth visit to India by a Secretary of State during the Trump administration. He had recently met Jaishankar during the Quadrilateral meeting in Tokyo.As outlined in US National Security Strategy, the State Department said that Washington welcomes New Delhi’s emergence as a leading regional and global power. The United States looks forward to collaborating closely with India during its upcoming term on the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).The term 2+2 talks, in diplomatic language, signifies a dialogue between two countries. India holds such dialogue with Australia and Japan also, but it is only with the US that ministerial-level talks are held.The focus of the dialogue will be the Indo-Pacific region and India’s neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grateful-for-opportunity-to-connect-with-partners-tweets-mike-pompeo-as-he-leaves-for-india-for-2-2-talks/story-9l7LRM7WHnqKpe8sr738TL.html
26-10-2020||India||US welcomes India’s rise as a leading regional and global power||The United States welcomes India’s emergence as a leading regional and global power, the US State Department said ahead of the 2+2 ministerial in New Delhi.It also said the US is looking forward to work closely with India during the latter’s upcoming UNSC term, starting January 1, 2021.“The United States welcomes India’s emergence as a leading regional and global power. The United States looks forward to collaborating closely with India during its upcoming term on the UN Security Council,” the State Department said in a fact sheet before the start of the 3rd 2+2 India US ministerial in New Delhi.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defense Secretary Mark Esper will hold meetings with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defense Minister Rajnath Singh for the US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue. The visiting leaders will also meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and hold discussions with other government and business leaders on ways to advance the US-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, it said.In a fact sheet, the State Department said the two countries have a strong and growing bilateral relationship built on shared values and a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. As the world’s oldest and largest democracies, the United States and India enjoy deeply rooted democratic traditions, it added.“The growth in the partnership reflects a deepening strategic convergence on a range of issues. Our cooperation is expanding in important areas including health, infrastructure development, energy, aviation, science, and space,” it said, adding that holding the third US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue in just over two years demonstrates a high-level commitment to their shared diplomatic and security objectives.President Donald Trump made a historic visit to India earlier this year, speaking in Ahmedabad before over 100,000 people. Pompeo’s visit marks the fourth visit to India by a Secretary of State during the Trump Administration.According to the State Department, the recent Quadrilateral Ministerial meeting in Tokyo convened by Pompeo and his counterparts from India, Japan, and Australia, demonstrated the strong cooperative ties among Indo-Pacific democracies interested in strengthening a rules-based order in which all nations are sovereign, strong, and prosperous.“The Quad has proven to be an effective multilateral mechanism, helping to create resilient supply chains, promote transparency, counter disinformation and increase maritime security,” it said.India, with its large economy, strong support for entrepreneurship and innovation, and its growing international trade, is one of the world’s leading economic powers and is well-positioned to promote our shared vision for a free and rules-based Indo-Pacific where all nations can prosper, it said.Observing that India and the US are expanding cooperation between the two militaries, the fact sheet said this includes the navies, which play a critical role in ensuring freedom of navigation in the Indo-Pacific. In July 2020, the Indian Navy successfully completed a passing exercise with the US Navy as the Nimitz Carrier Strike Group transited through the Indian Ocean Region.In 2019, the US and India held their first-ever tri-service exercise, Tiger Triumph, in which the US Navy and Marines, Air Force, and Army participated in a bilateral exercise with their Indian counterparts. The United States welcomes Australia joining the Malabar naval exercise alongside India and Japan, it added.Noting that defence trade has increased significantly over the past two decades, the State Department said India maintains the largest fleets of C-17 and P-8 aircraft outside the United States and as of 2020, the United States has authorized more than $20 billion in defence sales to India.“The United States and India enjoy robust defence industrial cooperation. Through the US- India Defense Technology and Trade Initiative, the United States and India work together on co-production and co-development of defence equipment,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-welcomes-india-s-rise-as-a-leading-regional-and-global-power/story-V9DSooTH06ncVOYkU57xkK.html
26-10-2020||India||Uttarakhand estimates two-thirds of migrants have returned to places of work||Despite massive efforts to ensure reverse migration by Uttarakhand government and give employment to migrants who had returned to the state amid the Covid-19 pandemic, officials from the state migration commission have said two-thirds of the migrants have possibly returned to their jobs as the Unlock process continues. Officials say that most opportunities are self-employment schemes which involve a considerable amount of risk which not everyone is willing to take. SS Negi, vice chairman Uttarakhand Rural Development and Migration Commission said that after speaking to a lot of migrants, they have learnt that many are going back to their previous jobs.“We have started working on a survey to find out how many of the migrants have gone back and what the remaining ones are doing. We started this survey after learning that many of migrants who returned to the state were from the hospitality sector and with the Unlock process they have started going back,” said Negi. The findings of the survey will be used to formulate strategies on how to economically help the ones who have stayed back in the state and what policy changes can be made. He said that after speaking to many migrants personally, he has learnt that almost two-thirds are likely to have gone back. “While talking to the migrants, I learnt that some have applied for loans under state government employment schemes or under Centre’s schemes. The number of loans approved till last month was around 1,400 per district but disbursement is less. Loans are approved by the district administration but the disbursement of the amount happens on the process followed by banks, which may take time and by the time they get the amount, many are being called back by their employers,” said Negi. He added that the migrants are choosing to go back to their jobs as there was a sense of security, steady income and “they got used to a lifestyle which is different from living in villages in hilly areas.” “Most people who came back were from salaried class, but it is not just about income. There are other factors involved like their children being used to city lifestyles, studying in better schools. The migrants had their children still enrolled in schools in the cities, and they prefer to go back to that lifestyle,” added Negi. Kedar Singh, a resident from a village in Tharali block of Chamoli district who returned to the state with over 20 others from Pune in May said that he has been sitting idle since he came back home. “I used to work in a hotel in Pune where I earned Rs 22,000 per month. When lockdown was imposed, we were left jobless all of a sudden. We somehow managed to collect money, booked a bus and came back to the state but since then I have been jobless. Living in the village, day-to-day survival is taken care of through agriculture or other odd jobs, but I do not have secure source of earning,” said Singh. When asked if he tried applying for any of the employment schemes started by the government, Singh said, “I did try to apply for the self-employment schemes, but every time the officials said an initial deposit of Rs 4,000 or Rs 5,000 has to be made after which we can proceed further. When I have been jobless for so many months, how will I afford these charges? I am in touch with my employers and they have been asking me to come back…I will be going back in another month or two.” Data released by the Uttarakhand migration commission in July mentioned that over 2.15 lakh people had returned to their homes in Uttarakhand during the Covid-19 epidemic. In May this year, as a strategy to retain the migrants who returned to the state during the lockdown, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had inaugurated Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojana (MSY), aimed at providing self-employment opportunities to youth and ensuring reverse migration. It was launched with a focus on the thousands of migrants who returned to their homes in the state during lockdown so as to provide them with a livelihood by providing them subsidised loans for starting their own venture under MSME sector. There are about 150 works that have been included under the programme by the government which includes starting a restaurant to animal farming. In July, another data released by the state government revealed that 58% of over 2.15 lakh migrants who returned to their homes are skilled people. Speaking on migrants returning to their jobs, Madan Kaushik, cabinet minister and officials spokesperson for the Uttarakhand government said, “We have started many initiatives for self-employment and we are getting a good response but it takes time for the results to show. We are continuously monitoring the initiatives and improvising them as per the feedback that we are receiving from the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-estimates-two-thirds-of-migrants-have-returned-to-places-of-work/story-YvggTlfRw6eE8RkTxpHWNM.html
26-10-2020||India||Second Boeing aircraft for Prez, PM arrives||The second specially modified Boeing 777 aircraft, part of the Air India One fleet for VVIPs including the President, Vice President and the Prime Minister, landed on Sunday. The aircraft can fly between the US and India without having to stop for refuelling.The first modified aircraft had arrived on October 1 after being delayed by more than a month; officials had cited certain “operational issues” with the aircraft. The two aircraft - Boeing 777-300 ERs - had joined Air India’s fleet in 2018 and had been sent to a Boeing facility in Dallas for customisation. The Centre had sent a team of senior officials from the Indian Air Force and Air India for escorting the aircraft back to India and assessing the technical requirements.The government has planned to procure two such specially modified Boeing-777 aircraft, capable of countering missile threats with their own missile defence system, called the Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures (LAIRCM) and Self-Protection Suites (SPS).The US Defense Security Cooperation Agency, which had notified the US Congress about its decision to sell the defence system earlier this year, had put its cost at about $ 190 million.The modified aircraft are set to match the US President’s Air Force One in terms of security measures.Air India One is the call sign of any aircraft with the President or Prime Minister of India on board. The aircraft is operated as a VVIP flight by the Indian Air Force.The new long-haul aircraft will be used exclusively by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.At present, the three dignitaries fly Air India’s Boeing 747 planes that the state-run airline deploys on commercial flights. These are temporarily reconfigured for the dignitaries when they need to travel, with the call sign changing to Air India One.The Boeing- 747 planes that are chartered from Air India for use by the three dignitaries are two decades old.The modified aircraft will also have ‘Bharat’ and India written on them along with the Ashoka emblem. The new planes have been configured to provide generous office space, meeting rooms, a wide array of communication systems and a section for handling medical emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-boeing-aircraft-for-prez-pm-arrives/story-jzC0crzenNBbDeAG8mOYLJ.html
26-10-2020||India||Stay patient, buy local: Modi amid muted festivities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a strong pitch on Sunday for the consumption of local products in the festive season, urged citizens to spare a thought for the soldiers guarding India’s borders, and asked them to observe care and restraint in celebrating a range of festivals in the coming days amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“We must think of our braveheart soldiers who are firmly stationed on our borders in the line of duty, even during these festive times… all in the service and security of Mother India,” Modi said in his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio address .“We have to light a diya (lamp) at home in honour of these brave sons and daughters of Mother India,” Modi added. “I would also like to assure our brave soldiers that despite they being away at the borders, the entire country is with them, wishing well for them,” he said.The Prime Minister’s remarks come in the backdrop of total Covid-19 cases in India inching close to the 8 million-mark, the second highest in the world after the US, and in the middle of a six-month military standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in the Ladakh theatre, where tens of thousands of troops are set to spend a harsh winter in hostile terrain. As the nation celebrates a slew of festivals, after Dussehra on Sunday to Chhath Pooja, Valmiki Jayanti to Eid, and Guru Nanak Jayanti to Diwali in the coming days and weeks, Modi counselled care. He wished the people on Dussehra and urged them to follow the health guidelines such as safe distancing and the use of masks.“Today, all of you are carrying on with immense patience, celebrating the festival with restraint… and hence, in our ongoing fight [against Covid-19], our victory too is assured,” Modi said.He asked people to keep the “vocal for local” resolve in their mind and prefer local products when they shop for the festivals. The world is taking note of India’s products, he said, citing the example of the rising popularity of Khadi.The PM talked about Khadi being popularised in Mexico’s Oaxaca by a man named Mark Brown, who has made it a brand there. He said Khadi face masks had become popular during Covid-19 and that on Gandhi Jayanti, October 2, the Khadi store in New Delhi’s Connaught Place had run up sales of ₹1 crore. He also spoke of indigenous sports and pointed to the growing popularity of Mallakhambh in countries like the US, Germany and Poland.Modi called for national unity, recalling Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, whose birth anniversary will be celebrated on October 31. Modi also remembered former prime minister Indira Gandhi, whose death anniversary is on the same day.He said he will attend many events that day to be held in and around the Patel statue, the Statue of Unity, in Kevadiya, Gujarat, on October 31. “He (Patel) worked for the integration of the princely states with our nation. He was invoking the mantra of ‘unity in diversity’ in the mind of every Indian,” the PM said.“Unity is power, unity is strength, unity is progress, unity is empowerment, united we will scale new heights,” Modi added, warning people against “forces which continuously try to sow the seeds of suspicion in our minds, and try to divide the country”.Highlighting the newly passed farm laws, Modi said a company in Maharashtra had paid not just the cost of the corn it purchased from farmers but also an additional bonus “This was a pleasant surprise for farmers,” he said. The laws allow agribusiness to freely trade farm produce, permit private traders to stockpile essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming. A crucial change is that traders, agribusinesses and supermarkets can buy produce from any market, rather than buy only in notified markets where they are licenced to operate. These rules have frightened some farmers, who fear that the reforms could pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, which offers growers an assured price, and leave them vulnerable to powerful agribusinesses and in an even weaker negotiating position than before.Eminent political scientist Nilanjan Sircar said there was a genuine concern that people will stop adhering to social distancing norms during the festive season. “The PM is using his popularity and position to discourage people from creating crowds and this is important in the fight against Covid,” Sircar said. “At the same time, there is an understanding across the country about the benefit to local communities during this festival. So it is challenge to ask people to maintain distance, but also ensure these communities don’t suffer; hence vocal for local. On the call to light a lamp for soldiers, this is a time that we are struggling economically, this is when you see every political leader is giving a drumbeat of nationalism. However, it should not be seen as aimed at rallying around people for any strategic purpose”. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stay-patient-buy-local-modi-amid-muted-festivities/story-1uD2lKXlJ9mSpG0wvkWTnM.html
26-10-2020||India||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das positive for Covid-19||Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das on Sunday said he has been tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and will continue to work from isolation.Das tweeted that he has not yet shown any symptoms and that he has alerted those who came in contact with him in recent days.“I have tested Covid-19 positive. Asymptomatic. Feeling very much alright. Have alerted those who came in contact in recent days. Will continue to work from isolation. Work in RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all Deputy Governors and other officers through VC and telephone,” he said on Twitter.Das and the entire staff have been working from office ever since the lockdown started in March. Currently, the RBI has full strength of four deputy governors BP Kanungo, MK Jain, MD Patra and M Rajeshwar Rao.Das is the latest high-ranking executive among the country’s policy makers to test positive for the coronavirus. India is the second worst-affected country after the US, and while new infections have been declining, senior government officials including Prime Minister Narednra Modi have recently warned that a potential second wave is a risk to the economy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-governor-shaktikanta-das-positive-for-covid-19/story-tkyHBIGoTOVNmN35zz3CsI.html
26-10-2020||India||Hit by pandemic, India’s circuses forced to walk financial tightrope||The Great Bombay Circus, one of India’s biggest and oldest, had planned mega celebrations in October to mark its centenary this year. With no shows in the past seven months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it finds itself walking a tightrope for survival instead. “We are trying hard to save the circus; in fact, not just us, the pandemic has dealt a body blow to most circuses, which were struggling to stay afloat even before the pandemic,” says KM Sanjeev, co-partner, the Great Bombay Circus. India’s two dozen big and small circuses (once there were over 300) are struggling in the wake of the deadly pathogen, and have so far survived on donations; some, such as Rambo, have even tried to go digital. “Can you imagine what it is like to feed a family of 150 when your income suddenly falls to zero. I had to sell my property to save the circus. When the lockdown was announced, we never thought the crisis would last so long,” says Raju Pehalwan, who owns Asiad Circus, started it in the late 1980s. In October every year, his circus pitches tents in Delhi, performing in places such as Dwarka, Rohini, Pitampura, Janakpuri. The circus was in Indore when the lockdown happened, and has remained stuck there while many artistes have since left for their native places.The Great Bombay Circus was to travel to Delhi where it has been regularly performing in places like Peeragarhi, Rajouri Garden and Karkardooma, in December. It was in Mannargudi in Tamil Nadu when the lockdown happened, and has been stuck there since March.Sanjeev says it takes almost Rs 1 lakh every day to run the circus, including the salaries of artistes, food, ground rent, electricity and water bills. In the initial months of the lockdown, about 200 workers of the circus, including 134 artistes, survived on donations of rice, dal and vegetables from the locals. In late April, the circus ran a campaign on Milaap, a crowd-funding platform, managing to raise over Rs 53 lakh. “It helped us pay a small part of their (artistes) salaries so that they could take care of their families in different parts of the country. The funds also helped us arrange travel expenses of our foreign artists so that they could go home as they were stuck in India since March,” said Sanjeev.Most circus artistes earn anything between ₹15,000 to ₹20,000 a month, and spend their entire lives at the fair. For instance, Tulsidas Chaudhry, 54, who plays a clown, has been working at the Great Bombay Circus for the past several years. “My fellow artistes said that I am old and should go home till things get better and circus restarts. People like me who play such characters (clowns) face only contempt beyond the tents of the circus,” says Chaudhry, who was earning about ₹15,000 a month before the lockdown. He returned to his village in Bihar last month. His circus company, he says, has been generous, giving him half the salary all these months. “It is easier to make people cry than laugh and I want to continue to make people laugh till my last breath. I just hope that I am able to return to the ring soon,” said Chaudhry, who speaks Malayalam, Tamil, Assamese, Bengali and Hindi. “Most old circus artistes can fluently speak many Indian languages.It is because circus has people from all parts of the country, living together like one big family. We are deeply worried about our future in the post-Covid world.”While circus owners such as Pehalwan say the decline of the circus started with a ban on animals in 1998, many believe Indian circus has failed to reinvent itself and the Covid crisis will force them to change. A three-hour show offers the same old fare: gymnastics, juggling, acrobatics and flying trapeze acts unlike their foreign counterparts, which have introduced new technologies, sideshows and new concepts such as theatrical, narrative-driven circus. Most circuses abroad rely on human spectacle than animals. “Circuses in India have been trying to modernise; they have introduced international artistes and new acts. But running the circus at the current size and scale is not sustainable. Circuses will have to be compact with smaller tents, shorter shows and better infrastructure,” said Vipin Nair, a Supreme Court lawyer, who is a member of and legal advisor to the Delhi- based CFS (Circus Fans association). Delhi is also home to Indian Circus Federation, whose declining membership —from 25 to five in the past five years — reflects the diminishing fortunes of the circus in India. “This is a traditional industry. The Indian circus needs to reinvent itself both in terms of the content of the show, infrastructure, and also how it markets itself to the new generation. The Covid-19 pandemic has made them open to change,” said Aditya Shah, whose family has been in the circus management business — providing logistics, advertising and finance, serving some of India biggest circus companies for the past 70 years. “In fact, we are already working with some circuses to modernise interiors and seating and to help them adopt digital marketing, ” he added. Rambo Circus has taken a digital to route to remain relevant during the pandemic. In August, it worked with an event management company and a production house to shoot trapeze acts, acrobatic stunts inside the circus, also weaving the story of the life, achievements, struggles of the artistes, who rehearsed for three weeks in to make the performances look spectacular on the screen. In September, the tickets for the virtual Life Is a Circus were sold on BookMyShow. “We managed to sell about 21,000 tickets. The next digital show is in November, ” said Sujit Dilip, the owner of the circus. “But I know that a live circus is the real thing; digital circus can only be a temporary measure to survive. Most of those who bought tickets were young people who had never been to circus. I am sure our digital shows will eventually help bring new audiences to the circus when we reopen.” Artistes say digital circus is not what excites them. “As a performing artist, I love and live for the audience applause. I have a feeling circus will not survive beyond five years. Covid-19 has only hastened its death. But unlike me, who have agriculture land and can farm, most do not have anything to fall back on,” said Raju Barde, a 40-year-old flying trapeze artiste who has been in the circus for the past 25 years. Biju Pushkaran, 51, a famous circus clown, has similar views. “What excites me are the hugs from children in the audience. They take selfies with me. It is this adulation that kept me going all these years.” In fact, it was his video — an appeal for help recorded in April during the lockdown — that led to the outpouring of support for the circus, helping it get donations of over ₹12 lakh on Ketto, a crowd-funding platform. “We make the world laugh, today I stand before you crying,” said Pushkaran in his video appeal for help. “Jeena yahan marna yahan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-pandemic-india-s-circuses-forced-to-walk-financial-tightrope/story-J4t5yDt16AcYBLvjLq4SbO.html
26-10-2020||India||Opposition has gone directionless: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Sunday attacked the Opposition alleging that it has “become directionless”.“It is unfortunate that the Opposition has gone directionless. It has started opposing the country in its antagonism towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Nadda said, while addressing party workers in here through video conference. Attacking Congress over its opposition to abrogation of Article 370, which granted special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Nadda said the Congress was indirectly supporting Pakistan. “At a time when the entire country was celebrating after the abrogation of Article 370, Rahul Gandhi contended that injustice was done to the people in Srinagar,” he said. Nadda was speaking after inaugurating two party offices and laying the foundation of six offices in various districts of the state. The BJP chief further said that party workers have the responsibility to support government initiatives to ensure that they reach the people and to engage the Opposition in political discourse.Terming the agrarian reform laws as revolutionary, he said PM Modi freed the farmers of restrictions, and they can now sell their produce in any market.He said that the Modi government has worked to secure the country “on land and in air and water”, and referred to the development of border infrastructure that facilitated swift transport of Army personnel and logistics.Nadda also targeted the Congress government in Rajasthan, alleging that the state is reeling from corruption and lawlessness. He said that the state government lacks a commitment towards the people of the state, and the BJP should work to return to power in the next polls. Reacting to Nadda’s statement, Congress spokesperson Pranav Jha said, “ In spite of the BJP’s best efforts to derail and distract the people from real issues in Bihar, the opposition’s campaign and narrative is only about employment, migrant workers, farm distress and failed Nitish-Modi government. There is massive anti- incumbency. Nothing is working for the JD(U)-BJP...the people of the state have resolved to overthrow this unholy alliance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-has-gone-directionless-nadda/story-Noe6Ev3jLhEibaUPNxeKmK.html
26-10-2020||India||Manipur student body’s proposed 48-hour inter-state bandh deferred for 10 days||Manipur-based All Tribal Students’ Union (ATSUM) proposed 48-hour inter-state bandh and ban on construction works of national projects in Manipur. The bandh was scheduled to commence from October 26 but has been deferred for 10 days, according to a press release.“This decision was taken today by ATSUM and its federating units and the state government in its second round of talks with a written assurance that the state government is ready for considering the demand for timely conduct of the ADC (Autonomous District Councils) elections without further extension,” said information and publicity secretary of ATSUM, Khaiminlen Doungelm, in the release on Sunday.The release stated the decision to defer the proposed agitation was breakthrough in the discourse with the written assurance from the state government that demand for timely conduct of ADC elections without further extension will be considered in the state cabinet meeting to be held within a short period of time.“ATSUM believes that the state government will adopt a concrete decision for announcement of the date of elections to the six (6) ADCs in consultation with the relevant authorities within a stipulated 10 days time,” it added.ATSUM, however, warned that they will resume agitation on the expiry of the given 10 days if the state government fails to adhere to its commitment.On October 21, the ATSUM had warned to call 48 hours inter-state bandh on October 26 onwards besides shutting down the undergoing national projects in the state if the concerned authority failed to issue election notification for ADCs on or before October 25.The terms of the current ADCs had expired in May this year. However, the state government extended the terms for six months citing inconveniences in holding the elections during the rainy season, among others. Manipur has six ADCs - Churachandpur, Chandel, Sadar Hills, Senapati, Tamenglong and Ukhrul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48-hour-inter-state-bandh-called-by-manipur-s-student-body-deferred-for-10-days/story-Var47w7yX1Yj8o7kU3f84N.html
26-10-2020||India||‘NSCN(IM)’s demand for separate flag, constitution being discussed’: Nagaland CM||A final concurrence on the ongoing 23 years old Naga peace talks is imminent with the central government and the NSCN(IM), who have been in a deadlock over the latter’s demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution, apparently finding a middle ground.Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio, who recently met with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi has categorically stated that the central government was having exhaustive discussions with constitutional and legal experts to find ways to enable the Nagas to use a separate flag. On the issue of a separate ‘Yehzabo’ (constitution), he said it was likely that a committee would be set up post settlement, to democratically work out the details.Speaking at a public meeting at Jakhama, under the by-poll bound Southern Angami-I constituency on Saturday evening, chief minister Rio expressed that the final talks were going in a positive direction and the Naga people must not think that the movement started by the Naga National Council (NNC) had failed even though hundred percent of the original aspirations may not be achieved in a go. He reminded that the past generation had brought about statehood through the 16 Point Agreement. Pointing out that these were parts of a process of evolution, Rio said the present generation’s negotiations must arrive at an “upgraded” pact, while the younger generation would be able to make some agreements on the points that are left out.“If we follow the process of evolution, our future generations can peacefully co-exist with each other,” he said.Meanwhile, the working committee of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), who is also in talks with the government to resolve the Naga issue, will hold a meeting with 14 Naga tribal organisations on October 29, seeking their advice and opinion on issues of ‘common interest’.Although separate negotiations are being held between the central government and different Naga nationalist groups, chief minister Rio had earlier conveyed that the centre was firm on delivering ‘one solution’ for the Naga political issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nscn-im-s-demand-for-separate-flag-constitution-being-discussed-nagaland-cm/story-3xaqtElccbieLRbjdw9xwN.html
26-10-2020||India||Rare Red Coral Kukri snake spotted for 3rd time in Uttarakhand, rescued by forest staff||A very rare Red Coral Kukri snake was spotted in Uttarakhand’s US Nagar district and rescued by forest officials. This is the third time that the rare snake has been spotted in the hill state this year. Earlier, it was spotted twice in Nainital district, while on Sunday it was spotted in Dineshpur area of US Nagar district said forest officials said. According to forest officials, the rare snake was first spotted in Lakhimpur Kheri area of Uttar Pradesh in 1936 from where it got its scientific name ‘Oligodon kheriensis’. The suffix ‘kukri’ in its name comes from Kukri or curved knife of the Gorkhas as its teeth are curved like the blade of the Kukri. Uttarakhand forest department officials rescued the snake from a local resident’s house in US Nagar where it was hiding and released it in the nearby forest area. Abhilasha Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Tarai Central said Rudrapur forest range team got a call regarding a snake rescue on Sunday afternoon from one Triloki, a resident of Jagdishpur village in Dineshpur area. “When the forest team went there and rescued the snake, they realised it was the rare Red Coral snake. It was hiding near a tree in the courtyard of the house. After the rescue, the snake was released in a nearby forest,” she said. This is for the third time the rare snake has been spotted this year in the state. On September 5, and August 7, this snake species was rescued from the same house belonging to one Kavindra Koranga, a resident of Kurriya Khatta village in Bindukhatta area of Nainital district. According to Vipul Mourya, a wildlife expert from Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII), the Red Coral Kukri has been reported earlier in 2015 in Surai forest range of Terai East forest division and in 2014, near the Uttar Pradesh border but then it was found dead. The Red Coral Kukri snake is listed in schedule 4 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. It is found in red and bright orange colours. This non-venomous snake is nocturnal and feeds on earthworms, insects and larvae.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rare-red-coral-kukri-snake-spotted-for-3rd-time-in-uttarakhand-rescued-by-forest-staff/story-hXwH1i7oS3IXn0sdLmBOeN.html
26-10-2020||Editorials||Hold big tech firms accountable||Shortly after the United States (US) justice department announced it was suing Google for operating an “illegal monopoly” through its search services, a senior Google official sought to make a simple point in a blogpost. People use Google because they choose to, not because they are forced to or cannot find alternatives. The reality, however, is more complicated and explains Google’s dizzying growth over the last two decades, which began with one of the simplest, but a defining motto — don’t be evil. This journey also offers cautionary notes to countries such as India, which hope to hold big tech firms accountable. Google’s early successes stem from the sheer superiority of its first product: The search. Larry Page and Sergey Brin created computer algorithms that would go on to upend how the internet was mapped. Its accuracy and speed triggered an organic shift of users from its rivals. Over time, the service turned into the gatekeeper of the internet. As the user trajectory shot up, so did the revenues. Search was free, the money came from the ads that were now being shown to an ever-increasing number of visitors. Soon, the company built the financial muscle to launch a host of promising internet-based services, or acquire those that had beaten it. It now has its own services for how people watch videos, access news, book flights and seek out restaurants. The US justice department says this journey was helped by a “series of exclusionary” deals that control how users “access search engines, and thus the internet”. In particular, they pointed to how Google leveraged its Android mobile operating system and struck deals with cellphone makers. Tellingly, in 2018, the company dropped “don’t be evil” from its corporate code of conduct. Google’s rise now has implications not only for business, but also politics and society — which makes the antitrust conversation relevant for all countries, including India. This conversation also needs to extend to other digital companies, such as Facebook, the other gatekeeper of information online. India needs to draw on the work that led to the American lawsuit, and take into account conversations in the European Union, where courts and policymakers have dealt some of the strongest blows to big tech’s propensity to cartelise. Remember, these companies shape how you live, think, consume, vote, read, work and holiday. Forcing them to be accountable is essential.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/hold-big-tech-firms-accountable/story-hrzYqRSBu9ebGuocD93GHJ.html
26-10-2020||Editorials||The missing issue in the Bihar elections | HT Editorial||The first phase of the Bihar assembly election, the first major polls to be held during the Covid-19 pandemic, is scheduled for Wednesday. All political parties have released their manifestos, making a range of promises — from ensuring employment to distribution of free vaccines for Covid-19, from higher investment in education and health care to farm loan waiver. While all these are important issues, besides perfunctory references, not enough attention has been paid to a critical issue in the state — the annual cycle of floods.28 out of Bihar’s 38 districts are flood-prone, and the near-annual deluge often destroys infrastructure and the ecological wealth (farm lands and forests), leaving a deep, long-term impact on the lives and livelihoods of the people. This year, at least 8.3 million people in 16 districts were displaced, and many are still living in relief camps. Nearly 7.54 lakh hectares of agricultural land have been destroyed. While the Nitish Kumar government has blamed earlier regimes for weak embankments and corruption, the Opposition has alleged politicisation of relief.Riverine floods are a natural phenomenon, but destruction by floods is not. In fact, floods were once considered a blessing because they would bring fertile alluvial soil with them. But thanks to a combination of deforestation in the catchment area, human habitation on the river banks and floodplains, encroachment on wetlands, and embankments, they now lead to devastation. It’s a pity that these issues are not being debated more sharply in the election. This reluctance will only normalise the yearly destruction in the minds of the people, generate disillusionment about the responsiveness of the political system at large, and prevent Bihar from finding a comprehensive, ecologically sustainable, solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-missing-issue-in-the-bihar-elections/story-HQQ47GfUNMVNxsk7WVtYKP.html
