29-10-2020||News||Where Tejashwi Yadav slips behind the NDA||A fortnight ago, most political analysts were convinced about the return of the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government to power in Bihar. However, the unexpectedly large turnout at the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav’s rallies has lent a new dimension. While there are many factors which influence voters, the role of the campaign is important in swaying undecided voters.Although the Covid-19 pandemic has limited physical campaigning, it has not been replaced. Instead, it has been supplemented by new modes of campaigning. Political parties have designed digital campaigns to reach the maximum number of voters. Our study shows that all major political parties in Bihar — the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress, and the Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) — have advertised heavily on social media. While the RJD has not done so officially, some of its leaders such as Madhu Singh, Parwez Alam, Nand Kumar Rai have been actively campaigning on these platforms. Tejashwi Yadav has been posting videos and messages on his public social media pages, but has not bought any campaign ads to promote these messages.While the RJD’s decision to focus on ground-level campaigns may have been driven by the fact that most of its voters are not online — and in order to utilise limited resources effectively — this strategy could have a negative impact on its overall vote-share. Our pre-poll survey (n=2497) conducted by IPSOS, a market research company, from September 26 to October 10 shows that 26.5% of internet users intend to vote for the RJD, second only to the BJP, which attracts 43.2% of internet users as potential voters. And 15.5% of internet users were undecided at the beginning of the campaign. The survey also shows that over 19% of voters, overall, were undecided at the beginning of the campaign.Anecdotal evidence suggests that Tejashwi Yadav is being able to leverage the anti-incumbency sentiment, though most opinion polls predict a comfortable win for the Nitish Kumar-led NDA. Yadav is focusing on young voters and has promised that, if elected, his government will provide one million government jobs to young people. Yet, there is a paradox in his campaign strategy. Social media is the most popular medium among young citizens. Yet, the RJD has not invested in this medium. Given the fact that campaigns require a dynamic approach to influence voters, and need to evolve continuously, no medium, howsoever small, can be ignored. The unexpected turnout at his rallies should have made Yadav change his campaign strategy and start focusing on social media in addition to canvassing at the grassroots to appeal to the youth. This would have helped create a bandwagon effect as voters are more likely to move towards a party that is seen as being ahead in the race. At the moment, the NDA has an advantage in terms of the sheer volume of face-to-face contact, virtual rallies, posters, social media reach, news coverage and the presence of star campaigners, including Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. The network effects generated from contacts on multiple platforms could play a significant part in persuading potential voters. Voter turn-out will be a major factor, especially if NDA supporters are not too enthused about their chief ministerial candidate — Nitish Kumar, as many opinion polls suggest. The BJP has created confusion among its voters by not unequivocally opposing the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) Chirag Paswan’s attacks on Nitish Kumar. This could well demobilise its voters. But the new campaign strategy to counter Yadav’s rising popularity by organising many rallies of the PM shows that the central leadership can come together quickly, and work effectively, to steer the campaign in the right direction.The ball is now in the RJD’s court to counter the BJP’s reinforcements in the last tranches of the campaign. If the RJD speaks about issues that concern voters and stays on message, there is much to gain. While the past baggage associated with the RJD — of being an enabler of a jungle raj — could affect the overall chances of the RJD-led alliance securing a majority, it should be noted here that young voters aren’t interested in past issues.While his social base among the Yadavs remains intact, by focusing on young voters, Tejashwi Yadav is trying to diversify his social constituencies. Grassroots engagement is important for political parties but elections are no longer won by ground-level campaigning alone. The sooner Yadav learns the lesson that campaigns have to be dynamic, the more chances he will have of posing a serious challenge to the NDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/where-tejashwi-yadav-slips-behind-the-nda/story-2Pp22URjqNo83yFQn9F7qL.html
29-10-2020||News||To fight pollution, expand Ujjwala to urban, industrial India||Every October, the Delhi government criticises Punjab’s farmers for poisoning the air. But few dwell on the temperature inversion which traps Delhi’s pollution from October to mid-February, and fewer still consider the data that shows that it is the Capital’s internally-generated sources that create air pollution for most of the year. This includes burning biomass fuels.The poor burn biomass for cooking and heating. In Delhi, one of the world’s most polluted cities, 1.7 million people, or about 330,000 households, live in slums. Studies suggest only half use Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG). The experience of the urban poor with cooking fuels has not been studied enough, although this can have a significant impact on the city’s air pollution and the health of those who use these fuels.If the poor were to shift to a clean fuel like LPG, would air pollution reduce? In August, the non-governmental organisation (NGO), Chintan, studied the responses of two groups of women from 118 households in two slums — 61 to whom Chintan had provided free LPG cylinders, and 57 who did not own these cylinders. The criterion to receive a cylinder was that the household should have a girl in school.We asked if any recipients had sold their cylinders. Not a single household had done so. In fact, 69% pointed out that this was the only fuel source they were using. Households were also willing to continue using LPG. Almost 80% of respondents were planning to refill their cylinders. Those who were not cited lack of money as the main reason. We found that most respondents knew that LPG was a clean fuel that did not adversely impact environmental and personal health. Interestingly, their understanding of the health and environmental benefits of fuel was conditioned by their experience of using different fuel types: The more people got used to LPG, the more they were able to understand its beneficial health and environmental impact. This could also have been because 85% of respondents used only biomass fuels (wood, coal, charcoal, kerosene, and cow-dung cakes) earlier. Thus, they had been regularly exposed to high-levels of indoor air pollution. The clear preference for LPG was driven primarily by convenience and concern for health.How can this willingness to make a shift be leveraged to safeguard the health of the poor, particularly children, in slums as well as other Delhi residents? One in four children in Delhi has irreversible lung damage.The Delhi government should ensure that every family with a child of 18 and below, attending a government school, is able to get a gas cylinder at ₹400 or less every month. This is the maximum the respondents were able to pay for any fuel. This must be accompanied by awareness. Multiple sources of money exist for this, from fines for environmental non-compliance to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds. By doing this, the Delhi government will help us all breathe cleaner air all year round.India has dozens of comparably polluted cities. To deal with this problem, the Centre must roll-out a new phase of the Ujjwala scheme, with a focus on urban and industrial India. This time, lessons from previous experience, including price-points and the design of subsidies, should be part of the strategy. The 15th Finance Commission has allocated around ₹4,400 crore to cities with 42 million-plus population to combat air pollution this financial year. These cities — Delhi is not on that list — should lose no time in using part of these funds to ensure that clean fuel is available to the poor.Poor urban women and children are among India’s most vulnerable. Enabling clean air inside their homes will not only ensure the right to breathe safely, it will provide Delhi with real solutions grounded in evidence instead of unfounded accusations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-fight-pollution-expand-ujjwala-to-urban-industrial-india/story-MmLe1BFNgx4WIfQG4QgWdN.html
29-10-2020||News||‘Nalayak’: Gadkari diagnosed bureaucratic malaise, Modi must inject cure | Analysis||Union roads, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday vented government’s frustration at the slow-moving bureaucracy when he openly castigated National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials for taking 11 long years to complete its building at Dwarka in the Capital.Calling the NHAI bureaucracy “ nalayak, nikammi aur bhrast” (incompetent, inefficient and corrupt), Gadkari asked how such a “negative” bureaucracy scored outstanding grades in their annual performance evaluation. Gadkari asserted that it was time to weed out self-serving government servants who don’t even listen to their ministers.But the NHAI is not a uniquely inefficient organisation. The ineptitude of Indian bureaucracy is evident within key ministries on Raisina Hill as well, a pain point that has been often articulated at internal meetings by top government leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.It is also a reason why Indian diplomacy in the neighbourhood has failed in comparison to China. A classic example is the hundreds of minutes spent over months by bureaucrats discussing the steps needed to curb radicalisation of Kashmiri students going to Pakistan for medical education or to find a way to meet a request from India’s closest ally Bhutan for medical seats or requirement of foodstuffs by neighbours.Also Watch: Nitin Gadkari initiates blasting work for Zojila tunnel construction Despite green signals from the highest levels, the mandarins on Raisina Hill refuse to take a decision and keep the file moving from one ministry to the other. No wonder, the Indian government is often told by governments in the neighourhood that New Delhi should not blame them if they turn to China with problems as inane as export of onions or grains. This impression is most damaging to a rising power India particularly at a time when the world is looking at New Delhi to take a stand and decisions on sensitive issues.A mere 3.2 kilometres from the NHAI building which Gadkari inaugurated is Salaria Officers Enclave in Dwarka. It was built in 2010 by the Military Engineering Services and now has to be demolished due to poor quality of constructions. From the photos sent by Indian Army officers living in this enclave to Army Headquarters, it is difficult to distinguish these flats from houses bombed out in Syria. Salaria Officers Enclave, like the newly-built Army officers Housing in Meerut, are classic examples of all that Nitin Gadkari had the gumption to say.Yet, in spite of all this, the majority of civilian or military bureaucrats including generals and top administrative service, foreign service and police service are known to score 10/10 in their performance evaluation all through their careers. If these officers were outstanding, the Indian delivery and implementation would have been extraordinary. bordering on brilliant.But India has ended up with a process-driven, not a result-oriented bureaucracy that specialises in writing notings in the file in a way that either it becomes a hurdle, or is an escape route.Unfortunately, time is not of the essence to Indian mandarins to deliver. So you have files with multi-coloured dog tags and “pls speak” notes in the bureaucratic merry go round. And if anyone has the guts to push them to work, the Brahmastra or the ultimate weapon is that he/she does not want to be in Tihar jail in a CBI case.It is possible that Gadkari will have to bear the consequences of being blunt. He should be prepared for the NHAI bureaucracy to retaliate against him through discreet leaks,This deep malaise, however, does not affect merely the ministries but also intelligence agencies as well, where officials are often more bothered about writing reports or sending alerts than undertaking operations.The bureaucratic inefficiency and indecisiveness ends up blocking progress and even compromising the hard security of the country. Even at a time when the Chinese People’s Liberation Army is knocking at India’s doors in the East Ladakh sector, the Indian Army and the Border Roads Organisation has been struggling for approvals from a bureaucracy that is notorious for raising queries on emergency purchases and building tunnels underpasses linking Himachal Pradesh to Ladakh. The way to redemption lies through the path suggested by Minister Gadkari, who has openly called for weeding out the incompetent, ineffective, in-decisive and also corrupt officers within the system. While the Modi government has taken some action to repatriate senior officers back to their cadre and retire them, the time has come for these so-called public servants - including those at banks, financial institutions and investigative agencies - to send them packing home.The way ahead lies in breaking down service silos and appointing the best fit for a leadership job, irrespective of whether the person is from the IAS, IPS, IFS or any other central service. Although this has been repeated ad nauseam, merit not seniority should be the criteria for key appointments as an inept or weak leader will always drag his team down through indecision and intrigue. The marking of ACRs should be reviewed immediately as 10/10 outstanding ACRs are like 100 per cent cut-off in university admissions. By this yardstick, India should be bagging all the Nobel Prizes in the next five years with perfect students and 10/10 bureaucrats should turn India into Shangri La.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nalayak-gadkari-diagnosed-bureaucratic-malaise-modi-must-inject-the-cure-analysis/story-FqVFVVZQVU4KRSVjYYfN0N.html
29-10-2020||News||In a new world, why old Europe matters||While Covid-19 has disrupted societies, it has also brought greater clarity for individuals and nations. The European Union (EU) and the United Kingdom (UK) are two political geographies that may be experiencing this and are certainly at an inflection point. In this context, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s visit to Paris, Berlin and London gains salience. That he has chosen Europe for his first Covid-19-era visit outside the neighbourhood suggests that New Delhi has sensed the importance of this moment.At a recent event, external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, articulated why his ministry continued to invest time and energy in the relationship with Europe. He explained Europe’s importance for India’s most important imperatives — be it technology and the digital domain or becoming a green economy. The region holds the promise of long-term capital, innovation, markets and best practices.Europe’s economic obsession following the 2008 Global Financial Crisis saw it withdraw from key political theatres. The pandemic has brought it right back to the great churning in Asia and indeed to the Indo-Pacific. The Indo-Pacific Strategies released by Germany and France and the India Strategy announced by EU are indications that the Old Continent is changing course. The UK has hinted that it is realigning its political positions. It is currently engaged in its most comprehensive integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policies since the Cold War. Much has been written about the divisions within EU. Economic differences, migration policies and the China factor all have a real basis and have impacted EU. These may well remain points of friction among member-states. The UK’s exit has also had consequences. Paradoxically, the events of 2020 have exposed the limits of fissiparous tendencies in EU.There is now a disturbing realisation that China is no friend, and it is not like Europe. It drives the same vehicles and uses the same phones, but is not driven by the same values and principles. There is no convergence in world views. The perverse, even vulgar, conduct of mask diplomacy and thereafter the Wolf Warrior doctrine has been deeply disturbing to European sensibilities. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi’s troublesome EU sojourn indicated a new European resolve to call out China, even as Beijing dug its heels in.In the UK, too, the boundaries of Brexitism are being tested. On 5G and technology choices, the UK and major EU countries are aligning positions. Global Britain is navigating new seas, but its ethical and strategic compass is keeping it firmly in the Atlantic Order. The earlier assumption at 10 Downing Street that it was possible to do business with China without being affected by its muscular politics has fallen short. The bears and bulls at the London Stock Exchange have danced for the Dragon far too long. In 2021, as it hosts G-7 — with India as a likely guest — and COP-26, the UK will realise exactly how much it remains embedded in Europe.Shringla will find in his French, German and British interlocutors a new realism on trade. Free trade deals are not the issue they once were. The World Trade Organization (WTO) has reduced tariff barriers and the pandemic has enhanced the appreciation for non-tariff barriers. Boutique trade deals, supply chains restructuring where feasible, and enhanced linkages in health and vaccine value chains will be the focus. There will be less pressure on, and more opportunities for, India.Realising the Sustainable Development Goals; battling the climate crisis through green transitions; and building a digital economy must also be on the menu. Post-Covid-19, we must build back green and build back better. In the past four years, the Paris Agreement has rested on European and Indian shoulders. It is time for Europe and India to shape a new global green deal. This EU+1 initiative should be on Shringla’s agenda as he engages with Paris and Berlin.In London, he must create the ground for a bold UK-India announcement at COP-26 with an emphasis on a financing a framework that can catalyse green growth. India co-founded the International Solar Alliance with France and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure with the UK. These are critical legacies to be nurtured, more so since the United States (US) will continue to go through an existential crisis, to some degree, irrespective of what happens in early-November.Technology is another shared frontier. Even as Europe invested in Chinese manufacturing zones, data from its banks, insurance and financial firms found safe and efficient homes in India. Trust was the operative word. And this same word will define partnerships in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Digital partnerships between India and EU and concurrently India and the UK are inevitable and desirable. As they assess the extremes of the American and Chinese models, on technology norms, digital regulations and data privacy, India and various shades of Europeans will find their positions more aligned.With the US expected to be preoccupied till the new administration settles in by early-summer 2021, New Delhi is doing well to engage with other major Western democracies that, like India, are contributors to stability in the international system. Coming shortly after Jaishankar’s visit to Japan for the Quad talks and bilateral meetings, the foreign secretary’s trip to the heart of Old Europe is an important follow-up.Samir Saran is president, Observer Research Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-a-new-world-why-old-europe-matters/story-hFWNvNcFy5I7mBumS4rhqN.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Covid cases touch a new high of 5,739 in Delhi again||The graph of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in Delhi continued to climb, with the city registering 5,739 new cases in a day — a record high again — on Thursday. Reporting a record number of new cases for the third day in a row, Delhi’s tally of Covid-19 cases now stands at 375,753, which includes 338,378 recoveries and 6,423 deaths. On Wednesday the city had added 5,673 new cases of the viral infection, after reporting 4,853 new cases a day earlier on Tuesday.On average, Delhi has now reported 4,491 cases every day in the past week, which means the trajectory has now surpassed the previous peak of 4,174, which was reported for the week ending September 17, at the height of the second surge.The positivity rate, which went past 9% on Wednesday for the first time since early September, increased further to 9.55% on Thursday. Delhi had seen the first surge in cases in June — the week ending June 26 — when 3,446 cases were reported in a day at its peak..Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at ICMR said the government now needs to stay focused on keeping up with the testing numbers and spread mass awareness on wearing masks and wearing them the right way. “Delhi’s current situation is a culmination of many things — temperatures have come down making the environment more conducive for the virus, the festive season because of which there is probably the highest interaction between people that the city has ever seen since the advent of the virus in March .And then there is air pollution, because of which many are already suffering from flu-like symptoms. So, people should be advised to stay at home as far as possible,” he said. Earlier this week, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had said in a press briefing that Delhi is inching towards its third peak. On Thursday, state health minister Satyendar Jain too said it “appears that Delhi is heading towards a third wave”, but said there would be clarity on this only by next week.“The trend of Covid cases is on a decline across the country. However, it has remained a matter of worry in three states and Union territories. Delhi is inching towards its third peak, while an unprecedented rise is being witnessed in Kerala and West Bengal,” Dr Paul had said on Tuesday.On Thursday, the government conducted 60,124 tests of which 17,029 were through reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), considered the most reliable Covid-19 testing method so far. It was on Sunday when Delhi had for the first time conducted over 17,000 RT-PCR tests.Testing in the city was scaled up from September onward but most diagnoses were conducted using the rapid antigen method, which gives results in 15 minutes, but is more likely to throw up false negatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-cases-touch-a-new-high-of-5-739-in-delhi-again/story-lEqJ9cesApQArVAXOOewYK.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||High court seeks details of pending honour killing cases in Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed director general of police (DGP), Haryana, to apprise the court of number of honour killing cases registered in the state in which investigation or trial is pending. The DGP has also been asked to spell out the steps taken for securing fast track investigation and fast track trial of such cases as well as steps taken for protection of the survivor-wife or the husband and other important witnesses in such cases.The DGP has been asked to file an affidavit on pendency of honour killing cases by November 10.The order was passed by high court bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi in an alleged honour killing case registered in June 2018 in Fatehabad. The bench was hearing bail plea of one of the accused during which it came to light that initially the case of abduction of Sunita Rani and Dharambir was lodged and the latter was subsequently murdered by the persons who had abducted him.Sunita in her statement before the judicial magistrate had named the accused persons twice. Custody of Sunita who would have been aggrieved by the murder continued with her father/other family members and no efforts appear to have been made for her protection despite the fact that she was an important witness against the accused or most of whom were her relatives, the bench observed.As per the record, 15 accused were involved in the case and only 12 have been arrested so far. The court noted that it is also not clear whether the three persons have been declared proclaimed offenders. Also, there is no mention of the role of father, brother (if any), and other family members be in the murder, the bench observed, adding that the chargesheet was initially filed against six accused in September 2018 and supplementary chargesheet against four accused in February 2019 while the third chargesheet against two persons in May 2019. Out of 12 accused chargesheeted by the police, 10 have been granted bail and only one prosecution witness out of 44 have been examined till date, it recorded.The court said cases involving honour killing require fast track investigation by Special Investigation Teams having members with requisite expertise without any undue delay in investigation and unwarranted sympathy with the offenders. The prosecution also needs to take steps to protect life of husband and wife and other important witnesses in completion of the chain of circumstantial evidence and nab the accused. The trial should also be fast tracked in such cases, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-seeks-details-of-pending-honour-killing-cases-in-haryana/story-nOiYzbnMn75UD9ezfec3fL.html
29-10-2020||City||Son opens fire at mother in Ludhiana||Police have arrested a 21-year-old man for firing in the air to threaten his mother on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Gurnihal Singh of Model Town.The FIR has been lodged on the statement of his father Gurinder Singh, who said that his son had been pressuring him to set up a fish farm on the family’s land in Morinda. The couple had been resisting this demand for a long time but on Wednesday, the son came home and opened fire in the air with his 12-bore rifle. A case has been registered under Section 336 (act endangering personal safety of others) and various sections of the Arms Act. The rifle, along with 21 cartridges, has been seized, assistant sub-inspector Rajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/son-opens-fire-at-mother-in-ludhiana/story-v4rTfPWHIYnIO11loTLUdJ.html
29-10-2020||City||Covid update: Ludhiana logs 50 new cases but no fatality||As many as 50 more persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Ludhiana, health department officials said on Thursday. No new Covid death related to the district was reported in the last 24 hours, however, two patients from Hoshiarpur and one from Bathinda breathed their last in the city hospitals.So far, 20, 184 persons have been infected by the virus in the district, while 833 have succumbed to it. Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said there are 232 active patients in the district at present. On Thursday, a total of 65 cases were detected, of which 50 patients belong to Ludhiana.The DC further said that 2, 769 samples of suspected patients have been sent for testing and their results are expected shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-update-ludhiana-logs-50-new-cases-but-no-fatality/story-bcYuBGVRgJb74WrIh5tkFP.html
29-10-2020||City||Ludhiana police starts drive to make city beggar-free by Nov 11||Days after two children, forced to beg on streets, were rescued from the clutches of a kidnapper, Ludhiana police has vowed to bring an end to the begging menace in the city by November 11.Appealing to residents to support the drive, police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has asked them to refrain from giving alms or food to the beggars. A Whatsapp number (9115601159) has also been released, where residents can alert the police about the location of the beggars.The task, however, is bound to be a challenging one as the cash-strapped city residents are known to be generous with their donations, a trait that the beggars have learnt to exploit.“Many beggars travel to Ludhiana during winter months as residents here are in the habit of donating blankets during cold nights. As per one estimate, every beggar collects 20-30 blankets in these two to three months and then sells it,” said the commissioner. Most beggars are active at the traffic light points, Shri Durga Mata Mandir near Jagraon Bridge, Nav Durga Mandir in Sarabha Sarabha Nagar and Krishna Mandir in Model Town extension, as they know residents visiting religious places are often keen to distribute food.Agrawal said the police will be working in close coordination with the civil administration, municipal corporation, health department, child welfare department and social security department for the success of the drive. He said that the widespread begging menace leaves a bad impression of the city.Giving details about the plan, the top cop said, “We have chalked out a special plan to deter the problem. Beggars who are found residing in the city for less than a year will be sent back to their native places. Beggars with disabilities will be shifted to shelter homes. Child beggars will be sent to child shelter homes. Others who are fit will be asked to earn their living by working somewhere.”He further said that the police have intensified verification drives for beggars. He has given instructions to the station house officers concerned to complete the verification of beggars in the next 15 days.The police had initiated a drive in February this year and identified 1,170 beggars at 19 busy locations of the city. In one month, the number of beggars had dropped to 435. But the Covid-induced lockdown had thrown the drive off-track.Reacting to the development, Aman Sandhu of the social wing of FICCI FLO said, “The plan to rehabilitate beggars taken is a welcome step. This will not only provide relief to residents, but to those involved in begging too, as they can now hopefully lead a life of dignity and respect. It will also hopefully bring down the kidnapping cases.”Ludhiana mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said, “All departments are united and working for the welfare of the city and its residents. Begging has become a menace in the city, which leaves a bad impression on visitors. The locals should stop giving food and money to beggars, as it encourages them. We will rope in some NGOs and industrialists to rehabilitate the beggars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-starts-drive-to-make-city-beggar-free-by-nov-11/story-Z72hxJdnv1PLUVe0Rfm36K.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Redevelopment of Mumbai’s Dharavi delayed further||In what spells further delay for Dharavi revamp, the Maharashtra government on Thursday decided to scrap the tender process for the project once again, following a decision taken by a committee of secretaries (CoS) headed by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. In February 2019, the tender to revamp the 601-acre area was bagged by the United Arab Emirates (UAE)-based SecLink Technology Corporation (STC), and funded by the UAE royal family. However, problem surfaced in March, when the erstwhile state government led by Devendra Fadnavis acquired a 45-acre railway land for ₹800 crore for the project. In January 2020, a committee of secretaries sought legal advice from the advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni on calling for fresh tenders considering acquisition of the 45-acre railway land for the project as it could bring extra benefit for the preferred bidder. AG in his response told the CoS that fresh tenders needed to be called for, as the costs of the railway land and rehabilitation was added later and not incorporated in the original tender document, which was accepted and the committee of secretaries decided to scrap the tenders on August 27, the officials said.“The state cabinet has decided to accept the decision made by the committee of secretaries to scrap the tenders on August 27. It has also allowed the Dharavi Redevelopment Authority to call fresh tenders for the ₹28,000-crore ambitious project,” said a senior official from the state housing department. The Dharavi revamp project commenced on February 4, 2004, but has been marred with controversies, with one of the key issues being the eligibility for the redeveloped flats, as it was found that a majority of present residents did not qualify for new houses. The constant flip-flops by the government have also driven away many builders. Meanwhile, the state has also issued fresh guidelines related to redevelopment of old and dilapidated cessed buildings of Mumbai city. It has asked the state housing department to issue fresh guidelines over registration and eligibility of developers for cessed buildings. Considering the interest of tenants, the state has made it mandatory for the owner or developer to open an escrow account and pay one year’s rent in advance to the tenants till the project is completed. It has directed to constitute a committee to monitor redevelopment of the building. It will comprise an architect to be appointed by taking no-objection certificate from tenants. It has also made it mandatory for developers to complete the redevelopment project within three to five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/redevelopment-of-mumbai-s-dharavi-delayed-further/story-5fKoAaUnlJQ9YM4BNEP1PN.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Building collapses in Kopar near Mumbai, residents escape unhurt||Eighteen families living in 42-year-old ground-plus-two storey Maina Vittu Niwas building in Kopar, Dombivli, around 50km from Mumbai, had a narrow escape as they managed to escape minutes before a portion of the structure collapsed around 4am on Thursday. The building had 15 flats, with 75 residents. The residents alerted each other and vacated the building as soon as they saw cracks. Sushmita Nagaral, 26, who lived in the building with her parents and younger sister, said, “Every family was asleep when the building started collapsing. Initially, it developed cracks and there was a loud thud due to which residents woke up and rushed out. As soon as we left the building, a major portion of the building collapsed. Children and senior citizens lived in that portion.” One fire tender of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) reached the spot around 4.30am and helped the residents remove their belongings from the remaining portion of the building. “The residents had already moved out. Our team helped them find their belongings,” said Jeevan Borade, fire officer. “As the remaining portion developed cracks, we could not pick up much of the belongings. The residents have now gone to their relatives’ place,” said Nagaral. KDMC officials claimed the owner and residents were served a notice in June. “We have started demolishing the remaining portion now. The building was unsafe and we had asked them to vacate it,” said Bharat Pawar, ward officer, KDMC. “We will take action against structures which are extremely dangerous with a strict approach now.” There are 187 extremely dangerous buildings and 284 dangerous buildings in KDMC jurisdiction. The extremely dangerous buildings are more than 30 years old. On September 21, 38 people died and 25 were injured in Jilani building collapse in Bhiwandi’s Damankar naka. After the tragedy, KDMC demolished 13 dangerous structures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/building-collapses-in-kopar-near-mumbai-residents-escape-unhurt/story-1zp4Ndbvlp0G7a8FnHnSoK.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Kopar building collapse: Alert 25-year-old helped save 75||While the Maina Vittu Niwas building in Kopar, Dombivli, collapsed on Thursday morning, none of the 75 residents were injured thanks to an alert resident, Kunal Mohite, 25, who was the first to realise the structure was developing cracks. “Around 4am, I realised the rear portion of our kitchen had developed cracks and some parts fell off. I alerted my family and other residents immediately and asked them to leave. After we rushed out onto a street safely, a portion of the building collapsed within 20 minutes,” said Mohite, who lived on the first floor with his family. “Residents started to panic and scream. We have lost all our belongings, but I am glad nobody got hurt.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kopar-building-collapse-alert-25-year-old-helped-save-75/story-Xsx2xWTsOFqYEsOLtO7HAN.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||No arrest yet in alleged rape at private hospital||A day after a rape case was registered against a staff member of Fortis Hospital in Gurugram’s Sector 44 for allegedly raping a 21-year-old woman undergoing tuberculosis treatment, the police are yet to make any arrests. The police, on Thursday, said that two of the hospital staff members are under the scanner. A case was registered on the basis of a complaint by the woman’s father, who alleged that his daughter was raped while she was in a semi-conscious state on ventilator in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that they have collected CCTV footage of two floors, of which footage of one floor was monitored by the police team on Thursday. However, they could not find anything substantial that could support the complaint. “We have questioned more than 20 staff members who were present in the ward during the period when the alleged rape happened and have taken the location details of the suspect to check whether he spent time alone in the ICU. We hope to solve the case at the earliest,” he said. The police said the family is suspecting that the incident took place between October 21 (when she was admitted) and October 27 (when she fully regained consciousness). The patient had informed her father about the alleged incident through a handwritten note on Tuesday. The police said she is still in treatment at the hospital. Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), said the woman was admitted to the ICU on the ground floor for a day and was later shifted to the ICU on the first floor. “We are yet to monitor footage of the first floor and that will give us a clear idea about the movement of the suspect. The woman had told her father that she had heard the name, Vikas, following which she alleged rape charges against him, but we are yet to verify the facts to arrest the suspect. He is under police scanner,” she said. The police said the patient gained consciousness on Tuesday and informed her father about the incident through a handwritten note. The family then approached the police and a case was registered on Tuesday. A board of doctors from the Civil Hospital conducted a medical investigation on Wednesday. Kundu said the woman is still on ventilator and is not fit to give a statement. “She was recovering but has developed fever, due to which she has not been removed from the ventilator on Thursday. A police team has been deployed in the room and protection has been provided to her. The entire area is under the scanner,” she said. The management of the hospital said in a statement: “Fortis has been fully cooperating with the investigating authorities. The entire CCTV footage and all other relevant information were shared with the police. We understand that police is questioning two persons, who are the outsourced non-medical staff. As per established protocol, they were hired after requisite verification. We have a zero tolerance policy against such situations and are committed to ensure that justice prevails(sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-arrest-yet-in-alleged-rape-at-private-hospital/story-R4TeX3tZtMRCtP7toU2EkJ.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Semester exams at Punjab Engineering College to begin from November 22||The end-term examinations of the first semester of the 2020-21 academic session at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) are scheduled to start from November 22 onwards.The exams, which will be conducted on campus, are however optional for students. If a student decides not to appear in the examination, he/she will be given grade ‘I’ and the examination will be held later on when the situation becomes normal.The examination for computer science engineering (CSE), electrical engineering and electronics and communication engineering (ECE) branches of BTech semester seven will be conducted from November 22 to 25. For aerospace engineering, civil engineering, mechanical engineering and materials and metallurgical engineering and production engineering branches, the semester exams will be held from December 2 to 4.For CSE, electrical and ECE branches of BTech semester 5, the examinations will be held from December 7 to 11; for aerospace, civil, mechanical, materials and metallurgical and production and industrial engineering branches, from December 19 to 23.For semester three students of aerospace engineering, CSE, ECE and production and industrial engineering branches of BTech, the examinations will be held from December 28 to January 2; for civil, mechanical, electrical, and materials and metallurgical engineering branches, from January 11 to 16.Online classes for the first semester of the 2020-21 academic session will continue up to November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/semester-exams-at-punjab-engineering-college-to-begin-from-november-22/story-g4PMMbOEcpGwdJmyqklzdK.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Why should we not frame guidelines on media coverage, Bombay HC asks Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday questioned the Central government as to why it should not frame guidelines on media coverage of sensitive issues and ongoing investigations after the counsel for former police officers drew the attention of the court to the fact that the Central government had not taken suo motu action under the Cable TV Regulation Act against the media trial in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case which was going on for over two months. The court has asked the Central government several questions and asked it to respond within a week. The division bench of chief justice (CJ) Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing several public interest litigations (PILs) against the media trial being carried out by various media channels in the SSR death case, was informed by senior counsel Aspi Chinoy who appeared for eight former senior police officers that there had been a blatant violation of rights of various persons by the media while reporting on the case. Chinoy said the channels, while reporting on the case, had resorted to pre-judging, as a result of which it was affecting the administration of justice, which in turn violates the right to fair trial and presumption of innocence guaranteed under article 21 of the Constitution. He submitted that it was apparent that the media had over-stepped the statutory framework of the act by transmitting material which amounted to contempt of court, and further added that though there was an obligation on the state to stop such transmissions, it had failed to take action. He added that even the Centre and self-regulating authorities such as the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) had failed to take suo motu action against the media trial. He added that the electronic media monitoring committee had also failed in this regard. In light of this, Chinoy said the robust system, as claimed by the said authorities, was of no use and hence the court should frame guidelines and submitted judgements of the Supreme Court which showed that when there is an absence of proper laws on a particular subject, the court can issue guidelines. After hearing the submissions, the CJ sought clarifications from the Centre and posed some questions. The court held that while collection of evidence by the investigation agency was aimed at opining whether an accused needs to be arrested, excessive reporting can put the accused on guard. The accused may also resort to destruction of evidence or fleeing. CJ Datta then said that excessive media reporting could also tarnish the image of a person who is actually innocent, and if the witnesses are exposed by the media, he could be threatened or bought over. The CJ then sought to know that if judges should not be influenced by what media says what about the police officers? Would he not be influenced or lose track (of investigation) altogether. The bench further sought to know whether the media maligning police officers, who did not investigate the way suggested by the media, was right and whether this was welcome in a society governed by law? The court also sought to know what was meant by investigative journalism and which law said that whatever evidence was collected by investigation agencies should be kept before the public. It also sought to know is there was any obligation on part of the investigating officer to disclose evidence. “Media says it is aiding the investigation. Most welcome. But go to the police under sections 37/38 of the Criminal Procedure Code and give information to them,” the court said. The CJ further added, “While we would like the media to not cross boundaries, even we should stick within boundaries as the real issue is when a police report is yet to be filed whether media coverage would tend to interfere with the administration of justice.” The court has directed additional solicitor general Anil Singh to respond to the queries within a week and posted further hearing for Friday, November 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/why-should-we-not-frame-guidelines-on-media-coverage-bombay-hc-asks-centre/story-2LRPYy8FFE7xXUNAnCt7XO.html
29-10-2020||City||Vigilance awareness week: Mohali DC urges residents to utilise online portal for registering grievances||To ensure citizen-centric, transparent and accountable governance in the working of the district administration, deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan on account of the Vigilance Awareness Week said, “No one in the district needs to run from pillar to post to flag their concerns. District administration is committed to redress public grievances.”Dayalan said that a web portal called ‘Public grievance redressal system (PGRS)’ was operational in the district for complaints regarding all departments. The citizens can submit their grievances on connect.punjab.gov.in or on the M-sewa mobile app or if they want they can also physically submit their grievances at the DC Office or offices of other departments from where they will be uploaded onto the portal.“Soon, residents will be able to submit grievances at sewa kendras and a call centre will also be established for this purpose,” the DC said. A clear standardised workflow for grievance redressal, strict timelines to each officer and tracking of the status of grievances were some of the features of the interface, said the DC, adding that residents will receive SMS alerts. In case they are not satisfied, the grievances will be escalated to higher authorities in the workflow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vigilance-awareness-week-mohali-dc-urges-residents-to-utilise-online-portal-for-registering-grievances/story-4gtAEqT44KvDV0UfD7m2OJ.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Submit report on videos posted by Kangana Ranaut, her sister: Court to Mumbai Police||The metropolitan magistrate’s court, Andheri on Thursday asked the Mumbai Police to submit a report on the allegations of defamation made by a city-based lawyer against actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel over a video posted on social media allegedly calling members of the minority community ‘terrorists’. Advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh had filed a private complaint in July with the metropolitan magistrate’s court against the two sisters. The court, in its order, noted that, “On April 15 around 4.37pm, accused no. 1 Rangoli Chandel posted a defamatory and objectionable statement against Jamati on her Twitter account. Thereafter her Twitter account is suspended by Twitter. Accused Kangana Ranaut has supported the statement. On April 18, accused no. 2 Ranaut posted a short video on various social media platforms and called the sect of Muslims (Jamati) terrorists.” “The allegations are based on the comments of the accused on social media platforms. Evidence against the accused appears to be of electronic in nature. Therefore, inquiry at the hands of police is necessary for proceeding against proposed accused,” reads the order, directing the police to inquire and submit a report by November 5. Deshmukh had last week approached the Andheri court again with a second complaint against Ranaut for allegedly “causing disharmony among two religious groups through her tweets”. He has urged the court to direct the police to book the actor under charges of sedition for her various posts on Twitter. The lawyer said that Ranaut’s recent tweet referred to Mumbai as “Pakistan occupied Kashmir” and described the state home minister as a member of the “Taliban”, which, Deshmukh claimed, defamed the country. “The actor has no respect for varied communities of India, law of the land, authorised government bodies,” read the recent complaint filed by Deshmukh. Earlier, acting on the complaint of casting director Munawarali aka Sahil Sayyed, the Bandra metropolitan magistrate had on October 16 directed Bandra police to initiate criminal action against Ranaut and Chandel. Sayyed had, in his complaint, alleged that Ranaut’s actions “created a bad image of Bollywood in the minds of people and even created a communal divide and rift between people of two communities”. He added that Ranaut has been “maliciously bringing religion in all her tweets”. The casting director further alleged that Chandel, who also works as manager of the actor, has tweeted highly objectionable messages, intended to create a communal rift. The case against the two sisters has already been registered with Bandra police on the basis of the order of the magistrate’s court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/submit-report-on-videos-posted-by-kangana-ranaut-her-sister-court-to-mumbai-police/story-suHoIwngGpFXWiNPby3oUM.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Maratha quota chaos: Maharashtra seeks legal opinion on FYJC admissions||In a fix over the stalled first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions after the stay on the Maratha reservation, the Maharashtra government has sought legal opinion and is expected to begin the process in the next couple of days. The process of college admissions has been stalled after the Supreme Court on September 9 stayed the reservation given to Marathas in education and jobs.In a discussion over the halted college admissions during a state cabinet meeting on Thursday, almost all the ministers expressed the need to resume the process immediately. Public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, proposed to complete the first round of admissions by allowing the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota as it was completed before the SC stay. He said since the Apex court has not clarified on the first round of admission which was completed before the order, the government can go ahead with it. He also said that if the court disapproves, the students can later be accommodated in the open quota.The law and judiciary department, however, objected to the proposal and said it may go against the court ruling. The department has suggested opting for another alternative to safeguard the interest of Maratha students. “The state government may ask the students from the Maratha community to take admission under open category with the state paying 50% of the course fee, which would have been waived off in case of the reservation. The community may also be assured about an increase in the number of seats if their students failed to secure admissions under the open category. The quota is useful only for junior college admissions and medical courses as seats to other streams like engineering remain unfilled anyways. In junior colleges, the state can increase seats by 12% to 15 % to accommodate Maratha students while MBBS students from the community can be reimbursed for their fees so that they get the quota benefit. The previous government has done so,” said a minister requesting anonymity.Marathas were given reservations of 12% and 13% in employment and education respectively under the SEBC Act, 2018. A three-judge Supreme Court bench, on September 9, transferred the case to a constitution bench, putting interim stay on the reservation. On Tuesday, the three-judge bench adjourned the hearing for four weeks when the issue of vacation of the stay was presented before it. This has further delayed the admission process in colleges. There is pressure from the parents across categories to begin the admissions process, and from the Marathas to safeguards their quota in the admissions.Skilled development minister Nawab Malik, in the meeting, even offered to keep 25% seats vacant in ITI (Industrial Training Institute) admissions until the court decides on the stay. In the cabinet meeting, he reportedly said that admissions to 85,000 seats in ITIs were getting delayed.Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said, “The issue was discussed in the cabinet at length and everyone was of the opinion that the process should resume at the earliest. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will speak to the advocate general for legal opinion and to find a way out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-chaos-maharashtra-seeks-legal-opinion-on-fyjc-admissions/story-mzxra9IVq0b6WBXUGE4LGN.html
29-10-2020||City||Posing as guests, 2 decamp with bag of valuables from wedding function||Posing as guests, two burglars entered a marriage hall at Hyatt Regency hotel on Ferozepur road on Wednesday and fled with a bag containing jewellery and cash worth Rs 14 lakh.The two were captured on closed-circuit television cameras installed inside the hotel. Complainants, Lovely Goyal and Manu Gupta, who are the groom’s mothers, said that their mother was holding a bag containing cash and jewellery. Minutes after the ceremonies came to an end, she realised that the bag was missing. But by then, the accused had already left the hotel. Manu Gupta alleged that the family kept asking the hotel authorities to provide them access to the CCTV footage so that they could hunt down the culprits in time but the latter did not cooperate. “The police are investigating from many angles, but they should also look at the involvement of hotel insiders,” the family said.One of the culprits, who was wearing a black trouser and white shirt, hid his face when he was approaching the CCTV camera, which suggested that he was aware of the camera locations. Sarabha Nagar station house officer, sub-inspector Madhu Bala, said that the negligence on the part of the family is evident. “In the CCTV clips, both men can be seen roaming freely and observing the movement of family members for at least half an hour. Still, no one seemed to notice them,” said the SHO, adding that the family had kept the bag containing cash and jewelry on the sofa, due to which the accused could lay their hands on it easily. The case has been currently lodged against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/posing-as-guests-2-decamp-with-bag-of-valuables-from-wedding-function/story-romqGxopvpV0RBf6hLng7I.html
29-10-2020||City||GMADA should take strict action against erring builders: MP Manish Tewari||Member of parliament (MP) Manish Tewari has asked the officials of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to take the most stringent action against builders and developers who take gullible residents for a ride.On Thursday, Tewari held a meeting to familiarise himself with the activities that GMADA undertakes and interacted with the officials at PUDA Bhawan in Mohali.“Due to deliberate delays in giving possession and deficiencies in provision of basic amenities, real estate customers suffer not only from mental and financial injury, but also from brazen violation of their right to life and livelihood,” said Tewari.He suggested hefty penalties, cancellation of licences and criminal action against builders/colonisers indulging in malpractices.He also suggested that officials should come up with a “model builder buyer agreement” with an appropriate insertion of a penalty clause. “Generally the agreements are craftily drafted in favour of builders, leaving people in the lurch,” said Tewari.To reduce financial losses and mental agony of the buyers and to curtail unfair practices by builders and real estate developers, GMADA must proactively come up with appropriate measures, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gmada-should-take-strict-action-against-erring-builders-mp-manish-tewari/story-0YuuaAOErKp8Hrcnb9urPJ.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University senators write to chancellor to extend term of senate||With the Panjab University (PU) senate polls being postponed, the senators have urged the chancellor of the varsity to extend the term of the present senate, which will end on October 31.Over 35 senators have written to the vice-president of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, seeking extension in the term of the senate till the next senate is formed.This comes two days after the senators had sought intervention of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.In the letter to the chancellor, the senators said that as the term of the PU senate would end on October 31, the university cannot function in vacuum without the governing body being in place in accordance with the statute. “The powers available to the vice-chancellor under the provisions of the PU calendar, to be used in emergencies, can, by no stretch of imagination, be construed to be used without any situation of emergency for months together overriding the governing bodies, which are supreme,” reads the letter.The letter to chancellor states that in the best interest of PU and all its stakeholders, you are requested to extend the term of present senate till the next senate is formed as per the PU calendar.The senate is the apex governing body of PU with 91 members, out of which 36 are nominated by the chancellor. The senate polls were postponed by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar for the second time on October 15 in wake of the pandemic. The senate polls were earlier scheduled to begin from August 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-senators-write-to-chancellor-to-extend-term-of-senate/story-ah39oFEDzcIrxzidKYJlEM.html
29-10-2020||City||Ludhiana police seize intoxicants worth Rs 6 cr from Jaipur in raid||Intoxicant syrups and tablets worth Rs 6 crore were seized from the basement of a house in Jaipur, Rajasthan, during a raid on October 26, Ludhiana police officials revealed on Thursday.The recovery was made following the information provided by Prem Ratan of Jaipur, who along with his two accomplices, Arjun Dev and Gulshan Kumar of Alwar, Rajasthan, were arrested on October 9. The accused are currently lodged in Ludhiana central jail on judicial remand. The caretaker of the house, Varinder Singh alias Rinku of Nangal Jaibohra Jhotwara of Jaipur, managed to escape during the raid. Ludhiana police have already recovered intoxicant medicines worth Rs 4 crore from this gang. After Monday’s raid, the total recovery is estimated to be around Rs 10 crore.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that the accused, Prem Ratan, had told the cops that the gang had received three consignments of intoxicant medicines from different companies, which they had dumped at different sites. Two out of the three consignments have already been recovered. One consignments had been dumped in the basement of a house in Mayur Vihar, near Ajmer Bypass, in Jaipur, the top cop said.“Following the information provided by the accused, the police conducted a raid in the presence of drug inspector Amit Lakhan of Ludhiana, Jaijaikar Singh of Mohali and drug control officer of Jaipur, Sanju Singh and seized 76,920 syrups, 10.20 lakh tablets and 14,400 injections from the house,” he said. The police have also recovered 12 other medicines worth Rs 35 lakhs , which we have handed over to the health department of Jaipur for further proceedings, the police chief said.“During questioning, the accused told the police that they used to buy medicines on fake licenses from different companies and supply it in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan using fake names and fake bills in the name of doctors,” he added. The Police chief further said that the role of the companies named by accused is also being looked into. Timeline of the crackdownOn September 17, the Dehlon police arrested two accused, Ranjit Singh and Damanpreet Singh, and recovered 9,000 tablets, 13,000 capsules and 40 syrups from their Maruti Suzuki Swift Dzire car. The duo was coming from Dehlon side to deliver a consignment in Shimlapuri. During questioning, the accused told police that they use to procure the intoxicants from Rajasthan. Following this information, the police arrested two more persons, Arjun Deb and Gulshan Kumar, from Rajasthan on October 7. The police had produced the accused before the court. The court sent them to seven-day police remand.On October 9, the police arrested an accused identified as Prem Ratan, on the information provided by Arjun Dev and Gulshan Kumar. The police recovered 99,600 syrups from a godown in Jaipur following the information provided by Prem Ratan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-seize-intoxicants-worth-rs-6-cr-from-jaipur-in-raid/story-hzwzAS2MCdPa7kOtSwClqJ.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||New medical college in Maharashtra’s Nandurbar to make way for additional 100 MBBS seats||Even as admissions for medical and dental college seats are yet to begin in the state, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has approved a new government medical college (GMC) in Maharashtra. With an intake capacity of 100 Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) seats, the Government Medical College in Nandurbar will begin admitting students from the 2020-21 academic year. “The permission came through this month. The total MBBS seats in the state now stand at 4,280 for the 2020-21 academic year. There has been no addition to dental (BDS) seats as yet and they stand at 2,640,” said Dr TP Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). Earlier this year, HT had reported how growing demand for MBBS seats prompted the creation of new GMCs. Earlier this year, the state government had proposed to convert 11 district hospitals into GMCs, of which Nandurbar is the first to get permission to start admissions this year. Other GMCs have been proposed in Satara, Parbhani, Buldhana, Sindhudurg, Nashik, Amravati, Osmanabad, Palghar, Alibag and Mumbai. “We’ve chosen district hospitals that are already in good shape and can ease into teaching with least possible trouble,” said a senior official from the state education department. Admissions to MBBS and BDS seats in the state are currently on hold based on directions of the Bombay high court. The decision on a petition filed by a student against the state’s decision to abolish the 70:30 regional quota rule is still pending, therefore, admissions in the state will not begin before November 10. However, the admissions process for seats under the all India quota (AIQ) is currently underway. Earlier this year, NMC had also approved Symbiosis Medical College for Women in Pune, the state’s first undergraduate medical college exclusively for women. This Institute will have an intake capacity of 150 MBBS seats. Similarly, Sindhudurg Shikshan Prasarak Mandal (SSPM) Medical College & Lifetime Hospital in Padve, Sindhudurg, has been approved 150 MBBs seats as well for the 2020-21 academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-medical-college-in-maharashtra-s-nandurbar-to-make-way-for-additional-100-mbbs-seats/story-KZTXIELCYnfInrTkDxSplL.html
29-10-2020||City||Day 2 of Ambala Sadar MC staffers’ hunger strike: ‘Will gherao minister Vij’s residence on Nov 8’||Members of the Nagar Palika Karamchari Sangh continued their hunger strike on the second day on Thursday to mark their protest against contractual recruitment and other demands.The Sangh, associated with the Sarv Karamchari Sangh, has been demanding “equal work, equal pay”, ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh in case of death of an employee due to Covid, risk allowances etc.Sunil Kumar, 49, a cleaner with the council and a resident of Ambala Cantt, was among those on a hunger strike. “So many contractual employees were employed by the MC. There are 157 like me here in the council, all should be taken on rolls and the contract system should be ended as it deprives us of our rights,” he said.The protestors also extended their support to the families of Hathras and Ballabgarh cases. For a comment on the issue, Ambala Sadar executive officer Vinod Nehra remained incommunicado despite several attempts.District president of the Sangh, Rajinder Kumar, said, “We don’t have any complaints with the council authorities. We want answers from the state government and for this, we will gherao the residence of minister Anil Vij on November 8.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-2-of-ambala-sadar-mc-staffers-hunger-strike-will-gherao-minister-vij-s-residence-on-nov-8/story-8yf7F3I4N19t8vo09ujs5H.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Two arrested for assault, extortion in Kurar village, near Mumbai||The Kurar police on Thursday arrested two men for trying to extort money at gun point. Three accused armed with a chopper and a firearm barged into an imitation jewellery factory in Kurar village, Malad (East), on Wednesday evening and assaulted an employee of the factory before asking him to tell the factory owner to pay ₹15,000 every month as protection money. According to police, Rhitik Bhushan, 20, who was assaulted by the accused informed police that the accused hit him with butt of the firearm on his chest and head after he refused to tell them the whereabouts of Ramesh Patel, the owner of the factory. Bhushan is currently undergoing treatment at Shatabdi Hospital. Following Bhushan’s statement Kurar police identified the accused and arrested Sanjay Pandey, 32 and Ajit Singh, 35, from the locality. According to Kurar police, Pandey has 12 cases of extortion, attempt to murder and assault registered against him, while Singh has six cases registered against him. The third accused identified as Pappu Nepali, 34, has eight cases of assault, extortion registered against him at various police stations. The accused have been booked case section 307 (Attempt to Murder), 386 (Extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 452 (House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 506 (2) [Punishment for criminal intimidation], 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and section 3 , 4, 25 of Arms act. Babasaheb Salunkhe senior police inspector from Kurar police station said, “We are in search of the third accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-arrested-for-assault-extortion-in-kurar-village-near-mumbai/story-Eu5UscRzPoIzMCuMV1VbkN.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders inquiry into MSRDC chief engineer’s meddling in multi-crore road work tender||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Wednesday ordered an inquiry into the conduct of AB Gaikwad, chief engineer of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), for meddling in awarding a multi-crore road work tender of Yawatmal district. The division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote has directed that the enquiry should be conducted by an officer, not below the rank of secretary in national highways division of the ministry of transport, and submit a report to the court in a month.Irked to note that Gaikwad’s interference had resulted in disqualifying an otherwise eligible lowest bidder - RK Chavan Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., and awarding the work to an ineligible bidder, M/s. GIPL-BCCPL (JV), HC cancelled the entire tender process for improvement of State Highway 317, from Chargaon in Yawatmal district to Chandrapur district border with the value of the tender fixed at ₹47.56 crore.The notice inviting tender was published on June 29, 2019. In all three bids were received in response to the notice. On July 20, 2019, the tender evaluation committee declared that one of the bidders was technically disqualified, leaving only RK Chavan and the JV in the fray.On August 1, 2019, the price bids were opened and after it became clear that RK Chavan was the lowest bidder, one Sumit Bajoria, a representative of GIPL-BCCPL (JV) created a scene and took away tender evaluation sheet and attendance register, because of which entire tender process was stalled. Another JV partner returned the documents to MSRDC the next day after repeated requests by the officials concerned.The judges were annoyed to note that instead of initiating criminal action against Bajoria, the officials extended undue favours to the JV, with Gaikwad himself taking a major step of cancelling an experience certificate issued to RK Chavan by the executive engineer of MSRDC in respect of a road work completed by the contractor. On the basis of Gaikwad’s letter, RK Chavan was then held ineligible, paving the way for the erring JV to grab the contract.RK Chavan them moved HC challenging the high-handed action of MSRDC officials.HC expresses utter displeasure over the entire episode. “The entire situation leading to the present petition is clearly indicative of the absolutely callous and casual attitude ofthe respondents and specifically the TEC (five-member tender evaluation committee), constituted for the subject tender,” said the bench.Apart from finding that the TEC, had not at all applied its mind to the qualifying criteria, HC also found that there was no record maintained even worth the name, which could throw some light on the proceedings. “The entire conspectus of facts smacks not only of malafide but also of favouritism, indulgence, interference, which compels us to hold that entire tender process is vitiated,” said the bench while scrapping the tender process.The judges were also annoyed with the manner in which the record of the tender was maintained.“A perusal of the record reveals a shocking situation,” said HC. “Entire original record is a collection of loose papers comprising of various letters, evaluation sheets, communications etc. which isneither arrayed date-wise nor is paginated,” said the bench. “The record is merely a hotchpotch of papers with no coherence and logical sequencing at all, either date-wise or for that matter in any manner whatsoever. Nothing can be ascertained from the original record.”The court noted that the entire record did not disclose as to when the TEC met, how the evaluation was done, what was considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-inquiry-into-msrdc-chief-engineer-s-meddling-in-multi-crore-road-work-tender/story-QQrmwaR6MB13AoEbOyqiJO.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC engineers seek cancellation of road quality tests||: Amid hue and cry being raised by residents over construction of inferior quality roads in the city, sub-divisional officers (SDO) and junior engineers (JE) of the municipal corporation’s bridges and roads (B&R) department approached cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu on Thursday seeking cancellation of orders for inspection of road projects completed in the past. Under the banner of Municipal Corporation Engineers Association, Ludhiana, the officials met Ashu and Sandhu at the MC’s Zone D office and demanded that the MC should not conduct inspection of the road works which have been completed a few years back as the roads lose strength after a few years and the sample will automatically fail the test. Ashu however declined the demand of the staffers and asked the mayor and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal to look into the matter. One of the officials, requesting anonymity, said that the staffers had met the minister and mayor to save their skin as there are a number of anomalies in the road construction projects taken up in the past. Recently, an RTI activist had filed a complaint with authorities seeking inquiry into the construction of 13 roads at different parts of the city. Following this, additional commissioner Rishipal Singh had sought files regarding the projects from the officials concerned. But, the files have not been submitted by officials despite three reminders. Ashu said, “The inspection and sampling of roads will not stop as we will not compromise with the quality of work. The MC is paying the contractors, then why are they not constructing the roads as per the norms. The MC officials should improve their efficiency, otherwise action will also be taken against them as it is their responsibility to monitor the work. MC commissioner and mayor will look into the genuine demands of the engineers.”Recently, seven out of eight road samples of RMC roads, collected from Balbir enclave in the Haibowal area failed the quality test. Earlier, seven samples collected from Amantran Colony, Guru Vihar, Chander Nagar, Bal Singh Nagar Road, Ashok Nagar, Daba Road and a road near GNE College (towards Dugri) had failed the test. Also, the samples collected from a stretch near RK Road, Circular Road near Daresi Ground and Baba Mukand Singh Nagar had also failed the test. Inquiry marked over MB books:After a complaint was submitted by an RTI activist regarding officials who have failed to submit over 600 measurement books (MB) in the MC records, municipal commissioner Sabharwal has marked an inquiry into the matter. The MC officials have to mention the details of construction projects in the MB books on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mc-engineers-seek-cancellation-of-road-inspections/story-LCvUaTYkn7YHDpUtvlh75H.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray appoints Shiv Sena ministers as coordinators in districts with NCP, Congress guardian ministers||A day after Shiv Sena district chiefs complained to Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray of not being taken into confidence for development at the local level by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress guardian ministers, the party has appointed its ministers as sampark mantris or coordinators where there are NCP Congress guardian ministers.The CM held a meeting with party’s district chiefs on Monday night where the leaders of some districts in western Maharashtra and Marathwada complained of being overlooked. Subsequently, the party has appointed 12 ministers as coordinators for 22 districts where the guardian ministership is with either Congress or NCP.This is an informal arrangement for the party where district leaders will coordinate with the Sena ministers for a grant or development-related matters, a party functionary said.“There is no harm in doing the work in their traditional bases and expanding the party presence there, but since we are in a coalition government, they cannot overlook us. We have pointed out how public welfare work or proposals we take to the guardian minister is put on the back-burner or avoided,” said a district president from western Maharashtra, who did not wish to be named. Another district chief from Marathwada region said that this was the second time district leaders have complained to Sena boss on its workers being ignored.Aaditya Thackeray has been appointed coordinator of Mumbai city, while Subhash Desai has will coordinate in Jalna. Eknath Shinde for Chandrapur and Gondia, Uday Samant for Kolhapur and Satara, Dada Bhuse for Nashik and Ahmednagar, Gulabrao Patil for Buldhana and Amravati, Anil Parab for Pune and Raigad, Shankarrao Gadakh for Solapur and Sangli, Sanjay Rathod for Nanded and Bhandara-Nagpur, Abdul Sattar for Nandurbar and Wardha, Shambhuraj Desai for Hingoli and Parbhani, and Sandeepan Bhumare for Beed and Latur have been appointed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-appoints-shiv-sena-ministers-as-coordinators-in-districts-with-ncp-congress-guardian-ministers/story-46cVC4xGsmLa7KbtyoqBoK.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||City Centre fire: Standing committee demand report on fire, replacement of Mumbai’s chief fire officer||Following the fire in City Centre mall last Friday, that took the Mumbai Fire Brigade over two days to douse, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee on Thursday demanded a detailed report about the fire incident and about why it took so long to douse the fire. The leader of the Opposition Ravi Raja also demanded that the recently appointed chief of Mumbai Fire Brigade, be sent back to serve the Thane Fire Brigade, from where he was appointed, and be replaced with an officer who has experience in fighting fires in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/city-centre-fire-standing-committee-demand-report-on-fire-replacement-of-mumbai-s-chief-fire-officer/story-U6BvYuk8WxnhDUhzvSHwCM.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||SRA project in Mumbai: Bombay HC grants interim stay on eviction and demolition to continue till December 22||In a relief to 33 home occupiers residing in an SRA Project at Borivli, the Bombay High Court, while allowing SRA Authority to pass orders related to their eviction to make way for the project has stated that implementation of the order would be subject to the interim orders passed by it from time to time. The court has asked SRA and the developer wanting to evict the home occupiers to thereafter approach the court on December 21 for further orders. Meanwhile, in view of prevailing Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, the bench continued all interim orders passed by various courts across the state which include orders for eviction, dispossession and demolition already passed by the courts and said that the same would remain in abeyance till December 22. The full bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justices A A Sayyed, S S Shinde and K K Tated while hearing the suo moto petition for extending interim stays on all eviction, demolition and dispossession order due to the pandemic was informed by Yash Developers through an interim application that it was seeking the court’s indulgence by relaxing its interim order. The developer through their advocate informed the court that it was involved in the redevelopment project at Borivali which had around 585 slum dwellers. While almost all the occupiers had vacated their homes, 33 refused to do so. The developer informed the bench that they had approached the SRA which had conducted a hearing of all 33 occupants and was about to pass orders. However, due to the interim stay order passed by the HC it refrained from passing orders of eviction and demolition against the occupants. The advocate submitted that he was seeking a limited relief of allowing SRA to pass the order as he was wanted to go ahead with the project. The advocate submitted that the developer had already paid a sum of Rs 11 crore towards rent to the occupants who had vacated their homes and if the 33 occupants were not to vacate their hoes he would suffer financial losses. Advocate Jagdish Reddy for SRA submitted that the authority had completed the hearing and was not passing orders due to the interim stay by HC. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed Reddy to ask the authority to pass orders but restrained the developer from implementing it. The court further said that in light of the prevailing pandemic situation the occupants should not be dispossessed as it was continuing the interim protection for across the state till December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sra-project-in-mumbai-bombay-hc-grants-interim-stay-on-eviction-and-demolition-to-continue-till-december-22/story-0wAnpwDf8F2IbY7amqkBvO.html
29-10-2020||City||Challan in 6-yr-old Hoshiarpur girl’s rape-murder likely today||HoshiarpurPolice are likely to present a challan in the rape and murder case of a 6-year-old girl of Jalalpur village in Hoshiarpur on Friday. Hoshiarpur senior superintendent of police Navjot Mahal said the challan was ready and could be submitted in the court on Friday.Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Thursday held a meeting with district police officials in police lines where he discussed the case and passed on necessary instructions, it is learnt. The minor daughter of a migrant labourer from Bihar was allegedly raped, killed and set on fire on October 21. Her partially burnt body was recovered from the cattle shed of the accused a few hours after the crime. The incident had triggered a political slugfest despite the arrest of two accused under rape and murder charges the same night.Accused Surpreet Singh, 21, and his grandfather Surjit Singh, 85, were arrested the same day and were sent to police remand.A week ago, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had directed the DGP to ensure that proper investigation was done in the case and challan was presented before the court speedily. Sources said the police had since been working day and night to collect evidence to make a foolproof case. The DGP had been personally monitoring the investigation on daily basis, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/challan-in-6-yr-old-hoshiarpur-girl-s-rape-murder-likely-today/story-UG96YMtVr99tlg44AL0qeI.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sustainable agriculture primary aim of the Punjab govt: additional chief secretary||Sustainable agriculture and prosperity of farmers is the only objective of the government, said Anirudh Tewari, additional chief secretary (development), while interacting with officials of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Thursday.He was inspecting the university’s role in transforming the lives of farmers. An impromptu exhibition was conducted in which experts from various departments gave demonstrations on PAUs’ role in the progress of the farming sector.Tewari interacted with deans, directors and scientists of the university. An exhibition, showcasing the initiatives undertaken by PAU in the last 10 years, was put up on the occasion.Tewari visited the stalls of fruit science, vegetable science, floriculture and landscaping, pulses, oilseeds, maize, forages, wheat, rice and cotton among others. After visiting various stalls, he expressed his thankfulness towards the scientists of PAU and lauded the university’s accomplishments. Baldev Singh Dhillon, vice-chancellor, PAU, said the visit was aimed at apprising Tewari of the initiatives and strides made by PAU in agricultural research, teaching and transfer of technology during the last 10 years.GK Sangha, dean, postgraduate studies; Navtej Singh Bains, director of research; JS Mahal, director of extension education and heads of various departments of PAU shed light on their respective areas of expertise.The scientists explained in detail about the organisational set-up of PAU, its priority areas, awards and honours, inter-institutional research-extension linkages, new initiatives in seed production, varietal development through marker assisted selection, different varieties of crops, ongoing projects on sustainable food supply chain, agro processing and value-added products with industrial uses.They also informed him about farm machinery for straw management, monsoon variability in Punjab, ergonomically designed drudgery reducing tools, protective clothing, utilisation of agro waste and minor fibres, steps taken to prevent farm suicides, PAU farm publications and initiatives in teaching.Later, Dhillon honoured Tewari and presented him a set of PAU publications. Tewari also visited the experimental area of rice and labs of beekeeping, tissue culture, mushroom, biotechnology, protected cultivation, farm mechanisation research hall and solar dryer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sustainable-agriculture-primary-aim-of-the-punjab-govt-tewari/story-vAXJq61WkcCnzPQTvw5JnO.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Smart City Mission: Ludhiana MC to upgrade sports facilities in city||To review the status of the sports park project being taken up in Jainpur area and upgrade the existing sports infrastructure in the city, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a review meeting with MC officials regarding the Smart City Mission at MC’s Zone D office on Thursday.During the meeting, it was also decided that the MC will also upgrade the cycling velodrome and hockey ground at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). Apart from this, the department is also working to rejuvenate Shastri Hall for badminton and athletic track at Guru Nanak Stadium. The civic body is also working to complete the all-weather swimming pool near Rakh Bagh, which has been hanging fire for years. Cabinet minister Ashu said, “Developing sports infrastructure in the city is on our priority list and regular meetings are being conducted to review the status of different projects. The officials have been told to expedite the process and deadlines have been set so that there is no further delay.”Ashu added that they have also decided to upgrade the cycling velodrome in PAU which had developed cracks in the past and a sports park is being established over an area of 32 acre in Jainpur at a cost of around Rs 52 crore. “Soon, we will also conduct a meeting with associations for basketball, badminton etc to look into their suggestions before developing the infrastructure,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/smart-city-mission-mc-to-upgrade-sports-facilities-in-city/story-z0kfgoqq2yLGi5Xw31yH8I.html
29-10-2020||City||Testing labourers for Covid major challenge for Panchkula health dept||Panchkula: Tracking and convincing labourers, who have returned in thousands to Panchkula district this October, to give samples for Covid-19 testing is proving to be a major headache for the health department, which is “hardly getting any support from other departments”.On October 27, the Covid sampling team spent over three hours in a brick kiln at Charnia village in Panchkula but could convince only 56 out of nearly 400 labourers working there to get tested. This, despite the fact that Panchkula’s Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal himself visited hut to hut requesting people to give their swab samples.Some went into hiding, some got rude, others agreed but did not come and all had but one reply: “our tests have been done in our hometown of Uttar Pradesh”. One labourer even asked if he would be paid to give the sample.Naveen Sharma, assistant labour commissioner, Panchkula, said: “During the pandemic, around 24,000 labourers were provided transportation back to their hometowns. Now, 32,000 have returned, most of them working in brick kilns, poultry farms, construction and industry.”Dr Narwal said: “These are high-risk populations, so we have to track them as soon as possible. We have finally witnessed a decline in Covid-19 cases, and now if we miss this population, it may lead to a surge.”Since October 1, samples of 2,241 labourers working in the industrial sector have been taken and 54 have been found positive.From Tuesday onwards, three brick kilns are being covered daily. “There are 53 brick kilns in Panchkula district, out of which 25 are in the area of Raipur Rani, Kot, Barwala and 28 in the belt of Kalka, Pinjore and Nanakpur,” said Dr Narwal.“There must be around 100-150 labourers per kiln, and each has a family of four or five. So expect at least 400 persons per brick kiln,” he added.Shri Radhe Krishan brick kiln in Chharnia village was the first stop. “I am standing here for the last half an hour, but nobody has come,” said Dr Bharat Bhan, who was sweating in his PPE kit. After a while, ASHA worker Tej Kaur brought two women, one of them was nine months pregnant. “We have got our tests done, so we don’t want another test,” said Farzana, who later gave samples reluctantly.Kaur said that people had a fear that they will be picked up from their houses if they tested positive.At last, Dr Narwal went along with the ASHA worker and the munshi of the kiln to convince people sitting inside their tiny brick homes. Still, only a few of them agreed to give samples. Luckily, no one tested positive.When asked if it was always challenging to convince labourers, Dr Narwal said: “They are easier to convince than the educated class. A team once went to a society of IAS officers and no one came down for sampling. At last, we had to approach the DC who gave directions to lodge FIRs against those who don’t cooperate.”Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Panchkula civil surgeon, said: “Taking samples has become the most difficult task these days, as people do not cooperate at all.”There are 22 centres across the district where testing is done, but hardly 10-12 persons or at times none visit these centres, said Dr Narwal.In the absence of voluntary testing, health teams have strengthened active testing and five teams of three members each visit spots and take samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/testing-labourers-for-covid-major-challenge-for-panchkula-health-dept/story-QeGcKOgy9WFigHR7ie0RBO.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||Haryana slashes costs of Covid-19 tests||The Haryana health department has further reduced the cost of Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests from ₹1,200 to ₹900, confirmed the senior state official on Thursday. The testing cost of rapid antigen test has also been brought down from ₹650 to ₹500. With this new development, costs of Covid-19 tests have been slashed twice. In the first week of October, the cost was brought down to ₹1,200 from ₹1,600. Private labs at that time had said that ₹1,200 fails to cover the total cost of the test and cuts their margin considerably. On Thursday, in an order issued by the state health department, private labs were directed not to charge amount higher than the new defined cost. This time, however, private labs said that with the reduced cost, the testing volume has to be increased to cover up the incurring costs. According to them and district health officials, as Covid-19 cases continue to show an upward trajectory with at least 398 infection confirmed on Thursday, testing can be expected to increase due to affordability. When asked about the impact of the reduced charges on testing, Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, state health department, said that decision has been taken only after consultation with the private labs. “The rates of the RT-PCR kits are declining. Our officials are keeping watch on the cost and immediately taking action when appropriate. Even the cost of consumables is included in the testing slab,” said Arora. The costs of other tests to detect the presence of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the body, such as antibody test (₹250), TrueNat (₹2,000) and CBNAAT (₹2,400) continue to remain the same.On Friday, at least 2,895 RT-PCR and 282 antigen tests were conducted. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “It is likely that testing might increase due to affordability. But there are multiple aspects to testing with the changing situation. Due to festival season people won’t turn up in large numbers. We will have to wait to observe the testing trend.” Santosh Kumar, microbiologist, MolQ laboratory, said, that it would be a challenge to conduct tests at the new price. “The market will be competitive now, therefore the testing volume will have to be increased to cover up the cost.” SPIKE IN INFECTIONOn Thursday, the number of active cases reached an all-time high of 3,303, while the total count reached 29,102. The Covid-19 toll stood at 207 with one new death. Currently, cases are increasing at more than 12% weekly positivity rate in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-slashes-costs-of-covid-19-tests/story-RGoLMcRocbrcHi52XTzjYM.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||Classes for senior students in government schools to be regularised from November 2||The state education department on Wednesday issued an official notification along with guidelines that need to be followed by schools for conducting regular physical classroom sessions for students of classes 9 to 12. While schools had initiated regular sessions from October 15, no official notification had been issued. As a result, schools were continuing with the schedules that they had individually adopted for guidance sessions. The guidelines shared by the directorate of secondary education on Wednesday will come into effect from November 2. As per the guidelines, online/distance learning will continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged. Students who wish to attend online classes rather than physically attend school will be permitted to do so. Further, students will be able to attend schools only with parental consent. District education officer Indu Boken said that the second phase of school reopening will start from November 2 in a graded manner in line with the circular issued by ministry of home affairs (MHA) on September 30. “The first phase of reopening saw schools resuming classes partially for academic guidance sessions. The second phase of reopening will start from November 2. Schools will hold classes for three hours. Students visiting the school would be required to carry consent letters from parents. Attendance, however, will not be enforced,” said Boken. She said that directions had been issued to all the school heads regarding the various preventive measures and protocols that need to be adopted. Apart from the generic preventive measures, such as physical distancing and masking, schools have been asked to display posters and notices in various areas to spread awareness on safety protocols. Further, schools have been asked to stagger entry and exit, and also issue separate weekly ‘in-school’ and ‘at-home’ learning schedules. Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi, said that so far, academic guidance sessions were taking place in small shifts but classes would be regularised from November 2. “We have been holding academic guidance sessions in two shifts in small batches. From November 2, a complete three-hour class will take place. We are expecting the student strength to go up,” said Raghav. Suman Sharma, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that with regular classes expected to take place from November 2, it will become easier to understand and addresses students’ queries and provide feedback. “While we have been holding online quizzes, it becomes difficult to conduct comprehensive tests remotely. In the absence of a testing mechanism and face-to-face communication, teachers are not able to fully understand if the lessons are being understood by students via online classes. Once classes become regular, teachers will be able to provide detailed feedback to individual students,” said Sharma. Most private schools plan to continue with online classes. Aparna Erry, principal, DAV Public School, Sector 14, said that the school had no plans of calling students. “Online classes are continuing in our school. We recently conducted a survey seeking feedback of parents of students in classes 11 and 12. Most of them were not in favour of in-person classes,” said Erry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/classes-for-senior-students-in-government-schools-to-be-regularised-from-november-2/story-lwKGHr2AKmNrZ3qIzbwU1K.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||Green crackers available on outskirts, to cost more||Residents will have to shell out 30-40% more to procure the specialised green crackers this year. Despite the higher availability of green crackers compared to last year, the crackers cost more as raw materials used to manufacture the less polluting variation are costlier.However, the variety of crackers is still no match to the conventional crackers, as manufacturers faced difficulties in production due to Covid-19 pandemic, say traders based in Gadoli and Qadipur villages, which are the main hub of cracker trade on the outskirts of the city.City residents might also have to reach out to wholesalers on the outskirts to buy green crackers, as the district administration is yet to grant permission for setting up temporary stalls within the city. The police on Thursday said that only green crackers would be allowed to be sold and action would be taken against violators.In 2018, the Supreme Court had banned the sale and use of conventional firecrackers in the National Capital Region while deciding a writ petition filed in 2015 against high pollution caused by firecrackers on Diwali. Later in 2019, the apex court had allowed the sale and use of green crackers, which caused less air pollution, and that too in a limited window.Traders in the city, however, said the lack of variety and the Covid-19 pandemic has hit their sales by at least 70% this year. “The business is usually high during the Dussehra season, but this year sales were not high. We had expected some recovery but nothing has happened as people either don’t want to spend or they don’t have money,” said Anil Nagpal, a supplier based in Qadipur.The traders in Qadipur and Gadoli say that crackers of different types, sizes and colours were available but due to change in chemical composition and reduction in strength, the potency of these products was lesser than traditional crackers. “The crackers available now have a different chemical composition and the chemicals which used to pollute the air have been replaced with laboratory approved chemicals,” said Nagpal.The result of these changes, says traders, is that the price of green crackers is 30% to 40% higher and as large-scale production of green crackers began only in June 2020, the manufacturers have not been able to supply the complete variety. “Rockets and colourful fireworks which used to sell heavily for their dazzling sight and sound are not available. The manufacturing was also affected due to Covid-19. These crackers also create less sound so the buyers are less happy, but we sell only green crackers as these cause less pollution,” Pawan Kumar Jhamb, a trader based in Qadipur.A trader based in Gadoli, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the district administration should allow retail shopkeepers to set up temporary stalls so that sales can pick up across the city. “In the absence of these retailers, buyers will have to come to Qadipur and Gadholi to buy crackers. Sale of crackers should be allowed in different parts of the city,” he said.Jhamb also said that only seven to eight retailers on the outskirts of the city would be able to sell crackers in the current circumstances if permission is not granted to retailers.Subash Boken, public relations officer, Gurugram police, said that only sale of green crackers would be allowed in the city. “Action would be taken against those violating the norms,” he said. Officials of the district administration did not respond to requests for comment on allowing retail sale in city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/green-crackers-available-on-outskirts-to-cost-more/story-xcFs4hzRaY18ohg8oF2BcO.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||After exemptions, ban on diesel gensets to be enforced stringently||The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) clarified that action can be taken against housing projects or commercial complexes other than those exempted by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca), with regard to the use of diesel generator (DG) sets till November 30.It will be applicable for cases where DG sets are used as a primary source of electricity despite having a regular power supply.Epca on Wednesday exempted 19 residential and commercial complexes in Gurugram and Faridabad from the ban on diesel generator sets, till November 30. The Supreme Court-appointed Epca also granted permission to Information Technology (IT) and process industries to use diesel gensets as a secondary source of power.“Even though exemptions are being given this year too, it has helped in bringing maximum housing projects under regular electricity supply connection,” said S Narayanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( HSPCB). According to him, in the long run, the process has helped in streamlining measures required for controlling the emission of pollutants through excessive use of DG sets.According to him, there were 209 complexes in 2019 which were dependent upon DG sets as the primary source of power. “This year the number has come down to 19. Given the short time frame till November 30 even these 19 residential and commercial complexes will no longer be dependent upon DG sets,” he said.Officials clarified that no action will be taken against residential societies if they are dependent upon DG sets for an hour or two due to power cuts. “Providing continuous power supply without any disruption in Gurugram and Faridabad has been the target of the state to reduce pollutant emission through DG sets. If power is available then use of DG set will be limited. Due to unavoidable circumstances if there is a power cut and housing societies run DG sets then no action will be taken against them,” Narayanan said.Till November 30, as per the letter issued by Bhure Lal, chairman, Epca, 14 residential complexes along with five other commercial complexes, including a mall in Gurugram, which are fully dependent on diesel gensets due to non-compliance of electrical inadequacies, have been granted an exemption.“Epca has also exempted process industries and IT companies that run on servers and cannot afford a power break,” said Narayanan.“These industries will have to maintain a logbook on the use of diesel gensets, which will be scrutinised fortnightly or monthly by the power department. Action will be taken if they fail to reproduce proper documents at the time of verification,” said Narayanan.According to Narayanan, only those residential societies, commercial complexes or under-construction housing projects which are dependent upon DG sets as the primary source of power are exempted.“The regional offices of pollution board in Gurugram and Faridabad have been directed to take action in those cases where they find that despite having electricity connection, any builder or industry is largely dependent upon the diesel genset to draw power supply. These can be large construction sites with irregular electricity connections and dependency on DG sets,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/after-exemptions-ban-on-diesel-gensets-to-be-enforced-stringently/story-rr2Y4Vzid65Cm8NJZuGahP.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||Dust pollution continues to worsen city air||The regional office of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has issued show cause notice to developers of three construction sites for failing to prevent dust emission since the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) kicked off on October 15. Officials said that no construction, however, has been stopped at any of these sites even though dust pollution continues to remain a major source of the air pollution.For the last week, the air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram has been in the ‘very poor’ and ‘poor’ category of the CPCB classification. A high concentration of pollutants kept Gurugram’s AQI at 384 on Thursday, a deterioration from Wednesday’s AQI of 313. The concentration of ultrafine particulate matter (PM2.5) was 409 micrograms per cubic metre, as per the monitor at Vikas Sadan.The pollution board on October 28 served a show cause notice for closure to a group housing project in Sector 85, stating that appropriate dust control measures were not being taken at the site, following an inspection by the team.Shakti Singh, regional officer (south Gurugram), HSPCB, who is also the nodal officer for Grap implementation in the city, said that the activity at the site was in violation of the directions issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), under Section 5 of Environmental (Protection) Act, 1986, to regulate dust emission from construction and demolition (C&D) activities.Singh said that other two notices were served to developers in new sectors of the city. However, he did not reveal their details. “They have been given a week to submit a compliance report on the construction activity. They have to tell why the activity should not be stopped under Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. Also, as to why action should not be taken against them under various provisions of environmental laws for non-compliance of Acts, notification and rules,” said Singh.In Gurugram, notices have been served to three construction sites in the last 15 days, according to Singh. “The Grap guidelines clearly state that large construction projects will provide an undertaking to the pollution board that they will adhere to the norms. Therefore, we have given the developers time to submit their compliance report. If they fail to do so, then only construction activity is stopped and a penalty is being imposed,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dust-pollution-continues-to-worsen-city-air/story-Tl1ERO5CjjOvJb3sel9HpI.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||RTI activist booked for raping woman, promising to marry her||A 68-year-old Right to Information (RTI) activist was booked on Wednesday evening for allegedly repeatedly raping a 45-year-old single mother of two on the pretext of marriage. The suspect is yet to be arrested, said police.The police said they had registered a case against the suspect under sections 376 (2) (N) (raping a woman repeatedly), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) and 354 D (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code at the Women West police station.The suspect is a resident of Sector 12A, the police said.The woman, in her complaint, alleged that she met the suspect in 2015 when she had allegedly complained against a deputy mayor and had to visit the police station and district court for the same. The man offered to help her and also supported her financially.Pankhuri Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said that as per the woman’s complaint, the suspect had clicked private pictures and recorded video clips of her on multiple occasions, and threatened to circulate it. “We are conducting investigation, the suspect is on the run. Victim’s medical examination has been conducted and her statement has been recorded in the court before the magistrate. Victim has told us that she was several times raped in farmhouse in Delhi, in Bahadurgarh and in a car at different occasions,” she said.Suman Dahiya, the woman’s counsel, said that her client has been mentally harassed since March this year. “She has filed a complaint now, as her children are studying in college and this could have hampered their studies as they had their exams,” she said, adding that they have enough technical evidence against the suspect.The woman said she will protest outside the commissioner’s office if the suspect is not arrested by Friday.The police said the suspect was convicted for murder and was sentenced for life imprisonment on August 29, 1977. He has served 20 years in prison and thus, is a life convict. He had filed several complaints against former sports minister Sukhbir Kataria, regarding fake voter scam, who was acquitted in 2019. He had also slapped a woman lawyer in the court premises and was behind bars for a week in 2016, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rti-activist-booked-for-raping-woman-promising-to-marry-her/story-XVUaSC7qVKGs7OUJuXgYkJ.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||HSVP sells 100 properties worth ₹165 crore in a mega auction||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Tuesday sold 100 properties worth a total of ₹165 crore during a mega auction, in which both commercial and residential properties in Gurugram, Rewari and Dharuhera were sold at premium rates said officials on Thursday. Authority officials said that though they had expected to raise more money, it seemed that the slowdown caused by Covid-19 pandemic had an impact on the auction and that things might improve in the next few months. As per the details shared by HSVP officials, the department managed to sell properties worth ₹135 crore in sectors 1 to 57 in two estates of Gurugram. “The response to the auction was good and several sites were sold at premium. In the last auction too we had managed to generate over ₹100 crore and majority of auctions were very competitive,” said Vivek Kalia, estate officer, Gurugram. HSVP officials said that over 200 properties were put on the block and they had managed to sell 102 properties. Jitender Yadav, HSVP administrator, said that 28 residential properties were sold for ₹59.79 crore and majority of those were in the city. “Fifty-five commercial properties were sold for around ₹68 crore. Nineteen sites for schools, nursing homes and clinics were sold for ₹46.28 crore. The positive development for us is that many sites in Rewari and Dharuhera were sold for double the reserve price,” said Yadav, adding that the buyers have faith in HSVP as a real estate developer. The only hitch, officials said, was couple of mega properties in Sector 29, whose price was reserved around ₹300 crore each, did not find favour with buyers. The mega auction of commercial and residential plots by Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran(HSVP) was originally scheduled for October 23 but due to technical glitches it was postponed to October 27. The authority hopes to offset some of its massive debt burden with the money collected from auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-sells-100-properties-worth-165-crore-in-a-mega-auction/story-1eVK3x22spDFoZj3yv9yaM.html
29-10-2020||City||GADVASU V-C releases book on management of equine colic in horses||Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University Ludhiana, (GADVASU), vice-chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh, on Thursday released a book titled, ‘A Practical Approach to Diagnosis and Management of Equine Colic’ authored by Dr Arun Anand and Dr Simrat Sagar Singh of the department of veterinary surgery and radiology.Dr Inderjeet Singh appreciated the effort put in by the veterinary surgeons of the university.The book has been published by Jaya Publishing House, Delhi. Authors of the book said that colic in horses is a life-threatening disease and if left untreated horses succumb to the disease, causing massive economic loss to owners and breeders.The department of veterinary surgery at GADVASU has established an exclusive facility for colic surgery in horses.This is the only facility of its kind in northern India among veterinary institutions. The book has been dedicated entirely to colic treatment covering the surgical anatomy of the equine abdomen. The book contains chapters on causes, diagnostic procedures and presurgical assessment of colic horses.The book contains more than 125 original coloured photographs and illustrations for an easy and comprehensive understanding of veterinary students and clinicians.The authors further explained that this is the first book in the Indian subcontinent dedicated entirely to the management of equine colic and written by Indian authors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gadvasu-v-c-releases-book-on-management-of-equine-colic-in-horses/story-at9zZAWKJbTwPBUukItYKL.html
29-10-2020||City||SAD intensifies activities in Ludhiana’s north constituency||With the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) pulling out of BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA), the party has already started efforts to establish its vote bank in the north assembly constituency, which was the BJP’s constituency as per the seat-sharing system at the time of the alliance.A meeting was organised by district president Gurdeep Gosha at his office in which urban district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, senior national vice-president Vijay Danav, Bibi Sarinder Kaur Dayal and others were present.For strengthening, the emphasis was given to intensify activities in the north constituency. Dhillon also said in his address that the party will give tickets to whoever wins.In his speech on this occasion, various leaders strongly opposed the BJP’s bullying and the failures of Congress and said that if there were a Badal government today, “no Punjabi would have starved and the situation in the state would have been much better”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sad-intensifies-activities-in-ludhiana-s-north-constituency/story-MePUy1k4ElzDpBPDYgE3xM.html
29-10-2020||City||ESIC director conducts surprise check at Ludhiana civil hospital||Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) GS Mehmi conducted a surprise checking at the civil hospital. Mehmi first visited the emergency ward and checked the facilities there. He also visited the mother and child hospital and took the feedback from patients.He also inspected the Covid Care Centre. Mehmi was infuriated to see overflowing garbage in the vacant plot of the hospital.He directed SMO Amarjit Kaur to speak to the department concerned and rectify the problem. Thereafter, he visited the children’s ward where he flagged the improper lighting arrangements.He also raised the issue of dangling and broken power cables in the X-ray department. The state government is sending officials of other departments to gather impartial feedback about the arrangements at government hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/esic-director-conducts-surprise-check-at-ludhiana-civil-hospital/story-8ChOYX2zTYPV2vtm3i3gYO.html
29-10-2020||City||Outfit seeks revision of lease agreement with two institutes in Ludhiana||With the municipal corporation (MC) failing to increase the lease amount for two educational institutes—Kundan Vidya Mandir School and Arya College— the members of Shri Hindu Takht have written to the director of the local bodies department to either cancel the lease or increase the amount. The members rued that the educational institutes are earning crores from fees, but are paying negligible amounts to the MC. For instance, Arya College has been paying Re 1 per annum as a lease amount for 5 acres and KVM School is paying ₹250 per annum for 5 acres.An office-bearer of Shri Hindu Takht, Varun Mehta said that the land which has been given to the institutes is worth crores but still the civic body has failed to increase the amount, even when the authorities are aware of the matter.Mehta said that the MC should fix new rates and recover the same from the management of institutes concerned for the last 20 years. If the management fails to submit the amount, then the civic body should cancel the lease agreement and auction the land which is worth crores and use the amount to take up development projects. “If the MC and local bodies department fail to impose new lease rates as per the market rates or cancel the lease agreement in case managements do not clear the dues, then we will move Punjab and Haryana high court,” said Mehta. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that he is aware of the matter and a committee has already been formed for taking a final decision on the same. “There are few more institutes to whom land has been given on rent at negligible rates and the committee will look into all the aspects before finalising the new rates,” he said. The next meeting of the committee is expected to take place during the next week. The matter was also raised in the meeting of the MC general house held last year but the MC has still failed to finalise the rates. The files regarding the old lease agreements have also gone missing from the MC office.Arya College principal Savita Uppal and Kundan Vidya Mandir School’s principal Navita Puri were not available for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/outfit-seeks-revision-of-lease-agreement-with-two-institutes-in-ludhiana/story-swijDAGpeZVjqW4lnC2RFM.html
29-10-2020||City||Survey finds 960 encroachments along Ludhiana’s Buddha Nullah||During the survey being conducted to demarcate the Buddha Nullah, authorities and contractors have found over 960 permanent encroachments including houses and factories along the nullah.As per information, approximately 60% of encroachments fall under the residential category and 40% are factories or commercial units. Four religious buildings were also constructed by encroaching upon the nullah in the past. In the initial survey, the contractor involved in the project found over 1,600 encroachments along the 14km-long stretch of the nullah moving through the city. The survey report was then sent to the revenue department for re-confirming the same. Now, the civic body has received the final report from the contractor, wherein it has been stated that there are over 960 encroachments alongside the nullah.Earlier, the special task force constituted to clean the nullah had directed the MC to conduct a survey for removing encroachments and beautification of the nullah. The demarcation process commenced on July 8 so the nullah’s width can be increased.Apart from MC, irrigation and revenue departments are also involved in the process. The nullah is the main drain of the city. Due to encroachments, its width has decreased over the years and it overflows almost every monsoon.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that the civic body was given the responsibility to conduct the survey and now the report will be forwarded to the drainage department as it is their responsibility to clear the encroachments. MC will, however, extend support when required. MC working on beautification of nullahMunicipal town planner (MTP) Monica Anand said that the civic body is also working for the beautification of Buddha Nullah by establishing micro forests and conducting landscaping on the banks of the nullah. Recently, MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal also conducted a meeting with different branches of the civic body and directed the officials to identify sites for establishing micro forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/survey-finds-960-encroachments-along-ludhiana-s-buddha-nullah/story-Gp2gqWJpkL43yGXqaphDDN.html
29-10-2020||City||Don’t allow pvt schools to charge full fees: Parents to HP govt||Himachal Pradesh Student Parents Forum has condemned the state government’s decision to authorise private schools and institutions to charge full fees and demanded its withdrawal.Convener of the forum, Vijendra Mehra, co-convenor Bindu Joshi, members Vivek Kashyap and Falma Chauhan have termed the move as shocking and anti-student.The forum held that after the state’s decision, private schools have started harassing students and parents for depositing the full fees.“We are being intimidated through text messages that if the full fee is not deposited, our wards will not be allowed to appear in exams and could be expelled too,” said Mehra.He alleged that many schools have not conducted any online classes for the past seven months, students have not stayed in hostels for even one day, still they are being pressurised to deposit a total hostel fee of Rs 30,000 per month instead of Rs 4,300 per month.Mehra said that due to the closure of regular schools due to Covid-19, private school managements have fired half of the teachers, employees, drivers, security staff and class IV employees besides recovering most of the fees from parents by converting 80% of the total fees and charges into tuition fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-allow-pvt-schools-to-charge-full-fees-parents-to-hp-govt/story-GVQ8rwZyAHLdm6Or2XRNPJ.html
29-10-2020||City||1 dead, 3 injured in car-truck collision in Shimla||A Mandi resident died while his two daughters and driver sustained injuries as their car collided head-on with a truck on national highway number five near Kumarsain here on Thursday.The deceased, identified as Yashwant (41), his daughters Jyoti (14) and Chetanlata (16) and car driver Narayan Singh (46) are all residents of Thunag in Mandi district.The accident took place around 10am when they were travelling towards Narkanda from Sainj and tried to overtake a car near Kumarsain. While overtaking the vehicle, their car collided head-on with a truck that was coming from the opposite side.Police reached the spot and recovered the body. The injured car occupants were rushed to Mahatma Gandhi Medical Services Complex Hospital where they are undergoing treatment.The post-mortem examination of the deceased is being conducted and his body would be handed over to his family thereafter, police said.Rampur Bushahr deputy superintendent of police Abhimanyu Verma said they were investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/1-dead-3-injured-in-car-truck-collision-in-shimla/story-gWiykY7INCbDrXU9wVsHRM.html
29-10-2020||City||Zirakpur road rage case: Main accused who shot dead Himachal man held||Police on Thursday arrested the main accused in the October 10 Zirakpur road rage case where a 35-year-old man was shot dead.The accused, Harvinder Singh Brar, alias Happy, is a native of Kotkapura in Punjab and runs a business in Faridkot.According to police, it was Brar who shot the victim, Anil Kumar Thakur, a resident of Daun village, Mohali, and native of Himachal Pradesh, with his .32-bore revolver on the night of October 10. “Brar was arrested from a check post near Gurdwara Baoli Sahib in Dhakoli. The weapon used in the crime, along with a .315-bore rifle and a .12-bore gun, have been recovered from his possession. He has confessed to killing the victim in a fit of rage,” said superintendent of police Ravjot Kaur Grewal, while addressing mediapersons on Thursday.Brar was produced in a local court and sent to three-day police remand.The brawl took place on VIP Road, Zirakpur, after a Toyota Fortuner being driven by Brar denied passage to another Fortuner being driven by victim Thakur’s friend Vinay.Thakur had rushed to the spot after getting a call from a friend, and was shot in the chest and abdomen in the melee. Brar allegedly fired three shots at Thakur, of which two hit him. He was rushed to a local hospital, where he had during treatment.A case of murder and Arms Act was registered against Brar and his accomplices at the Zirakpur police station.Besides Brar, police have already arrested Ramesh Kumar, who runs a shop in Mohali, Ramesh Lal of Chamba, Himachal Pradesh, Lovepreet Singh, alias Luv, of Muktsar, and Ramandeep Kaur of Mansa. Their another aide remains at large.Police have also recovered two vehicles – Toyota Fortuner and Maruti Swift – that were being driven by Brar’s group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/zirakpur-road-rage-case-main-accused-who-shot-dead-himachal-man-held/story-180o0cnjcs5BJkEH6BQnDK.html
29-10-2020||City||551 fresh Covid cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 11 more Covid-related deaths and 551 fresh coronavirus infections. The UT’s Covid count has mounted to 93,764 and the death toll stands at 1,466.Officials said that 354 people tested positive in Kashmir and 264 in Jammu. Four people died in Jammu and seven in Kashmir.So far, 85,370 people have recovered from the disease in the UT and the recovery rate has increased more than 90%. Presently there are 6,928 active cases in J&K. A total of 975 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 491 in Jammu. Also, the total tests conducted in the UT have crossed 22.61 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 254. In Kashmir, the maximum fresh cases were witnessed in Srinagar where 127 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 85.Srinagar tops the case tally with 19,104 cases and 352 deaths followed by Jammu district with 17,349 cases and 254 deaths.Till date, 6.54 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 16,592 in home quarantine, 6,928 in isolation, and 45, 229 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.84 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/551-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-j-k/story-j7G5nFfE50dMNk3EVqbKRI.html
29-10-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan civic polls: Congress would win all 6 municipal corporations, says CM Gehlot||As voting was completed in the first phase of civic polls in Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed confidence that the Congress Party would win all six municipal corporations of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. Voting in the first phase of the municipal corporation polls took place on Thursday. A voter turnout of over 58 per cent was recorded till 5.30 pm. As many as 2,761 polling stations were set up with special arrangements made amid the prevailing coronavirus (Covid-19) situation The chief minister highlighted that people had cast their votes in favour of Congress in the first phase which included Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North municipal corporations. According to news agency PTI, the chief minister in a statement said, “Whenever a Congress government was formed in the last 22 years, we have worked to change the picture of these cities by accelerating development. The municipal corporations in these cities were bifurcated so that development could take place at a faster pace and in a planned manner.” Over 35.97 lakh voters would elect 560 ward councillors in two phases in the six newly formed municipal corporations of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota which are- Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South.The remaining three corporations- Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South fall under the second phase and voting for these will be on November 1. Counting of votes for both the phases will be on November 3. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-civic-polls-congress-would-win-all-6-municipal-corporations-says-cm-gehlot/story-ehAAP3z93eaDxUGgBeO1QO.html
29-10-2020||City||Terror funding case: Fresh NIA raids at 9 NGOs, trusts in Kashmir & Delhi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out fresh raids for the second day on Thursday on some more organisations as part of its investigations into NGOs within and outside Jammu and Kashmir that are allegedly being used as modes for terror funding.In continuation of the searches carried out on Wednesday, seven more locations in Srinagar, Baramulla, Anantnag and Kulgam in the union territory and two locations in Delhi were raided, NIA spokesperson and deputy inspector general Sonia Narang said in a statement.The case was registered by the NIA on receipt of “credible information” that certain NGOs and Trusts are collecting funds domestically and abroad through donations and business contributions in the name of various welfare activities such as public health and education.The NIA alleged that these funds are sent to Jammu and Kashmir through various channels such as hawala and cash couriers and are used to carry out and sustain secessionist and terrorist activities in the erstwhile state.Among those raided by the NIA on Thursday were JK Yateem Foundation at Srinagar and Kulgam, The Salvation Movement at Srinagar run by Zafar Akbar Bhat, Human Welfare Foundation at Delhi and Anantnag, Jammu and Kashmir Voice of Victims at Baramulla run by Abdul Qadeer, Falah-e-Aam Trust at Budgam run by GM Bhat and Charity Alliance at Delhi run by Zafar-ul-Islam, who is also the former chairman of Delhi Minorities Commission.The NIA spokesperson said several incriminating documents and electronic devices have been seized during the searches.The probe agency had on Wednesday raided several NGOs, human rights activists and the office of a prominent newspaper in Srinagar.The searches were conducted at 10 locations in J&K’s Srinagar and Bandipora and one in Bangalore in connection with a case pertaining to so-called NGOs and trusts raising funds in India and abroad in the name of charitable activities and then using the money for separatist activities.Former J&K chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said NIA has become the pet agency of the BJP-ruled centre government to “intimidate” people.Kashmir Editors Guild (KEG) had also expressed its concern over the pre-dawn NIA raids on Greater Kashmir premises in the Srinagar Press enclave.“Though the NIA after a five-hour wait claimed that the raid was on Greater Kashmir Trust, the latter said the investigating agency checked the computers and seized the hard drives. Kashmir media continues to get targeted, demonised, vilified and raided by both the state and non-state actors for a long time now,” KEG said in a statement adding that the valley’s media had proven record of being a professional institution that maintained textbook objectivity while maintaining its core journalistic values.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/terror-funding-case-fresh-nia-raids-at-9-ngos-trusts-in-kashmir-delhi/story-EuTtEF76worS5p6cD77oAJ.html
29-10-2020||City||Won’t stand disrespect of national flag, says former PDP MP Bajwa||Former People’s Democratic Party (PDP) MP TS Bajwa on Thursday said that he along with former MLC Ved Mahajan and former state secretary Choudhary Hussain Ali Wafa would never tolerate disrespect to the national flag.Outraged over PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s “highly provocative remarks” against the tricolour, the three senior leaders had resigned from the party on October 26.Addressing media persons here, Bajwa, flanked by Mahajan and Wafa, said, “We will never tolerate disrespect of the tricolour. It is national pride. We can sacrifice our lives for it. Therefore, we resigned from PDP in protest against Mehbooba’s provocative remarks about the Indian flag.”Bajwa, however, admitted that they had been feeling suffocated in the party, especially after the joining of certain persons he didn’t name. “I remained with Mufti sahib for 35 years. Things were different then, but for the past few years we were not being heard which is why we took this step,” he said.Bajwa also demanded that the statehood should be restored to J&K, besides being critical of BJP’s hasty decision of abrogating Articles 370 and 35-A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/won-t-stand-disrespect-of-national-flag-says-former-pdp-mp-bajwa/story-8Mu4fzFj2dIlsXupghwB5M.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports one death, 156 test positive in tricity||A 21-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Thursday, while Mohali and Panchkula reported no casualties. The UT health department said the woman, who was a resident of Sector 25 and had chronic kidney disease, died at PGIMER.As many as 156 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday, with Chandigarh leading with 80 cases, followed by Panchkula with 39 and Mohali with 36.Of the total 14,292 cases in Chandigarh, 665 patients are still infected, while 225 have died. Meanwhile, 43 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the number of recoveries to 13,402. In Mohali, the case tally rose to 12,250 with 37 cases. Among these, 32 cases were from Mohali (urban), three from Gharuan and two from Lalru. Also, 54 patients recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 499. Till now, 11,515 patients have been cured and 236 have died in the district. For the second day in a row, Panchkula reported no death, but 39 new cases were detected, taking the count to 7,078.Thursday’s cases included 34 from Panchkula (urban), two from Mansa Devi Complex and one each from Devinagar, Garhi Kotaha and Haripur.The district has only 187 active cases with 6,780 patients already having recovered. A total of 111 fatalities have been recorded so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-death-156-test-positive-in-tricity/story-9qHjO4KJPC5fM3XZ89DvEK.html
29-10-2020||Pune||Rains damage crops on 5.38 lakh hectares in western Maharashtra||In its report submitted to the state government, Pune district administration has stated that at least 1.72 lakh people in the district suffered due to the heavy rains recently and pegged total losses at Rs 67 crore. The report comes after the panchanamas were carried out by the state government last week. Heavy rains had wreaked havoc in parts of western Maharashtra, including Pune and Solapur district between October 14 and 15. Besides the damage to crops, heavy rains claimed 29 lives in four districts of western Maharashtra while 16 persons died in central Maharashtra’s Aurangabad division and three in coastal Konkan. In Pune district, seven persons lost their lives in separate incidents. According to the report submitted by the Pune district administration, as many as 604 villages from 13 tehsils were affected by the rain, causing damage to crops on 68,000 hectares. Indapur tehsil was one of the worst affected in the district where crops on 14,395 hectares was damaged. In Solapur district, the loss is around Rs 482 crore as around 4 lakh people suffered in the disaster, according to the report by local administration. The report states that at least 3.95 lakh farmers suffered losses due to rains. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that the administration has completed panchanamas (spot assessment) of crops and the report has been submitted to agriculture department. “The agriculture department will now forward reports of all districts to the government following which compensation process will begin.” The state government has already announced compensation of Rs 10,000 crore for rain-affected people. In its report, Pune divisional commissionerate stated that crop on total 5.38 lakh hectares was damaged in western Maharashtra between June and October, of which maximum damage was during October. In the five months, 49 persons lost their lives. Following the rains, leaders of various political parties visited flood-affected areas of the district, triggering a blame game as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray along with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar demanded aid from the Centre. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, however, took objection to it saying that the state is trying to shrug off its responsibility. No. of people dead due to rains between June and October this year Pune - 13 Satara - 04 Sangli – 10 Solapur - 22 Kolhapur – 00 Loss in Pune district Animals dead– 887 Birds dead – 20241 Houses damaged – 1,566 Crops damaged – 78,000 hectares||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rains-damage-crops-on-5-38-lakh-hectares-in-western-maharashtra/story-BAfE19vZMZ1F3U4HG7KOdP.html
29-10-2020||City||Three held for creating nuisance in Mohali market, attacking cops||Three men were arrested for tearing the uniform of a cop and hitting a police vehicle with their car after they were stopped from creating ruckus at the Sector-70 market on Wednesday evening.The accused were identified as Satinderpal Singh and Avneet Singh, both residents of Sector 70, and Jasmeet Singh, a resident of Sunny Enclave in Kharar.Mataur SHO inspector Rajiv Kumar said a patrolling team spotted the three men creating ruckus in the market. When the team approached them, they sped away in their car after hitting the police vehicle. The trio was nabbed after a brief chase, when they hurled abuses at the cops and even tore the uniform of a gunman, the SHO said.“The accused were in an inebriated state. They are all married and have jobs. They have been booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code,” the inspector added.The accused were produced before a local court on Thursday and sent to three-day police custody. Meanwhile, Mohali DSP (City 1) Gursher Singh Sandhu said, “Disorderly conduct in public places will not be tolerated. We have also started a special drive to nab those drinking in public places and creating noise pollution with modified two-wheelers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-creating-nuisance-in-mohali-market-attacking-cops/story-5ua19ZQ1nFaUF5cSdKNcdN.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial death: CBI court advances hearing to Nov 5 on Zaidi’s plea||Accepting the plea of suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Zahur Haider Zaidi, an accused in the 2017 Kotkhai custodial death case, a special CBI court has advanced the hearing in the case from December 3 to November 5.The court of special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg has also issued notice to all other accused to file their reply by November 5.The last witness in the case was examined on over nine months ago on January 24, with prosecution evidence scheduled next.Zaidi’s application stated that five witnesses were summoned for examination in March, but could not be examined due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the case was first listed for October 1 and then again for December 3.Recently, the Chandigarh sessions judge permitted physical hearings in courts with certain conditions with effect from October 19. “In view of the changed situation, the long date deserves to be preponed and the case be fixed for hearing in November,” stated Zaidi’s application, which was allowed by the CBI court.The case dates back to July 2017 when four Nepalese and two men from Uttarakhand were arrested for the alleged rape and murder of a 16-year-old schoolgirl in Kotkhai, Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. The girl was reported missing on July 4, 2017, and the six men were arrested 10 days later. Suraj Singh, one of the suspects, was found dead in the custody of Kotkhai police station on the intervening night of July 18 and 19, 2017.The trial in the custodial death case had started in the special CBI court on June 6 against nine police officials, including IGP Zaidi, who was head of the special investigation team probing the minor girl’s rape and murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-death-cbi-court-advances-hearing-to-nov-5-on-zaidi-s-plea/story-vRWn8HAY5egzmgzlTCWVHN.html
29-10-2020||City||Another cow dead at Panchkula cow shed, forensic report awaited||Another cow died at the Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham in Panchkula on Thursday, taking the total deaths since Tuesday night to 71. While the preliminary post-mortem report hints at food poisoning, a detailed report from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Madhuban, is awaited to establish the exact cause of the bovine deaths.As many as 1,500 cattle are housed in the seven cow sheds at the gaudham. There are 550 bovines sheltered in shed numbers 2 and 3, where the 70 casualties occurred since Tuesday night.Another 14 cattle are undergoing treatment.A three-member special investigation team, comprising the chief executive officer of the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), Nishu Singhal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Raj Kumar and animal husbandry department deputy director Dr Anil Kumar has been constituted.The committee is likely to submit its report to the deputy commissioner in the next two days. Different samples of food, fodder, viscera from stomach, blood sample and sample of froth have been sent for testing. “We are waiting for detailed reports of all samples. So, the team’s final report may take a day or two,” said Dr Kumar.“The post-mortem report matches with our speculation. But we cannot confirm food poisoning till we get the report from the forensic laboratory,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-cow-dead-at-panchkula-cow-shed-forensic-report-awaited/story-D5F7iTI5zT96Tidp52047L.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Action more important than creating new teams: Gopal Rai on new anti-pollution law||Strict action on the ground was more important than creating new teams and committees, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Thursday after the Centre introduced a new law through an ordinance that put in place a powerful oversight body to curb air pollution.Under the ordinance released by the Union ministry of law and justice on Thursday, the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) has been dissolved and replaced by a commission comprising over 20 members.The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas will have the power to lay down parameters of air quality, discharge of environmental pollutants, inspect premises violating the law, ordering closure of non-abiding industries/plants among others.Reacting to the development, Rai said, “Strict action on the ground is more important than creating new teams and committees... Earlier, the Supreme Court gave these powers to EPCA. The Central Pollution Control Board, too, has the same powers.” “Recently, we saw that an exemption were given to a few colonies in Noida from the ban on electricity generators. It doesn’t matter how many committees you form until there is action on the ground,” he said.The minister also said 228 complaints were received from people across Delhi on the Green Delhi application within a few hours of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launching it.Citizens can click pictures or make a video of pollution causing activities, such as burning of garbage, industrial pollution and dust, and upload them on the mobile application. It will identify the location and the complaint will be automatically forwarded to the department concerned for time-bound redressal, Rai said.The ‘green war room’ set up at the Delhi Secretariat will monitor the status of complaints. A team of 70 ‘green’ marshals will assist in their redressal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/action-more-important-than-creating-new-teams-gopal-rai-on-new-anti-pollution-law/story-ypjitGDsgDzaqFuGsOsqEO.html
29-10-2020||City||Mohali deputy commissioner orders extensive Covid testing during festive season||In view of the probability of higher Covid-19 transmission during the ongoing festival season, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has directed the civil surgeon’s office to conduct extensive sampling over the next two weeks.Urging residents to be extra-cautious, Dayalan asked them to adhere to safety protocols and also told shopkeepers to ensure compliance of various guidelines on their premises. He directed the health officials to organise special testing camps in markets, with focus on sweet shops, eateries, illumination gadgets shops and electrical appliances outlets, as these were expected to see the maximum footfall in the coming days.As employees working in various government departments are often in touch with the public, there is a risk of them getting infected. So, Covid-19 testing has been mandated for all government employees.The controlling officers of various offices have been directed to ensure their staffers undergo tests and submit compliance report by November 10. In case of more than 50 employees in an office, the civil surgeon’s office has been directed to provide mobile van/testing team for on-the-spot testing. Similarly, heads of all educational institutions have been advised to get their teaching and non-teaching staff tested at the earliest. The list of designated testing centres in the district (government and private) and their rates is available at https://bit.ly/34Ebxxt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-deputy-commissioner-orders-extensive-covid-testing-during-festive-season/story-PjbzpX5Cm7rrVRYawP15yK.html
29-10-2020||City||Will quit politics if MSP system dismantled: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday accused the Congress of “misleading” farmers by telling them the Centre’s new farm laws will lead to dismantling of the MSP system and said he would quit politics if that were to happen.Addressing a series of public gatherings in different villages, he also touched upon several steps taken by his government for farmers’ welfare. Khattar was accompanied by wrestler-turned-politician and BJP candidate from Baroda Yogeshwar Dutt, Haryana Minister and Independent MLA Ranjit Singh Chautala, JJP leader Digvijay Singh Chautala and a number of state BJP leaders.“MSP is guaranteed in mandis. I announce that if MSP will end, I will quit politics,” he said.He said,“The mandi system and MSP will continue. These laws give a greater choice to farmers to sell their produce anywhere. Every time the MSP will be released with a hike. After the demise of Sri Krishan Hooda Ji, we have transferred ₹165 crore in the accounts of sarpanches to carry out developmental works in their respective villages. We are committed to setup a university at Butana village, IMT and a rice mill in the constituency.” Taking a jibe at leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son Deepender Singh, Khattar said the duo is campaigning for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal in Baroda. “No other Congress leader is ready to go there,” he claimed. “Earlier, they used to say Yogeshwar Dutt’s security deposit will be forfeited. But now they have realised that the ground situation is something else and the tide is turning against them,” he said.“Both of them are contesting this election for their survival and have pitted a dummy candidate (Narwal) instead,” he added.He said, “We will provide 75% reservation to local youths in private sector jobs in Haryana. We have given damaged crop compensation of ₹12,000 per acre while the Congress government has failed to do so.”Meanwhile, jails and power minister Ranjit Chautala said his family had won the Baroda seat from 1977 to 2005. “Dushyant and I have 14 portfolios and urge you to not worry about anything. If you elect Dutt from here, we will fulfill all the poll promises,” he added.CM should visit mandis to check if crops are purchased at MSP: HoodaReacting sharply over Khattar’s commitments, leader of opposition Bhupinder Hooda said the CM should visit the mandis to check if the crops are being purchased at the MSP or not.“Farmers are forced to sell their produce below MSP. The government has implemented three new agricultural laws only to ensure that the farmers sell their crops to private agencies. They are selling their paddy at a loss of ₹500 to ₹1,000 per quintal. People at the helm of power only know how to speak. They will neither give MSP to the farmer nor leave politics,” Hooda said, adding that the intention of the present government is completely ‘anti-farmer’.“The government has been deliberately dismantling farmer welfare policies and systems like mandis, MSPs, bonuses, subsidies, compensations which were started during our regime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-quit-politics-if-farmers-fail-to-get-msp-haryana-cm/story-DKNCV8cpknM0ZfeWOyUdMK.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||In Covid-19 crackdown, commuters without masks in Mumbai local trains to be fined||Passengers travelling on Mumbai’s suburban railway network without masks will now have to pay fines as part of an exercise to stop the spread of Covid-19.A fine of Rs. 200 and will be charged on the basis of Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) notification on fines for wearing spitting and not wearing masks. No date has been decided yet for enforcing the fines but they are likely to enforced from next week.The Maharashtra government on Wednesday empowered the Government Railway Police (GRP) to collect fines from passengers travelling without masks onboard local trains and on the railway stations.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA letter written by Abhay Yawalkar, director, disaster management to the GRP commissioner states that in order to avoid resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases it is imperative that all Covid related protocols are followed by commuters.“One of the main protocols is wearing a facial mask all the time. The state powers the Government Railway Police to impose fines on commuters found to be travelling without masks in the local trains or inside the station premises. The fine will be in line with the circulated dated 9 September 2020 issued by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) or in line with any further circular issued by MCGM in this regard.” states the letter.Meanwhile, the railways has decided to provide free masks to passengers to create awareness on the spread of coronavirus among railway passengers. Awareness campaigns on precautions and preventions to undertake while commuting will also be organised.“Passengers found travelling without masks onboard trains will be given masks and informed about the virus spread.” said a senior Central Railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-covid-crackdown-commuters-without-masks-in-mumbai-local-trains-to-be-fined/story-EY0bwTUWEpzNNwYEX4DLbM.html
29-10-2020||City||Businessman found dead in his office||PUNE: A businessman, the husband of local Congress leader Neeta Pardeshi, was found dead at his office on Law College road on Thursday morning.The deceased, Jayant Pardeshi (53), is suspected to have died by suicide. His body was found in the office by his son, who then informed the police.“We have recovered a note. For now, all I can say is that he has blamed financial losses in business for his step. We will be speaking to various people related to him before drawing conclusions,” said assistant police inspector CM Suryavanshi of Deccan police station who is investigating the case.The body was taken to Sassoon General Hospital for the postmortem and the incident was recorded as an accidental death at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/businessman-found-dead-in-his-office/story-WNilbTmoNPiGpRbAb85c1I.html
29-10-2020||Pune||Maha-Metro invites name suggestions for Pune metro card from citizens||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) has invited suggestions for naming of the metro card of Pune metro. If the name suggested by a citizen gets selected, they would be rewarded as per the rules of the, Coin a suitable name for Pune Metro Card, contest, said metro officials.Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation’s public relation officer Hemant Sonawane, said, “Pune is a unique city. Metro work is in progress and we are launching a card for it. Instead of giving it a random name, Maha-Metro wants citizens to participate in it.”Sonawane said, “Citizens need to submit their name suggestions till November 16. It is open for all and names can be in English or Marathi.”Maha-Metro has appealed to citizens to send their entries online at contest@punemetrorail.org. Maha-Metro officials will decide on the final name selection. Citizens need to mention the significance of the name suggested by them in their entries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/maha-metro-invites-name-suggestions-for-pune-metro-card-from-citizens/story-bN9hAfqlNA1Iis1p8J8a9M.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||2,487 employees of Delhi govt have tested Covid +ve since March, show records||A total of 2,487 employees of the Delhi government contracted the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease between March and October 13, of which 89 succumbed to the virus, government records show. These figures were provided by the Delhi government’s state surveillance unit as a response to a right to information (RTI) application filed by this reporter. The reply also stated that the 2,487 employees who were infected included doctors and bureaucrats.There are over 2.5 lakh employees and around 150 departments and agencies in the Delhi government. In its RTI response, the government, however, mentioned that it did not maintain category wise data of Covid-19 positive employees because of which it is unknown how many of them were IAS officers, DANICs officers, doctors or DASS cadre officers. Among those who died of Covid-19 include 50-year old Hari Prasad, who was working as the assistant director in Delhi government’s education department when he contracted the infection. “He was totally healthy and had no co-morbidities. But, just 3-4 days after he tested positive, we learnt that he died of Covid-19. It was shocking. Another officer, Rameshwar Singh, working in the government’s pay and account office also died of Covid-19 recently,” said Umesh Batra, general secretary of the Delhi Government Employees’ Welfare Association (DGEWA). “But unfortunately, the city administration is not considering these cases for its compensation of Rs 1 crore. Their rule states that a person will get the ex-gratia amount only if one dies while on Covid-19 duty,” he said.Following the deaths of these Delhi government officers, the association has also written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office to consider even those who are not directly on Covid-19 duty and have succumbed to the virus for some form of compensation. “In recent times, many officers/officials who are not directly attached with Covid duty have died due to contracting coronavirus while performing their duties in different departments/offices of Delhi government. In view of this, we would like to request you to extend Covid compensation to such officers as well,” read the letter sent by the association on September 23.A senior Delhi government official said more than 1,000 officers have been deployed on duty by the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA). They have been deployed at quarantine centres, hospitals, containment zones, law and order matters, logistic support to various organisations, airport duties, assistance to manufacturers of essential commodities, shelter homes and so on.A senior official in the chief minister’s office said on May 2, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev had appointed a state nodal welfare officer to provide all necessary help, including medical treatment and welfare, to Covid-19 positive officers of the Delhi government, its autonomous bodies, corporations and local bodies (municipal corporations).“This was done after a lot of doctors, nurses of Delhi government hospitals, and civil defence volunteers had tested positive for Covid-19. Nikhil Kumar, the CEO of Delhi Jal Board was appointed as the nodal officer, under whom two dedicated hospitals and one exclusive testing centre for Delhi government officers who test positive for Covid-19 or are suspects and their families were identified,” said the officer. “A staff welfare cell and a dedicated 24x7 helpline number under this cell were also opened for regular interaction with infected officers as well as their family members. The district magistrates provide details of officers found Covid-19 positive in their districts on a daily basis to the state nodal welfare officer,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2-487-employees-of-delhi-govt-have-tested-covid-ve-since-march-show-records/story-YVBJgiVJX4SelvFl2QcPWK.html
29-10-2020||Pune||Congress slams Centre for stopping cooking gas subsidies||Congress spokesperson Gopal Tiwari has lashed out at the Centre raising questions on why cooking gas subsidy was stopped from April this year. Tiwari said, “The Central government must either sell gas cylinders at lower rates or restart subsidies in the bank account under the direct benefit transfer scheme.” As per the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, all consumers need to buy the 14.2 kg cylinder at the market price. Later, the government transfers the subsidy directly into the bank account of eligible consumers. The subsidy is the difference in the market and subsidized price of cooking gas. Tiwari wrote a letter to the union minister for petroleum and natural gas and raised questions on the subsidy. Tiwari stated in his letter that the government must clarify officially why they are not issuing the subsidy from when lockdown began and citizens are facing financial crises. He said the government must either resume the subsidy immediately or sell gas at low prices. A source in an oil company said on the condition of anonymity that it is true that the subsidy is not getting transferred but the reason behind it is the low prices of cooking gas in national and international markets. As the prices of crude oil and other subsidized products have fallen, the oil companies have lowered the cylinder prices. Since the market price and subsidies are almost the same, the government need not give a subsidy, the source said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/congress-slams-centre-for-stopping-gas-subsidies/story-YdvqmGbpVXRP1es4SsKOZK.html
29-10-2020||City||MNS party stabbed to death by 4 in Ambernath||The vice-president of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) for Ambernath city, Rakesh Patil, 40, was brutally killed by four people on Wednesday on a busy road. He was attacked with a sharp knife and was taken to the civil hospital in Kalyan, where he succumbed to injuries during treatment. The Shivaji Nagar police in Ambernath have detained all the four accused while they were trying to flee and are further investigating the murder. The police said the incident took place on Wednesday evening at 6pm when Patil visited a newly developed complex in-between Ambernath village and Pale village. Four people attacked him with a sharp weapon, he tried to defend himself, though was grievously injured in the attack. MG Bagga, senior police inspector, Shivaji Nagar police station confirmed about the murder and said a case has been registered under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The police have started the investigation and are yet to find the reason behind the murder. The primary investigation revealed, Patil had raised several issues against well-known family in Ambernath. “Patil was to contest the upcoming election and was into social working. He had raised voice against the new development and was against the builders and also targeted Ambernath municipal council for the delay in projects,” said a police officer. After the murder police had raised an alert across Thane city and rural areas. During a Nakabandi in Murbad, police intercepted an SUV in which the four accused were trying to flee and detained them. The police have found choppers and iron rods from the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mns-party-stabbed-to-death-by-4-in-ambernath/story-v3rweqQ028nM7eLFXRoSAL.html
29-10-2020||Dehradun||BJP welcomes Supreme Court order staying CBI probe into allegations against Uttarakhand CM||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s office and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday welcomed the Supreme Court order putting on hold an Uttarakhand high court ruling for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into bribery allegations against him. Rawat moved the top court following the high court ruling on Tuesday.Ramesh Bhatt, Rawat’s media advisor, the top court’s order was expected as the chief minister was heard in the matter nor was any notice issued to him. “We welcome the decision of the Supreme Court. We believe ultimately truth will prevail; it will win.”Also Read: SC stays CBI probe against Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh RawatBJP spokesman Devendra Bhasin welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision. “The HC [high court] order was a surprising development as it was done without hearing the chief minister in the matter. We believe that truth will ultimately prevail. Lies have no legs.”He said the opposition Congress wanted to make this an issue only to be disappointed. “They should apologise to the chief minister for the kind of statements Congress leaders have been making since Tuesday. The kinds of statements they have made show how frustrated Congress is.”Congress leader Lalchand Sharma said the top court has just stayed the order and not cleared him of the allegations. “Given the fact that such serious allegations have been levelled against him, the chief minister should have resigned on moral grounds till the investigation was completed. If he has nothing to hide, why does not he want the CBI to investigate the allegations? Why is he shying away from a transparent probe in the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/bjp-welcomes-supreme-court-order-staying-cbi-probe-into-allegations-against-uttarakhand-cm/story-LW3JhZ4svtndcrp6vM2o0H.html
29-10-2020||Pune||2,419 students drop out of PMC school post 7th standard reveals PMC data||A total of 2,419 students have dropped out of school after 7th standard in the year 2019-20, according to data released by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The civic body’s primary education department administrator Meenakshi Raut gave the drop out numbers after Congress leader Aba Bagul demanded the numbers be released by the school board. Raut said, “The PMC is running 250 primary schools in the city. The primary school is up to 7th standard. A total of 9,548 students passed out of the 7th standard in the year 2019-20. After passing, 4,441 students took admission in PMC run middle schools; a total of 3,395 students took admission at various private schools and a total of 2,419 students did not come to take a transfer certificate which means they did not take an admission anywhere.” According to Bagul, Pune is considered as the Oxford of the east. If this is the situation of primary education in the city and around 2,500 students are dropping school after 7th standard then it is shocking. “Mostly students from lower-income groups join the PMC school. If these students dropped out from school, it is very clear that either they would start work somewhere to help their parents or turn towards crime activity,” Bagul added. Bagul appealed to the municipal commissioner to start night school in the e-learning school located at Sahakarnagar for these drop-out students. Bagul said, “I am going to start night school in the Rajiv Gandhi e-learning school for drop out students. I am appealing the municipal commissioner to give any skill education to these students as it would help them to get better employment opportunities after completing education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/2-419-students-drop-out-of-pmc-school-post-7th-standard-reveals-pmc-data/story-mKURNk7Sjj5DiPNKN5uGYL.html
29-10-2020||Pune||Three arrested for forging documents to usurp royal property in Pune||The crime branch of city police has arrested three persons for forging documents to sell the property, situated at Tilak road in Sadashiv peth, of Gayatridevi of Aundh princely state . The trio was arrested after a complaint was lodged against them by her personal assistant Balraj Arun Wadekar (37), a resident of Guruwar peth. The accused have been identified as Shashi Shankar Podwal (59), a resident of Alandi road; Asif Jaleel Khan (61) of Al Ameen Society and Anwar Yunus Khan Pathan (54) of Gokhalenagar. The fourth accused, advocate Kamalesh Pisal of Satara, is at large. The Vishrambaug police have invoked IPC Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security),468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged) against the accused. According to the police, the crime took place between October 12 and October 27. The FIR lodged by Wadkear stated, “Gayatridevi Bhagwantrao Pant Pratindhi owns survey no 458/1 property in Sadashiv peth. Shashi Podwal colluded with sub tenant of the said property Asif Khan and his associate Anwar Pathan and prepared a bogus notarised deed which was affixed with the photos and forged signatures of Gayatri Devi and Harshitraje Bhagwantrao Pant Pratinidhi. Advocate Kamalesh Pisal, Gayatri Devi’s lawyer, despite knowing about the matter participated in the criminal act of forgery and cheating.” DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh said, “We are focusing on whether the accused are involved in other types of forgeries. The accused have been arrested and custodial interrogation is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-arrested-for-forging-documents-to-usurp-royal-property-in-pune/story-iyfQfYtGcW0fPIhHTTQJ6I.html
29-10-2020||Pune||Pune Bar Association secretary arrested in advocate’s murder case||Pune Bar Association secretary advocate Ghanshyam Popat Darade (37) has been arrested in connection with the abduction and murder of advocate Umesh More.The Pune police have arrested Darade for informing the assailants about the current location of More, which amounted to abetting the heinous crime, police said. He has been remanded to police custody till October 31.The Shivajinagar police had earlier arrested three persons- Kapil Vilas Phalke (34); Deepak Shivaji Vandekar (28) and Rohit Dattatreya Shende (32) on charges of murder.The deceased lawyer had gone missing from Shivajinagar court since October 1 and was murdered by Phalke and Vandekar and his body was burnt and dumped at Tamhini ghat on the same day, according to the police. The third accused advocate Rohit had masterminded the killing of advocate More, the police had stated the details in their FIR and submissions before the court.More who dealt with land dispute related cases was a complainant in an anti-corruption case in 2018 wherein a bribe of Rs 1.17 crore changed hands. Phalke and Vandekar got him talking on the day of the abduction and took him near their car on the pretext of discussion. He was subsequently kidnapped and whisked away in the car and murdered. His brother Prashant More later lodged an FIR in the case. The role of Phalke and Vandekar came into light after they were seen in the CCTV footage while getting into the car with advocate More.To evade arrest and mislead the policemen investigating the case, one of the suspects threw the mobile phone in a truck so that his location would be revealed as far away from their actual location where he committed the murder with the other accomplice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-bar-association-secretary-arrested-in-advocate-s-murder-case/story-WU1jGrzyZSfilZfE3tacNN.html
29-10-2020||Pune||NGT issues order to move garbage processing plant out of Baner||The National Green Tribunal (NGT), principal bench, has issued an order to move a garbage processing plant out of Baner, citing non-compliance of various environmental norms, including absence of a no-objection certificate from the Airport Authority of India. The plant, run by Noble Exchange Environment Solution, Pune, on a hillock, violated environmental norms by building it in the vicinity of 12 residential societies, a temple, and HEMRL work site, among others. The order was issued by a four member principal bench including chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar, judicial member Justice Sheo Kumar Singh, and expert members Nagin Nanda and Satyawan Singh Garbyal, on Tuesday, and made available on Wednesday. The decision was issued via a video conference hearing of an application filed by the Sus Road Baner Vikas Manch, led by president Vinay Deshpande and secretary Harish Patil. “There is violation of statutory sitting guidelines on the subject (of inhabitants in the vicinity). Nearest residential apartment has been found to be within 66 metres from the boundary of the plant. Housing societies are within 107 metres from the outer boundary of the plant and 15 apartments are within 200 metres of it. Thus, the plant is within the prohibited distance. There is no place for development of a green belt. According to the CPCB guidelines referred to in the report, a distance of 500 metres from the boundary of the inhabitation has to be maintained, but in a suitable case it can be 200 metres. There has to be a 10-metres green belt around the facility. Thus, the plant is in violation of the right to a clean environment of the inhabitants and is against statutory norms,” reads the order.The residents have been fighting the issue in court for the past several years. “There are many health issues. At least 22 health certificates related to breathing problems were submitted to the court. The lockdown was doubly difficult for us. Medha Kulkarni had also raised this issue in the state assembly when a woman living here had delivered prematurely. She had breathing issues,” said Deshpande. “This plant was set up in violation of all environmental norms. There was tremendous odour in the vicinity and the residents were facing health hazards. The authorities were not acting upon the complaints and hence, we petitioned the NGT. The corporation did not maintain the mandatory buffer zone of 500 metres and kept granting building permissions blindly,” said advocate Saurabh Kulkarni, who is representing the residents. After commencing in 2015, for two years, between 2017 and 2019, the plant had remained non-operational due to finance-related reasons. However, the plant started functioning again in the first quarter of 2019, after which, residents filed the application. The present application was filed on March 2, 2019. NGT had constituted a joint committee of Central pollution control board (CPCB) and Maharashtra pollution control board (MPCB) to probe the matter. The committee submitted its report on October 10, 2019. “The plant does not possess consent to operate and is operating after obtaining authorisation from MPCB. The plant started its operation from December 17, 2015 and continued till July 16, 2017 during which 5-10 MT/day of waste was processed till June 2016, and thereafter, about 100 MT/day till July 16, 2017. Thereafter, the plant was not in operation till March 18, 2019. It was informed that non-operation was due to sale related issues of gas generated by the company,” read the report.Effectively, the tribunal has informed the respondents in the case to move the location of the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ngt-issues-order-to-move-garbage-processing-plant-out-of-baner/story-Koi7caU56eU4cyF8nJ3WNO.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi government to adopt aggressive Covid-19 tracing, testing: Satyendra Jain||Amid a spike in cases of Covid-19 here, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the city government has changed its strategy and is now going for “aggressive tracing and testing” of people who came in contact with those found positive for the infection.Interacting with reporters, he also said, it would be too early to say, if this was a “third wave” in surge in fresh cases.Amid festive season and rising pollution level, Delhi on Wednesday recorded over 5,600 Covid-19 cases for the first time, with the national capital witnessing a sudden surge in daily cases in the past few days.“We have changed our strategy, and now going for aggressive tracing and testing of people who came in contact with those found positive for infection. So, also this rise is being seen,” Jain told reporters.Entire family, close contacts even asymptomatic ones, of positive cases being tested, and RT-PCR tests also scaled up, he added.Asked about the figures of 15000 cases per day projected by experts in coming months, the minister said, “figures have been projected by experts on surge in daily Covid-19 cases, but it may not reach that level. However, we want to be full prepared”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-government-to-adopt-aggressive-covid-19-tracing-testing-satyendra-jain/story-el8VpaXsEixuqSXz3vgDnL.html
29-10-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally breaches 100,000-mark||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported 345 new Covid-19 cases even as the state’s tally crossed the 100,000-mark. With these new cases, the state’s total count has touched 100,569; including 5,363 active cases, 94,326 recoveries and 880 deaths. The state has so far tested 3.19 million samples.According to the health department’s bulletin released on October 28, the state capital, Ranchi, which has been hit hardest by the pandemic, topped the list, recording 92 fresh cases. Besides, Dhanbad and Bokaro reported the second and third-highest number of cases, adding 53 and 30 patients respectively.Of the four deaths reported, two each took place in Ranchi and one each in Deoghar and Lohardaga districts.With the addition of 92 new Covid-19 cases, Ranchi has so far reported 25,335 cases, which accounts for over 25% of the total 100, 569 cases.Also Read: Third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi? ‘Have possibly entered that phase,’ says health minister JainCurrently, Ranchi has 1,765 active cases, 23,396 recoveries and 174 deaths.According to the bulletin, the pandemic’s seven days’ growth rate stood at 0.38% and the disease’s doubling period was 164.29 days. The recovery rate was 93.79% and mortality rate was 0.87%.Jharkhand, however, heaved a sigh of relief this month after daily detection of cases took a sharp decline.The average daily detection of cases came down to as low as 600 cases in October from 1,396 cases in September.Thirteen districts--Chatra, Deoghar, Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Hazaribag, Koderma, Latehar, Lohardaga, Pakur, Palamu, Ramgarh and Sahebgunj-- have lesser than 100 active cases at present.The state is doing better in terms of testing. Till October 28, Jharkhand tested over 319,300 people, which accounts for 9.70% of the state’s 32.9 million population.The state’s test per million (TPM) population stood at 83,004 against the national average of 77,527 on October 26. It’s positivity rate was 3.19%.It had tested over 1 million samples in last 29 days alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-s-covid-19-tally-breaches-100-000-mark/story-juVVnkeFSYfbVpwFL8ibRK.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi health minister attributes spike in Covid-19 cases to festive season, change in contact tracing strategy||A day after Delhi recorded the highest ever single-day spike in infections with 5,673 Covid-19 cases, health minister Satyendar Jain attributed it to the festive season and a change in the administration’s contact tracing strategy.Talking to reporters on Thursday, Jain assured that Delhi is well-prepared for another surge in Covid-19 cases in the winter months. An expert committee headed by NITI Ayog member VK Paul has said the number of cases in Delhi could go up to 15,000 a day during the winter months. Jain said the number is unlikely to touch the 15,000-mark.“We have changed our strategy by strengthening our contact tracing system now. We are seeing a surge in daily Covid-19 cases not only because more people are coming out owing to the festivities, but also because of this change in strategy.”Also Read: Covid-19: Delhi records highest ever spike in casesExplaining the latest strategy, Jain said until last week, the government used to test contacts of Covid-19 positive persons only if they showed symptoms. “But it was realised that contact tracing per Covid-19 case was not being done properly. Hence, now directions have been issued to test every person who came in close contact with the Covid-19 positive case even if they are not showing symptoms. In fact, we are also trying to get many of them tested for a second time after four days or a week. This is why the positivity rate is also increasing. So, now we are trying to test 5-6 contacts per Covid case to break the cycle of infection.”In its response to a Right to Information (RTI) application filed by this reporter, the Delhi government’s state surveillance unit said that between March, when the first Covid-19 case was detected in the city, and September, 30, 555,662 contacts of Covid-19 cases were tracked. Till September 30, Delhi had a cumulative of 282,752 Covid-19 cases, as per the health bulletin of October 1.This means on average only around 2 people per Covid-19 case in Delhi were traced till September 30. Community surveillance or contact tracing is one of the mainstays of the government’s strategy to fight Covid-19 transmission in the country.The Delhi government’s response to the RTI application dated October 14 also said that of the 555,662 contacts of Covid-19 cases that were traced till September 30, as many as 33,882 contacts ultimately had tested positive.The health minister appealed to the people to take full caution in the coming festival days which include following social distancing norms and wearing masks.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayOn hospital arrangements made by the government for a surge in cases, Jain said the city administration is “well-prepared” for the coming days and added that as of date more than 10,000 beds are vacant in the city hospitals for Covid patients.On Wednesday, 5,673 new cases of the viral infection were reported. The positivity rate – the proportion of samples that returned positive among those tested – also was over 9%. This happened for the first time since the first week of September when Delhi was conducting only about 20,000 tests a day.The number of cases in the city started increasing again in October as the government scaled up the more reliable RT-PCR tests. On Wednesday, over 17,000 RT-PCR tests were conducted in the city for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-health-minister-attributes-spike-in-covid-19-cases-to-festive-season-change-in-contact-tracing-strategy/story-1b3tZbc7KVhqkGMdc6Nm5I.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal launches ‘Green Delhi’ app to combat pollution in the national capital||Amid rising air pollution in the national capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched the “Green Delhi” app, which will enable people to register complaints about violation of anti-pollution norms.“Today we are launching the Green Delhi app. Our aim is to involve each and every citizen in this initiative. This app can be installed from the Play Store. You can file any kind of complaint regarding pollution via this app. If you witness industrial pollution or industrial dust, you can upload its video, picture, or audio. Automatically the location will be sent to us,” said Kejriwal. “Particular department will receive the complaint and they will have to work in a time-bound manner. If the citizen is not satisfied with the solution, he or she can re-open that complaint,” he added. Delhi Government has set up a green war room to monitor the status of the complaints that works round the clock, the chief minister stated. “70 green martial have been deployed. They will help in solving the complaints,” he added. The Delhi chief minister said that amid the rising air pollution here, the Delhi government along with the citizens is taking various steps to reduce the pollution.“We have taken initiatives in the last five years as well following which the pollution here has been reduced by 25%. We are still taking steps like all the thermal power plants are all closed in Delhi. Fuel has been changed in 95% of the industries in Delhi. Now they are using non polluting fuels,” said Kejriwal. He said that Delhi has set an example by bringing up an initiative to decompose the stubble and making it compost by spraying a chemical.“The results are satisfactory. If this is successful, we will get a solution for stubble working by next year. We have also launched the Electronic Vehicle Policy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-launches-green-delhi-app-to-combat-pollution-in-the-national-capital/story-R7qSDs5DSzgeflPk23v0sJ.html
29-10-2020||City||PDP takes out protest march against Centre’s land notification; leaders detained||Around a dozen People’s Democratic Party (PDP) leaders were detained by Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) Police on Thursday morning, when they tried to take out a protest march from the party headquarters in Srinagar against the Central government’s latest notification to allow outsiders to buy land in J&K. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued a notification on Tuesday, allowing outsiders to buy non-agricultural land in J&K.J&K was declared a union territory (UT) on October 31, 2019 after the erstwhile state’s special status was scrapped following the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution on August 5 of the same year.On August 5, Parliament split the erstwhile state of J&K into two UTs of J&K and Ladakh.Article 35A gave special rights to the J&K’s permanent residents.Also Read: Covid-19: 40% population in Srinagar developed antibodies, shows sero surveyThe special constitutional provision barred outsiders to buy or own immovable properties in the erstwhile state, settle permanently, or avail themselves of state-sponsored scholarship schemes. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said the party’s headquarters in Srinagar was sealed by J&K Police and UT administration. “PDP office in Srinagar was sealed by J&K administration and party workers arrested for organising a peaceful protest. A similar protest was allowed in Jammu. So why was it thwarted here (Srinagar)? Is this your (the Central government) definition of ‘normalcy’ that is being showcased to the world? ” she tweeted while tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Minister for Home Affairs Amit Shah and J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha.The former J&K chief minister said the ongoing protests against the MHA’s new notification would continue. “We will continue to raise our voice collectively and won’t tolerate attempts to change J&K’s demographics,” she said.Waheed ur Rehman Parra, who heads PDP’s youth wing, was among the party leaders to be detained. “We are still in police detention. Our party office has been sealed. Many of our leaders have been detained,” Parra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pdp-takes-out-protest-march-against-centre-s-land-notification-leaders-detained/story-wmYXOG1IWv86JRaKf1cbTJ.html
29-10-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government asks medical establishments for list of workers to be vaccinated against Covid-19||The West Bengal government has asked all state-run and private medical establishments to send details of frontline health care workers (HCWs) and other staff who would be administered Covid-19 vaccine on a priority basis, an official said on Thursday.All medical establishments like medical colleges (allopathic, homoeopathic and AYUSH), health centres, private healthcare units and polyclinics have been asked to send the list of workers, the senior official of the Health department told PTI.“The HCWs like frontline health workers, ASHA, supervisors/ facilitators, Anganwadi workers (AWWs), nurses and supervisors, health supervisors, block extension educators, medical officers (allopathic doctors), teaching and non-teaching staff and doctors on administrative posts), AYUSH doctors, dentists will be given priority,” he said.Paramedical staff -- all technicians, pharmacists, physiotherapists, radiographers, ward boys, other paramedical staff as well as scientists, research staff, medical and dental students, AYUSH, nursing and paramedical students working in the facilities, support staff and the clerical and administrative staff will also be included in the list, he said.“We have sent the guidelines for the healthcare workers database for Covid-19 vaccination and the excel form which is required to be filled up to mention names and other details of frontline health workers to all medical facilities in the state. One excel sheet can have details of at least 1,000 health care workers,” he said.The Mission Director of National Health Mission will be the nodal officer to coordinate this exercise, the official added.“In the districts, the District Magistrate along with the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) will be responsible for completing all data collection activities within the specified timelines,” he said.As of now, the West Bengal government is aiming mid- November to hand over the complete details of all the health workers working in both private and state-run medical establishments in the state to the Centre.The selected individuals will be given Covid-19 vaccine.Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan earlier this month had said that the Centre is planning to vaccinate about 25 crore people against novel coronavirus by July next year.He had also said that priority would be given to health workers engaged in Covid-19 management in getting inoculated and asserted the Centre would ensure fair and equitable distribution of vaccines, once they are ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-government-asks-medical-establishments-for-list-of-workers-to-be-vaccinated-against-covid-19/story-Zm2zGXLrypo5GsMz1MACPJ.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality deteriorates to ‘severe’ first time this season||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) deteriorated to the “severe” category on Thursday for the first time this year, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). At 1pm, Delhi’s average AQI reading was 402, as per data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). This comes after a short-lived respite on Wednesday. The air quality in the national Capital earlier dipped back into the “very poor” category on Thursday with an AQI reading of 381 as per the CPCB data at 7am. On Wednesday, Delhi’s pollution levels had improved marginally and its AQI reading was in the “poor” category for the first time in six days due to the strong winds that blew over the city the previous day. Air quality enters the very poor zone between the 301-400 mark and crosses over to the severe zone after exceeding 400. Delhi’s average 24-hour AQI reading was 297 on Wednesday, marginally down from Tuesday’s 312. On October 23, ten of the 35 monitoring stations across the national Capital showed that the air quality had dipped to the “severe” category.Thursday’s deterioration in air quality comes a day after the Capital’s average AQI reading had improved to the “poor” category at 297. Pollution levels had gone down for first time in six days due to the strong winds that blew over the city the previous day.The government’s air quality monitoring and forecasting service Safar said, “Extremely calm surface and boundary layer winds along with the low nighttime boundary layer height resulted in low ventilation, practically stagnant no dispersion condition has resulted in the current situation. The Safar model predicts that AQI is likely to stay in the higher end of the ‘very poor’ category with few locations in the ‘severe’ category for a short period today [Thursday]. AQI is likely to marginally improve and stay in the ‘very poor’ category tomorrow [Friday] and significant improvement to the lower-end ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category is forecasted for October 31.”VK Soni, the head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said air quality was likely to deteriorate further on Thursday. However, he predicted that the city’s air will improve significantly between Friday and Sunday, with wind speeds likely to touch 15kmph on Friday.“There is a trough formation, which will lead to a significant improvement in wind speed over the Capital and this will lead to better dispersion of pollutants. Till Sunday, the forecast is that we will see an improvement in air,” Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-deteriorates-to-severe-first-time-this-season/story-s4geawWqmXpCtenmmZOFWP.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body spent over Rs 80 lakh to fight Kangana Ranaut in court||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has spent Rs 82 lakh on fighting its case related to the demolition of actor Kangana Ranaut’s office before the Bombay High Court, according to information obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act.Sharad Yadav, an activist who obtained the information, said he had also filed another RTI application seeking details about the number of complaints of illegal structures BMC has received. He added he was told BMC does not have enough manpower to provide the information.Municipal Commissioner I S Chahal refused to comment on the matter.The BMC in September carried out the demolition citing “‘illegal structural violations” at the office. The action was taken a day after BMC issued a notice to Ranaut.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut calls Uddhav Thackeray ‘worse product of nepotism’: ‘I am not drunk on my father’s power and wealth like you’Ranaut moved the court saying the demolition be declared illegal. The court proceedings went on till the first week of October. The court has concluded the hearing and reserved its order in the matter.The BMC has faced criticism for not showing similar swiftness in dealing with other illegal structures.Ranaut on Wednesday slammed the BMC on Twitter over the money spent on the case.Bhartiya Janata Party corporator Abhijit Samant said there are thousands of other illegal alterations in the city for which BMC never spends this amount of money. “We all know that the demolition of the actor’s bungalow was politically motivated.”The demolition was carried out amid a war of words between Ranaut and the state’s ruling Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-spent-over-rs-80-lakh-to-fight-kangana-ranaut-in-court/story-1RGbpARv6rz2vsTh3pglFO.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 testing strategy changed in Delhi: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that the government has changed testing strategy for Covid-19, now the family members and close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients are also being tested, hence, the national capital is witnessing a rise in the number of cases. Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“Delhi reported 5,673 Covid-19 cases and 40 deaths yesterday. We have over 10,000 beds vacant with us and over 5,000 beds are occupied. Ahead of the festive and winter season, we have changed our strategy, we are testing family members and close contacts of Covid-19 positive patients. Hence, the number of cases is increasing,” said Jain. “Contact tracing and testing processes have now become stronger. Now we are specifically testing people aggressively. Our aim is to detect each and every case here. We will soon see the results,” he added. On being asked if Delhi is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19, Jain said that we should wait at least for a week to analyse the trend in the national capital.“It will be too soon to say that the third wave has arrived but there might be a possibility,” he added.Delhi currently has 29,378 Covid-19 active cases, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-testing-strategy-changed-in-delhi-satyendar-jain/story-yt1cmuhfqjzDdrfiFqwUWK.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders enquiry into MSRDC chief engineer’s meddling in multi-crore road work tender||A Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday ordered an enquiry into the conduct of AB Gaikwad, chief engineer of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), of meddling in awarding a multi-crore road work tender in the state’s Yavatmal district. The HC division bench, comprising Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote, has directed that the enquiry should be conducted by an officer not below the rank of secretary in National Highways (NH) division of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) and submit a report to the it within a month.The court was irked to note that Gaikwad’s interference had resulted in disqualifying an eligible lowest bidder, RK Chavan Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd., and awarding the work to an ineligible entity, M/s. GIPL-BCCPL (JV).The court cancelled the tender process, which was floated for an improvement of State Highway 317 -- stretching from Chargaon in Yavatmal district to the border of neighbouring Chandrapur district – and the bidding exercise’s value was fixed at Rs 47.56 crore.A notice, inviting bids for the project, was published on June 29, 2019. Also Read: Bombay HC directs BMC to pay salaries to blind employees absent during Covid-19 pandemicAltogether, three bids were received in response to the notice. On July 20, 2019, the tender evaluation committee (TEC) declared that one of the bidders was technically disqualified, leaving RK Chavan Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd and M/s. GIPL-BCCPL (JV) in the fray.On August 1, 2019, the price bids were opened and after it became clear that RK Chavan Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd was the lowest bidder, Sumit Bajoria, a representative of GIPL-BCCPL (JV), created a ruckus and took away the tender evaluation sheet and attendance register, following which the tender process had to be stalled. Another GIPL-BCCPL (JV) partner returned the documents to the MSRDC authorities the following day.The judges were annoyed to note that instead of initiating criminal action against Bajoria, the officials extended undue favours to GIPL-BCCPL (JV).Gaikwad himself allegedly cancelled an experience certificate, which was issued to RK Chavan Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd by an executive engineer of MSRDC. On the basis of Gaikwad’s letter, RK Chavan Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd’s bid was held ineligible, paving the way for the alleged errant GIPL-BCCPL (JV) to bag the contract. RK Chavan Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd authorities moved HC, challenging the high-handed action of MSRDC officials.HC expressed utter displeasure over the episode. “The situation leading to the present petition, is clearly indicative of the callous and casual attitude of the respondents and specifically the five-member TEC constituted for the process,” said the bench.The court found that the TEC did not apply its mind about the eligibility norms. It also found that no record was maintained that could throw some light on the tender process. “The process smacks not only of malafide intention, but also of favouritism, indulgence, interference, which compels us to hold that tender exercise is vitiated,” said the bench.The judges were also annoyed with the manner in which the record of the tender was maintained.“A perusal of the record reveals a shocking situation,” said HC. “The original record is a collection of loose papers consisting of various letters, evaluation sheets, communications etc. which is neither arranged date-wise, nor is paginated,” it said. “The record is a hotchpotch of papers with no coherence and logical sequencing at all, either date-wise or for that matter in any manner whatsoever. Nothing can be ascertained from the original record,” it added.The court also noted that the record did not disclose as to when the TEC met, how evaluation was conducted and what was considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-enquiry-into-msrdc-chief-engineer-s-meddling-in-multi-crore-road-work-tender/story-7GjjKFX620TRDjbc0iXlKN.html
29-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: Samajwadi Party candidates join rival parties mid-campaign||Two Samajwadi Party (SP) candidates, who are contesting the upcoming Madhya Pradesh (MP) legislative assembly bypolls, did a volte-face on Wednesday and joined their rival parties such as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress.The U-turn came barely five days ahead of November 3, when bypolls will be held for 28 assembly seats in MP. The SP candidates, Bansilal Jatav (60) and Bhanu Pratap Singh Gurjar (39), have switched to the BJP and the Congress, respectively.The SP had fielded Jatav from Ambah, which is reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SC), in MP’s Morena district and Gurjar from Mehgaon constituency in Bhind district. Also Read: EC notice to BJP candidate for calling political rival ‘insane’Morena and Bhind districts are a part of the Chambal region in MP.Jatav joined the BJP during an election rally in the constituency in presence of Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday. Gurjar followed suit and joined the Congress in Mehgaon. Jatav, a three-time member of the MP legislative assembly (MLA), had quit the BJP after the party did not nominate him for the upcoming bypolls and joined the SP. The SP’s MP unit is peeved at the “indiscipline and betrayal” of their candidates in the run-up to the crucial bypolls.“Jatav joined the BJP on Wednesday. A BJP leader went to his house on Tuesday night and persuaded him to return to the party. Gurjar also joined the Congress. Our party is yet to take a decision about their act of indiscipline and betrayal,” said Yash Bharatiya, spokesperson for the SP’s MP unit. “An audio clip has gone viral on social media, where a Congress leader can be heard trying to lure our Gwalior candidate, Roshan Baig. He is urging Baig to voluntarily withdraw from the contest. Both BJP and Congress leaders are pulling out all stops to intimidate and lure our candidates to withdraw from the upcoming bypolls. However, the voters will give a befitting reply to both the parties on the polling day,” he added.The SP is contesting in 14 of the 28 seats, where bypolls will be held in MP on November 3. The party is largely contesting in the Gwalior-Chambal region. At present, SP has a lone lawmaker in the 230-member MP assembly.Jatav and Gurjar were unavailable for their comments, despite repeated attempts by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-samajwadi-party-candidates-join-rival-parties-mid-campaign/story-HsXZ8jV8TRls46uE4KczAJ.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||39 in Himachal’s Spiti valley test positive for Covid-19||Thirty-nine residents of the remote Rangrik village in Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh have tested positive for Covid-19, health officials said on Thursday. Though the villagers had been in self-isolation ever since the Covid-19 outbreak in March and had banned tourism in the area to keep outsiders at bay, the surfacing of coronavirus cases over the past few days led to the district administration declaring Rangrik village a containment zone. As a precautionary step to contain the spread of coronavirus, the district authorities have sealed the village and barred in and out movement, except in an emergency. HEALTH DEPT TEAM IN VILLAGE FOR CONTACT TRACING A state health department team is carrying out testing of the primary contacts mainly in Kaza, the headquarters of Spiti, 320 km from the state capital of Shimla, on Thursday. “Most of the people in Spiti are aware about the disease despite no internet connectivity in large areas. They are taking precautions on maintaining social distance while working in fields too,” assistant public relations officer Ajay Banyal told IANS over phone. Kaza was the first in the state to sanitise the entire block. Rangrik is 6km from Kaza across the Spiti river and connected by a small bridge. With a population of about 900 people, it is a relatively green patch in an otherwise barren landscape. Located at an altitude of 12,400 feet, it is the largest village in Spiti valley in terms of area and population. The entire Spiti valley is populated mainly by tribals. The climatic conditions of the district are harsh as much of the land forms part of a cold desert where the mercury drops below minus 20 degrees Celsius during winter. Himachal Pradesh reported 332 new Covid-19 cases since Wednesday afternoon. While two patients died, 205 were cured of the infection during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/39-in-himachal-s-spiti-valley-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-XuYdXS0goebdyJ3FCtsHhP.html
29-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Panchayat demands capital punishment for killer of Haryana woman||Vishva Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal, and Karni Sena held a panchayat at Raghunathpur village in Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur on Wednesday demanding capital punishment for the killers of the 20-year-old college student who was shot dead on Monday by her stalker and his friend after a botched abduction attempt in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh. Bhupendra Tomar, Karni Sena’s divisional secretary, claimed hundreds of people from 60 villages with a sizeable Rajput population attended the panchayat. He added they sought adequate compensation for the woman’s family and a fast track court to try the accused.Additional police superintendent Sarvesh Mishra said 200 to 300 people participated in the panchayat that lasted three hours. He added the panchayat organisers later handed over a memorandum to acting sub-divisional magistrate Pankaj Saxena and that a heavy police force was deployed around the venue of the gathering that ended peacefully.Also Read: Hathras gangrape case: CBI continues probe in villageTomar said Bajrang Dal’s state president Gaurav Raghav and many other leaders addressed the panchayat and expressed anger over the incident. Tomar linked the murder to alleged forced conversion because the same accused had allegedly kidnapped the woman in 2018 and the matter was settled through a compromise. He said the accused belong to a strong political family and that is why the issue had died down then and police were negligent in providing security to the woman.He said they will launch a movement if justice was denied to the woman’s family, which is originally from Raghunathpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-panchayat-demands-capital-punishment-for-killer-of-haryana-woman/story-ZDkapqo4CDBmiqQe3WVtVJ.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Raj Thackeray petitions governor Koshyari over inflated electricity bills||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray met Maharshtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to demand a reduction in the inflation of electricity bills being sent to the residents of Mumbai. Speaking to the media, Thackeray said “The governor asked me to talk to [NCP Chief Sharad] Pawar. I will definitely talk or call Pawar and even meet chief minister [Uddhav Thackeray] if needed.” “The MNS has been agitating about this issue. The power companies say that MERC [Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission] should allow them to lower the bills while MERC says that power companies can do so on their own. In such a case, the state government needs to intervene but is not doing anything. They cannot even take a simple decision,” he alleged.Also Read: Bombay HC directs BMC to pay salaries to blind employees absent during Covid-19 pandemicHe questioned how people would pay the unusually high bills. “The person who was paying Rs 5,000 is being charged Rs 25,000. How can people who suffered a lockdown afford to pay such inflated bills?” he added. He said since the governor was the head of the state, he had given the first memorandum to him.Thackeray came down heavily on the state government, accusing it of dragging its feet on taking a decision. “Restaurants have been allowed to reopen but the temples have not. The trains are still not operational and we are seeing such a rush on the roads. It’s time they take decisions and not drag matters,” he added.The inflated bills given by the power companies have caused large resentment among the people. Raj Thackeray had also written to his cousin and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in July, asking him to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-raj-thackeray-petitions-governor-koshyari-over-inflated-electricity-bills/story-Tmv8qfeBToTN5TPQAOOkzI.html
29-10-2020||City||UP: Gang smuggling bulletproof jackets busted; three arrested||A gang of arms peddlers, who was also dealing in smuggling and sale of duplicate bulletproof jackets, was busted in western Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) Muzaffarnagar district on Wednesday, the police said.Shyam Kishan, Sunil Chandra and Maan Singh were arrested and three bulletproof jackets, including an original and two duplicates, two countrymade pistols and four cartridges of .315 bore were also seized from them, said Deepak Chaturvedi, station house officer (SHO), Jansath police station, Muzaffarnagar. Kishan belongs to Mohanpuri locality in Meerut, and Chandra and Singh are from Meerapur in Muzaffarnagar, the SHO said. “This is for the first time that bulletproof jackets have been seized from western UP. The smugglers’ clients are likely to be criminals and white-collar people, who need protection. The arrested accused have revealed the names of a few of their clients during interrogation. Investigation is in progress to gather more information about their network of clients,” the SHO said. Chaturvedi said the sale of bulletproof jackets is carried out through designated agencies. He said Kishan, who had stayed in Chennai sometime ago, had come in the contact with manufacturers of bulletproof jackets. “He started selling bulletproof jackets after he returned to Meerut. He used to buy bulletproof jackets from Chennai for Rs 60,000 and sell them in western UP for around Rs 1.35 lakh. Later, he started making duplicate bulletproof jackets himself in a bid to increase his profit margin and also to meet the growing demand. He also reached out to local arms smugglers to expand his illicit business,” the SHO added. Chaturvedi said the police were trying to gather more information on how many bulletproof jackets he had managed to sell to date. He said the information about smuggling of bulletproof jackets was received from a member of an arms smuggling gang, who was arrested in early October.S Raju 9412366629||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-gang-smuggling-bulletproof-jackets-busted-three-arrested/story-1dgBxBhiTDuGdhVQNUivsN.html
29-10-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 safety protocols flouted during Dussehra celebrations in West Bengal||Flouting Covid-19 safety protocols, thousands of people gathered at a ground in Kharagpur in Paschim Medinipur district during the annual Dussehra ceremony with the video of the event going viral on social media in past two days.The Dussehra festival at Kharagpur attracts thousands of people every year and is attended by people’s representatives, a senior district official said.As the effigy of Ravana was being set ablaze on the sprawling ground on Monday evening, the day of Dussehra and Bijoya Dashami, the crowd swelled and physical distancing apparently went for a toss.As the video of the huge crowd went viral on social media, Trinamool Congress MLA Pradip Sarkar, one of those behind the event and who was present on the occasion, admitted the crowd went beyond expectations.Sarkar said the “Dussehra festival is integrated with the emotion and sentiments of people of Kharagpur, which has a cosmopolitan population comprising different communities.” “We had maintained all Covid-19 safety protocols but at the last minute as the effigy of Ravana was set on flame, some people rushed forward to have a better view. We will be more careful in future,” he said.Sarkar said the crowd was wearing masks and there was frequent announcements on mike asking people to maintain social distancing norms.District Magistrate Roshni Komal, who was also present, said safety protocols were followed by the organisers and it went off smoothly.Local BJP leaders, however, alleged many people were not wearing masks and no physical distancing norms were followed triggering apprehension of Covid-19 contamination as the state was witnessing a surge in such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-safety-protocols-flouted-during-dussehra-celebrations-in-west-bengal/story-Ll5LapJKPwJRntLsIQr0AO.html
29-10-2020||City||Covid-19: 40% population in Srinagar developed antibodies, shows sero survey||As Covid-19 cases in J&K inch towards the 100,000-mark, the second round of sero prevalence of SARS CoV-2 infection has shown that 40.6% population of Srinagar district had developed antibodies.In J&K, Srinagar district has witnessed the highest number of cases at 18,977 and 348 deaths.“Sero survey was conducted in twenty cluster across Srinagar district, covering both urban and rural areas. Incidentally, the prevalence was higher among the women and the elderly population. Around 82% of those who had previously tested positive for Covid-19 and 37% of those who had tested negative showed IgG antibodies in their blood samples,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, professor and head of the department, community medicine, Government Medical College, Srinagar, and principal investigator of the study. “With the results of the study on population of Srinagar district, we may assume that of the 1.5 million population of the district, around 600,000 people carry antibodies,” he said.Also read | Cognitive disorders linked to severe Covid-19 risk: StudyHe said that sero survey is being done in nine other districts of Kashmir division this time and the results are expected soon. “Out of the 2,361 participants, 1,335 were male and the rest female. The seroprevalence was significantly higher among females (44.7%) as compared to males (37.5%),” said an official.Officials said the latest survey conducted earlier this month showed an increase in sero positivity as compared to the previous study of June when sero prevalence in Srinagar district was just 3.8%. “Blood samples of both rounds were tested on hi-end architect analyser of Abbott Laboratories which was also used by ICMR during their recent countrywide sero survey,” said Dr. Sabhiya Majid, professor and HoD of biochemistry department GMC Srinagar and co-principal investigator of the study.Dr Inaamul Haq, assistant professor, community medicine, GMC Srinagar, co-principal investigator, said the study was approved by Institutional ethical committee of the college. “All precautions were taken during sample collection carried out by the technical staff provided by chief medical officer of Srinagar,” he said.The survey was conducted by GMC’s departments of community medicine and biochemistry in collaboration with chief medical officer, Srinagar, directorate of health services and was supported by JK National Health Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-40-population-in-srinagar-developed-antibodies-shows-sero-survey/story-X4BxCxlbwrXTa3Irxq3bHK.html
29-10-2020||Kolkata||Actor Soumitra Chatterjee putting up a very strong fight: Doctors||Veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee is putting up a very strong fight against Covid-19, said a panel of doctors treating the thespian. “He is putting up a very strong fight given his age and comorbidities. There has been no change in his health in the last 48 hours. We have been able to normalise most of the parameters that went haywire,” Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading the team of doctors treating the actor, told the media late Tuesday. Chatterjee, 85, tested positive for Covid-19 on October 6. He was hospitalised in Kolkata and put on ventilator support on Monday afternoon after he developed secondary infections, including pneumonia. “His first dialysis session went well and his consciousness is holding on. He is still in a critical state but we are giving it our best effort. Let’s pray for his recovery” the doctor said. One of the most celebrated actors in Bengal, Chatterjee has received many awards and honours, including the Padma Bhushan, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, several national awards, and Sangeet Natak Akademi Tagore Ratna. He is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/actor-soumitra-chatterjee-putting-up-a-very-strong-fight-doctors/story-nMVCXR79sP6qvK5AYffLRP.html
29-10-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh government prepares for vaccination drive||Even as medical institutes across the country are gearing up for the third phase trial of the country’s first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, the Uttar Pradesh government is preparing for a vaccination drive in the state.In the first phase, frontline health workers like doctors and paramedical staffs will be vaccinated. The state government has directed all the district magistrates and chief medical officers to enlist public and private health workers on priority for vaccination. District health department officers have been told to make arrangement of cold chain in all the districts for storing the vaccine by December 15.Also read | Delhi starts gathering details of healthcare workers for Covid vaccine driveAdditional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said that the state health and family welfare department has directed the district administration and health officers to complete all the preparation for the vaccination before it is launched. Meanwhile, in UP too, the third phase trial of Covaxin will be conducted at SGPGI, Lucknow, and BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur. Keeping in view the large area and population, the department has decided to complete all the preparations by the year-end, he said.The state Health and Family Welfare Department has decided to launch a 16-day focused sample test drive, beginning Thursday, October 29, across the state to check the spread of the infection.The focus of the drive will be on the people who come in contact with large number of people daily. On October 29, the focus will be on autorichsaw drivers and rickshaw pullers; on October 30: mehndi and beauty parlours; October 31: sweet shops; November 1: restaurants; November 2: religious places; November 3: security staff in malls; November 4: staff in electronic shops and vehicles showrooms; November 5: retail shopkeepers; November 6: firecrackers shops, fruits and vegetables markets; November 7: religious places; November 8: sweet shops; November 9: retail shops; November 10: fruit and vegetable markets; November 11: security staff in malls and, November 12: electronic shops and vehicle showrooms.Prasad said district administration officers have also been directed to trace at least 25 contacts of a positive case for the sample test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-uttar-pradesh-government-prepares-for-vaccination-drive/story-vsXu66rgEv9CBjtAbkfJcL.html
29-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government to celebrate Valmiki Jayanti in a big way on October 31||This year, the birth anniversary of Maharishi Valmiki, who is credited with writing the original Ramayan during the lifetime of Lord Ram, will be marked with various events, including the continuous recital of Ramayan for 24 hours at all places and temples associated with the sage on October 31. Uttar Pradesh chief secretary, Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Wednesday issued directions in this regard to all divisional commissioners and the district magistrates (Barring Deoria, Jaunpur, Unnao, Kanpur Nagar, Amroha and Bulandshahr districts) asking them to ensure that Valmiki Jayanti is celebrated on a grand scale throughout the state. Also Read: Row over BSP MLAs meeting Akhilesh Yadav ahead of Rajya Sabha elections“We have asked officials to arrange for the lighting of lamps/ ‘deepdan’ as well as the continuous recital of the Ramayan for 8, 12 or 24 hours and organise similar other events at all places and temples related to Maharishi Valmiki on his jayanti on October 31,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-government-to-celebrate-valmiki-jayanti-in-a-big-way-on-october-31/story-DOhpCLCcKHq1UV6UCcmiEO.html
29-10-2020||Lucknow||Hathras gangrape case: CBI continues probe in village||Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has continued its investigation in Boolgarhi village of Hathras district in the case of the alleged gangrape and murder of a 19-year-old woman. The case was handed over to CBI and on directions from the Supreme Court, the Allahabad high court is to monitor the probe.A CBI team of about 15 members reached village Boolgarhi about a fortnight ago and has been questioning those related to case. Since October 13, the CBI team has been in Hathras with its camp office in the office of the deputy director, agriculture.On its arrival on October 13,the team went to the crime scene. It also met the women in the aggrieved family at their residence and called both the brothers and father to its office.Also read | Bareilly STF reaches HathrasThe CBI team has also extensively interrogated the family members of the four accused and visited the accused in Aligarh jail. The team also visited JN Medical College of Aligarh and interacted with doctors and staff that had treated the woman till September 28 when she was shifted to Safdarjung hospital in Delhi where she died.Initially, a Special Investigating Team (SIT) began the probe after orders from the state government but later, chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended a CBI probe. This Tuesday, the CBI team interrogated the family members of the accused. The team also surveyed the area for various routes from agriculture fields leading to the village.Interestingly, mother of Luv Kush Sikarwar – one of the accused – has claimed her son to be a minor but has given nothing in writing to the officials and the court. On Wednesday, the team summoned the school headmaster with the admissions register, perhaps to verify Sikarwar’s mother’s claims. Meanwhile, the woman’s family has expressed satisfaction with the Supreme Court directions. The family had initially asked for a judicial probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/hathras-gangrape-case-cbi-continues-probe-in-village/story-DSle43ZoINNaUdNlIJwREP.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi: After a day’s respite, air quality dips back to ‘very poor’||Following a short-lived respite on Wednesday, air quality in the national Capital dipped back into the “very poor” category on Thursday with an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 381 as per data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) at 7am.On Wednesday, Delhi’s pollution levels had improved marginally and its AQI reading was in the “poor” category for the first time in six days due to the strong winds that blew over the city the previous day.Air quality enters the very poor zone between the 301-400 mark and crosses over to the severe zone after exceeding 400. Delhi’s average 24-hour AQI reading was 297 on Wednesday, marginally down from Tuesday’s 312.Also Read: Centre to bring ‘comprehensive law’ to control air pollution in Delhi-NCRIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists explained that even though winds were calm on Wednesday, Delhi’s pollution cleared up significantly in the first half of the day because of the impact of Tuesday’s strong winds. Noon onwards, however, the air quality began to dip and the AQI reading settled just a few points short of the “very poor” zone.“The wind speed was around 4kmph during the day, but calmed after sundown. The impact of this will be seen on Thursday as well. The wind speed will remain low and air quality will deteriorate, but remain in the ‘very poor’ zone,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.VK Soni, the head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, also said Delhi’s air quality was likely to deteriorate further on Thursday. However, he predicted that the city’s air would improve significantly between Friday and Sunday, with wind speeds likely to touch 15kmph on Friday.“There is a trough formation, which will lead to a significant improvement in wind speed over the Capital, and this will lead to better dispersion of pollutants. On Sunday, the forecast is that we will see an improvement in the air,” Soni said.Meanwhile, according to the forecast by IMD’s regional meteorological centre, Delhi, the weather will largely remain misty on Thursday with a likely minimum temperature of 15°C.On Wednesday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 30.9°C which is the normal temperature for this time. The minimum temperature, however, dropped to two degrees below normal at 13.8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-after-a-day-s-respite-air-quality-dips-back-to-very-poor/story-PWmPWwinjpyOofiDQnB99I.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||Ballabhgarh murder: Shooter got gun from kin’s friend||Two days after a 20-year-old college student was shot dead by a stalker and a friend after a botched abduction attempt outside her college in Haryana’s Ballabhgarh, a probe revealed that the prime accused got the weapon from his maternal uncle’s friend in Nuh a few days ago.Police said the stalker Touseef Ahmad’s maternal uncle, identified only as Islamuddin is currently serving a 10-year term in Bhondsi for kidnapping a police inspector in Gurugram on June 30, 2016. They added that Ahmad spoke to his uncle and allegedly asked him to arrange a countrymade pistol , following which the latter’s friend, Azru, provided him with a weapon. Inmates lodged in Bhondsi jail can contact family members , said officials. Police said that statements of the eyewitnesses were yet to be recorded on Wednesday but would be done this week. OP Singh, Faridabad’s police commissioner, said: “The special investigation team has identified four eyewitnesses and has collected technical and other evidences against the accused which are enough to hold him guilty in the court. The SIT is questioning the accused and his friend for more details in the case.”A police official familiar with the investigation said on condition of anonymity that Touseef Ahmad told police that he suspected that the victim was in a relationship with another student ; that he had tried to talk to her about it but she wasn’t taking his calls and blocked him on WhatsApp; and that he got angry and planned to murder her. Singh said two classmates of the deceased tried to chase the accused who fled in his car but they could not get hold of him. The entire incident has been captured in the CCTV footage, he said. Ahmad and his friend who accompanied him during the shooting, Rehaan, were tracked down by the police in Nuh and arrested on Tuesday. Ahmad’s paternal uncle said that the family was unaware of his nephew’s plan. “The incident is unfortunate and we were not aware that my nephew was going to murder a woman. We all were not even aware that he was carrying a weapon with him.” The victim’s family members alleged that Ahmad’s family was well aware that he was going to murder their daughter and arranged a weapon for him. “He often used to threaten my daughter and was harassing her for the last two years. She told us that she was scared of him and he could harm but we never imagined that he could kill my daughter,” said Moolchand Tomar, father of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ballabhgarh-murder-shooter-got-gun-from-kin-s-friend/story-wj6fJyKYI2lfDtI5eqqf4H.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Aloo for the soul||There they are, lying in heaps—these shallow-fried potatoes in the shape of fingers. It’s only 8 in the morning but Muhammed Ali Khan’s footpath cart, in Old Delhi’s Cotton Market, already smells of the mildly spicy aloo bhaji.“My customers are mostly mazdoor (labourers),” he says. “They start working early in the morning, and rather than bread-butter they like to have bhaari khana (heavy meal) for breakfast.”After a pause, he explains, “I know very well what a labourer likes to eat, because I was one too.” Mr Khan is from Kishanganj, in Bihar. He arrived in Delhi 30 years ago, and earned a living as a beldar (construction worker) until he started this unnamed food stall, some 20 years ago.Apart from the aloo bhaji, the cart has fried fish, a pan filled with steamed rice, and rotis. Parathas are made on order. A quick tasting spree reveals all the dishes to be nice enough, but the aloo bhaji definitely stands out—crispy and squishy at the same time. Mr Khan speaks again. “Most of the labourers who come to my stall are from Bihar, and people in Bihar like to eat aloo bhaji.”The lane on which the stall stands looks like a boarding house for labourers. One can see their footpath-homes everywhere, with mattresses spread on the sides of the lane and clothes hanging on the walls around. A few labourers have already started their working day, carrying mounds of bricks on their reris (carts). Others are still in the process of getting ready—washing their clothes under a common tap, or taking a quick bath under it.“We too live right here,” says Mr Khan. By “we”, he means he and his two cooks, currently plopped down on the pavement, peeling vegetables. The wall behind them has a couple of pithu bags hanging on them. “These have our clothes,” says Mr Khan.You ought to try the stall’s tasty signature dish. Visit the place in the morning, or any time of the day or night. The stall opens from 5am to 1am, and the aloo bhaji is made afresh many times during the serving hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-aloo-for-the-soul/story-cOD6tjN09HyOp0Hw1KnbyI.html
29-10-2020||City||Pakistan gurdwara body to celebrate first anniversary of Kartarpur Corridor opening||The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) has announced to celebrate the first anniversary of the inauguration of the Kartarpur Corridor that connects Dera Baba Nanak town on the Indian side with Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak, in the neighbouring country.Some “important decisions” were in a joint meeting of the PSGPC and the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) in Lahore on Tuesday taken to celebrate the anniversary on November 9. Talking to HT over phone, PSGPC president Satwant Singh said, “The first anniversary will be celebrated at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib. Earlier, we were planning to invite Sikh devotees from India to attend the celebrations, but it was not possible as the corridor has not been opened from the Indian side in view of the coronavirus pandemic.”The Pakistan government had reopened the corridor on its side in the first week of October. Pakistan’s religious affairs ministry issued a notification for reopening of the corridor, which allows Indian pilgrims visa-free access to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib.Travel through the corridor was suspended in March following the Covid-19 outbreak. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which manages the affairs of gurdwaras in Punjab and other states of the country, has demanded re-opening of the corridor from the Indian side, especially on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak.TO SEEK 3,000 VISAS FOR INDIAN PILGRIMS ON GURU’S BIRTH ANNIVDuring the meeting, the PSGPC and ETPB also decided to ask the Pakistan government to issue 3,000 visas to Indian pilgrims for attending the functions being organised at Nankana Sahib, the birth place of the first Sikh guru, on the occasion of his 551th birth anniversary.“Every year, 3,000 people come from India to commemorate the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. Though the pandemic has changed the situation this year, we expect that the Indian pilgrims will come. We have asked the pilgrims to come with negative Covid-19 test reports. Keeping the pandemic in mind, we are giving only five-day visas to the Indian pilgrims from November 27 to December 1. They will be able to stay at Nankana Sahib only,” said the PSGPC president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistan-gurdwara-body-to-celebrate-first-anniversary-of-kartarpur-corridor-opening/story-VLucGN1TxmCueip2GCuLNJ.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal orchardists suffer ₹1,500 crore loss||Himachal’s ₹4,500-crore apple economy has suffered a loss of at least ₹1,500 crore this year due to the coronavirus pandemic and damage to apple crop which took place due to heavy rainfall and hailstorms earlier this year. This year Himachal Pradesh produced around 2.75 crore apple boxes while in 2019, the state produced 3.5 crore apple boxes.Horticulture department joint director JP Sharma said that this year apple production was low as compared to last year due to different factors as earlier this year heavy rainfall, hailstorms and diseases such as scab had damaged the apple crop. Mahinder Thakur, an orchardist from Kotgarh, said that last year he had produced around 2,000 apple boxes but this year he could only grow around 800 apple boxes. This happened as earlier in April, heavy hailstorm in the area battered the apple crop in the flowering stage.This year quality of apples were also not up to the mark as most of the apples were kept in C grade category as they lacked desirable colour and size. Therefore, orchardists could not get good a price for the produce. Despite the pandemic, orchardists received better rates at the beginning of the apple season, which decreased as the apple season picked pace. Imported apples also marred the Himachal’s apple’s chances.Apples are mostly grown in Shimla, Kullu, Kinnaur and Mandi districts of the state. This year due to coronavirus pandemic orchardists faced many challenges like lack of labourers, restrictions during the lockdown and negative effect of the pandemic on the economy of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-orchardists-suffer-1-500-crore-loss/story-Fvk275PNC2YrYEAkIDQTVL.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Six cases of cheating reported in Chandigarh||Six residents of the city fell prey to fraudsters in separate cases, police said on Wednesday. In the first case, an FIR was registered against one Rakesh Kumar Garg of Haryana’s Kurukshetra for allegedly stealing the car of Santosh Kumar of Colony Number 4. Garg had reportedly sold the same car to Kumar through an online market place, OLX. Kumar said he had in 2017 come in contact of Garg who had listed a Chevrolet Tavera on OLX for sale and the deal was struck at ₹4.8 lakh. “As the vehicle was bought on loan, it was agreed upon that I would repay the loan and even paid ₹80,000 cash along with blank cheques as security with an assurance that the vehicle would be transferred in my name after clearing the loan. But Garg misused the cheques to withdraw ₹6.27 lakh and later stole the vehicle,” he added. He had lodged a police complaint but after they failed to act, he moved court on whose direction, the FIR was registered under sections 406, 420, 379 and 506 of IPC. In another case of cheating, three persons, including two women, lost ₹1.12 lakh in a fake job scam. In her complaint, Ankita of Sector 40 said on September 25, she had got a call from a woman who identified herself as Disha and asked her to fill an online form. “After filing the form, fee of ₹10 was to be paid. As I filled bank details, ₹5,000 was deducted from my account,” she told the police. Another complaint was lodged by Anshu Sharma, who also lost ₹20,100 in a similar manner. Likewise, Sarabjit of Palsora complained that on October 31, 2019, he had lost ₹85,856 to fraudsters who offered to get him a job. Selling headphones online proves costly for Sector-37 residentAnkur Mujral, a resident of Sector 37, told the police said that in June, he had listed a headphone online for selling. He received a call from a man posing as buyer after which he sent a Paytm scan code. As soon as the QR code was used, an amount of ₹1,900 was debited from his account instead. Another resident of the same sector, Ankit Bansal, alleged that he lost ₹60,000 to an unidentified person while buying a sofa online. He said that he had purchased a sofa through OLX and even made payment. But despite that, neither the sofa set delivered nor was the payment refunded, he claimed. Two tricity residents fall prey to snatchersTwo incidents of snatching were reported from different parts of the city, Chandigarh Police said on Wednesday. In the first case, complainant Satwinder Singh of Dhakoli said he lost his gold chain to a snatcher. He told the police that he had gone to the motor market in Sector 45 on Tuesday when a youth walked up to him and snatched his gold chain before fleeing on a motorcycle parked at a distance with his accomplice waiting. A case under sections 379A and 356 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector-34 police station. The second complaint was lodged by Ajay Kumar of Hallomajra. He said a snatcher on a Honda Activa took away his mobile phone from Phase 2 of Chandigarh Industrial Area on Tuesday. An FIR under similar sections of the IPC was registered at the police station of Sector 31||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/six-cases-of-cheating-reported-in-chandigarh/story-6OnWakTmHudbDrj6PtaV7N.html
29-10-2020||City||Himachal’s buyback policy for plastic yields positive result||A year since its launch, the Himachal Pradesh government’s buyback policy for non-recyclable single-use plastic has yielded positive results and helped the civic authorities in making Dharamshala town cleaner. So far, the Dharamshala municipal corporation has collected 20 tonnes of single-use plastic through its collections centres besides rag-pickers. It buys the plastic waste from residents for ₹75 a kg. “We have six collection centres where people deposit the plastic waste and are paid instantly,” says Dharamshala mayor Devinder Singh Jaggi. The collection centres at Norbulingka, Bhagsunag, Sheela Chowk and Charana Khad were set up in December last year. “A cement company in Solan takes this trash from the MC and uses it as fuel in its factory. Of the 20 tonnes of waste, the company has taken away 13 tonnes so far,” says Jaggi. The MC does not charge anything from the company and the cost incurred is cleared by the urban development department, he says. Helps cut down pollution Earlier, people would throw single-use plastic into rivers, resulting in water pollution. “The scheme has helped in the civic body’s endeavour to make Dharamshala cleaner,” he says. Urging people to help the authorities in eradicating the plastic problem, Jaggi appealed to residents of the town to participate in the movement. The Himachal Pradesh government had approved the policy to buy back non-recyclable plastic waste in September last year. The scheme was officially launched on October 1, ahead of the 150th birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi. Himachal Pradesh is one of the few states to have banned plastic bags, thermocol cutlery and plastic water bottles of less than 1-litre capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-buyback-policy-for-plastic-yields-positive-result/story-5FuYvuUPIFMRrDexohrt2O.html
29-10-2020||City||4.6-acre housing project site in Sector 77 fetched for ₹100 crore||Even though the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) earned ₹417 crore by selling almost half of its properties out of total 113 in the 15-day auction that concluded on Tuesday, another site of 4.6 acres meant for a housing project in Sector 77 was sold for a whopping ₹100 crore in a bid said to be the highest ever. The reserve price of the site was ₹68 crore. The auction for this site went for nearly 14 hours as Delhi-based Homeland Builders bought the property after outbidding another developer from the national capital. The site – sold for nearly ₹20 crore per acre – has been bought by the same company that built luxury flats in Sector 70 and is also coming up with Homeland Unity Mall in Sector 67. The site is located on the 200-metre wide Airport Road in Sector 77 and is close to the district administrative complex in Sector 76. Homeland Builders CEO Umang Jindal said, “There was a tough fight for the site, which went at a price about 100% times higher. Since it is a prime location, we will be constructing the tallest towers of tricity there. We are hopeful to start the construction work by next month. We are planning to build at least 276 flats at the site that also falls in the vicinity of the famous Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana.” The amount, though earned from just one bid, is also the highest revenue the developing authority has generated during an auction from a group housing society. Mohali, particularly its peripheral areas of Zirakpur, Kharar, and New Chandigarh (Mullanpur), has been the tricity’s development hub in the recent past. Since last year, with GMADA-led IT City and Aerocity projects, Airport Road too is coming up as a prominent realty destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-6-acre-housing-project-site-in-sector-77-fetched-for-100-crore/story-G6E5zhiNoKw6eL9YspJaMP.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two JeM terrorists killed in gunfight at Budgam||Two unidentified terrorists were neutralised in an encounter in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday night. Acting on a tipoff, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel and the J&K police launched a joint cordon-and-search operation at Machama in Chadoora area of Budgam district around 7pm, a police official said.The operation turned into an encounter around after militants opened fire at security forces, he added.Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said, “The terrorists were killed in the gunbattle which lasted nearly four hours.”He said the militants neutralised were associated with the terrorist organisation Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). One of the ultras is believed to be a local while the other was a foreigner. Terror hideout busted in PoonchSecurity forces busted a terrorist hideout in the Kalaban forest area of Poonch district and recovered a haul of arms and ammunition from it on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.Poonch district police chief SSP Ramesh Kumar Angral said, “Acting on specific input, a joint cordon and search operation was launched by the police and 37 Rashtriya Rifles in Kalaban area of Mendhar on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday.Recoveries included an AK 56 rifle, three AK magazines, a binocular, a radio set, a 7.3 mm Pakistani pistol, a pistol magazine, one solar charger, 793 AK rounds and a pouch.2 army personnel injured in mine blast along LoC In a separate incident, two Army personnel were injured in a mine blast along the line of control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Wednesday, official sources said. The two personnel stepped on an anti-personnel mine, triggering a blast,while patrolling along the LoC in the Balakote sector. They have been moved to a hospital for treatment, they said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-jem-terrorists-killed-in-gunfight-at-budgam/story-x9MAXOR0JL7E0iM8fFQ3hI.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Termination of teachers: Complainants, principals of 3 Ludhiana colleges to appear before PU panel today||Principals of three Ludhiana-based private colleges affiliated to Panjab University (PU) have been asked to appear before a special varsity panel on Thursday in connection with the termination of teachers’ services. The complainants have also been asked to appear before the seven-member panel that was constituted by PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to address issues related to affiliated colleges during the last meeting.The principal of Mai Bhago College for Women, Ramgarh, has been asked to appear before the panel at 1.30pm in connection with the removal of three teachers from services. Likewise, the principal of Swami Ganga Giri Janta Girls College, Raikot, has been called at 12.30pm over the termination of two teachers, while the principal of Kamla Lohtia SD College will appear at 11.30am regarding the termination of principal (on probation).The principals have been asked to present all documents related to the service records of teachers who have been terminated from the services along with the evidence. They have also been asked to submit the proceedings of their managing committees for the last three years.All complainants have also been asked furnish documentary evidence related to their cases. A member of the panel, on the condition of anonymity said, “We will hear both the sides and peruse all relevant documentary evidence before making any decision.”Panel to visit collegeThe special panel is also scheduled to visit Mata Ganga Khalsa College near Gurdwara Manji Sahib in Ludhiana’s Kottan on Friday in connection with the non-payment of salaries to the staff and other allied issues. The principal of the college has been asked to keep all the records related to the issue available for the committee.After several complaints of termination, non-payment of salaries to teachers in various affiliated colleges, PU syndicate in its July meeting had held a deliberation after which vice-chancellor Raj Kumar formed a panel to address these issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/termination-of-teachers-complainants-principals-of-3-ludhiana-colleges-to-appear-before-pu-panel-today/story-aercIMfXlkv6rVi6PKRiyM.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||2 deaths, 332 cases reported in Himachal||Two more Covid-related deaths were reported in Himachal on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 295, officials said.A 58-year-old man succumbed to the disease in Sirmaur while a 94-year-old woman died in Kangra district. As many as 332 new cases were reported in the state on Wednesday and the state’s tally climbed to 21,149. Of these, 2,646 cases are active. Meanwhile, 205 patients also recovered, taking the total recoveries to 18,179. Of the total cases, 88 have been reported in Mandi, 72 in Shimla , 38 in Kullu, 28 in Kinnaur, 27 in Kangra, 24 in Solan, 22 in Bilaspur, 11 in Sirmaur, seven each in Lahaul-Spiti and Hamirpur, six in Chamba and two in Una district.With 3,584 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district, followed by Kangra (2,965), Mandi (2,789), Shimla (2,367), Sirmaur (2,245), Una (1,519), Kullu (1,390), Bilaspur (1,245), Hamirpur (1,210), Chamba (1,115) and Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur (330 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-deaths-332-cases-reported-in-himachal/story-N3CYRbXUIWYkN0JdHcj58H.html
29-10-2020||City||World Stroke Day: Lack of awareness major cause of rising stroke cases, say experts||Stroke awareness is poor and stroke care services are not well developed and fragmented, said neurology experts of Christian Medical College and Hospital. (CMC). Low and middle-income countries account for over 65% of stroke cases worldwide. While some succumb, many patients are rendered bedridden for the rest of their life, claim experts. Due to lack of stroke care delivery, infrastructure, resources and human resources many patients are suffering, says CMC experts. This year, Christian Medical College, on the occasion of World Stroke Day, celebrated on October 29 every year, is organising a virtual international symposium on stroke with World Health Organization (WHO) on improving stroke care services in the South East Asia region. The day is observed to highlight increasing rates of stroke, its seriousness, raise awareness of the prevention and treatment and ensure comprehensive support and care for survivors. The participants will reflect on stroke care services and discuss the improvements that can be implemented in the region. The event will be attended by Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director of WHO-SEARO, Dr Thaksaphon Thamarangsi, director, department of healthy population, and non-communicable diseases, WHO-SEARO. Dr Gampo Dorji, WHO-SEARO and Dr Jeyaraj D Pandian, principal, Christian Medical College, Ludhiana; vice-president, World Stroke Organization will coordinate the forum. The expert panelists on the forum are from India, Sri Lanka and Thailand. The topics that would be addressed are stroke, evidence-based acute management of stroke, its prevention, surgical treatment of stroke, rehabilitation for stroke, and stroke unit care. Case stories for stroke improvement initiatives will be presented by Dr Tashi Tenzin from Bhutan, Dr Rasheed Ahmed from the Maldives, Dr Kyaw Kan Kaung from Myanmar and Dr Brigido de Deus from Timor Leste. CMC lend helping hand to neighbouring countriesThe department of neurology at Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, headed by Dr Jeyaraj Durai Pandian, is currently collaborating with the WHO’s South-East Asia Regional Office to provide technical support to Bhutan, Maldives, Myanmar, and Timor-Leste in South East Asia, to aid them in establishing efficient stroke care services. Stroke care services include immediate medical and surgical interventions, followed by extensive rehabilitative services. The project aims at improving stroke care services at the community level, in primary, secondary, and tertiary health care settings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/world-stroke-day-lack-of-awareness-major-cause-of-rising-stroke-cases-say-experts/story-gr8MzP67hB1nyfrjqnQMvJ.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||‘Anti-people orders’: Hurriyat Conference calls for protests on October 31||The All Parties Hurriyat Conference has called for peaceful protests against the Centre’s ‘anti-people orders’ on October 31. The alliance, which is led by Mirwaiz Farooq, said the Centre’s imperial approach was bound to fail. In a statement, Hurriyat leaders - professor Abdul Ghani Bhat, Bilal Ghani Lone and Masroor Abbas Ansari - said the government of India had been issuing incessant anti-people orders at frequent intervals to intimidate and psychologically torture the people of J&K.“APHC reiterates its principled stand of engagement and dialogue among stakeholders for resolution of the Kashmir dispute,” the statement said, the Union was attempting to undermine all attempts of pursuing a peaceful resolution to the Jammu and Kashmir issue.“A policy of permanent demographic change is aggressively being pushed to snatch our land, destroy our identity and turn us into a minority in our own land. One after the other laws are being invented and amended by New Delhi and forcibly thrust upon the people of J&K,” the statement said. The Centre first brought in the arbitrary ‘domicile law’ that gave residency rights to non-permanent residents, then amendments in The J&K Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act allowed allocation of jobs and education seats to outsiders, then laws allowing exploitation of our natural resources were passed, and now our land laws have been brazenly repealed to allow anyone from across India to own land in Jammu and Kashmir, thsy said. “A law also allows the government to declare any local area as a ‘strategic area on the Army’s behest, which is alarming,” they said.The statement has asked people to hold peaceful shutdown on Saturday to register their resentment against the laws and also demanded their immediate withdrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anti-people-orders-hurriyat-conference-calls-for-protests-on-october-31/story-P6pBg7XCU4pk5JvMYV05qM.html
29-10-2020||City||Samrala teacher’s infection report leaves parents jittery||As many as 80 students showed up at Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, as it re-opened on Wednesday, after hiatus of seven months.As per sources, more than 280 parents had given written consent to send their wards to the school. But after a teacher of a government school in Samrala tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, many students stayed at home as parents were not ready to send their children to school.Around 60 students of Classes 11 and 12 who have opted for the humanities and science stream attended school in the morning shift from 8.30 am to 11.30 am. The staff was deputed to conduct the thermal screening of students at the entry point. The school followed Covid guidelines and SOPs issued by the government.While in the afternoon shift, only 20 students of Classes 9, 10, as well as, those who have opted for vocational and commerce stream attended the school from 12.30 pm to 3.30 pm.School principal, Navdeep Romana said, “We took all the safety measures and asked students and staff to sanitise their hands frequently. Students were asked not to remove masks and maintain social distancing at all times.”After the 90 personnel of three companies of Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) vacated the 15 rooms of Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose last week, the authorities conducted a sanitisation drive at the premises and reopened after taking consent from parents. Other government schools in the district reopened for Classes 9 to 12 on October 19 after receiving orders from the state education department.Prince Singh, a Class 11 student, said, “I was attending online classes for the last five months and on Wednesday I got the chance to attend classes in person. Teachers cleared the doubts of students and all the precautions were put in place in the school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/samrala-teacher-s-infection-report-leaves-parents-jittery/story-YfkG7UrFv1MHnfn0OjoqsM.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt transfers 18 IAS officers||The Haryana government on Wednesday issued transfer and posting orders of 18 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers. As many as 11 officers who were shifted or given additional charge two days ago also figure in the Wednesday’s reshuffle. Additional chief secretary (ACS), public works (B&R) Alok Nigam was again given the additional responsibility of medical education and research. Mahavir Singh who was transferred as ACS, school education on Monday and posted as ACS, labour was again given the additional charge of school education while Vineet Garg was posted as principal secretary, skill development and industrial training. Secretary to governor, G Anupama, was given the additional charge of principal secretary, forests and wildlife. Director, supplies and disposals, Nitin Yadav, was given the additional charge of director general, elementary education while labour commissioner Pankaj Yadav was given the additional charge of secretary, personnel. Vinay Singh was posted as chief administrator, HUDA, while Ashok Sangwan who was on Monday posted as chief administrator, HUDA, was shifted as additional resident commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi. TL Satyaprakash was posted as managing director, HVPN and secretary, Home-1 while Pankaj Yadav was posted as secretary, Home-II. Balkar Singh was posted as managing director, DHBVN, and RC Bidhan was transferred as director, development and panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-transfers-18-ias-officers/story-8Zm3Mzz9W67wjc9QeCfpDK.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Hisar juvenile home escape: Disciplinary action recommended against prisons department officials, cops||A high-level committee constituted by Haryana chief secretary along with the findings of a probe conducted by Hisar administration has recommended disciplinary action against prisons and police department officials for their alleged omissions leading to the escape of 17 juvenile undertrials from an observation home in Hisar on October 13. The undertrials, eight of whom facing murder charges, had escaped from the observation home after attacking the guards. Till Wednesday, nine of them were arrested, officials said. The chief secretary had constituted a committee headed by additional chief secretary, home and additional chief secretary, women and child development, director general of prisons and director general of police to look into the matter and give its recommendations regarding the state of affairs in all observation and special homes to prevent recurrence of such incidents. As per the probe findings communicated by the women and child development department for action by the prisons and police departments, the warders at the Hisar observation home failed to inspect barracks properly and detect the act of juvenile inmates. The warders also failed to lock the inside gates when the juvenile inmates were roaming in open space in the corridor. “ In view of these omissions, the entire staff – superintendent, head warder and warders be replaced by a new staff. Also, disciplinary action should be initiated against those responsible,’’ the findings read. It said the police personnel deputed at the observation home failed to lock the door from outside. “Out of four police personnel deputed, three—ASI Jagraj, constables, Vinod and Raghuvinder Singh were found absent from duty. Only constable Bijender Singh was present. In view of this omission, the ASI and constables be replaced by new staff and disciplinary action be initiated against those responsible,’’ the findings said. Hisar deputy commissioner has also been asked to organise regular mock drills at the juvenile observation home and prepare standard operating procedure listing out the role of each employee to deal with a crisis like the one that happened on October 13. The state government has also asked the deputy commissioners of Ambala, Karnal, Sonepat and Faridabad, where observation and special homes for boys are situated, to immediately replace women cooks and helpers, installation of extra screens for viewing close circuit television camera footage in the guard’s room, mock drills and standard operating procedure listing out the role of each employee to deal with crisis and timely submission of security audit report by a district-level committee comprising the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), the deputy superintendent of police and the jail superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hisar-juvenile-home-escape-disciplinary-action-recommended-against-prisons-department-officials-cops/story-S67EikNM8QAQtFWrRD5FcI.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police moves court to cancel bail of two who assaulted traffic cop||Mumbai Police has approached the sessions court to cancel the bail granted to two persons booked by LT Marg police station for assaulting an on-duty traffic constable. The accused were arrested from the spot but were granted bail by the magistrate court on Monday.The LT Marg police have now approached the sessions court claiming that the bail was granted by the court without considering the seriousness of the crime, and this has sent a wrong message to the society. The chief public prosecutor Jay Singh Desai confirmed this and said that the plea is scheduled for hearing on Saturday.As per the case registered with the police, on October 23, around 12.30pm, a 54-year-old constable Eknath Karde was assaulted by Sagarika Tiwari and Mohsin Khan near Cotton Exchange at LT Marg. The constable had stopped a biker for not wearing a helmet. The police claimed that the bike rider and the woman riding pillion started an argument with Kharde. Soon a crowd gathered at the spot. According to an onlooker, the constable abused the woman, following which she hit the constable. The video of the woman assaulting the constable was recorded by a passer-by and went viral. Following the incident, the police booked both the accused under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-moves-court-to-cancel-bail-of-two-who-assaulted-traffic-cop/story-iGNwUvfyxhr4jCfZmFUNOJ.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC directs BMC to pay salaries to blind employees absent during Covid-19 pandemic||In a major relief to the blind employees of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the civic body to compensate employees by paying them salary arrears in two parts. The court held that the action of the BMC of not paying salaries to specially-abled employees for not attending work due to the pandemic was discriminatory and illegal. The BMC is to pay the employees the arrears in two parts – one before Diwali, and the second instalment after 45 days of paying the first instalment. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while passing its judgement in the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the National Association for the Blind (NAB) on behalf of around 250 blind employees of the civic corporation, held that the BMC was responsible for its employees and was bound to pay them salaries though they did not attend duty. While arguing for NAB, advocate Uday Warunjikar had submitted that the Central and state government had issued a notice on March 27 and April 21, respectively, directing all government and local body authorities to exempt persons with disabilities from essential service duty during the pandemic. Warunjikar also submitted the April 28 memorandum issued by the ministry of social justice and empowerment which directed all PSUs to exempt persons with disabilities from essential services during the pandemic, and to treat their absence as special leave without loss of pay. Warunjikar further cited the example of a blind employee of the BMC who did not receive any salary in July and said that he was just one of 250 others who were marked absent by the civic authority and refused salary. Warunjikar had sought the courts interference by declaring the BMC’s act of non-payment of salaries to blind employees as arbitrary and also issue directions to the BMC to implement the provisions of the Persons with Disability Act, 2016. He asked that the civic body treat the absence from duty as simpliciter leave, wherein there is no financial loss to the employees. While pronouncing the judgement, the court held that the BMC’s act of not paying salary to blind employees was illegal and directed it to pay the salaries in two instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-directs-bmc-to-pay-salaries-to-blind-employees-absent-during-covid-19-pandemic/story-CgwxFGjxxAXExyy0PBsvpI.html
29-10-2020||City||Baroda bypoll: Three generations of Devi Lal’s family canvassing for BJP candidate||Three generations of former deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal’s family is canvassing for BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt in the Baroda bypoll, slated for November 3. Dutt is pitted against Indu Raj Narwal of the Congress, Raj Kumar Saini of the Loktantra Suraksha Party and Joginder Singh Malik of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD).Despite political differences, Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) patriarch Ajay Singh Chautala, his son Digvijay Singh Chautala, cousin Aditya Chautala, who is the BJP’s Sirsa district chief and their uncle Ranjit Singh Chautala, who is the power and jails minister in the BJP-JJP coalition government, are targeting guns at the Congress during the election campaign.It is for the first time that Aditya, Ajay Chautala and Ranjit Singh Chautala are canvassing for a common candidate against the nominee of the INLD, which is headed by former Haryana chief minister OP Chautala and his son Abhay Singh Chautala. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala will join his father Ajay, uncle Aditya and grand uncle Ranjit Chautala to canvass against his old party’s nominee Joginder Singh Malik on October 30 and 31.Abhay, OP Chautala put efforts to retrieve party’s statureINLD supremo OP Chautala and his son Abhay Singh Chautala have been making efforts to retrieve their party’s stature, which saw its worst performance in the 2019 assembly polls. Abhay was the sole winner from the INLD.OP Chautala said after the Baroda bypoll, the BJP-JJP government will fall on its own and the traitors (Dushyant Chautala and his mother Naina Chautala) will have no option rather than merging their party into the BJP.“The Baroda seat was dominated by our party from 1977 to 2005 and this time the voters have made up their mind to elect our nominee Malik. I urge you to strengthen my hands and I promise to give a farmer friendly environment in the state,” he added.Anant Ram, retired professor of political science at the government college in Bhiwani, said the BJP is bringing Chautala clan to campaign for their candidate to woo Jat voters, which constitute 52% in the Baroda constituency and most are dependent on agriculture.“However, OP Chautala and his son Abhay are also focusing on the same vote bank to retrieve their party’s stature. It is evident that Aditya, Ranjit and Ajay Chautala’s families have huge political differences but surprisingly they will have to support Yogeshwar Dutt as the BJP is running the government with the help of independents and JJP,” he added. Differences in Chautala clanThe differences between OP Chautala and his brother Ranjit Singh erupted in 1989 when Devi Lal preferred the former as his political heir by choosing him as the chief minister. However, following a family feud, OP Chautala ousted Ajay and his both sons—Digvijay and Dushyant—from the INLD. Later, both Digvijay and Dushyant formed the JJP. The differences came to fore between Aditya and his cousin Abhay Singh, when the former defeated Abhay’s wife in the Zila parishad elections in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-three-generations-of-devi-lal-s-family-canvassing-for-bjp-candidate/story-SwSgNwanOhHwL5VfmkxcVI.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||SpiceJet to launch seaplane services in Gujarat from October 31||Budget carrier- SpiceJet announced the launch of its seaplane on Wednesday between Ahmedabad (Sabarmati riverfront) and the Statue of Unity in Kevadia, Gujarat. The flights, managed by its fully-owned subsidiary- Spice Shuttle, will operate two daily flights from Saturday, October 31, and ticket bookings will be available from Friday. Under government’s regional connectivity scheme- Udan Desh Ka Aam Nagarik (UDAN), passengers will be charged ₹1500.A 15-seater Twin Otter 300 aircraft will depart from Ahmedabad at 10:15am and will reach the Statue of Unity, Kevadia at 10:45am. It will leave Kevadia at 11.45am to reach Ahmedabad at 12.15pm. The second flight to Kevadi will depart at 12.45pm and it will leave for Ahmedabad at 3.15pmAjay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet, said, “Our seaplane service between the Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad and Statue of Unity in Kevadia will cut down travel time to just about half an hour and will be a unique, exhilarating flying experience that would boost travel and tourism. Infrastructural challenges have been a key deterrent for providing air connectivity to smaller towns and cities. With the ability to land on a small water body, seaplanes are the perfect flying machines that can effectively connect the remotest parts of India into the mainstream aviation network without the high cost of building airports and runways.”The airline said that the aircraft has undergone regular maintenance, overhauling and seat refurbishment and has a valid airworthiness review certificate (ARC).“All the required SoPs to operate these flights are in-line with operational guidance of seaplane operations. It is fitted with efficient Twin Turboprop Pratt & Whitney PT6A-27 engines, known for their reliability. The aircraft has an incredible accident-free history and is one of the most sought-after aircraft for an ultimate flying experience not only in the Maldives but across the world,” said the airline spokesperson.SpiceJet has secured 18 seaplane routes under UDAN which includes – Ahmedabad-Kevadia, Agatti-Minicoy and Agatti-Kavaratti among others. By introducing and successfully running seaplanes in the country, the government aims to boost tourism.The airline had conducted seaplane trials in 2017. While under the first phase, trials were conducted in Nagpur and Guwahati, the second phase saw trials at the city’s Girgaum Chowpatty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spicejet-to-launch-seaplane-services-in-gujarat-from-october-31/story-SUOLQ5z2hsp8lqflCfuYGL.html
29-10-2020||City||Yamunanagar assault case: FIR against unknown person for impersonating as OSD to Anil Vij||A day after JJP district chief Arjun Singh’s son Bhupinder and his three friends were booked for allegedly pointing gun and threatening some villagers, Yamunanagar police on Wednesday lodged an FIR against an unknown person for impersonating as OSD to Haryana home minister Anil Vij and threatening the Buria station in-charge.The impersonator claimed to be Vijay Sharma, who is the PA to Anil Vij.The audio of the phone call has been widely shared. The caller can be heard intimidating the police officer, asking him on why did he threaten “his friend Bhupinder” and “to reply with a solution within 10 minutes.”On the complaint of station in-charge Lajja Ram, a case was registered under Sections 170, 186, 353 and 419 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66D of the IT Act. In his complaint, Lajja Ram said, “As per my knowledge, this was not the voice of Vijay Sharma.” Vijay Sharma, who is the PA to Anil Vij at Chandigarh office did not respond to calls and messages. However, home minister Anil Vij, while talking to mediapersons, said ,“I was not aware of the matter but came to know that the call was made by someone impersonating as my PA. I’ve asked for a probe into the matter.”. Yamunanagar superintendent of police (SP) Kamaldeep Goyal said this is the second FIR in the matter and two people have been arrested in the assault case so far. On being asked about the allegations that the accused were allowed to go, the SP said, “All the accused were brought for interrogation. However, there was no complaint till then and so they were allowed to go. Now, two of them have been arrested while Bhupinder along with his friend is absconding.”Meanwhile, JJP leader and Ex-MLA Arjun Singh said the issue is being politicised. “My son was going home and got stuck in this road blockade. He stepped out of the car to check the situation but was attacked instead by the villagers who have their vested interests in the mining business. The complainant Balram has stolen Rs 58,000 from Bhupinder’s car,” he said, adding that they will lodge a theft case soon. “The station in-charge should have regulated the traffic. I have received a call from Dushyant Chautala, who asked me about the case. Some people are trying to malign the party’s image. I’ve demanded a clean investigation in the case,” Singh told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamunanagar-assault-case-fir-against-unknown-person-for-impersonating-as-osd-to-anil-vij/story-CCjCVwOOlPpBiCHc5RsH4J.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Manjula Shetye custodial death case: Accused Byculla jail official seeks bail||Wasima Shaikh, one of the six jail officials booked for assaulting inmate Manjula Shetye to death, has moved for bail before the sessions court. Shaikh, in her plea filed through lawyer Sudha Dwivedi, has pleaded that the witnesses so far examined by the prosecution have not revealed her role in the alleged incident of assault. Further, she claimed that due to the pandemic situation, the court should consider granting bail as the trial in the case may get further delayed. As per the prosecution’s case, Shetye, a life convict, was allegedly assaulted by the staff of Byculla jail on June 23, 2017. Police recorded the complaint of an inmate who was an eyewitness, on June 25, 2017. Shetye was allegedly brutally assaulted by jail officials because she had complained that her morning ration was missing eggs and bread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/manjula-shetye-custodial-death-case-accused-byculla-jail-official-seeks-bail/story-sfd1P90MOWqJEbezuaLMiK.html
29-10-2020||City||Biker killed, pillion rider injured as dumper truck rams into two-wheeler in Navi Mumbai||A 35-year-old biker was killed while his friend was grievously injured after a dumper truck crashed into their two-wheeler on the old Uran-Panvel road on Monday evening. Panvel police are on the look-out for the accused driver.The incident took place around 5.45pm in Panvel. The victim, Balasaheb Chavhan, was riding his bike while his friend Gyaneshwar Ingle, 29, was riding pillion. The duo was returning home from work at the time of the accident. As they reached Gavhanpatha, a speeding dumper truck crashed into them as they were taking a left turn.Chavhan and his friend Ingle sustained grievous injuries. Police said the accused driver abandoned the dumper at the spot and fled.“The men were lying injured on the road when traffic police personnel patrolling the area spotted them. The duo was rushed to MGM Hospital in Kamothe where Chavhan was declared dead on arrival,” said assistant inspector N Dhanawade at Panvel City police station.Chavhan’s younger brother Laxman was informed about the mishap. Police registered a case of causing death due to negligence and rash driving against the unidentified dumper driver. They have also seized the dumper and are on the look-out for the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/biker-killed-pillion-rider-injured-as-dumper-truck-rams-into-two-wheeler-in-navi-mumbai/story-glFQCGBJEYlx6Cg1zrjIvK.html
29-10-2020||City||₹50 lakh worth gutkha seized in Kashimira, 3 arrested||Kashimira police on Tuesday evening raided a godown on Ghodbunder Road and seized a huge consignment of banned gutkha products worth ₹50 lakh, and three persons have been arrested. “We received a tip-off and raided a godown in Chena village, while the trio was unloading jute bags from a container truck. When we checked the bags, we found the banned gutkha sachets and strips hidden in it,” said Sanjay Hazare, senior inspector of Kashmira police station.Police seized a pick-up van carrying the contraband valued at around ₹50 lakh in the local market.The three arrested accused have been identified as Jaffar Hussain Khan (godown owner), Sudam Javre (driver) and Navnath Barse (cleaner). While the godown owner resides in Mira Road, the driver and cleaner both are natives of Kuranda village in Hingoli district. The trio was remanded in police custody after being produced before the Thane court on Wednesday. The consignee and supplier are absconding. “The contraband was transported from a village along the Maharashtra-Karnataka border. To confuse the police, the accused used the modus operandi of transporting the banned products in a container,” said Hazare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-lakh-worth-gutkha-seized-in-kashimira-3-arrested/story-g55D1ELrU2qEP9rDfIs6zL.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis alleges ₹400-crore scam in Maharashtra health department||Alleging a ₹400-crore scam in the recruitment in the health department under the National Health Mission (NHM), Opposition leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding a probe. State health minister Rajesh Tope, however, said a probe has already been ordered into the allegations, after the department received complaints from Gadchiroli district last month. Fadnavis alleged that bribes between ₹1 lakh and ₹2.5 lakh are being taken from contractual employees for their recruitment in permanent jobs in the health department. He claimed 20,000 such employees are expected to be given permanent jobs. “This translates into a scam of ₹300-400 crore. This needs to be thoroughly probed and action needs to be taken against the guilty. NHM is fully funded by the Centre and implemented by the state government. It is serious if such bribes are being demanded for permanent recruitments. I have submitted audio clips alongisde,” Fadnavis has stated in the letter. “The process of appointing permanent employees started during the tenure of Fadnavis. A ministerial group headed by Sudhir Mungantiwar had recommended permanent recruitment. I had ordered a probe by Gadchiroli’s superintendent of police Shailesh Balkawde after I received complaints from the district,” said Tope. Meanwhile, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya has alleged the state government played an important role in “gifting a builder ₹900 crore for a seven-acre plot at Dahisar”. “The builder has been asking the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to purchase the plot for the past 10 years. On November 2, 2019, then municipal chief Praveen Pardeshi had opposed it on the grounds that it was fully encroached and BMC would be at loss by purchasing it. However, a day after Uddhav Thackeray took over as the chief minister, BMC improvement committee decided to buy it for ₹349 crore. The builder appealed before the revenue tribunal, saying he should be paid ₹900 crore.” Shiv Sena leader and standing committee chairman Yeshwant Jadhav refuted the allegations. “There is no transaction of ₹900 crore. We are working on the progress of Mumbai, while he is indulging in making false allegations,” said Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-s-devendra-fadnavis-alleges-400-crore-scam-in-maharashtra-health-department/story-Wsr6FEmrcuHkUtevHHY0YO.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar urges Maharashtra onion traders to withdraw strike; blames Centre for contradictory decisions||In an attempt to end the indefinite strike called by onion traders in Nashik district, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday urged them to reconsider their decision. He assured that he would request the Centre to remove the restrictions on onion stock limits. Pawar also criticised the Central government, saying that it had removed onions from the list of essential commodities but banned its export and imposed restrictions on its stock limits in contradiction to its earlier decision.Onion traders in Nashik have been on strike since the last three days and have threatened to continue it indefinitely. They are opposing restrictions imposed by the Centre on stock limits of 25 metric tonnes (MT) for wholesalers and two metric tonnes for retailers on October 23. To keep prices in check, the Centre had banned the export of onions last month, a move that was opposed by all the political parties in the state.Nashik has around 15 Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC). It also has Lasalgaon APMC, the oldest and largest wholesale market for onions in the country. The daily arrival of onion produce in the district is between 80,000 quintal to over one lakh. The strike has stopped onion supplies to many cities including Mumbai, which led to a rise in prices due to the shortage. It is also affecting farmers as onion is a perishable crop.The Central government made an amendment in the Essential Commodities Act and removed cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities last month.“On one hand, the government removed onions from the list of essential commodities; on the other, it imposed a ban on its export. Now, they have imposed restrictions on its stock limit, which is contradictory to what it had decided earlier. The restrictions are not practical and need to be removed,” Pawar said, after his meeting with onion traders in Nashik.“I will discuss the matter with the concerned union minister. I am also ready to lead a delegation along with representatives from onion traders to Delhi, but I will request you all to reconsider your decision on the indefinite strike. We can work together towards removing the difficulties. If possible, withdraw your strike as farmers have also been hit. I am sure you are not the ones who want to see others in trouble,” Pawar told traders.Jaydutt Holkar, chairman, APMC, Lasalgaon, said that they are facing loss of crores of rupees daily. “The losses of Lasalgaon APMC are around 𔝁2.5 crore a day, whereas the combined loss of all the APMCs in the district goes to around ₹10-15 crore a day. It has also disturbed supplies to cities, as a result of which they are experiencing a rise in prices. We are now hoping that the traders will withdraw their strike,” Holkar said.Ashok Walunj, director Navi Mumbai APMC said that the supply for Mumbai is not affected much as the strike was called by traders and not farmers. “Farmers have continued their supply to the market, so we were not that much affected. Also, the state government had deregulated onions in 2016, allowing farmers to sell them anywhere in the state. Hence, their direct supply to the city remained uninterrupted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-urges-maharashtra-onion-traders-to-withdraw-strike-blames-centre-for-contradictory-decisions/story-echq3aEbko9dUO4rDZvN7O.html
29-10-2020||City||Day after teacher tests positive, exam centre shifted from Samrala govt school||A day after a lecturer tested positive for Covid-19 at Government Senior Secondary School (for boys), Samrala, the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has shifted exam centre of 158 students who were take their Class-10 (open school) papers here.They will now be taking the exam at Government Senior Secondary School (for girls), which is about a kilometre away from the boys’ school. The boys’ school authorities had closed the school for sanitisation, hours after they got the news of the teacher testing positive. The school will remain closed for a week. To avoid any confusion, the school authorities have deputed two employees outside the premises to guide students regarding the change in centre. The mathematics exam is scheduled to be held on Thursday from 11am to 2.15 pm. The authorities of GSSS Girls, Samrala, meanwhile said they have made proper seating arrangements, in keeping with the distancing norms, for students. District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “We have informed the board regarding the development. Now, students will appear for the open school exam at GSSS Girls, Samrala, which is close-by and so students won’t face any difficulty in reaching there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-teacher-tests-positive-exam-centre-shifted-from-samrala-govt-school/story-Y1tvOSGdnxZBfk45QOowzH.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||As cases spike, Delhi has 3,047 containment zones in place to check virus spread||With Covid-19 cases shooting up due to the ongoing festive season rush, the number of containment zones in the city have exceeded 3,000, government records showed.As on Wednesday, Delhi had 3,047 containment zones, with 117 new ones created in the last 48 hours.The city on Wednesday notched a record 5,673 new covid-19 cases – the highest single day spike so far – breaking its own record of 4,853 new cases a day earlier, records showed.Government records further showed that the south-west revenue district (558) has the highest number of containment zones, followed by the south district (505). They are followed by west (333), New Delhi (275) and central Delhi (267). North-east Delhi, despite being the one with the highest population-density, has the lowest number of containment zones at 82.Delhi has 11 revenue districts.Government records also showed that the district officials have till date scaled down containment measures in as many as 3,610 containment zones and they are currently scaling down containment efforts in 1,177 of them even though they are officially yet to be de-notified as containment zones.The Central government had on Tuesday praised Delhi’s containment efforts, saying nearly 50% of cases surfacing in the city were located in containment zones. “We have seen the efforts that were being made to contain the disease spread in Delhi that has led to about 50% of the cases being reported from designated containment zones,” Dr VK Paul, member of Niti Aayog who heads a committee of experts, had said.Earlier this month, another expert committee jointly headed by Paul and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had flagged in a revised covid-19 document that the Capital could witness as many as 15,000 new Covid-19 cases per day in the winters. A senior Delhi government official said, “The government is aggressively creating micro containment zones. It is important to mention that the focus of the government is on creating smaller containment zones so that lesser people are affected and more active cases can be brought under scaled up surveillance. The status of the containment zones is periodically reviewed.” “Under the new policy, several residences which have more than one covid-19 case in the family, assigned home isolation, have been notified as containment zones. The policy of micro containment zones has enabled the districts to scatter containment zones to conform with the scattered nature of cases,” said the official who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/as-cases-spike-delhi-has-3-047-containment-zones-in-place-to-check-virus-spread/story-0tsaRp6q0rWGpkSvfKvRfJ.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Bollywood singer Kumar Sanu’s son’s remarks on Marathi on Big Boss show upset Shiv Sena, MNS||Bigg Boss contestant Jaan Kumar Sanu’s comment “against Marathi language” led to furore on Wednesday, with the Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) threatening to stop the filming of the reality show. While Sena also demanded the show’s shooting permit be cancelled, home minister Anil Deshmukh said the state was contemplating legal action after receiving a complaint. Viacom 18 Media Private Limited, which runs Colors, the channel on which the show is aired, issued an apology, stating it respects all languages and has taken note of objections and taken corrective measures of removing the objectionable part from all future broadcasts. In an episode on the show aired on October 27, Jaan, the son of Bollywood playback singer Kumar Sanu, is seen deriding his fellow contestant who spoke in Marathi, saying she should not speak in Marathi in front of him. He is seen telling her he gets irritated with the language and if she has the courage, she should speak in Hindi. HT contacted Kumar Sanu, but he refused to comment on the issue. In a tweet, Shiv Sena secretary and head of the party’s Chitrapat Sena Aadesh Bandekar said, “Bigg Boss showrunners and the person [Jaan Kumar Sanu] must immediately apologise to Maharashtra and the people of Maharashtra. The person should be immediately evicted [from the show]... Maharashtra government should withdraw shooting permission of those who indulge in defaming the state.” Shiv Sena spokesperson and legislator Pratap Sarnaik said the show was shot in Maharashtra and earns TRPs through the state and contestants who defame Marathi language will not be tolerated. “If the son of Kumar Sanu, who made his career living in Maharashtra, is disrespecting Marathi, it will not be tolerated,” Sarnaik said in a tweet. MNS film workers’ union chief Ameya Khopkar said the MNS would not allow Bigg Boss to be filmed if both Jaan and the channel did not apologise within 24 hours. “We will see how Jaan gets work in Mumbai. Anyone who hates Marathi should get out of Maharashtra.” Viacom 18 Media Private Limited, in the apology issued to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, said: “We hereby apologise if we have inadvertently hurt the feelings of the people of Maharashtra due to the broadcast of the same comment in relation to Marathi language.” After the statement, Sarnaik said they have accepted the apology and shown both Jaan and their channel “their place”, while Khopkar said he was not convinced and want them to apologise on their show. Later in the evening, Viacom 18 also tendered an apology to MNS chief Raj Thackeray in Marathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bollywood-singer-kumar-sanu-s-son-s-remarks-on-marathi-on-big-boss-show-upset-shiv-sena-mns/story-auZzaMbHdF1ckYw2qT3SRJ.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Social distancing goes for a toss at Delhi’s markets in festive season||A security guard with a face shield screened with a thermal scanner every visitor entering a popular saree shop at the Lajpat Nagar central market and limited the number of clients to 10 at any given point of time, diligently keeping count on a register. Inside, a few people pulled their face masks down to their chin as they scanned through the shelves and negotiated over price. Outside, a crowd gathered as people waited for their turn to step inside.On a narrow pavement outside, people jostled for space with those waiting outside a nearby footwear shop and curious buyers surrounding more than a dozen street vendors in the vicinity, , most of them selling garments.Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayAround 10 feet away, a loudspeaker mounted on an elevated police post blared: “Prevent yourself from Covid-19. Always wear a mask and maintain social distance”.Thousands of people thronged Delhi’s prominent markets on Wednesday for festive shopping weeks ahead of Diwali, visibly compromising with social distancing norms at a time when Covid-19 cases are again on the rise. Delhi on Wednesday reported 5,673 new cases — the maximum number in a single day so far since the first one was detected on March 2. On Wednesday, HT visited markets such as Sadar Bazar, Sarojini Nagar, Lajpat Nagar and Karol Bagh and saw scores of people looking for items ranging from garments to blankets, toys to kitchen utensils till late evening.“This year has been depressing. The festive season and buying gifts for loved ones are at least bringing us some joy. We are taking all necessary precautions,” said Geetanjali Sharma, a shopper at the Sarojini Nagar market.Shadab Aarif, a shopper in Sadar Bazar, said: “It is more out of necessity. Winter is coming. We will need blankets and warm clothes. This is a good time to avail of discounts.”PRECAUTIONS BY TRADERSWhile most shop owners imposed a cap on the maximum number of visitors, depending on the size of their enterprise, the crowd outside – on the streets, pavements and interconnected maze of lanes – swelled unabated. Amid the jostling, most shoppers, however, maintained they were taking all precautions.Traders expressed happiness that all economic restrictions related to the Covid-19 lockdown had been scrapped and business was recovering. But there is palpable anxiety over the risk in the light of potential transmission of the disease and the recent spike of cases in Delhi.“We ensured scaled-up surveillance. Police are deployed to ensure social distancing. Traders are required to ensure maximum cooperation,” said Sanjay Bhargava, president of the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal.Devraj Baweja, general secretary of the confederation of Sadar Bazar traders’ association, said: “We urged the civic agencies to crack down on encroachment. Even if people try to ensure social distancing, there is hardly any space in the market for that. We requested the district administration to arrange an alternative parking site.Trader bodies are in talks over staggered hours in the festive season.”“The massive festive crowd is a big challenge. People letting their guard down have added to the challenge. We are doing a massive awareness drive,” said Ajay Bajaj, advisor to the Karol Bagh traders’ federation.Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of the traders’ association in Lajpat Nagar, said: “Other than ensuring that all norms such as sanitisation, wearing of masks and social distancing are followed, we deputed a team of 10 people to assist the police in crowd management.”ADMINISTRATIVE INTERVENTIONRevenue minister Kailash Gahlot said the government has undertaken an intensive awareness campaign in the light of the festive season. “The objective is to bring a behavioural change among people to arrest the spread of the disease. I appeal to people to always wear face masks and maintain social distancing norms at all costs.”In Delhi’s 11 revenue districts, special teams have been deployed at markets to help with the awareness campaigns and prosecute violators of guidelines.“It is a two-pronged approach. The first is to bring a behavioural change by making people aware of the efficiency of masks and measures such as social distancing. The second aspect is penalising violators. Market areas are witnessing gatherings and they remain a key focus area,” said BM Mishra, district magistrate (South Delhi).Neha Bansal, district magistrate (West Delhi), said all sub-divisional magistrates have been instructed to engage with market associations to ensure compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We are particularly targeting younger people, which comprise a large chunk of the market footfall during festive season, in our campaigns.”From blocking access points to markets to distributing masks among people, the police too have taken a number of steps for crowd management.“After meetings with market federations, the 800-metre Pahari Dheeraj Road between Rani Jhansi Road and Sadar Bazar Thana Road has been made one-way for vehicular movement till Diwali. All shopkeepers and staffers are barred from parking their vehicles outside shops. They have been asked to use designated parking lots,” deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said. Similar arrangements have been made at the Chandni Chowk, Lahori Gate, and Kamla Nagar markets in north Delhi, Karol Bagh, Sarojini Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, and Gandhi Nagar markets as well, the police said.“On the prosecution front, the police issue challans to people not wearing masks or maintaining social distance. The police distribute masks for free to people who are not able to afford them,” said Amit Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara). Deputy commissioner of police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said: “Shopkeepers are supposed to ensure social distancing and the use of masks by their customers. We prosecute shopkeepers if violation of norms is found at their shops. But our prime aim remains on educating people and creating awareness about precautionary measures.”(With inputs from Karn Pratap Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-delhi-s-markets-in-festive-season/story-SmXB3zFpZ6hLiUW39w3wLJ.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Four AAP MLAs, other leaders booked after protest at Civic Centre||Four AAP MLAs and other party leaders were booked under various IPC sections after the police alleged that they manhandled a senior police officer and nine other personnel, including women constables, during a protest organised at the Civic Centre in central Delhi. The Aam Aadmi Party described the police action as a conspiracy.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said nearly 1,500 protesters led by Durgesh Pathak, AAP’s MCD incharge, and party MLAs assaulted ACP Anil Kumar and other police personnel when they were controlling the crowd.Besides Pathak, AAP legislators from Kondli, Mangolpuri, Model Town and Trilokpuri -- Kuldeep Monu, Rakhi Bidlan, Akhilesh Tripathi, and Rohit Mahliyan – and other organisers, have been named in the FIR, said DCP Bhatia. Pathak said, “The AAP was protesting against privatisation of sanitisation in Delhi by the SDMC. It was to save thousands of sanitation workers from being exploited by private players. But unfortunately, the BJP unleashed it’s Delhi Police against us. But we will continue our fight against what is wrong. We won’t be bogged by such intimidation tactics,” said Pathak.Earlier, AAP leaders and councillors staged a massive protest at the Civic Centre, headquarters of north and south civic bodies, to oppose a proposal by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to privatise some of its obligatory services such as sweeping and sanitation in Kakrola ward in southwest Delhi on a pilot basis. The proposal was later rejected in the standing committee meeting of the south corporation. Pathak said that the proposal to privatise sanitation services was rejected only because of stern opposition by the AAP. “Had this proposal been passed today (Wednesday), sanitisation employees would have been left on the mercy of private companies. Due to AAP’s strong opposition, the BJP-led SDMC had to reject the proposal,” Pathak said. Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in south corporation, said that there would be no privatisation of sanitation services or of any other obligatory functions of the corporation. He said that the proposal was prepared by the officials of the civic body, which has been rejected in the standing committee meeting on Wednesday.SCHEMES CLEAREDThe south civic body on Wednesday, however, cleared the draft proposal of installation of public e-bike/e-cycle (non-motorised) transportation sharing system in its jurisdiction and also approved the proposal to provide doorstep service to tax payers in filing online property tax through ‘mobile sahayaks’.According to civic officials, the move of providing public e-bike/e-cycle (non-motorised) sharing transportation facility will work on the lines of a similar system developed by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and aims to expand sustainable and environment friendly transport modes.Under the draft policy, the civic body through a private agency will provide the facility of e-bike/e-cycle from different locations in its jurisdiction to promote low-cost and environment friendly mobility option to city residents. The officials said that to avail this service, users will have to register on SDMC’s app and can rent the e-bike for a maximum duration of up to 10 hours within the SDMC area. As per policy document, users will be charged nominal fee against the use of e-bikes, which will be available at sheds set up across different locations in south corporation’s jurisdiction. Users will have to pay Rs 15 for up to 30 minutes while they have to pay Rs 20 for an hour. For two hours, users will have to pay Rs 40 and for three hours Rs 60. Beyond eight hours, users will have to pay Rs 250.“It is a draft policy, which is at a nascent stage. We will call tenders and finalise the private agency to run the scheme. It will take a few months to start the facility on ground,” a senior SDMC official said.He added that the locations of e-bike stations/sheds are yet to be finalised but it would be near commercial spaces, Metro stations, bus stops, offices and parks among others.In another move, the civic body approved a proposal to provide doorstep service to tax payers in filing online property tax through ‘mobile sahayaks’.SDMC officials said that the step was mooted after complaints from residents filling property tax through the updated online system. The move will also enhance property tax collection of the civic body, which “had not been satisfactory” this year.Under the “doorstep service of collection of property tax through mobile sahayaks” policy, residents will have to make a call on SDMC’s call centre to avail the service. The applicant will be then given a unique token number for the same. “It will work on the model of Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of services. A mobile sahayak, equipped with a tablet and internet connection, will then visit the resident of the applicant on a given date and time and help the user in filing the property tax. Users will have to pay a facilitation fee, which will be not more than Rs 135, after successful transaction of the tax amount to SDMC,” the official said.The deadline to roll out this scheme is January 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/four-aap-mlas-other-leaders-booked-after-protest-at-civic-centre/story-wTEclXCDWKDmisEHccQmTO.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Supreme Court dismisses Delhi Police’s appeal against bail to Devangana Kalita||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to set aside the bail granted to Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, dismissing Delhi Police’s assertion that she is an influential person who can tamper with evidence.The Delhi high court on September 1 had granted bail to Kalita in one of the four cases filed against her by the Delhi Police over her alleged provocative speech as part of the widespread protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). The police claimed that Kalita’s speech instigated women of a particular community during the February riots in north-east Delhi that preceded the visit of US President Donald Trump to India.Incidents of murder, attempt to murder that took place during the riots were also attributed to Kalita’s speech. A total of 53 persons including two policemen died during the riots while over 600 were injured.Dismissing police’s appeal against the HC’s bail order, the apex court bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah said, “It is only a grant of bail. She is not going to run away.” Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju arguing the appeal informed the court that the HC missed out to consider important evidence of witnesses in this case. The police claimed that Kalita is a resident of Assam while her husband resides in United Kingdom and she had no roots in the society.“She is an influential person and can tamper with evidence,” ASG Raju argued. The bench remained firm on its view. The bench remarked, “Being influential does not mean you won’t get bail. And if she tampers with evidence, you can always seek cancellation of bail. We are not inclined to interfere.”Even the Delhi high court order of September 1 was passed after going through the case records submitted by the police in a sealed cover. The HC found nothing on record to show that the alleged offences took place at the instance of the petitioner.Kalita, a student of Jawaharlal Nehru University, was represented in the apex court by senior advocate Kapil Sibal. He said, “She (Kalita) will not leave the country.” Despite the Supreme Court order, Kalita will remain in jail in connection with another FIR lodged against her under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The Delhi HC had allowed Kalita to be released on bail in only one FIR on deposit of Rs 25,000 bail bond and surety of the like amount.Even before the HC, the Delhi Police had vehemently opposed Kalita’s bail plea. But the HC noted there was no need to allow the petitioner to suffer further “unnecessary harassment, humiliation and unjustified detention” considering the fact that persons similarly charged as Kalita in the FIR have not been arrested.The single judge of the HC had directed Kalita not to influence any witnesses in the case or tamper with evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-supreme-court-dismisses-delhi-police-s-appeal-against-bail-to-devangana-kalita/story-EpwP1l8zhSAyfDQKgRFHRK.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi launches anti-cracker campaign, 11 teams to crack down on polluting fireworks||To save Delhi from the annual air emergency caused by the bursting of crackers, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday launched an enforcement campaign ahead of Diwali to check the use of traditional, polluting firecrackers and to ensure only green and less polluting varieties are available this time. Rai said the anti-firecracker campaign will be launched from November 3, as part of which 11 special squads of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and Delhi Police will inspect firecracker manufacturing units and wholesale and retail shops to ensure polluting firecrackers are not sold. Rai urged Delhiites to avoid bursting crackers altogether this time. “I would request people to not burst crackers at all, but if your children are insisting and there is no other way, then we urge them to only use the green varieties,” Rai said at a press conference The minister said Delhi Police’s licensing wing will join hands with DPCC to strengthen enforcement against the manufacturing and sale of polluting firecrackers. “In these special teams, five environment marshals will be present to ensure an efficient crackdown. Only 93 licensed manufacturers are allowed to sell green crackers this time. We will upload this list on the DPCC website for the benefit of the public,” Rai said. In 2017, ahead of Diwali, the Supreme Court had put a temporary ban on the sale and purchase of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR. In the last two years, however, the court had ordered that only low-emission and improved fireworks could be sold in Delhi, owing to concerns over rising air pollution. Residents were allowed to burst only green crackers between 8pm and 10pm. These green crackers are said to have 30% lower emission as compared to traditional fireworks. The noise levels are lower -- 125 decibels against 160 decibels in traditional ones. Narendra Gupta, president, fireworks and general traders association, Sadar Bazar, said they assured the government that all licensed traders from Sadar Bazar or Jama Masjid, two of Delhi’s biggest markets, will sell only green crackers this time. At least 60 varieties of green crackers are available this time against three last year. “Many cracker sellers have already moved away from the business because of the uncertainty over the last three years. We are only expecting some 10-12 licence requests this time from Sadar Bazar,” he said. In 2018 and 2019, despite the ban on the sale of crackers and due to the low availability of low-emission varieties —till last year only ‘phuljhari’ (sparklers), rocket and ‘anar’(flower pots) were available —pollution levels in the city saw a major spike after Diwali as people openly burst firecrackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-launches-anti-cracker-campaign-11-teams-to-crack-down-on-polluting-fireworks/story-KWJbuPTkUOQ830BCRC4KqO.html
29-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality to deteriorate briefly before improving||Delhi’s air on Wednesday felt the positive impact of strong winds that blew over the city the previous day, with pollution levels in the Capital improving to the ‘poor’ category for the first time in six days.Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that Delhi’s average air quality index (AQI) value on Wednesday was 297, down marginally from Tuesday’s 312. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists explained that even though winds were calm on Wednesday, Delhi’s pollution cleared up significantly in the first half of the day because of the impact of Tuesday’s strong winds. Noon onwards, however, the air quality began to dip and the AQI settled just a few points short of the ‘very poor’ zone. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the average wind speed over Delhi was around 4kmph on Wednesday. “The wind speed was around 4kmph during the day, but calmed after sun down. The impact of this will be seen on Thursday as well. The wind speed will remain low and air quality will deteriorate, but remain in the very poor zone,” Srivastava said. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, also said air quality is likely to deteriorate further on Thursday. However, he predicted that the city’s air will improve significantly between Friday and Sunday, with wind speeds likely to touch 15kmph on Friday. “There is a trough formation, which will lead to a significant improvement in wind speed over the Capital and this will lead to better dispersion of pollutants. Till Sunday, the forecast is that we will see an improvement in air,” Soni said. Meanwhile, stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana continued to add to Delhi’s pollution on Wednesday. The Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said 1,830 fires were spotted over Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday, contributing to 18% of the Capital’s PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers) levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-s-air-quality-to-deteriorate-briefly-before-improving/story-0tcy7Mp0KOaIpvDdbn63tO.html
29-10-2020||City||Man, 2 aides try to kidnap teen from house in Ludhiana; booked||A Tajpur road resident, along with his two accomplices, allegedly tried to kidnap a 19-year-old girl after barging into her house on Tuesday.On her complaint, police have lodged a complaint against Hasrat Ali of Bhamiyan Kalan, Tajpur road, and his two unidentified accomplices. The victim told the police that she was offering prayers at home when the accused barged in and tried to kidnap her. When she resisted, the accused allegedly thrashed her and also tore her clothes. She then raised the alarm, following which the accused fled the spot. But they told her that they would come again to kidnap her. She added that the accused had abducted her 2019 as well when he used to live near her house. He had allegedly offered her food laced with sedatives and ‘solemnised a wedding’ but she managed to escape.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Varinder Pal Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrong¬ful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-2-aides-try-to-kidnap-teen-from-house-in-ludhiana-booked/story-w5XSaNeNHvV53P1TwskxBI.html
29-10-2020||Mumbai||Most find flights safer than road, railways: Survey by Mumbai airport||In order to understand passenger requirements and patterns to travel during the pandemic phase, Mumbai airport conducted a survey and found out 99.8% passengers, who had flown in September, found air travel to be safer than bus and trains. The story also revealed that approximately 84.5% of passengers were more confident travelling by air. According to the findings, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) is seeing a rise in passengers travelling to Goa, Uttarakhand and Kerala, as they are accepting travellers without Covid-19 test or registration. With the increase in passengers, the survey also revealed that 61.8% of passengers are ready to travel again in the coming month for leisure and business travel.Mumbai airport had first conducted this ‘restart feedback survey’ in August. The second phase of the restart feedback survey was conducted last month, with more than 1,000 participants.The airport operator said that the survey conducted by CSMIA revealed a boost in passenger confidence towards air travel. “With the ease in restrictions and state borders being opened in the country, Mumbaiites have welcomed the relaxation in norms by starting to travel for business and leisure,” said a senior Mumbai airport official. “In a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19, CSMIA has been adhering to governmental norms and regulations specifically around the permitted number of flight movements per day. Between May and September, the increase in the permitted flights per day has resulted in an increase in passenger traffic at the airport. After months of lockdown and remote working, the relaxation of state quarantine norms for travellers has been well received by corporates. The survey conducted by the airport revealed a revival in business and leisure travel of passengers travelling through CSMIA,” added the official. A senior airport official said the airport also recorded rising interest and comfort of passengers in availing food and beverage services onsite.According to CSMIA, the study showed 11.1% increase in passengers availing food and beverage services at the airport from July to September. “Passengers have shared positive feedback highlighting their comfort in visiting the food outlets at the airport. It was also revealed that there is an increase of passenger confidence in shopping at the airport,” said an airport official.CSMIA officials said that 84.2% of passengers gave the airport a five-star rating, on a scale of one to five, for its overall airport safety and hygiene experience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/most-find-flights-safer-than-road-railways-survey-by-mumbai-airport/story-6USgLWWaoH9W2Hr7sv7BDP.html
29-10-2020||Pune||On ventilator for 15 days, 54-yr-old recovers from abdominal TB and gets a new liver in Pune||Pune: A 54-year-old man from Baramati, suffering from liver failure and abdominal tuberculosis (TB), recovered successfully after a liver transplant. Suffering from end-stage liver disorder, the patient was brought to the hospital in an unconscious condition. After being on ventilator support for over two weeks and undergoing a transplant, son being the donor, the man has recovered, according to hospital authorities. Doctors had been following up with the patient, Jaylaxman Bichkar, for over two months. He was admitted to Ruby Hall Clinic with multiple complications. Dr Vinit Shah, gastroenterologist and hepatologist from the hospital, said, “This was a rare case of recovery where he was suffering from both liver sclerosis and abdominal TB at the same time. He was brought unconscious to the hospital and we had to put him on a ventilator immediately. For around fifteen days, he was on a ventilator. He then recovered a little and we then operated on him.”His son became a living donor for his father. Requesting anonymity, he said, “My father was unwell for around a month before we approached the hospital. He was having sleeplessness and acidity. He had also lost weight and became weak. When the doctors diagnosed that he is suffering from liver failure and needs to undergo a liver transplant, we were worried. Initially, my father was reluctant for any surgery. But later, he agreed, when I showed the willingness to donate liver for him. Post-surgery we are seeing a huge difference in his health. I am happy that he is able to live a life that he was living before surgery.”Dr Shah said, “First, we started his treatment for TB and when he was stabilised from that, we performed a liver transplant on him.”Dr Sachin Palnitkar, city-based hepatologist, said, “These cases are challenging too. In some cases, it is seen that TB tablets lead to liver failure. But in such cases, the end result is fruitful if a liver transplant is done. Post liver transplant immunosuppressant drugs are given. Managing TB cases with immunosuppressant drugs is a challenging task because it has to be ensured that TB does not become resistant to drugs. Hence, modification of TB treatment and healthy recovery post-transplant is challenging in such cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-ventilator-for-15-days-54-yr-old-recovers-from-abdominal-tb-and-gets-a-new-liver-in-pune/story-5bH9ANVJuZYLx2boBw3UjM.html
29-10-2020||Pune||Eight months on, 500 Pune villages have not reported a single Covid case||Pune: Around 500 villages surrounding Pune district have managed to keep the deadly SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, at bay. The villages have not reported a single case since the past eight month since the first case in the state and the district was reported on March 9. The villagers have been able to keep away the virus by following all norms. These villages are small with a population of not more than 2,000-3,000 and are located in the interiors. The efforts by the villagers have ensured that the virus does not enter their homes. Ayush Prasad, CEO of Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “Of the 1,400 villages, currently over 1,000 do not have any active cases and of those 500 have not had a single virus case. It has now been proven that the cases in rural Pune were somehow linked to the city. So, now when the cases in Pune city are coming down, eventually the cases in rural Pune are declining. These 500 villages had nominal floating population to Pune city and so there was no way for the infection to spread to the interiors.” Some of the initiatives taken by the villages included complete shutdown of the market by ensuring that essentials are provided door to door. The villagers also made sure that de-sanitisation takes place at least two times daily, an awareness committee was formed in every village which included the sarpanch and government officials, door-to-door survey which has been done about 5-6 times till now with the help of anganwadi members, those entering the villages were kept a watch and shops were kept shut with mutual consent with the shopkeepers. Pune rural has reported a total of 73,524 Covid cases as of Tuesday, of which 1,921 deaths were reported which took the case fatality rate to 2.61%. These cases were reported from gram panchayats, municipal councils and the three cantonments. Out of the 73,000 cases, over 66,000 have recovered and have been discharged and currently there are 3,882 in hospital isolation and 1,102 in home isolation. Over 2.68 lakh samples have been tested from Pune rural areas, according to the state health department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-months-on-500-pune-villages-have-not-reported-a-single-covid-case/story-VtrMf3VNENkStDDZ3feXjP.html
29-10-2020||Gurugram||21-year-old patient alleges rape in ICU of private hospital in Gurugram||A 21-year-old tuberculosis patient admitted in Fortis Hospital in Gurugram’s Sector 44 was allegedly raped by a member of the staff while she was in a semi-conscious condition on ventilator in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital, police said on Wednesday.The patient gained consciousness on Tuesday and informed her father about the incident through a handwritten note, police added. The family then approached police and a case was registered. Police said the family is suspecting that the incident took place between October 21, when she was admitted, and October 27, when she gained consciousness. The victim is still under treatment at the hospital.According to police, the survivor is a resident of Mahendragarh and was taken to the hospital after she complained of breathing issues. Police said she is undergoing treatment for tuberculosis and was in isolation in a private room of the ICU when the incident took place. Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (HQ), said the father of the patient went to meet her on Tuesday, and she tried to convey him through written messages that she was raped. “The hospital conducted an investigation internally and we were informed by the family members (about the alleged crime), following which we have registered a case under section 376 (2) (E) of Indian Penal Code at Sushant Lok police station. We have identified the suspect but are yet to arrest him,” she said. Kundu said the woman uttered the name Vikas to her father and that is how they identified the suspect, who is a non-medical, outsourced staffer. Kundu said they have recovered CCTV footage and questioned the staff deployed in the ward. “It was found that the suspect is outsourced and is non-medical staff. We are verifying all the details before arresting the suspect,” she said. Police said the survivor is unfit to record her statement and she was put on ventilator the day after admission.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said, “A board of doctors from the civil hospital had conducted a medical investigation on Wednesday and police protection has been provided to the patient in the hospital.” The father of the woman questioned how a male staff was attending to his daughter. “My daughter was raped while being in hospital. This is a breach of patient security and safety,” he said.Fortis Hospital said in a statement: “(The) Patient came to the hospital on 21st October 2020 with severe respiratory symptoms and pulmonary tuberculosis. She was admitted in ICU, and from the second day of her admission, she is on ventilator support. Six days after admission, the patient has alleged that she has been violated within the hospital premises on the day of admission. Post complaint, police have been immediately informed. Hospital is fully cooperating with authorities and furnishing all information/details.” Police said they will provide counselling to the patient once she recovers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-21-year-old-patient-raped-in-icu-of-private-hospital/story-vsy5Ayq24CxcnMr3fV8z3J.html
29-10-2020||City||65-year-old man rapes 11-year-old mentally disabled girl in Panchkula, held||An 11-year-old mentally disabled girl was allegedly raped by a 65-year-old man, who has been arrested.The accused, Dhir Singh, resident of Dhakoli, Punjab, and a retired government employee, was nabbed within 24 hours of the incident after an 11-year-old boy shared with police a video of the crime shot by him.The victim’s father told the police that his wife had died of cancer and he had four children. “When I returned from work on Tuesday, my neighbours informed me of my daughter’s rape by an unidentified person and that a video of the incident was being circulated,” he stated in his complaint.On seeing the video, the complainant approached the women police station and sought action the accused and the people, who were circulating the video.As such, a case under Section 67-B of the Information Technology Act and Sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered and the accused was arrested on Wednesday.“The accused visited the victim’s neighbourhood often and raped her in a street. A minor boy shot a video of the crime and shared it with the police. The video helped us zero in on the accused, as the victim cannot communicate well,” said assistant commissioner of police Noopur Bishnoi, adding that the police had rewarded the boy for helping crack the case.The accused was produced in court on Wednesday and sent to one-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-year-old-man-rapes-11-year-old-mentally-disabled-girl-in-panchkula-held/story-FjI71qdA7SAaJuBULWg7FP.html
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Inquiry into death of 70 cattle at pound in Haryana’s Panchkula||Seventy cattle have died due to suspected food poisoning and 30 are critically ill at two cow sheds  at the Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham in Panchkula district of Haryana bordering the state capital of Chandigarh, officials said on Thursday. Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja visited the cattle pound on Wednesday after the incident came to light and marked an inquiry into the matter. PANEL TO DRAFT SoP FOR COW SHELTERS A three-member special investigation team, comprising the chief executive officer of the district rural development agency (DRDA) Nishu Singhal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Raj Kumar and animal husbandry department deputy director Dr Anil Kumar, has been constituted. “The committee will submit its report by Thursday evening or by Friday morning,” the deputy commissioner said. Directions have been issued to the committee to also make the standard operating procedure (SOP) for gaushalas  (cattle pounds) to ensure such incidents do not occur again. CATTLE STARTED COLLAPSING ON TUESDAY NIGHT As many as 1,500 cattle are housed in the seven cow sheds at the gaudham. There are 550 bovines sheltered in shed numbers 2 and 3, where the 70 casualties occurred since Tuesday night. Dr Naresh Mittal, the general secretary of the Panchkula Gaushala Trust said: “On Tuesday night, workers noticed two bulls fighting and several cattle collapsing with froth coming out of their mouth.” “A team of doctors from the Haryana animal husbandry department arrived and rescued 30 animals. On Wednesday morning, another team from Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Hisar, also arrived,” Dr Mittal said, adding that CCTV footage was being checked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-cattle-die-at-panchkula-cow-shed-poisoning-suspected/story-JJYUMfZY17ntZRQ51YZCeO.html
29-10-2020||World||Polish PM calls for stop to mass protests as Covid-19 pandemic rages||Poland’s prime minister appealed Thursday for a stop, amid a huge spike in the country’s coronavirus infections, to a week of angry protests against a high court ruling that tightens already strict abortion laws.Mateusz Morawiecki said the dispute should be resolved through dialogue, instead of through repeated mass street gatherings that are banned under pandemic restrictions. On Thursday, Poland hit a new record of daily infections that exceeded 20,100 in the nation of 38 million.“I am asking for these protests to be cancelled because of the epidemic,” Morawiecki said, stressing that the health care system is close to its limits.But women’s rights activists confirmed plans for a huge march in Warsaw Friday evening, and more actions and city blockades next week.Large crowds have protested daily over the past week across the predominantly Catholic country, after a top court ruled that abortion of fetuses with congenital defects is unconstitutional. Police estimate that some 430,000 took part in demonstrations on Wednesday alone.Earlier Thursday Poland’s President Andrzej Duda partially broke ranks with his country’s conservative leadership that has pushed for the new abortion restrictions, and said he thinks women should have the right to abortion of fetuses with deadly defects.“It cannot be that the law requires this kind of heroism from a woman,” Duda said in an interview with radio RMF FM. The president said he still favors outlawing abortion in cases of fetuses with non-lethal congenital defects, such as Down syndrome.Deep divisions that had been brewing for a long time in Poland are now erupting on the streets, with young people heeding a call by women’s rights activists to defend their freedoms. The young, even teenage protesters intentionally choose vulgar chants against the right-wing Law and Justice party to emphasize their anger with the ruling team and that there can be no negotiating with them, language analysts say.Poland’s most powerful politician, Law and Justice leader Jaroslaw Kaczynski, had called for his supporters to come out to defend churches after protesters disrupted Masses and spray-painted churches on Sunday.Many interpreted Kaczynski’s call as permission for violence against the protesters.Opposition Civic Coalition lawmakers will seek a no-confidence vote against Kaczynski, who is deputy prime minister, in parliament, saying he triggered huge social tensions at the difficult time of the pandemic.“He started a fire and is pouring gasoline on it,” said opposition lawmaker Monika Wielichowska.It was not clear when the vote would be. The ruling party and its two small coalition partners have 10 votes more than the opposition in the lower house.On Wednesday night, men with a far-right group, All-Polish Youth, attacked women taking part in protests in Wroclaw, Poznan and Bialystok.However, a group guarding a church in the northeastern city of Bialystok held a banner in support of the women but saying their anger should be directed against the government, not churches.Once the court ruling is published and takes effect, abortion only will be legal when a woman’s health or life is in danger or when a pregnancy results from crime like rape or incest.Duda’s comments Thursday were in contrast to his initial reaction last week, when he welcomed the court ruling. He now spoke against abortions of fetuses with Down syndrome, which form the majority of over 1,000 legal terminations performed in Poland each year. Duda called for a new law to distinguish between fatal and non-fatal defects.“I believe that there should be a regulation which, in case of lethal defects, will unequivocally guarantee the rights on the side of the woman,” the president said.His words have no legal bearing on the court ruling and are not expected to appease protesters.Kaczynski’s comment was that Duda “is the president and has the right” to say so.also signaled a difference of opinion with Kaczynski on the issue of security, saying police should have the sole responsibility for protecting the streets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/polish-pm-calls-for-stop-to-mass-protests-as-covid-19-pandemic-rages/story-GZIzRA9Jsxn0m751TJP3gK.html
29-10-2020||World||140 migrants drown off Senegal in deadliest shipwreck in 2020: UN||At least 140 migrants have drowned off the coast of Senegal in the deadliest shipwreck recorded this year, the UN migration agency said on Thursday.Some 60 people were rescued by the Senegalese and Spanish navies, and fisherman, the International Organization for Migration (IOM) said. The boat caught fire and capsized hours after leaving the town of Mbour for the Canary Islands on Saturday, it said.“At least 140 people have drowned after a vessel carrying around 200 migrants sank off the Senegalese coast, the deadliest shipwreck recorded in 2020,” the IOM said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/140-migrants-drown-off-senegal-in-deadliest-shipwreck-in-2020-un/story-rBP7etDlp9VHZpxsayEbMN.html
29-10-2020||World||France’s litany of deadly attacks taken place over years||An attacker with a knife killed two people and wounded several others at a church in Nice on Thursday, police said.The incident, which the Mediterranean city’s Mayor described as terrorism, took place less than two weeks after the beheading of middle school teacher Samuel Paty by a man of Chechen origin.Paty’s attacker said he wanted to punish him for showing pupils cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad in a civics lesson.Here are other attacks that have taken place in France over the past few years:September 25, 2020 -Two people were stabbed and wounded in Paris near the former offices of the Charlie Hebdo satirical magazine, where Islamist militants carried out a deadly attack in 2015. A man originally from Pakistan was arrested over the attack.October 3, 2019 - Mickael Harpon, a 45-year-old IT specialist with security clearance to work in the Paris police headquarters, killed three police officers and one civilian employee before being shot dead by police. He had converted to Islam about 10 years earlier.March 23, 2018 - A gunman kills three people in southwestern France after holding up a car, firing on police and taking hostages in a supermarket, screaming “Allahu Akbar”. Security forces storm the building and kill him.July 26, 2016 - Two attackers kill a priest and seriously wound another hostage in a church in northern France before being shot dead by French police. Francois Hollande, who was France’s president at the time, says the two hostage-takers had pledged allegiance to Islamic State.July 14, 2016 - A gunman drives a heavy truck into a crowd celebrating Bastille Day in the French city of Nice, killing 86 people and injuring scores more in an attack claimed by Islamic State. The attacker is identified as a Tunisian-born Frenchman.June 14, 2016 - A Frenchman of Moroccan origin stabs a police commander to death outside his home in a Paris suburb and kills his partner, who also worked for the police. The attacker told police negotiators during a siege that he was answering an appeal by Islamic State.November 13, 2015 - Paris is rocked by multiple, near simultaneous gun-and-bomb attacks in entertainment sites around the city, in which 130 people are killed and 368 are wounded. Islamic State says it was responsible for the attacks. Two of the 10 known perpetrators were Belgian citizens and three others were French.January 7-9, 2015 - Two Islamist militants break into an editorial meeting of satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo on Jan. 7 and rake it with bullets, killing 12 people. Another militant kills a policewoman the next day and takes hostages at a supermarket on Jan. 9, killing four before police shoot him dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-s-litany-of-deadly-attacks-taken-place-over-years/story-sEqWLJpfWxxjzeivZmIIBN.html
29-10-2020||World||France attack: Church sexton had throat slit while preparing for Mass||As he did every day, the sexton of the Notre Dame church in the French city of Nice opened up the doors around 8:30 a.m. There were few people around; the first Mass of the day was not due to start for another two hours.But soon after he started work, a man armed with a knife entered the church and slit the throat of the sexton, beheaded an elderly woman, and badly wounded a third woman, according to a police source.The sexton and the elderly woman died on the spot, the third woman managed to make it out of the church into a nearby cafe, but she died from her wounds, Nice mayor Christian Estrosi told reporters at the scene. None of the victims has so far been named.What happened in the initial moments of the attack inside the church, a neo-Gothic building in a tree-lined square in the centre of Nice, remains unclear.But testimony from witnesses, mobile phone footage, and accounts from officials, offer an initial if incomplete picture of how the attack ended. Also Read| Attacker that killed 3 people in France’s Nice a 21-year-old Tunisian migrant: ReportAt some point during the attack inside the church, someone ran to a bakery next to the church, and asked staff to call the police.“I thought it was a joke, I didn’t believe it,” said one of the staff in the bakery, who spoke to French broadcaster BFMTV and gave his name as David.But when the person insisted the police should be called, David said he walked the short distance to the corner of Rue d’Italie and Avenue Jean Medecin, where last year local authorities installed an intercom in front of the church that connects directly to the municipal police.David said he pressed the button on the intercom, and summoned the police. The mayor, Estrosi, who had attended last year’s unveiling of the intercom, said this was how police were first alerted to the attack. David said the police arrived on the scene within 30 seconds, while he went back inside his bakery and pulled down the blinds. BLOOD AND PANIC At some point during the attack, the knifeman came out of the church, according to Didier-Olivier Reverdy of police officer’s union Alliance Police Nationale. “When the attacker came out, there was a kind of panic around the concourse” surrounding the church, said Reverdy. “There was blood visible.” Anais Colomna was in the lawyer’s office where she works, next to the church, when her phone call was interrupted by the sound of gunfire.“When I turned around, I saw that they (the police) were firing at someone who was moving away from the church,” she told Reuters. The man police were firing at then disappeared from view, she said.The first shots were fired at 8:58 a.m., according to local officials in Nice. What happened next is unclear, but it appeared the attacker went back towards the church. In video footage obtained by Reuters, shot from a balcony across the street from the church, police officers with guns and Tasers raised, could be seen in the side entrance of the church, looking inside. Gunshots could be heard. It was not clear from the footage what they were shooting at.Estrosi said that, as police were detaining the attacker, “he kept shouting on a loop, ‘Allahu Akbar’.” The Arabic phrase means God is Greatest. The attacker carried on shouting the phrase even after he was shot and wounded by police, Estrosi said. The attacker was detained by police at 9:10 a.m., local officials said.Footage from the same balcony vantage point later showed a man with dark hair on an ambulance gurney being wheeled away from the side of church and into a waiting ambulance. Police with guns surrounded the man on the stretcher, who was motionless.A witness who observed the scene said the man on the gurney was the knife attacker, but Reuters was unable to independently verify that.Also Read: Turkey condemns deadly knife attack in France’s Nice, foreign ministry saysOutside the church a short while later, parishioners gathered to seek news about the victims.Michele Malé, one of the parishioners, broke down in tears. “We just found out on TV that our sexton was assassinated,” she told reporters. “We’re in shock.”The sexton -- a lay member of staff responsible for the upkeep of the church -- was in his late 40s or early 50s and had two children, said Gil Florini, a Catholic priest in Nice.“He did his job as a sexton very well. He was a very kind person,” said Florini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-attack-church-sexton-had-throat-slit-while-preparing-for-mass/story-AacQx5nhmfdZjJQX8XySVL.html
29-10-2020||World||Attacker that killed 3 people in France’s Nice a 21-year-old Tunisian migrant: Report||The man suspected of killing three people at a church in the southern French city of Nice on Thursday is a 21-year-old Tunisian who arrived in Europe just a few weeks ago, sources close to the inquiry said.The suspect, identified as Brahim Aoussaoui, landed in late September on the Italian island of Lampedusa, where he was placed in virus quarantine by authorities before being released with an order to quit Italian territory.He arrived in France in early October, the sources said.A knife-wielding attacker shouting “Allahu Akbar” (God is Greatest) beheaded a woman and killed two other people in a church in the French city of Nice on Thursday.A defiant President Emmanuel Macron, declaring that France had been subject to an Islamist terrorist attack, said he would deploy thousands more soldiers to protect important French sites, such as places of worship and schools.Speaking from the scene, he said France had been attacked “over our values, for our taste for freedom, for the ability on our soil to have freedom of belief”.“And I say it with lots of clarity again today: we will not give any ground.” A police source told Reuters the assailant was believed by law enforcement to be a 21-year-old Tunisian national who had recently entered France from Italy. Tunisia’s anti-terrorism court prosecutor began a forensic investigation into “the suspicion that a Tunisian committed a terrorist operation abroad”, Mohsen Dali, spokesman for the specialised counter-militancy court, said in Tunis. In Saudi Arabia, meanwhile, state television reported that a Saudi man had been arrested in the Red Sea city of Jeddah after attacking and injuring a guard at the French consulate. The French Embassy said he was in hospital after a knife assault though his life was not in danger.Within hours of the Nice attack, French police killed a man who had threatened passersby with a handgun in Montfavet, near the southern city of Avignon.France’s Le Figaro newspaper quoted a prosecution source as saying the man was undergoing psychiatric treatment, and that they did not believe there was a terrorism motive.Nice’s mayor, Christian Estrosi, said the attack in his city had happened at Notre Dame church and was similar to the beheading earlier this month near Paris of teacher Samuel Paty, who had used cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad in a civics class.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/attacker-that-killed-3-people-in-france-s-nice-a-21-year-old-tunisian-migrant-report/story-ImkCd9wFKj67L6rZ9ORpnN.html
29-10-2020||World||Turkey condemns deadly knife attack in France’s Nice, foreign ministry says||The Turkish Foreign Ministry said on Thursday that it strongly condemned the deadly knife attack in the French city of Nice.In a statement, the ministry said Turkey stood in solidarity with the French people against violence and terrorism.Ankara strongly condemned Thursday’s “savage” knife attack in southern France that left three people dead, offering its “solidarity”, despite a running diplomatic spat with Paris.Earlier on Wednesday Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan vented his outrage at a “disgusting” cartoon in the French satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo depicting him looking up a woman’s skirt while drinking beer in his underpants.Erdogan’s office vowed to take “legal and diplomatic action” while Turkey’s NTV television said Ankara had also summoned the second-most senior diplomat at the French embassy to express its “strong condemnation”. Under normal circumstances, France’s ambassador would have been summoned, but he has been recalled to Paris for consultations in a further sign of the deteriorating diplomatic relations between the two North Atlantic Treaty Organization(NATO) allies. The front cover Charlie Hebdo cartoon came out just days after Erdogan called for a boycott of French products and questioned President Emmanuel Macron’s sanity for promoting a drive against Islamic extremism.Macron’s defence of the media’s right to mock religion, as exemplified by Charlie Hebdo’s blasphemous cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, has stirred angry protests across Turkey and swathes of the Muslim world.Erdogan said he had not personally seen the Charlie Hebdo caricature because he did not want to “give credit to such immoral publications.”“I don’t need to say anything to those scoundrels who insult my beloved prophet on such a scale,” Erdogan said in a speech to his party’s lawmakers.“I am sad and frustrated not because of this disgusting attack on me personally, but because of the impertinence taking aim at our prophet we love more than ourselves.”Macron’s defence of Charlie Hebdo’s right to publish drawings of the prophet, which is forbidden under Islam, came after the brutal murder on October 16 of a French school teacher who had shown cartoons to pupils during a class discussion about freedom of speech.Erdogan’s policies have put Turkey at growing odds with the European Union and Macron has become one of Turkish leader’s most vocal critics.The two statesmen have sparred over the eastern Mediterranean as well as Turkey’s policies across the Middle East and -- most recently -- in the war between Azerbaijani and Armenian separatist forces in Nagorno-Karabakh.Turkish Presidential Communications Director Fahrettin Altun said that Islam cannot be used in the name of terrorism and condemned the attack.“We call on the French leadership to avoid further inflammatory rhetoric against Muslims and focus, instead, on finding the perpetrators of this and other acts of violence,” Altun wrote on Twitter.Altun also said Turkey would continue to confront any politician who insults its religion and values and renewed Turkey’s call for cooperation against terrorism and extremism.Thursday’s attacks, on the birthday of the Prophet Mohammad, came at a time of growing Muslim anger at France’s defence of the right to publish cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad and protesters have denounced France in street rallies in several Muslim-majority countriesA knife-wielding attacker killed three people in a suspected terrorist act at a church in the French city of Nice on Thursday, while a gunman was shot dead by police in a separate incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-condemns-deadly-knife-attack-in-france-s-nice-foreign-ministry-says/story-wwdXYXx0z4XYdVl1do7y0L.html
29-10-2020||World||Bilawal Bhutto confident of ‘people’s government’ taking over in 2021||Pakistan Peoples’ Party (PPP) chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari on Wednesday insisted that Imran Khan-led Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) government would be sent packing by January 2021, and a ‘people’s government’ would take over.While addressing a public gathering at the main Skardu Bazaar as part of the party’s campaign for the Gilgit-Baltistan Assembly elections in November, Zardari said that today every section of the society was protesting against the PTI government, further pointing out that GB had not yet become a separate province, but the PTI government at the centre had already imposed taxes on the region’s people, reported Dawn.He also declared that the campaign for the right to rule and right to property belonged to the PPP.”PPP is the only party which included the demands of people of Gilgit-Baltistan in its manifesto for elections in Pakistan in 2018,” Dawn quoted him.He went on to say that PPP was the only party advocating that people of GB should have their own province, representation in the Senate and the National Assembly of Pakistan. The PPP chairman also warned that his party won’t allow stealing of votes in Gilgit-Baltistan.He stated that it was unfortunate that the ‘tyrants’ had snatched Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, Shaheed Shahnawaz Bhutto, Shaheed Mir Murtaza Bhutto and Shaheed Benazir Bhutto from the people.“I have gone to the smallest town and village in Gilgit-Baltistan and seen that Bhutto is alive at all those places,” Zardari declared.Thousands of PPP workers from across the Baltistan division had shown up in the meeting.Former Gilgit-Baltistan governor and PPP central leader Qamar Zaman Kaira, former chief minister Mehdi Shah, PPP GB president Amjad Hussain Advocate and Sadia Danish were also present on the occasion.Along with moving ahead with its plan to make Gilgit-Baltistan as its province, Pakistan is also planning to hold elections to the so-called Gilgit Baltistan legislative assembly on November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bilawal-bhutto-confident-of-people-s-government-taking-over-in-2021/story-PO8o44NuqqmA8JVFAG0VIM.html
29-10-2020||World||Wisconsin Republican Party says hackers stole $2.3 million from account||Hackers stole $2.3 million from the Wisconsin Republican Party’s account that was being used to help reelect President Donald Trump in the key battleground state, the party’s chairman told The Associated Press on Thursday.The party noticed the suspicious activity on Oct. 22 and contacted the FBI on Friday, said Republican Party Chairman Andrew Hitt.Hitt said the FBI is investigating. FBI spokesman Leonard Peace did not immediately return a message seeking comment.The attack was discovered less than two weeks before Election Day as both Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden made their final push to win Wisconsin and its 10 electoral votes. Trump won the state by fewer than 23,000 votes in 2016 and planned his third visit in seven days on Friday. Biden also planned to campaign in Wisconsin on Friday. Polls have consistently shown a tight race in the state, usually with Biden ahead by single digits and within the margin of error.Hitt said the stolen money would have been used in the final days of the campaign to make snap spending decisions based on the state of the race.He said the hackers manipulated invoices from four vendors who were being paid to send out direct mail for Trump’s re-election efforts and to provide pro-Trump material such as hats that could be handed out to supporters. Invoices and other documents were altered so when the party paid them, the money went to the hackers instead of the vendors, Hitt said.The hack was discovered after someone noticed that an invoice was generated that should not have been, he said.Hitt said it appears the attack began as a phishing attempt. It does not appear that any data was stolen, said party spokesman Alec Zimmerman.The money was stolen from the state party’s federal account, which currently contains about $1.1 million, but that number fluctuates daily because of quick moving resources late in the campaign, Zimmerman said.Hitt said he was not aware of any other state GOP being targeted for a similar hack, but state parties were warned at the Republican National Convention this summer to be on the lookout for cyber attacks.Campaign finance reports filed this week in Wisconsin show Democrats have raised far more money than Republicans. The state Democratic Party raised nearly $59 million over the past two years compared with just $23.7 million for Republicans.Early voting is in full swing in Wisconsin, with more than 1.6 million ballots returned as of Thursday morning. That is nearly 55% of the total vote cast in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wisconsin-republican-party-says-hackers-stole-2-3-million-from-account/story-YOEKfyQXUFJcgpZNHgxjfL.html
29-10-2020||World||Report finds Oman’s Indian diaspora declined due to Omanisation, pandemic||The population of Indian expats in Oman has reduced to 499,431 due to the government’s “Omanisation process” and the coronavirus pandemic which have forced a large number of Indians to return home, according to a media report.The Indian community, however, still constitutes the largest expatriate community in the Sultanate, Gulf News quoted the National Centre for Statistics and Information.The community declined by 20 per cent by the end of the third quarter of 2020, compared to the same period last year, it said. Their population decreased from 542,091 in July to 517,702 in August following the government measures to reduce the expatriate population and allow more Omanis to join the job market, the report said.It attributed the fall in the number of Indian expats to the government’s “Omanisation process” and the repercussions of the coronavirus pandemic. Foreigners, who account for over 40 per cent of the country’s total population of 4.6 million, have played a key role in Oman’s development for several decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/report-finds-oman-s-indian-diaspora-declined-due-to-omanisation-pandemic/story-atXiIDGVVR2nCoV8wtPIpL.html
29-10-2020||World||UK’s Labour Party suspends Jeremy Corbyn in anti-semitism row||The UK’s Opposition Labour Party on Thursday suspended former leader Jeremy Corbyn from its ranks after a report by the country’s human rights watchdog held the party “responsible for unlawful acts of harassment and discrimination” during his time in charge.The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC), which had launched an investigation into antisemitism within the party following a string of complaints, found that Labour had broken the law in its failure to handle antisemitism, or anti-Jewish, complaints and there were “serious failings” by its leadership at the time. However, in his reaction to the report, Corbyn said that the number of complaints made during his tenure were “dramatically overstated”.“One antisemite is one too many, but the scale of the problem was also dramatically overstated for political reasons by our opponents inside and outside the party, as well as by much of the media. That combination hurt Jewish people and must never be repeated,” said Corbyn, in reference to the report.A Labour Party spokesperson issued a statement soon after to announce that Corbyn had been suspended from the party.“In light of his comments made today and his failure to retract them subsequently, the Labour Party has suspended Jeremy Corbyn pending investigation. He has also had the whip removed from the Parliamentary Labour Party,” the spokesperson said.In his reaction to the EHRC report, current Opposition leader Keir Starmer had indicated that a denial stance to the report would not be tolerated, without any specific references to Corbyn.Starmer said: “And if – after all the pain, all the grief, and all the evidence in this report, there are still those who think there’s no problem with antisemitism in the Labour Party. That it’s all exaggerated, or a factional attack.“Then, frankly, you are part of the problem too. And you should be nowhere near the Labour Party either.” Earlier, the EHRC had served the Labour Party with an unlawful act notice after an investigation into antisemitism by the Equality and Human Rights Commission found it responsible for unlawful acts of harassment and discrimination. Its investigation, launched in May last year, identified serious failings in the party leadership in addressing antisemitism and an inadequate process for handling antisemitism complaints. The party was found responsible for three breaches of the UK’s Equality Act (2010) relating to political interference in antisemitism complaints; failure to provide adequate training to those handling antisemitism complaints; and harassment.“The equality body’s analysis points to a culture within the party which, at best, did not do enough to prevent antisemitism and, at worst, could be seen to accept it,” the EHRC said.Starmer said he is “truly sorry” for all the pain and grief that has been caused and apologised to Jewish people who had been driven out of the party and Parliament.He said: “I know how hard these last few years have been, how painful today will be, and how hard you have to fight to hear your voices heard.“I hear you, and I can promise you this: I will act. Never again will Labour let you down. Never again will we fail to tackle anti-Semitism and never again will we lose your trust.“We will implement all recommendations, and we will implement them in full.” Some Labour members of Parliament who had distanced themselves from the party over the issue have since responded positively to the Labour leader’s reaction to the damning EHRC findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-s-labour-party-suspends-jeremy-corbyn-in-anti-semitism-row/story-aB9KbSiDxH5EQ3C2mM9upN.html
29-10-2020||World||Imran Khan’s minister brags in Parliament, ends up confirming role in terror||A Pakistani minister on Thursday admitted its role in the Pulwama terror attack, bragging on the floor of parliament that his country had entered India and beaten it on its own soil.At least 40 security personnel were killed in Pulwama on 14 February last year when a vehicle-borne suicide attacker hit their convoy. The attacker was a member of the Pakistan-based terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammed.“Hum ne Hindustan ko Ghuss ke Mara Hai (We have entered and attacked India),” said Fawad Chaudhry, the science of technology minister in the Imran Khan cabinet, amid clapping from the ruling party MPs. “The victory in Pulwama is a victory for the people of Pakistan under the leadership of Imran Khan,” he added.Also Read: Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot was released out of panicThe minister said that the credit for Pulwama goes to all: “We are all stakeholders in it.”Chaudhry said it is a matter of pride “the way we entered India and beat them at Pulwama.” The way our Shaheens (Air Force) and our Sipahis (soldiers) and our sons beat them is a cause of embarrassment for the Indian political leadership and the Indian media, he said.Watch: Pakistan minister brags about role Imran govt’s role in Pulwama attack  Chaudhry was replying to comments made a day earlier by former speaker and MP from the PML-N party, Ayaz Sadiq, on the floor of the house. Sadiq had alleged that the Pakistani leadership had panicked after the Pulwama attack and the subsequent shooting down of an Indian air force place. Sadiq had said that Imran Khan had taken the decision to return the Indian pilot even before a meeting with the country’s political leadership. He had alleged that the Imran Khan government was so panicked that “the legs of the foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi kept on shaking from fear.”Also Read: Centre designates 18 Pakistan-based terrorists as ‘individual terrorists’Chaudhry replied on Thursday that Sadiq “had lied with confidence.” He lamented that Sadiq has gone against the interests of the state of Pakistan by issuing false and shameful statements. “Criticise the government but don’t criticise the state,” he told Sadiq. The Pakistan minister said that in his capacity as speaker, Ayaz Sadiq has been involved in the internal deliberations that took place. “But he should have some shame on how he has lied,” he added. Later in the day, Chaudhry claimed the Indian media has “once again acted with gross irresponsibility” by misrepresenting his speech.A spokesperson of his ministry said in a statement that the minister had referred to the ‘Operation Swift Retort’ which was a successful military response by the Pakistan Airforce ( PAF) to IAF, “as a result of which two Indian jets were shot down, not to mention the arrest of the widely discussed pilot Abhinandan, who was later released by the Government of Pakistan as a diplomatic gesture of peace.”The spokesperson added that the fact remains that, as recently Indian media had erroneously presented a petty political skirmish in Karachi as a civil war, and caused embarrassment to India at international level, it has, yet again, “acted irresponsibly” vis-a-vis Mr Chaudhry’s speech, and made a futile attempt to malign the image of Pakistan.”“It is reiterated that Pakistan has always upheld the international norms of peace and tranquility”, and believes in mutual co-existence and cordial relations with its neighbouring countries.“Therefore, any such misrepresentation of facts by the Indian media must be avoided and efforts be made for regional peace,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/guss-ke-maara-minister-admits-pakistan-s-role-in-pulwama-attack/story-mXhUH1mBuPMIFeaWrjMxMJ.html
29-10-2020||World||China asks US to walk with it instead of continuing provocations in sea and air||The US should walk with China toward the same goal instead of continuing provocations in the sea and air spaces around it, Chinese defence ministry said on Thursday as it vowed to protect its sovereignty and security interests.China’s defence spokesman Senior Colonel Wu Qian told an online media briefing that senior officials from both militaries have had a telephone conversation last week and agreed to strengthen communication, properly manage differences and disagreements, and expand cooperation in fields of common interests.The US should walk with China toward the same goal instead of continuing provocations in the sea and air spaces around China, he said.Asked if China-US military exchanges could proceed as normal as they faced multiple challenges coupled with the severe Covid-19 pandemic, Wu said working groups from the two militaries have conducted video conferences on crisis communication in the past two days.The two sides have also planned to conduct seminars on military humanitarian assistance and disaster relief (HADR) and consultations on maritime security issues by way of video conferences respectively in the coming mid-November and December, he said.On reports that the US is considering using MQ-9 Reaper drones to attack some of the islands in the disputed South China Sea in case of an unfavourable situation for President Donald Trump’s election campaign, Wu said that US Defence Secretary Mark Esper has already clarified through military and diplomatic channels that the relevant reports are not consistent with facts, and the US side has no intention of creating a military crisis against China.“Maintaining communication between the two militaries is very important under the current circumstances. We urge the US side to keep their words, take effective measures to stop military provocations in the sea and air spaces around China, and stop any actions that harm China’s core interests and major concerns,” Wu said.“Should anyone dare to stir up a conflict on the sea, the Chinese side will fight back resolutely to safeguard its national sovereignty and security interests,” he said.The US-China military tensions heightened in recent months over the disputed South China Sea and Taiwan.China claims sovereignty over most of the South China Sea area while the Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims over it.The US in recent months has stepped up naval and aerial patrols over the area to assert the right of freedom of navigation. The Chinese military closely tailed the US patrols sparking tensions.China is also concerned over US naval ships travelling through the Taiwan straits and high-tech arms sales to Taiwan, which Beijing claims as part of its mainland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-asks-us-to-walk-with-it-instead-of-continuing-provocations-in-sea-and-air/story-IEf016gh1VZ2DdYw0SlRDP.html
29-10-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: From Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline vow to Russia’s plan of mass vaccinations||With the global coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally nearing the 45 million-mark, governments and organisations across the world have been working for months now to develop a vaccine which will be able to combat the disease and have minimum side effects on people.Pharmaceutical giants Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) on Wednesday said that they will be setting aside 200 million doses of a future Covid-19 vaccine for a global initiative to ensure equitable distribution for all countries - be it rich or poor. An official statement said that both the companies have signed a statement of intent with the Gavi Alliance, which administers the Covax plan for fair vaccine distribution. The Covax plan, which has over 180 countries, seeks to ‘equitably allocate and deliver’ around two billion doses of vaccine by the end of next year.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicMeanwhile, on Monday, a report by the Financial Times said the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine against the coronavirus disease saw a robust immune response in elderly people. Earlier, the trials for the vaccine had stopped after a volunteer fell sick.As there is a rise in infections particularly in continents such as Europe where countries have started re-imposing lockdowns and other related restrictions, the need to come up with a vaccine at the earliest is of utmost interest.Here is a look at the latest developments around the Covid-19 vaccine:1. Russian president Vladimir Putin on Thursday said the country’s experimental vaccines were found to be effective with hopes to start mass vaccinations by the end of 2020.2. US-based biotechnology company Moderna said its independent data monitoring committee is expected to conduct an interim review of its ongoing 30,000-volunteer late-stage trial in the month of November. Moderna has signed deals with the United States government and several other countries.3. German chancellor Angela Merkel on Thursday said preparations for anti-coronavirus disease vaccinations in the country are underway and added that the government is working on ethical guidelines on who should the shots be available to.Also Read| India’s average daily Covid tests in past 6 weeks at about 11 lakh: Centre4. Scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have said the Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine, which is used for treating tuberculosis (TB), is also beneficial against Covid-19 among the elderly. Those who are over 60 years of age and have co-morbidities such as hypertension, cardiac issues, kidney-related diseases and several other conditions are more prone to getting infected by Sars-Cov-2, which causes the coronavirus disease.5. Reports suggest that Chinese-based Shenzhen Kangtai Biological Products has started a mid-stage trial of its experimental vaccine. As per details furnished by the Chinese Clinical Trial Registry on Wednesday, the company plans to test the vaccine’s safety and ability to trigger immune responses in Phase 2 clinical trial, which is expected to have 1,000 participants.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-from-sanofi-glaxosmithkline-vow-to-russia-s-plan-of-mass-vaccinations/story-kAqkq1vyLSnDkrFEozqJLJ.html
29-10-2020||World||If Joe Biden wins presidential election, what would US climate change pledge look like||If he wins next Tuesday’s U.S. presidential election, Joe Biden has pledged to give the country a leading role in global efforts to curb climate change. Experts are wondering how ambitious his plans would be on slashing emissions this decade.President Donald Trump, who has rejected mainstream science on climate change, does not have a plan to address global warming. The Republican president rejected the 2015 Paris Agreement early in his first term, and the United States is set to formally exit the deal to rein in global emissions on November 4, the day after the election.His Democratic challenger, former Vice President Biden, has pledged that if he wins and takes office in January he would immediately rejoin the international accord, and commit the country to reach net zero emissions by 2050.A push by Biden to re-assert U.S. leadership on the issue would likely also include a pledge to slash emissions by 2030.That is because under the Paris Agreement progress towards curbing climate change is measured by countries’ pledges to rein in emissons this decade. All countries have been asked to update those pledges, but so far, few have.“Credibility begins at home,” said John Podesta, a counselor on climate and energy to former President Barack Obama, who is now an informal adviser to Biden.Podesta’s think-tank, the Center for American Progress, has recommended to the Biden campaign that the United States commits to cut greenhouse gas emissions 43% by 2030, from 2005 levels.“I think the campaign will take a hard look at that,” he told Reuters.Researchers at The Rhodium Group agreed a 43% goal would put the country on track for net zero emissions by 2050 - a pathway which, if followed globally, would avoid the worst impacts of climate change.However, as the world’s biggest historical emitter of greenhouse gases and the biggest economy, “the U.S. should clearly do more than merely the global average,” said Joeri Rogelj, a climate scientist at Imperial College London.A fair U.S. contribution would require more than a 70% cut in emissions this decade, from 2005 levels, he said.The Biden campaign has not yet set an economy-wide emissions target for 2030, but his climate plan features a goal to eliminate carbon emissions from the power sector by 2035.With lethal heatwaves, wildfires and floods intensifying around the world, scientists say the world’s ability to avert catastrophic climate change could slip out of reach, if emissions do not drop sharply this decade.A Biden administration could get a boost from climate policies already in place in many states, cities and businesses. Together, these efforts could curb U.S. emissions 37% this decade, from 2005 levels, according to Bloomberg Philanthropies’ “America’s Pledge” initiative.“Maximising that potential will require strong, decisive action from federal leaders in the White House and in Congress,” said Antha Williams, head of Bloomberg Philanthropies climate programmes.But Biden’s ability to implement his $2 trillion plan to slash emissions would also depend on whether Democrats wrest control of the Senate from the Republicans next week. If they do not, he may need to take executive action.Executive action is more vulnerable to lawsuits. Trump has faced over 100 environment-related lawsuits for his moves to unwind regulations meant to protect health and the environment in his bid to lower costs for the energy and auto industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/if-joe-biden-wins-presidential-election-what-would-us-climate-change-pledge-look-like/story-X8DpoenEUhEAYkqOOQSp5M.html
29-10-2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson condemns France knife attack that killed 3 people||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Thursday condemned the knife attack in France, which left three people dead, and stated that the UK stood with France against terror and intolerance.In a Twitter post, Johnson also extended condolences for victims and their families.“I am appalled to hear the news from Nice this morning of a barbaric attack at the Notre-Dame Basilica. Our thoughts are with the victims and their families, and the UK stands steadfastly with France against terror and intolerance,” tweeted Johnson.The knife attack in the city of Nice has left at least three people dead and several injured, French officials said on Thursday.According to Sputnik, Nice Mayor Christian Estrosi wrote on Twitter that the police quickly detained the attacker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-condemns-knife-attack-in-france-s-nice-that-killed-3-people/story-zBDMjafj29KE1uaryqJbzH.html
29-10-2020||World||Vatican says ‘terrorism, violence never acceptable’ after France knife attack||Pope Francis prayed for the victims of an attack by a knifeman in a Nice church Thursday, as the Vatican said “terrorism and violence can never be accepted”.“Today’s attack has sown death in a place of love and consolation. The Pope is aware of the situation and is close to the mourning Catholic community,” Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said in a statement.Also read | Woman beheaded, 2 more killed in knife attack at French church“He prays for the victims and their loved ones, so that the violence may cease, so that we may return to look upon ourselves as brothers and sisters and not as enemies, so that the beloved French people may unite to combat evil with good”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vatican-says-terrorism-violence-never-acceptable-after-nice-attack/story-MqJ0J3ilm3IZsUftRDyTAJ.html
29-10-2020||World||France raises its alert level to maximum after Nice attack||France’s prime minister says the country is going on emergency alert after the killings of three people at the Notre Dame Basilica in the southern city of Nice.A man armed with a knife attacked two women and a man at the church Thursday morning before he was shot by police. As he lay wounded, the Nice mayor said the attacker repeated “Allah Akbar!” over and over. French authorities have opened a terrorism investigation.Prime Minister Jean Castex told French lawmakers that the country would raise its alert level to “emergency” in response to the attack, which comes during high tensions over the re-publication of caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad by the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo. The caricatures have ignited Muslim anger around the world.Castex’s announcement came hours before France was to go into a one-month coronavirus lockdown.Thursday’s attack was the third since a terrorism trial opened in the January 2015 attacks against Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-raises-its-alert-level-to-maximum-after-a-nice-attack/story-6Pq9V2nFonV4HpqcIPv8kO.html
29-10-2020||World||Man arrested in Jeddah after knife attack on guard at French consulate||A Saudi man was arrested in Jeddah after attacking and injuring a guard with a “sharp tool” at the French consulate on Thursday, Saudi state TV reported.The French Embassy said the consulate was subject to an “attack by knife which targeted a guard”, adding the guard was taken to hospital and his life was not in danger.“The French embassy strongly condemns this attack against a diplomatic outpost which nothing could justify,” an embassy statement said.The attack happened after a knife-wielding man shouting “Allahu Akbar” beheaded a woman and killed two other people in the French city of Nice earlier on Thursday. Nice’s mayor described the attack as terrorism. France is still reeling from the beheading earlier this month of a school teacher by a man of Chechen origin. The attacker had said he wanted to punish the teacher for showing pupils cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad in a civics lesson.Since Paty’s killing, French officials have re-asserted the right to display the cartoons, and the images have been widely displayed at marches in solidarity with the killed teacher. That has prompted anger in parts of the Muslim world, with some governments accusing Macron of pursuing an anti-Islam agenda.Saudi Arabia on Tuesday condemned cartoons offending the Prophet Mohammad, but held back from echoing calls by other Muslim states for action against images being displayed in France of the Prophet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-arrested-in-jeddah-after-knife-attack-on-guard-at-french-consulate/story-ihFjd0OtkWHSmb25nscvVM.html
29-10-2020||World||Boris Johnson under pressure to impose tougher lockdown measures as Covid-19 cases surge||Boris Johnson faces growing calls to introduce another national lockdown as scientists warn coronavirus measures in England are failing to control the spread of the disease.Infections are doubling every nine days and an estimated 960,000 people are carrying the virus in England on any one day, according to the latest findings from Imperial College London and Ipsos Mori, which is conducting one of the country’s largest studies of the disease. The reproduction rate of the virus -- a measure of how many people on average are infected by a single carrier -- has risen to 1.6, compared to 1.2 when the last figures were published October 9.The stark results add to the pressure on the Prime Minister to impose even tighter social restrictions in the fight against the virus, as deaths and cases climb once again. Elsewhere in Europe, governments are already taking action: France has announced a new monthlong nationwide lockdown and Germany has imposed its toughest rules since the spring.So far, Johnson has resisted a second national lockdown, preferring a localized tiered approach where regions with the highest infection rates face tougher social distancing rules, including a ban on household mixing and closing pubs that don’t sell meals. But members of the SAGE scientific committee advising the government are calling for tougher action.“It’s like living through a fire that is out of control with the government using buckets of water instead of fire engines to extinguish the flames,” Susan Michie, a professor of health psychology at University College London who sits on SAGE, said on Twitter.Jeremy Farrar, an infectious disease expert who also sits on SAGE, said delaying a lockdown in March left the U.K. with one of the worst outcomes globally and warned the government against making the same mistake. “Delaying is itself a decision with consequences,” he said on Twitter.But the government stood firm on Thursday and said it will continue with its localized strategy.“It is right to try everything in our power to avoid a blanket national lockdown, it brings with it great damage to people’s lives and livelihoods,” Housing Secretary Robert Jenrick told BBC Radio 4. “Each country has to take its own balanced judgment.”Nottinghamshire was the latest area to move into the government’s highest level of restrictions on Wednesday, joining the likes of Greater Manchester, South Yorkshire and Merseyside.Coronavirus continues to spread across the U.K.: 310 new deaths were reported on Wednesday, following the 367 on Tuesday which was the highest daily total since May. The number of daily positive cases rose by 24,701, compared to 22,885 the day before.The Imperial findings cohere with new modeling by SAGE, which suggests the U.K. is on course for a prolonged winter peak in the pandemic where there will be more deaths than last spring.Britain’s death toll from the second coronavirus wave could reach 85,000 in a “reasonable worst case scenario,” the Telegraph newspaper reported, citing SAGE documents.“The second wave of the epidemic in England has now reached a critical stage,” the scientists said in the report led by Steven Riley, professor of infectious disease dynamics at Imperial. “Our results suggest strongly that one or more of the policies themselves, the timing of tier advancement, or levels of compliance, have not been sufficient to date to achieve control.”The opposition Labour Party, as well as Johnson’s own scientific advisers last month, have called for a temporary “circuit breaker” national lockdown to get the virus under control. Labour called on Johnson to hold a press conference Thursday on the government’s Covid strategy.“People will be alarmed and worried and looking for reassurance from ministers,” Jonathan Ashworth, Labour’s health spokesman, said in a statement on the Imperial College study. “Businesses are fearful that a delay in taking decisive national action will create further, deeper uncertainty for the economy.”The surge is coming as the government’s key test-and-trace program continues to miss key targets, hampering efforts to contain the disease. The Guardian newspaper reported government officials have asked local health chiefs to deploy new 30-minute saliva kits to accelerate mass screening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-under-pressure-to-impose-tougher-lockdown-measures-as-covid-19-cases-surge/story-TaJGDvnxX6nh1mRH4X74MN.html
29-10-2020||World||Merkel warns Germans of a ‘difficult winter’ as Covid-19 surges||Chancellor Angela Merkel told Germans to expect a “difficult winter” as the number of newly reported coronavirus cases in the country hit a new high.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMerkel spoke Thursday in Parliament a day after she and the governors of Germany’s 16 states agreed upon far-reaching restrictions to curb the spread of the virus, including the closure of bars and restaurants, limits on social contacts and bans on concerts and other public events.Germany’s disease control agency said local health authorities reported 16,774 new positive tests for Covid-19 in the past day, pushing the country’s total since the start of the outbreak close to half a million. The Robert Koch Institute also recorded 89 additional deaths, taking the country’s total to 10,272. That is still one-fourth the death toll in Britain.Merkel told lawmakers that Germany is in a “dramatic situation” as it goes into winter, which she said would be “four long, difficult months. But it will end.”The long-time German leader said authorities had no choice but to drastically reduce social contacts as three-quarters of infections in Germany now can’t be traced anymore.“If we wait until the ICUs are full, then it will be too late,” she said.Merkel said democratic debate about the virus restrictions was important, but blasted some critics who have claimed the German government is exaggerating the threat of the virus.“Lies and disinformation, conspiracies and hatred damage not just the debate but also the battle against the virus,” she said. “It’s not just democratic debate that depends on our relationship to facts and information, human lives depend on it.”Also read | ‘Lockdown light’ declared in Germany to check rising Covid-19 casesOpposition leader Alexander Gauland of the far-right Alternative for Germany party responded to Merkel’s speech by accusing the government of “wartime propaganda” and likened the pandemic to motorized traffic, arguing that society accepts a certain number of car deaths too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/merkel-warns-germans-of-a-difficult-winter-as-covid-19-surges/story-giYQVj3xTNYcKfYbHEkEaL.html
29-10-2020||World||Some recovered Covid-19 patients may still carry virus, says study||Some recovered Covid-19 patients may still carry the novel coronavirus, according to a new study which recommends that people leaving quarantine avoid close contact with others, wear a face mask, and possibly undergo an additional test to confirm if they are free of the virus. The study, assessed 131 Covid-19 patients who met the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria for discontinuation of quarantine, and found that close to 17 per cent of them, who were considered fully recovered, tested positive for the virus in follow-up screening.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “Our findings indicate that a noteworthy rate of recovered patients with Covid-19 could still be asymptomatic carriers of the virus,” said study co-author Francesco Landi from Fondazione Policlinico Universitario in Italy. In the study, the researchers followed Covid-19 patients after their recovery to assess the impact of the virus on their bodies. It found that patients who continued to have respiratory symptoms, especially sore throat and rhinitis, were more likely to have a new positive test result. The researchers said the persistence of these two symptoms should not be underestimated and must be adequately assessed in all patients considered recovered from Covid-19. “Clinicians and researchers have focused on the acute phase of Covid-19, but continued monitoring after discharge for long-lasting effects is needed,” Landi explained. In the study, the researchers assessed 131 patients who met the WHO criteria for discontinuation of quarantine.  It specifies that patients should be fever-free without fever-reducing medications for three days, show improvement in any symptoms related to Covid-19, and be more than seven days past symptom onset. According to the WHO criteria, the patients must also test negative for the SARS-CoV-2 virus twice, at least 24 hours apart, with reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) testing. The scientists also collected demographic, medical, and clinical information from the patients with an emphasis on the persistence of symptoms and signs related to Covid-19 such as cough, fatigue, diarrhea, headache, smelling disorders, loss of appetite, sore throat, and rhinitis. Their analysis found that twenty-two (16.7 per cent) of the patients tested positive again. The study did not find any significant difference between patients with positive and negative test results in terms of age or sex. It noted that none of the patients had fever and all reported improvement in their overall clinical condition. According to the researchers, the time since onset of disease, number of days hospitalised, and treatments received while receiving care were not significant. However, they said some symptoms such as fatigue (51 per cent), laboured breathing (44 percent) and coughing (17 percent) were still present in a significant percentage of the patients studied. But the scientists added that there were no significant differences between individuals with a positive or negative test. The only two symptoms that were higher and significantly prevalent in patients with a positive test were sore throat and signs of rhinitis, they said. “The main question for the containment of SARS-CoV-2 pandemic infection that still needs to be answered is whether persistent presence of virus fragments means the patients is still contagious,” Landi said. The scientists explained that the RT-PCR test looks for small fragments of viral genetic material, it’s RNA, and a positive swab test can reveal if patients are still shedding viral fragments. “But it is not able to discern whether they are or aren’t infectious,” Landi added. For patients who continue to have symptoms potentially related to Covid-19, the researchers said it is reasonable to be cautious and avoid close contact with others, wear a face mask, and possibly undergo an additional nasopharyngeal swab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/some-recovered-covid-19-patients-may-still-carry-virus-says-study/story-w2oXk6jzRnKXzu7gFerKII.html
29-10-2020||World||Woman beheaded, 2 more killed in knife attack at French church||A knife-wielding attacker shouting “Allahu Akbar” beheaded a woman and killed two other people in a suspected terrorist act at a church in the French city of Nice on Thursday, while a gunman was shot dead by police in a separate incident.Within hours of the Nice attack, police killed a man who had threatened passersby with a handgun in Montfavet, near the southern French city of Avignon. He was also shouting “Allahu Akbar” (God is greatest), according to radio station Europe 1.In Saudi Arabia on Thursday, state television reported that a Saudi man had been arrested in the city of Jeddah after attacking and injuring a guard at the French consulate.The French Embassy said the consulate was subject to an “attack by knife which targeted a guard”, adding the guard was taken to hospital and his life was not in danger.Nice’s mayor, Christian Estrosi, who described the attack in his city as terrorism, said on Twitter it had happened in or near Notre Dame church and was similar to the beheading of French teacher Samuel Paty in an attack this month in Paris.Estrosi said the attacker had repeatedly shouted the phrase “Allahu Akbar”, even after he had been detained by police.One of the people killed inside the church was believed to be the church warden, Estrosi said, adding that a woman had tried to escape from inside the church and had fled into a bar opposite the 19th century neo-Gothic building. ​ “The suspected knife attacker was shot by police while being detained, he is on his way to hospital, he is alive,” Estrosi told reporters.“Enough is enough,” Estrosi said. “It’s time now for France to exonerate itself from the laws of peace in order to definitively wipe out Islamo-fascism from our territory.”Reuters journalists at the scene said police armed with automatic weapons had put up a security cordon around the church, which is on Nice’s Jean Medecin avenue, the city’s main shopping thoroughfare. Ambulances and fire service vehicles were also at the scene.SOLIDARITYFrench President Emmanuel Macron is due to visit Nice, Estrosi said.In Paris, lawmakers in the National Assembly observed a minute’s silence in solidarity with the victims. The mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, said the people of Nice “can count on the support of the city of Paris and of Parisians”.Police said three people were confirmed to have died in the attack and several were injured. The French anti-terrorist prosecutor’s department said it had been asked to investigate.A police source said a woman was decapitated. French far-right politician Marine Le Pen also spoke of a decapitation having occurred in the attack.A representative of the French Council for the Muslim Faith strongly condemned the attack. “As a sign of mourning and solidarity with the victims and their loved ones, I call on all Muslims in France to cancel all the celebrations of the holiday of Mawlid.”.The holiday is the birthday of the Prophet Mohammad, which is being celebrated Thursday.Estrosi said the victims had been killed in a “horrible way”.“The methods match, without doubt, those used against the brave teacher in Conflans Sainte Honorine, Samuel Paty,” he said, referring to a French teacher beheaded earlier this month in an attack in a suburb of Paris.The attack comes while France is still reeling from the beheading earlier this month of middle school teacher Paty by a man of Chechen origin.The attacker had said he wanted to punish Paty for showing pupils cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad in a civics lesson.It was not immediately clear if Thursday’s attack was connected to the cartoons, which Muslims consider to be blasphemous.Since Paty’s killing, French officials - backed by many ordinary citizens - have re-asserted the right to display the cartoons, and the images have been widely displayed at marches in solidarity with the killed teacher.That has prompted an outpouring of anger in parts of the Muslim world, with some governments accusing Macron of pursuing an anti-Islam agenda.In a comment on recent beheadings in France, the Kremlin said on Thursday it was unacceptable to kill people, but also wrong to insult the feelings of religious believers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-police-2-dead-in-knife-attack-near-church-in-nice/story-Y2O7MNh7tbzudspuFFzzoI.html
29-10-2020||World||China building cloud computing centre in Tibet to serve South Asian countries||A cloud computing centre in Tibet’s Lhasa is set to become China’s gateway to collect data from South Asian countries like Pakistan, Nepal and Bangladesh by 2021, an official media report said on Thursday, adding that once completed, the hub will meet the data storage needs of client countries.The ambitious but the fairly low-key project will provide remote services to South Asian countries in sectors like distance learning, autonomous driving and data backup.This is a rare example of China’s potential digital influence and impact on South Asian countries where it is already pumping in billions in physical infrastructure.It means that a government-backed – though privately-owned – Chinese company will soon have access to huge amounts of digital data from across densely populated South Asian countries.The sprawling computing campus is coming up in a high-tech zone in Lhasa, the capital of the Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR), at a cost of less than $2 billion, official Xinhua news agency said in a report on Thursday. The TAR has a long and disputed boundary with India.The data centre covers an area of more than 645,000 metres.The new centre is part of the Chinese information technology ministry’s plan to make Lhasa the communication and information hub for South Asia.“After the completion of phase one, the data centre will have 10,000 machine cabinets and an annual revenue of 1.5 billion yuan ( $223.5 million), meeting the data storage needs of key clients in the country and in South Asia,” the Xinhua report said.Located at nearly 10,000 feet, the centre, operated by private technology firm Ningsuan Technologies, is the highest cloud computing centre in the world.Wang Jun, Ningsuan’s vice president and chief marketing officer, was quoted as saying that as Lhasa pushes forward with the construction of a regional bureau for stepping up international communications services, Tibet will become a big-data industrial base.The firm, with the support of the Chinese government, is seeking cooperation with south Asian countries under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), President Xi Jinping’s legacy project that seeks to connect China with the rest of Asia and beyond through infrastructure projects – including digital ones.While India has refused to join the BRI because of sovereignty issues, Pakistan, Nepal, and Bangladesh are part of it.As an international offshore data centre in Lhasa, the “facility has high reliability, cost-effectiveness and energy-saving ability, which are competitive factors when competing with data centres in other provinces or regions in China,” Hu Xiao, general manager of Ningsuan Technologies, had told Chinese state media in June, in a rare report on the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-building-cloud-computing-centre-in-tibet-to-serve-south-asian-countries/story-ebvvSPVmC4V3CQ4yV5St0N.html
29-10-2020||World||Hurricane Zeta slams into southern United States, downgraded to tropical storm||Hurricane Zeta barreled through the southern United States as a Category 2 storm Wednesday, bringing dangerous winds and surging ocean waves as New Orleans residents were left without power.Zeta, which was downgraded to a tropical storm during Thursday’s early hours, would “continue to spread well inland across portions of northeastern Alabama, northern Georgia, the Carolinas, and southeastern Virginia,” according to the National Hurricane Center (NHC).It was packing maximum sustained wind speeds of 60 miles (95 kilometers) per hour, the center said at 0900 GMT.Early on Thursday, New Orleans mayor LaToya Cantrell said the city was dealing with many downed power lines.“Downed lines can be energized and are VERY dangerous,” she tweeted. “Please continue to stay inside and let public safety officials respond to #Zeta hazards.”The city emergency medical service tweeted that there had been one “electrocution fatality” from a downed power line.Mississippi governor Tate Reeves had signed an emergency declaration ahead of Zeta’s approach earlier Wednesday, and Alabama governor Kay Ivey took to Twitter to advise state residents to prepare for the storm and “listen to all local advice.”Hurricane and storm surge warnings were lifted for Louisiana, but governor John Bel Edwards urged people to stay inside.“Today has been hard,” he tweeted. “As we continue to weather #Zeta and feel its effects, everyone needs to keep listening to their local leaders and follow any curfews that may be in place.”Heavy wind and sheets of rain cut through New Orleans, and power outages were reported in various areas.Edwards said in an earlier radio interview that nearly 500,000 were without power in the state, including 78 percent of New Orleans.Officials had urged residents to evacuate vulnerable areas or stock up on emergency supplies of food, water and medication for at least three days.Curfews were in effect for harder-hit coastal areas.Zeta hit just six days before the presidential election, although it was not expected to affect the outcome, with early voting in Louisiana already finished.French Quarter deserted As rainfall and winds began ahead of the storm’s arrival, New Orleans residents rushed to prepare, boarding up windows, moving vehicles and boats to higher ground and in some cases stacking sandbags to guard against potential flooding.The hurricane was the fifth major storm to hit Louisiana this year.The New Orleans area has repeatedly had to be on guard, though it has been spared so far this year, with the brunt of earlier storms hitting cities such as Lake Charles, some 200 miles (320 kilometers) west near the Texas border.This time, though, local officials were urgently warning against complacency.Flooding was less of a threat this time for the low-lying city -- 80 percent of which flooded during 2005’s Hurricane Katrina -- because the storm was fast-moving at 25 miles per hour.New Orleans remains traumatized by Hurricane Katrina, which killed more than 1,800 people 15 years ago.Annie Quattlebaum, a 39-year-old biologist, and a group of friends visiting from Denver were stranded when the storm caused their flight to be canceled.They were roaming the city’s famous French Quarter, largely deserted on Wednesday afternoon, in search of an open store to buy drinks and food as they prepared to hunker down in their hotel for the night.“We’ve been told by friends that are familiar with this area and familiar with the weather to have snacks and have your phone charged,” said a mask-wearing Quattlebaum.“We’re not going to do anything stupid. We’re just going to hunker down while it’s going on.”‘These poor guys’Along the shores of Lake Catherine, on the far northeastern edge of the city where many locals have weekend homes and commercial fishermen operate, boats were lined up along the higher ground of roadsides.At Island Marina, Geoff Wallace, 60, secured wood and other material he was using for a construction project to keep it from flying away and becoming missiles.“It’s just a part of living here,” he said, gray skies shadowing the marshland and a shrimp boat behind him.“These poor guys,” he said of the marina owners. “They’ve had to go through this four or five times this year. It gets tiring.”The hurricane brought strong winds and heavy rains to Mexico’s Caribbean coast on Tuesday after making landfall near the resort town of Tulum.It is the 27th storm of an unusually active Atlantic hurricane season.In September, meteorologists were forced to use the Greek alphabet to name Atlantic storms for only the second time ever, after the 2020 hurricane season blew through their usual list, ending on Tropical Storm Wilfred.Scientists say there will likely be an increase in powerful storms as the ocean surface warms due to climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-zeta-slams-into-southern-united-states-downgraded-to-tropical-storm/story-IkpXWtUi745DnmqZdPqvQO.html
29-10-2020||World||‘Lockdown light’ declared in Germany to check rising Covid-19 cases||German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Wednesday (local time) announced to begin a ‘lockdown light’ from November 2 amid a surge in Covid-19 cases.The measures are intended to limit contact as much as possible and stem the rapid spread of the virus, reported Euro News.“We must act, and now, to avoid an acute national health emergency. If infections continue at this rate, we will be at the limits of the capacities of our health system,” said the chancellor at a press conference, adding that schools and nurseries would remain open.The new lockdown norms were announced due to a surge in the virus infection rate that went over a threshold of 50 per 100,000 inhabitants in one week. The German government along with the country’s 16 state premiers has decided to close restaurants and pubs throughout November, along with cinemas, trade fairs, theatres, and fitness centres.The move is going to affect the sports too as all professional sports competitions in Germany, including top-level football, will be held behind closed doors from Monday and amateur sports activities will not be allowed, reported Euro News.“No more than ten people should convene at one time and contact is set to be limited to two households,” said Merkel.The recent measures have created anger amongst Germany’s hospitality industry, already overburdened due to the coronavirus pandemic staged a protest at Berlin’s Brandenburg Gate to demand financial support from the government.Meanwhile, the government has announced Euro 10 billion in additional emergency aid to help those who have been financially impacted by the pandemic.Germany’s new daily infections hit its highest total yet on Wednesday at over 14,000, with just 25 per cent of the country’s intensive care beds available reported Euro News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lockdown-light-declared-in-germany-to-check-rising-covid-19-cases/story-irUQJS1zdVpc7wRGzhfhRP.html
29-10-2020||World||Covid-19: French Prez Emmanuel Macron announces new lockdown rules amid surge in cases||French President Emmanuel Macron announced new lockdown rules amid a surge in Covid-19 cases through a televised address to the nation.As per the new rule, people in France will be required to fill out a form to leave their homes, as was the case in the country’s first lockdown, and will be in effect till December 1, reported Euro News.The new rules will be reassessed every 15 days to check the soaring Covid-19 cases. France’s Covid-19 deaths are currently at the highest level since the peak of the pandemic in April and 33,000 new cases of the virus were recorded on Tuesday.“The evolution of the virus in France has surpassed ‘even the most pessimistic projections’“, said Macron.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAmid the new confinement rules, which will come into effect from Friday, it was announced that school and creches will remain open. People will be allowed to leave their homes for essential work purposes, medical appointments along with grocery shopping, reported Euro News.French international borders will remain closed and mandatory testing will be done on anyone entering the country.“A ‘special plan’ will be conceived to help the self-employed, shopkeepers, as well as very small enterprises (VSEs) and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that are impacted financially by the lockdown and employees who are unable to work, will benefit from a furlough scheme and receive cash for expenses and rent in the coming weeks,” added Macron.The restrictions introduced in the last few weeks, which included curfews in some of the worst-hit areas of France, were insufficient in combatting a second wave, the leader added.Further, Macron said he hoped that French families could celebrate Christmas and New Year together after the national lockdown was over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-french-prez-emmanuel-macron-announces-new-lockdown-rules-amid-surge-in-cases/story-8M0TxE4TMe8F89RPykYMQI.html
29-10-2020||World||I am a proud and patriotic American, says Kamala Harris||Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris has said that she is a proud and patriotic American who loves her country as she rejected the Republicans’ charge that she was pressing a “socialist” agenda, asserting that her values reflect the values of the US.Click here for complete coverage of US elections 2020 In a final campaign push in Arizona on Wednesday, Harris told a drive-in rally in Tucson that “everything is at stake” as she focused her speech on criticising the Trump administration’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, The New York Times reported. The California Senator also spoke out against charges from the Republicans that she is pressing a “socialist” agenda. “You know, there has been some talk about my values. Well, let me just tell you -- I am a proud, patriotic American. I love my country and our values reflect the values of America,” she told her supporters. Drawing a contrast between her and the Trump’s campaigns where he addresses large crowds with not everyone wearings masks or maintaining social distancing, she said that Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and she “have been clear from the beginning” that “we are going to talk with voters, but do it in a way that we don’t risk their safety and their health.” During an event with Latina business owners before the rally, Harris’ aides carefully made sure that none of the participants stood too close together during the photo opportunity with the senator, telling people to maintain distancing.Also Read | Not doing many rallies to prevent spread of Covid-19, says Joe Biden In the past also, Harris has refuted the allegations that her policies are socialist in nature. Harris, 55, was a presidential aspirant until last year before she dropped out of the race because of lack of popular support. Harris returned to political limelight after Biden picked her as his running mate in the November 3 election. Born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother, Harris is the first Indian-American and first Black woman to be picked by a major American political party for the top post. President Donald Trump and vice president Mike Pence are being challenged in the November 3 elections by former vice president Biden and his running mate Harris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/i-am-a-proud-and-patriotic-american-says-kamala-harris/story-gWWWtuH50CX2qaqnyUexgN.html
29-10-2020||World||Pakistani clerics give approval to Hindu temple construction||Pakistan’s state-run council of clerics, which advises the government on religious issues, gave its approval Wednesday to the construction of a new temple for minority Hindus, ruling Islamic law allows them a place of worship.Lal Malhi, a prominent Hindu leader who is also a member of parliament, applauded the ruling but noted the council also recommended the government not spend public funds directly on the construction of private places of worship.The decision by the Council of Islamic Ideology comes after the government of Prime Minister Imran Khan abruptly halted construction on the temple in the capital Islamabad in June. Khan’s decision came amid threats from radical Muslims who called construction of the temple a blasphemous act.Some extremists had vowed to try to stop the temple’s construction with force, raising tensions. Khan turned to the council to decide if public money could be used for construction. He had promised $600,000 for the temple’s construction.It was not immediately clear Wednesday whether Khan would follow through with providing the funds in light of the council’s ruling. However, the council’s ruling left open the possibility the money could be distributed to the Hindu community to use as it sees fit.Khan, who has promised equal rights for minorities, is expected to issue a formal order to allow the temple’s construction.Currently, there is no functioning temple for Hindus in Islamabad. An ancient temple exists in the capital, but Hindus don’t use it for fear of attacks.About 3,000 Hindus live in Islamabad with its population of more than 1 million, mostly Muslims.Muslims and Hindus generally live peacefully together in Pakistan, but there have been incidents in which Hindu girls were forcibly converted to Islam.Most of the country’s Hindus migrated to India from present day Pakistan in 1947 when India was divided by Britain’s government. Nuclear-armed rivals Pakistan and India have a history of bitter relations. They have fought three wars over the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir, which is split between them but claimed by both in its entirety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistani-clerics-give-approval-to-hindu-temple-construction/story-xJbJuKr6eVSgcb7YI9UkML.html
29-10-2020||World||Iran records highest daily Covid-19 deaths; Iraq’s tally over 460,000||Iran announced on Wednesday its highest daily figure of deaths related to the Covid-19 pandemic so far, after 415 people died in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, Iraq’s tally rose to 463,951.According to the Iranian Ministry of Health and Medical Education’s website, 6,824 new infections were confirmed overnight, which takes the total number of cases to 588,648.After the death of 415 people in the past 24 hours, the epidemic has claimed 33,714 lives in Iran so far.The ministry said that 467,917 patients have so far recovered or been released from hospitals in the country.Speaker of Iran’s Parliament Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf announced on Wednesday that he has been infected with Covid-19.“One of my office colleagues got the coronavirus, and at midnight, my own test result was positive for the coronavirus,” Qalibaf wrote in a message on Twitter. The speaker and also former Tehran’s mayor further noted that he is currently in quarantine, but will continue working.The Iraqi Health Ministry reported 4,043 new Covid-19 cases, bringing the total number of nationwide infections to 463,951.The ministry also reported 46 new deaths and 2,929 more recovered cases in the country, raising the death toll from the infectious virus to 10,770 and the total recoveries to 391,010.A total of 2,814,495 tests have been carried out across the country since the outbreak of the disease in February, with 19,721 done during the day, according to the statement. Iraqi President Barham Salih said that the world is facing the coronavirus pandemic, which calls for “global cooperation” to confront the disease and its consequences on the health and economic levels.“The world desperately needs awareness and adherence to health and safety recommendations. We call for cooperation and concerted efforts when crises and tribulations intensify,” Salih told the Iraqi people in a televised speech.Turkey reported 2,305 new Covid-19 patients, raising the tally of confirmed cases in the country to 368,513.Also Read | Lockdowns set to return as global Covid-19 cases top 44 millionIn addition, 77 people died in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 10,027, while 1,662 more patients recovered, raising the total number of recoveries to 319,181, according to the Health Ministry.Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca urged citizens to significantly reduce mobility and adopt a remote working method in Turkey’s biggest city Istanbul over the rising number of the Covid-19 cases.Koca said at a press conference after the Coronavirus Scientific Advisory Committee meeting in Istanbul that the residents have to lessen contact with others to one third.The minister also asked employers to urgently adopt remote working or switch to flexible working hours to reduce the risk of contamination of the coronavirus.Saudi Arabia’s total Covid-19 cases rose by 416 to 346,047 while the death toll climbed by 19 to 5,348, the Saudi Health Ministry said. The tally of recoveries in the kingdom rose to 332,550.Israel recorded 693 new Covid-19 cases and one more fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 312,417 and the death toll to 2,484. The total number of recoveries in Israel rose to 297,881.Morocco announced 3,985 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally in the North African country since March 2 to 207,718.The number of recoveries from the coronavirus in Morocco increased to 171,591 after 2,885 more were added, while the death toll rose by 61 to 3,506, the ministry of health said in a statement.The Covid-19 fatality rate in Morocco stands at 1.7 percent while the recovery rate is 82.6 percent.The United Arab Emirates (UAE) confirmed 1,400 new coronavirus cases and three more deaths, taking the tally of infections in the country to 129,024 and the death toll to 485.A total of 1,708 new recoveries were registered, raising the tally of recoveries in the UAE to 122,458.The Qatari health ministry announced 250 new Covid-19 infections, raising the total number of confirmed cases in the Gulf state to 131,939.Meanwhile, 267 more recovered from the virus, bringing the overall recoveries to 128,884, while the fatalities remained 230 as no new deaths were reported, according to a ministry statement.Kuwait reported 814 new Covid-19 cases and seven more deaths, raising the tally of infections to 123,906 and the death toll to 763 in the country.The Kuwaiti health ministry also announced the recovery of 807 more patients, taking the total recoveries in the country to 114,923.The Palestinian health ministry said that it recorded eight deaths from the virus, 450 new Covid-19 infections, and 612 recoveries in the West Bank, Gaza Strip, and East Jerusalem.It has recorded 63,614 cases in the Palestinian territories, including 537 deaths, 56,323 recovered and 6,754 active cases receiving medical care. The Tunisian health authorities said that, from Oct 25 to 26, 2,125 people are tested positive with Covid-19, raising the tally of infections to 54,278 in the North African country. The death toll from the virus rose by 52 to 1,153.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-records-highest-daily-covid-19-deaths-iraq-s-tally-over-460-000/story-8qHL0sAzvI03Nm2kv8s0tM.html
29-10-2020||World||Melbourne, locked-down for 3 months, has bleak lessons for the world||As countries across the globe grapple with the prospect of renewed lockdowns, the Australian city of Melbourne offers a stark lesson on the costs of bringing the coronavirus under control.The city of 5 million people on Wednesday emerged from one of the world’s strictest and longest lockdowns that shuttered businesses and confined residents to their homes for more than three months.While infections have dropped from a daily peak of about 700 in early August to just two new cases on Wednesday, the economic and social impact of Melbourne’s second lockdown since the crisis began has been enormous. Australia’s government estimates 1,200 jobs have been lost on average a day across Victoria state, while demand for mental health services has surged by more than 30%.Also Read | Australia’s second-largest city ends 111-day Covid-19 lockdownDespite key factors working in Melbourne’s favor, including closed borders, an infection count that was tiny by international standards, and a state government with strong public backing, it still took twice as long as anticipated to crush the curve.It’s a bleak reality confronting political leaders, particularly in Europe, who have already experienced the damage wrought by full-blown lockdowns and are now weighing options to fight a resurgence of the pandemic.Australia was in the vanguard of nations that had early success in controlling community transmission. Its first nationwide lockdown, which lasted roughly from March to May, reduced the number of cases to just a handful a day.But security failures at quarantine hotels for returning overseas travellers, poor communication of critical information to migrant communities and inadequate contact tracing allowed the virus to roar back in Victoria.On July 7, state Premier Daniel Andrews announced a six-week lockdown, ordering Melbourne residents to stay home except for essential work and services, medical treatment, school or an hour’s exercise a day. Less than a month later, as cases continued to rise, the restrictions were extended across the entire state, Melbourne was placed under a nighttime curfew, schools were closed and large parts of retail, manufacturing and hospitality were shut down.With Victoria accounting for about a quarter of the nation’s gross domestic product, the restrictions have deepened Australia’s first recession in almost 30 years.The lockdown has slashed A$100 million ($71 million) a day from economic activity and through August and September resulted in a daily average of 1,200 jobs being lost across the state, Luke Yeaman, a Treasury department official, told a parliamentary panel this week.Long RecoveryBusiness leaders say it may take years for Melbourne -- ranked as the world’s second-most livable city last year -- to recover. Melbourne chef Scott Pickett warned that ongoing capacity restrictions would continue to hit restaurants and cafes and that many would fold once government wage subsidies end early next year.“Some may get to Christmas, January and say they can’t do this anymore,” said Pickett, who owns the bistro Estelle. “It’s going to be a bloodbath out there at some stage.”“This is the beginning of a long road of recovery,” said Michael Madrusan, co-owner of Made in the Shade, which operates venues in the city including The Everleigh cocktail bar. “We are in no way out of the woods just because we can open the doors.”Also Read | Melbourne opens up dining, shopping as four month virus lockdown liftedThe social costs are also mounting. The Royal Australian College of General Practitioners says demand for health services nationwide has risen 15% since early March, and by 31% between September and October in Victoria. Alcohol consumption has risen and domestic violence spiked.“Only being allowed outside for an hour a day was awful,” said Tessa Patrao, 27, who is finally back at work as a primary school teacher after the 112-day stay-at-home order. The second lockdown was even harder than the first, particularly as much of the country had returned to normal, she said.While governments in the UK, Italy and Germany have faced protests against second lockdowns, Victorians have been largely compliant. That’s in part down to the popularity of the state’s Labor government, which won the 2018 election by a landslide, and the high approval ratings of Premier Andrews. The carrot-and-stick approach taken by authorities has also helped, with A$1,500 payments for people who couldn’t afford to self-isolate and court-imposed fines of as much as A$20,000 for repeat breaches of isolation orders.Circuit Breakers“It would’ve been impossible to meaningfully police if there wasn’t community support,” said Terry Slevin, chief executive officer of the Public Health Association of Australia. “It’s an example where a compact between a government and a community that’s been driven by expert advice has achieved a valuable public health outcome.”According to Catherine Bennett, chair in epidemiology at Deakin University in Melbourne, it’s likely too late for the UK, US and European countries to replicate Melbourne’s success in crushing new infections. Instead, authorities would likely opt for 2-3 week circuit breaker lockdowns to take the load off the public health system.“A circuit-breaker just might help bring it back into line and allow it to be containable,” she said. “But unless you’ve gone very early” it’s very hard to bring new cases down to zero.The lockdown may have quashed the virus for now, but it’s clear from outbreaks around the world that it can come back with a vengeance if not coupled with ongoing requirements such as mask-wearing, social distancing, temperature checks and a robust testing and contact-tracing regime. Such “living with the virus” elements are in place in countries such as Korea, Japan and China, which have been able to keep their cases under control.“Australians need to have the conversation on what the new normal looks like so we can live alongside this virus without more lockdowns,” said Jennifer Westacott, CEO of the Business Council of Australia. “If mask-wearing and hand sanitizers are the new normal now, is everyone on board? The big question is whether individual Australians are ready to fully adjust their lives to the Covid era.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/melbourne-locked-down-for-3-months-has-bleak-lessons-for-the-world/story-AczPNitTmd71wTu1UQi08J.html
29-10-2020||World||US agencies, including FBI, warn of ransomware attack on healthcare system||Federal agencies warned that cybercriminals are unleashing a wave of data-scrambling extortion attempts against the US healthcare system designed to lock up hospital information systems, which could hurt patient care just as nationwide cases of Covid-19 are spiking.In a joint alert Wednesday, the FBI and two federal agencies warned that they had “credible information of an increased and imminent cybercrime threat to US hospitals and healthcare providers.” The alert said malicious groups are targeting the sector with attacks that produce “data theft and disruption of healthcare services.”The cyberattacks involve ransomware, which scrambles data into gibberish that can only be unlocked with software keys provided once targets pay up. Independent security experts say it has already hobbled at least five US hospitals this week, and could potentially impact hundreds more.The offensive by a Russian-speaking criminal gang coincides with the US presidential election, although there is no immediate indication they were motivated by anything but profit. “We are experiencing the most significant cyber security threat we’ve ever seen in the United States,” Charles Carmakal, chief technical officer of the cybersecurity firm Mandiant, said in a statement.Alex Holden, CEO of Hold Security, which has been closely tracking the ransomware in question for more than a year, agreed that the unfolding offensive is unprecedented in magnitude for the US given its timing in the heat of a contentions presidential election and the worst global pandemic in a century.The federal alert was co-authored by the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Health and Human Services.The cybercriminals launching the attacks use a strain of ransomware known as Ryuk, which is seeded through a network of zombie computers called Trickbot that Microsoft began trying to counter earlier in October. US Cyber Command has also reportedly taken action against Trickbot. While Microsoft has had considerable success knocking its command-and-control servers offline through legal action, analysts say criminals have still been finding ways to spread Ryuk.The US has seen a plague of ransomware over the past 18 months or so, with major cities from Baltimore to Atlanta hit and local governments and schools hit especially hard.In September, a ransomware attack hobbled all 250 US facilities of the hospital chain Universal Health Services, forcing doctors and nurses to rely on paper and pencil for record-keeping and slowing lab work. Employees described chaotic conditions impeding patient care, including mounting emergency room waits and the failure of wireless vital-signs monitoring equipment.Also in September, the first known fatality related to ransomware occurred in Duesseldorf, Germany, when an IT system failure forced a critically ill patient to be routed to a hospital in another city.Holden said he alerted federal law enforcement Friday after monitoring infection attempts at a number of hospitals, some of which may have beaten back infections. The FBI did not immediately respond to a request for comment.He said the group was demanding ransoms well above $10 million per target and that criminals involved on the dark web were discussing plans to try to infect more than 400 hospitals, clinics and other medical facilities.“One of the comments from the bad guys is that they are expecting to cause panic and, no, they are not hitting election systems,” Holden said. “They are hitting where it hurts even more and they know it.” US officials have repeatedly expressed concern about major ransomware attacks affecting the presidential election, even if the criminals are motivated chiefly by profit.Mandiant’s Carmakal identified the criminal gang as UNC1878, saying “it is deliberately targeting and disrupting US hospitals, forcing them to divert patients to other healthcare providers” and producing prolonged delays in critical care.He called the eastern European group “one of most brazen, heartless, and disruptive threat actors I’ve observed over my career.”While no one has proven suspected ties between the Russian government and gangs that use the Trickbot platform, Holden said he has “no doubt that the Russian government is aware of this operation — of terrorism, really.” He said dozens of different criminal groups use Ryuk, paying its architects a cut.Dmitri Alperovitch, co-founder and former chief technical officer of the cybersecurity firm Crowdstrike, said there are “certainly lot of connections between Russian cyber criminals and the state,” with Kremlin-employed hackers sometimes moonlighting as cyber criminals.Neither Holden nor Carmakal would identify the affected hospitals. Four healthcare institutions have been reported hit by ransomware so far this week, three belonging to the St. Lawrence County Health System in upstate New York and the Sky Lakes Medical Center in Klamath Falls, Oregon.Sky Lakes acknowledged the ransomware attack in an online statement, saying it had no evidence that patient information was compromised. It said emergency and urgent care “remain available” The St. Lawrence system did not immediately return phone calls seeking comment.Increasingly, ransomware criminals are stealing data from their targets before encrypting networks, using it for extortion. They often sow the malware weeks before activating it, waiting for moments when they believe they can extract the highest payments, said Brett Callow, an analyst at the cybersecurity firm Emsisoft.A total of 59 US healthcare providers/systems have been impacted by ransomware in 2020, disrupting patient care at up to 510 facilities, Callow said.Carmakal said Mandiant had provided Microsoft on Wednesday with as much detail as it could about the thr eat so it could distribute details to its customers. A Microsoft spokesman had no immediate comment.—-Associated Press writers Eric Tucker in Washington, D.C., Lisa Baumann in Seattle and Deepti Hajela in New York City contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-agencies-including-fbi-warn-of-ransomware-attack-on-healthcare-system/story-EG7LchrANF0PyNCHtUgr4K.html
29-10-2020||World||Anonymous writer who made revelations on Trump govt chaos reveals himself||A former official of the US homeland security department injected new drama into a tumultuous presidential race on Wednesday by revealing himself as the “Anonymous” author of a bombshell 2018 Op-Ed chronicling deep disaffection among senior members of the Trump administration.Miles Taylor, a former chief of staff to the secretary of homeland security, owned up to the controversial piece and a subsequent book — A Warning — that further chronicled the chaos in a blog on Medium. He left the administration last fall, joined Google and is now on leave.He has been a strident critic of the president as a TV commentator.Trump slammed him as a “sleaze bag” and a “low life” at a campaign rally in Arizona and said, “This guy, in my opinion, he should be prosecuted.”More vitriol followed from the Trump campaign, which called the disclosure “the least impressive, lamest political ‘reveal’ of all time”.White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany slammed Tyler as “this low-level, disgruntled former staffer … a liar and a coward”.In an Op-Ed in the New York Times in 2018, the “Anonymous” author, who was described as a “senior administration official”, had written of a widespread “resistance” by senior officials to frustrate parts of the president’s agenda they found disagreeable and his “worst inclinations”.In the blog post on Medium, Taylor conceded writing the Op-Ed anonymously may have been problematic for some, especially because of the seriousness of his assertions, but said by remaining anonymous he “forced the president to answer them (his assertions) directly on their merits … rather than creating distractions through petty insults and name-calling”.Taylor’s reveal added a new and dramatic element into the race that is now in the final stages in which more than a third of eligible voters — 75 million — have already cast their ballot through early in-person voting or by mail in an unprecedented turnout before Election Day on November 3.Trump held two rallies in Arizona in an effort to hold on to a traditionally Republican state that he had won in 2016, by a reduced margin than the Republican nominee before him, but where he has been trailing his Democrat challenger Joe Biden by a slim but steady margin.Biden, who cast his vote with his wife in Wilmington, Delaware on Wednesday will be campaigning in Florida Thursday, as will be Trump.Florida is a key battleground state that no successful presidential candidate has not won in recent memory. Trump squeaked through with 1.2% victory margin in 2016, but he now trails Biden by 2 percentage points in the RealClearPolitics average of polls and 1.5 point in the FiveThirtyEight average.The race itself may be slipping out of the president’s grip as he trails his Democrat challenger by a margin that has held steadily over past months.He is behind Biden by 7.5 percentage points in the RealClearPolitics average of polls and 8.9 points in the FiveThirtyEight weighted average of polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anonymous-writer-who-made-revelations-on-trump-govt-chaos-reveals-himself/story-Do65JOB834zBiREsY1PkBP.html
29-10-2020||World||India ‘strongly deplores’ attacks on Macron for tough stance on radical Islam||India on Wednesday strongly deplored the personal attacks against French President Emmanuel Macron following his tough stance on radical Islam, calling it a violation of the most basic standards of international discourse.In a strongly-worded statement, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) also condemned the brutal terrorist attack that took the life of a French teacher in a gruesome manner and asserted that there is no justification for terrorism for any reason or under any circumstance.Watch | India backs Macron against ‘personal attacks’; condemns teacher’s beheading “We strongly deplore the personal attacks in unacceptable language on President Emmanuel Macron in violation of the most basic standards of international discourse,” the MEA said.“We also condemn the brutal terrorist attack that took the life of a French teacher in a gruesome manner that has shocked the world. We offer our condolences to his family and the people of France,” it said.Following the MEA statement, French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain thanked India saying both countries can count on each other in the fight against terrorism.“Thank you @MEAIndia. France and India can always count on each other in the fight against terrorism,” he tweeted.Macron has been facing criticism from various Muslim-majority countries after he took a tough stand on radical Islam and defended cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad. The French President said that Islam was a religion in “crisis”.His comments came in the backdrop of the beheading of French teacher Samuel Paty on October 16 outside Paris in broad daylight. He had shown caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad to his students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strongly-deplore-personal-attacks-india-speaks-up-for-french-president-macron/story-hyI0HbaqpIyzRubbv2EjhK.html
29-10-2020||World||Philadelphia Police pledges to release body camera footage over fatal shooting of African-American youth||Philadelphia police pledged to release 911 tapes and police body camera footage “in the near future” in the shooting death of a Black man with a history of mental health problems, a death that prompted protests, widespread vandalism and an overnight curfew days before Election Day.Police Commissioner Danielle Outlaw pledged to release the video evidence once the department shares it with the family of Walter Wallace Jr. Outlaw, who came to Philadelphia less than a year ago from Portland, Oregon, lamented at a news conference Wednesday that her department lacks a mental health unit or consistent way to coordinate police calls with specialists.“We don’t have a behavioural health unit, which is sorely needed,” said Outlaw, when asked about reports that police had been called to the home twice before that day. “There’s clearly a disconnect on our end in terms of knowing what’s out there “ at the scene.Police say they fatally shot Wallace on Monday after he ignored orders to drop a knife, a death that intensified already heightened tensions in the presidential battleground state. Wallace’s mother said she warned police Monday afternoon that her son was in the throes of a mental health crisis.In the days since, more than 90 people have been arrested and about 50 police officers injured in clashes with protesters and vandals, including the 1,000 or so who suddenly swarmed a shopping center Tuesday night, breaking windows and stealing merchandise. That scene erupted on the other side of the city, miles from Wallace’ neighborhood, where protests were underway.“We had zero information to warn us of this,” Deputy Commissioner Melvin Singleton said. “By that time ... the damage was done.”The clashes come as Pennsylvania emerges as a key focus of the contentious 2020 election, with President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden, a native son, locked in a battle for the state’s 20 electoral votes. Both candidates have made frequent campaign stops in the state.More than 9 million Pennsylvanians have registered to vote, and many in Philadelphia waited in line for hours this week to request a mail-in ballot by Tuesday’s deadline, as news of the police shooting spread.City officials announced Wednesday they would enact a curfew in the city from 9 p.m. until 6 a.m., as business owners cleaned up damage from the melee and boarded up windows.Mayor Jim Kenney told reporters the Pennsylvania National Guard would also be deployed to help protect property and assist the police. The first troops were expected Friday and Saturday.The unrest started Monday evening, shortly after Wallace, 27, was killed, and set off protests elsewhere, including in Washington, D.C., the Brooklyn borough of New York City and Portland, where demonstrators held their hands in the shape of a “W” in his honor.His family’s lawyer said the family had called for an ambulance to get him help with a mental health crisis.Wallace’s wife, Dominique, is pregnant and was scheduled to be induced Wednesday, according to the family’s attorney, Shaka Johnson. Johnson said Wallace had nine children, two of whom briefly spoke at a news conference late Tuesday, along with Wallace’s mother and father.“When you come to a scene where somebody is in a mental crisis, and the only tool you have to deal with it is a gun ... where are the proper tools for the job?” Johnson said, arguing that Philadelphia police officers are not properly trained to handle mental health crises.Police officials said they could not confirm what information had been given to the responding officers, whether they were told about a possible mental illness or how many calls they had received for help at Wallace’s address Monday.Outlaw said earlier the officers involved in the shooting were taken off street duty as they investigate. She said the officers’ names and other identifying information, including their race, would be withheld until the department could be sure releasing the information would not pose a threat to their safety.Neither had a Taser or similar device at the time of the shooting, Outlaw said, noting the department had previously asked for funding to equip more officers with those devices.The two officers each fired at least seven rounds — at least 14 total shots — but police could not say how many times Wallace was struck.Wallace’s father, Walter Wallace Sr. said Tuesday night that he is haunted by the way his son was “butchered.”“It’s in my mind. I can’t even sleep at night. I can’t even close my eyes,” he said.In video filmed by a bystander and posted on social media, officers could be seen yelling for Wallace to drop a knife. In the video, Wallace’s mother and at least one man followed Wallace, trying to get him to listen to officers, as he briskly walked across the street and between cars.Wallace advanced toward the officers, who then fired several times, said police spokesperson Officer Tanya Little. Wallace’s mother could be seen screaming and throwing something at an officer after her son was shot and fell to the ground.The video does not make it clear whether he was in fact holding a knife, but witnesses said he was.Wallace was hit in the shoulder and chest, Little said. One officer drove him to a hospital, where he was pronounced dead a short time later, she said.Lawyer Robert Trimble represented Wallace in a 2016 robbery case that led him to spend about a year in jail. His sentence, according to court records, included mental health supervision and six years of probation. He had new charge pending at the time of his death.“I ran into him about a year ago by City Hall. He stopped me on the street and thanked me for helping him,” Trimble said. “I remember him being a decent guy.”Both Outlaw and the mayor pledged to address the lack of coordinated mental health services.“We have limited resources and we have a large number of people with problems,” Kenney said. “We need to do a better job.”___ Associated Press writer Claudia Lauer contributed to this report from Philadelphia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philadelphia-police-pledges-to-release-body-camera-footage-over-fatal-shooting-of-african-american-youth/story-8K5OJuATKI8c2WFQP1xXzM.html
29-10-2020||World||Pfizer says Covid-19 vaccine may yet be possible in 2020||Pfizer executives expressed measured optimism on Tuesday over the prospect of providing a coronavirus vaccine in 2020 as the pharma giant reported lower third-quarter profits due to disruption in health care that dented drug demand.Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla said the drug giant could supply some 40 million doses in the US in 2020 if clinical testing proceeds as expected and regulators approve a vaccine. “If all goes well, we will be ready to distribute an initial number of doses,” said Bourla, who pointed to a US government contract for Pfizer to supply 40 million doses by the end of this year and 100 million doses by March 2021.But Bourla said the company still had not reached key benchmarks in assessing vaccine efficacy. Pfizer has said previously that it could have the data in October.Bourla said the company expects to file for emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine in the third week of November, roughly in line with earlier timetables.Asked if he was “bullish” the vaccine would work, Bourla said: “I’m not bullish a vaccine will work. I’m cautiously optimistic that the vaccine will work.”Regarding earnings, Pfizer reported a 71% drop in profit to $2.2 billion. The year-ago period included a large gain connected to a transaction. Revenues dipped 4% to $12.1 billion, missing analyst estimates.Pfizer estimated a revenue hit of $500 million connected to Covid-19 due to lower pharma demand in China and fewer wellness visits from patients in the US.The company saw an 11% drop in its hospital business in emerging markets, primarily due to fewer elective surgeries in China and shorter in-patient hospital stays in the country.This effect was partially offset by increased demand for the Prevnar-13 vaccine for pneumonia “resulting from greater vaccine awareness for respiratory illnesses”, the firm said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-says-covid-19-vaccine-may-yet-be-possible-in-2020/story-SVTjXDClaWVoxQK8SbE64J.html
29-10-2020||World||US Elections 2020: It’s going to take lot of hard work to end Covid-19, says Joe Biden||Focused firmly on Covid-19, Joe Biden vowed Wednesday not to campaign in the election homestretch “on the false promises of being able to end this pandemic by flipping a switch.” President Donald Trump, under attack for his handling of the worst health crisis in more than a century, breezily pledged on his final-week swing to “vanquish the virus.”The Democratic presidential nominee also argued that a Supreme Court conservative majority stretched to 6-3 by newly confirmed Justice Amy Coney Barrett could dismantle the Obama administration’s signature health law and leave millions without insurance coverage during the pandemic. He called Trump’s handling of the coronavirus an “insult” to its victims, especially as cases spike dramatically around the country.“Even if I win, it’s going to take a lot of hard work to end this pandemic,” Biden said during a speech in Wilmington, Delaware. “I do promise this: We will start on day one doing the right things.”His comments reflected an unwavering attempt to keep the political spotlight on the pandemic. That was a departure from the president, who downplayed the threat and spent his day in Arizona, where relaxed rules on social distancing made staging big rallies easier.The pandemic’s consequences were escalating, with deaths climbing in 39 states and an average of 805 people dying daily nationwide — up from 714 two weeks ago. Overall, about 227,000 Americans have died. The sharp rise sent shockwaves through financial markets, causing the Dow Jones Industrial Average to drop 900-plus points.Trump, who frequently lauds rising markets, failed to mention the decline. But he promised that economic growth figures for the summer quarter, due Thursday, would be strong, declaring during a rally in Bullhead City, Arizona, “This election is a choice between a Trump super-recovery and a Biden depression.”As Trump spoke, an Air Force fighter thundered nearby and released a flare to get the attention of a non-responsive private aircraft that was flying in the restricted airspace. North American Aerospace Defense Command said the plane was escorted out by the F-16 “without further incident.” Trump was at first caught off guard but later cheered the fighter, proclaiming, “I love that sound” as it roared overhead.The president also condemned violence that occurred during some protests in response to the police shooting of Walter Wallace Jr., a Black man, in Philadelphia saying Biden stands “with the rioters and the vandals.”But Biden said in Wilmington, “There is no excuse whatsoever for the looting and the violence.”Bullhead City is just across the border from Nevada, a state Trump is hoping to flip during Election Day next Tuesday. A Trump Nevada rally last month attracted thousands and led to the airport that hosted it being fined more than $5,500 for violating pandemic crowd restrictions.Rather than curb his crowd, Trump moved just across the border and used his rally Wednesday to scoff at Democratic leaders in states like Nevada for trying to enforce social distancing rules. The event’s crowd looked to be mostly from Arizona, though there were attendees from Nevada. Few wore masks.The weather was far milder than during a Tuesday night Trump rally in Omaha, Nebraska. After Trump left that one, hundreds of attendees at Eppley Airfield spent hours waiting in the cold for transportation to cars parked far away. Several people were taken to hospitals amid concerns about exposure.“Because of the sheer size of the crowd, we deployed 40 shuttlebuses – double the normal allotment – but local road closures and resulting congestion caused delays,” Trump spokeswoman Samantha Zager said in a statement.Trump is trailing Biden in most national polls. Biden also has an advantage, though narrower, in the key swing states that could decide the election.Biden voted early in Wilmington on Wednesday and received a virtual briefing from health experts. One, Dr. David Kessler, director of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, warned, “We are in the midst of the third wave, and I don’t think anyone can tell you how high this is going to get.”Trump was nonetheless defiant, declaring, “We will vanquish the virus and emerge stronger than ever before.”In a campaign sidelight, the president lashed out after news that Miles Taylor, former chief of staff at the Department of Homeland Security, was revealed as the author of a scathing anti-Trump op-ed and book under the pen name “Anonymous.”“This guy is a low-level lowlife that I don’t know,” he said. “I have no idea who he is.”Trump views Nevada favorably, despite it not backing a Republican for president since 2004. Hillary Clinton won it by less than 2.5 percentage points in 2016.And Biden wants to flip Arizona, which hasn’t voted Democratic for president since 1996. His running mate, California Sen. Kamala Harris, was in Arizona on Wednesday, meeting with Latina entrepreneurs and African American leaders as well as holding two drive-in rallies.On Friday, Harris will visit Fort Worth, Houston and the U.S.-Mexico border town of McAllen in Texas -- a state that hasn’t backed a Democrat for president since 1976 or even elected one to statewide office since 1994. Texas was long so reliably red that top national Democrats visited only to hold fundraisers.“I am really grateful for the attention that they have given Texas because it has been so long since a presidential campaign gave this state a look,” said Beto O’Rourke, a former Texas congressman and onetime presidential hopeful. But he declined to predict that Biden would win the state, saying only “There is a possibility,” contingent on turnout breaking records.Biden heads later in the week to three more states Trump won in 2016, Iowa, Wisconsin and Michigan, where he’ll hold a joint Saturday rally with former President Barack Obama.Democrats point to a larger number of their party members returning absentee ballots — results that could be decisive since more people are likely to vote by mail during the pandemic. Trump’s campaign argues that enough of its supporters will vote on Election Day to overwhelm any early Biden advantage.Around 71.5 million people nationwide have so far voted in advance, either by casting early, in-person ballots or voting by mail, according to an Associated Press analysis. That’s already far more than the total advance ballots cast before the 2016 presidential election.“We’re talking to people everywhere,” Harris said. “And there’s no area that’s off limits.”___Weissert reported from Washington, Jaffe from Wilmington. Associated Press writers Michelle Price in Bull City, Arizona, Kathleen Ronayne in Phoenix and Zeke Miller in Washington contributed to this report.___AP’s Advance Voting guide brings you the facts about voting early, by mail or absentee from each state: https://interactives.ap.org/advance-voting-2020/.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-it-s-going-to-take-lot-of-hard-work-to-end-covid-19-says-joe-biden/story-kK1LATfkNW8mwbM4P5PzSK.html
29-10-2020||World||Hurricane Zeta hits Louisiana with flooding, power outages||Hurricane Zeta slammed into storm-weary Louisiana on Wednesday with New Orleans squarely in its path, pelting homes and businesses with rain and howling winds, knocking out power to thousands and threatening to push up to 9 feet of sea water inland in a Gulf Coast region already pounded by multiple storms this year.Roads were flooded near the coast, where forecasters said Zeta made landfall around Terrebone Bay near Cocodrie, an unincorporated fishing village at the end of a highway with few if any full-time residents and a marine laboratory where a building was inundated.Also Read: Louisiana braces for third hurricane strike this year as ‘Zeta’ approachesStreams of rainfall ran off roofs in New Orleans’ famed French Quarter, signs outside bars and restaurants swayed back and forth in the wind and palm trees along Canal Street whipped furiously. A few trees were down, and one that fell across utility lines sparked a bright orange flash. Officials said a person was hospitalized with minor injuries after a structure collapsed, but further details weren’t available.About 350,000 customers were without electricity in Louisiana and Mississippi, including more than 255,000 in metro New Orleans.Zeta had top sustained winds of 110 (177 kph) as a Category 2 hurricane and was the 27th named storm of a historically busy Atlantic hurricane season — with over a month left before it ends. It set a new record as the 11th named storm to make landfall in the continental U.S. in a single season, well beyond the nine storms that hit in 1916.Tropical storm warnings were issued as far away as the north Georgia mountains, highly unusual for the region. Forecasters issued a string of tornado warnings for as far east as the Florida Panhandle.New Orleans was in the warning areas of six previous storms that veered east or west this season. This time, Zeta stayed on course.Zeta had been predicted to hit as a relatively weak Category 1 hurricane, but Louisiana residents awoke to updated forecasts predicting a Category 2 at landfall around the southeastern part of the state.“The good news for us — and look, you take good news where you can find it — the storm’s forward speed is 17 mph. That’s projected to increase, and so it’s going to get in and out of the area relatively quickly, and then we’re going to be able to assess the damage more quickly,” Gov. John Bel Edwards said in an interview on The Weather Channel.Officials urged people to take precautions and prepare to shelter in place, and a business-as-usual atmosphere in the morning in New Orleans diminished as the storm neared and grew stronger. Traffic slowed, and restaurants and coffee shops shut down.“This year, the storms have been coming back-to-back. They’ve been avoiding New Orleans but finally decided to come,” cookie shop worker Curt Brumfield said as he stowed empty boxes in trash cans outside and others boarded up the windows ahead of the storm’s arrival.Winds picked up and water rose above the docks in Jean Lafitte, a small fishing town south of New Orleans that takes its name from a French pirate. Workers drove truckloads of sand to low-lying areas where thousands of sandbags were already stacked for previous storms.“We’re going to get a lot of water fast,” said the mayor, Tim Kerner Jr. “I’m optimistic regarding the tidal surge because of the speed of the storm, but we’re not going to take it for granted.”Zeta’s wind, rain and storm surge reached more than 150 miles (241 kilometers) east of New Orleans. In Mississippi, street lights swayed in Biloxi and the city of Pass Christian ordered all boats out of the harbor. Dauphin Island, Alabama, shut off water and sewer service in areas that typically are swamped in storms.Also Read: Zeta likely to become hurricane before hitting Mexico’s Yucatan peninsulaNew Orleans officials announced that a turbine that generates power to the city’s aging drainage pump system broke down Sunday, with no quick repair in sight. There was enough power to keep the pumps operating if needed, but little excess power to tap if other turbines fail, officials said.Officials said they were running through contingencies should there be other equipment problems. Forecasts called for anywhere from 2 to 6 inches (5 to 15 centimeters) of rain to fall in the New Orleans area, but Zeta’s pace could mitigate the flood threat.Before landfall, Zeta’s top winds had risen to just shy of a major, Category 3 storm, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.On Tuesday, Zeta raked across Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula, toppling trees and briefly cutting power to more than 300,000 people but causing no deaths.It then regained strength over the Gulf of Mexico along a path slightly to the east of those of Hurricane Laura, which was blamed for at least 27 deaths in Louisiana in August, and Hurricane Delta, which exacerbated Laura’s damage in the same area weeks later.Hurricane warnings stretched from Morgan City, Louisiana, to the Alabama/Mississippi state line, including Lake Pontchartrain and metropolitan New Orleans.The deteriorating weather prompted early voting sites to close for hours in the western Florida Panhandle.Tropical storm warnings were issued for a large swath of the South, from Louisiana and Mississippi into Alabama and Georgia, including all of the Atlanta area, where winds could gust up to 55 mph (89 kph) early Thursday. Winds could be “especially severe” in the southern Appalachian Mountains, where flash flooding is possible, the hurricane center said.Large school systems in Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina planned to close Thursday or open late.Edwards asked President Donald Trump for a disaster declaration ahead of the storm. He and Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey both declared emergencies, as did Mayor Andrew “FoFo” Gilich in Biloxi, Mississippi. Trump declared an emergency for Louisiana Tuesday evening.An average season sees six hurricanes and 12 named storms. This extraordinarily busy season has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing wetter, stronger and more destructive storms.After Hanna, Isaias, Laura, Sally and Delta, Zeta will tie a record set in 1886 and repeated in 1985 for six hurricanes smacking the continental U.S., according to Colorado State University hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach.“I’m physically and mentally tired,” a distraught Yolanda Lockett of Lake Charles, one of about 3,600 evacuees from Laura and Delta still sheltering, said outside her New Orleans hotel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hurricane-zeta-hits-louisiana-with-flooding-power-outages/story-Kr6cpXD3oHC0HtKUccu7bL.html
29-10-2020||World||EU leaders seek common ground on Covid-19 tests as virus spreads||EU leaders aim to make progress on common testing and vaccination strategies at a video conference on Thursday and step up coordination in fighting the fast-expanding Covid-19 pandemic, officials said.The late-afternoon e-meeting is the first of a planned series of video conferences leaders will dedicate in the coming weeks to the health crisis, with one official saying two more may take place before an EU summit scheduled for mid-December.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayAppeals for better coordination have become louder amid a resurgence of the epidemic in Europe after a relative lull in the summer months.Leaders also want to avoid divisions which dogged the 27-nation bloc at the beginning of the pandemic, when countries vied with each other to buy scarce medical equipment.A robust testing and tracing strategy has been a priority for the EU since the onset of the crisis as countries who did better on that, like Germany, recorded smaller death tolls than others.But “at the European level, this plan of action has not achieved the desired results”, the chair of the EU summit, Charles Michel, said in a note issued before the video conference.Also Read: Lockdowns set to return as global Covid-19 cases top 44 millionHe will call for more cooperation on buying and developing tests including rapid antigen kits which, albeit less accurate than the standard molecular PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests, could be crucial in identifying clusters of infections more quickly, officials said.He will also insist, officials said, that EU countries speed up vaccination plans to make sure the first limited doses, should they ever be available, can be distributed quickly to those most in need.A clear definition of priority groups is crucial as not enough vials of potential effective shots would be available to inoculate the entire EU population of 450 million before 2022, according to EU Commission estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-leaders-seek-common-ground-on-covid-19-tests-as-virus-spreads/story-uJiRXTsMCvIwgzIN29DVcP.html
29-10-2020||World||‘COAS Bajwa’s legs were shaking’: Pakistan MP recalls why IAF pilot Abhinandan Varthaman was released||A Pakistan MP speaking in Parliament on Wednesday claimed that fearing an attack by India, the Imran Khan government had abruptly released Indian Air Force pilot Abhinandan Varthaman, who landed in Pakistani custody last February after a dogfight between Indian and Pakistani pilots.In a speech in the National Assembly, Pakistan Muslim League-N (PML-N) leader Ayaz Sadiq said that Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had in an important meeting pointed out that if Pakistan did not release Abhinandan Varthaman, India would attack Pakistan “that night by 9pm.”Dunya News quoted Sadiq making this claim in Parliament. Also Watch | ‘Deprived of sleep and choked’: Inside details from Abhinandan’s debriefing The PML-N leader told opposition leaders that Qureshi in a meeting with the parliamentary leaders, including PPP and PML-N and Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa, had asked for Abhinandan to be let free.“I remember Shah Mahmood Qureshi was in the meeting which Imran Khan had refused to attend and Chief of Army Staff General Bajwa came into the room, his legs were shaking and he was perspiring. Foreign Minister said for God’s sake let Abhinandan go, India’s about to attack Pakistan at 9 PM”, Sadiq recounted the events of the important meeting.Dunya News further quoted Sadiq as saying that the opposition has supported the government in all issues including Abhinandan but will not be able to further support it.Wing Commander Varthaman shot into limelight after he shot down a Pakistani aircraft F-16, which had transgressed into the Indian airspace during a dog fight between Indian and Pakistani air force in February 2019 and in the process, his plane crossed over to Pakistani side and was shot down. Abhinandan was returned to India from the Attari-Wagah border on March 1. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coas-bajwa-s-legs-were-shaking-pakistan-mp-recalls-why-iaf-pilot-abhinandan-varthaman-was-released/story-k6TKO3Dda4pmTGfHVlFSYM.html
29-10-2020||World||UK under pressure as Covid-19 epidemic doubling every 9 days||The British government is under pressure to develop a national strategy to combat a surge of Covid-19 cases and “rescue Christmas’’ as scientists warn that the number of people hospitalized with the disease in the U.K. could almost triple by the end of next month unless something more is done now.Mark Walport, a former chief scientific officer, said Britain only needs to look across the English Channel to see what’s coming. Britain’s current measures are similar to those in France and Spain, where authorities are struggling to control the virus and daily cases have already far outstripped those in the U.K.Also Read: Early Covid-19 vaccines may be imperfect: UK Vaccine Taskforce“With our current measures … there’s little evidence that there is as much social distancing as there was when we clamped down on the first wave and so we know that the risk is significant that cases will continue to grow,” Walport told the BBC.It is “not unrealistic’’ that 25,000 people in the U.K. could be hospitalized by the end of November — up from about 9,000 now, he said.According to results from a large, ongoing study into the Covid-19 epidemic in England, scientists estimated that there are about 96,000 new cases every day and that the outbreak is doubling in size every nine days.“The rate of growth we’re seeing is really quite rapid,” said Steven Riley, a professor of infectious disease dynamics at Imperial College London, one of the leaders of the study funded by the Department of Health.Riley and colleagues took samples from more than 85,000 people randomly selected across England in late October and found that about one in every 128 people in England is infected with the coronavirus.Also Read: Long-term immunity in doubt as UK study finds Covid-19 antibodies fall rapidlyThey reported that rates were increasing among all age groups, including those most at risk: they noted a tripling of Covid-19 rates in people aged 55 to 64 and a doubling in those over 65.“Our data shows there’s no reason to expect that exponential rise to change for the next few weeks regardless of what we do,” Riley warned. “New cases will turn into hospitalizations.” He said it was unclear whether recently imposed restrictions in northern England would be enough to stop the spiraling spread of the virus.Riley said that if politicians were considering more stringent measures, “the (study) results argue for something sooner rather than later,” adding that “something needs to change before Christmas.”Dr. Paul Hunter of the University of East Anglia, who was not connected to the study, said it was “likely that infection rates now are very similar to and maybe even higher than at the peak in April.”The World Health Organization said for the second consecutive week, the European region accounted for the biggest proportion of new infections, with more than 1.3 million cases or about 46% of the worldwide total. The U.N. health agency also said deaths were also on the rise in Europe, with about a 35% spike since the previous week, and hospitalizations and ICU occupancy due to Covid-19 increased in 21 countries across Europe.Walport’s assessment came as two opposition parties called on Prime Minister Boris Johnson to convene a summit of the U.K.’s four nations to develop a coordinated plan for combatting Covid-19.Under the U.K.’s system of devolved government, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales have all developed their own rules to fight the pandemic. Meanwhile, Johnson has implement a three-tiered regional strategy to applies only in England. That has a led to a patchwork of regulations that change from one nation to the next, and sometimes from city to city.Liberal Democrat leader Ed Davey said the four nations must develop a unified strategy to avoid confusion and deliver a clear message. The Liberal Democrats and Northern Ireland’s Alliance Party have written to Johnson asking for a summit.“I think they need to have some action now … because otherwise, if we don’t get the virus back under control, I’m afraid there’s little chance of being able to rescue Christmas,” Davey told the BBC.Britain already has Europe’s highest virus death toll, with over 45,400 confirmed deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-under-pressure-as-covid-19-epidemic-doubling-every-9-days/story-cW9nGlCitnNep2aFPCtkFL.html
29-10-2020||World||Lockdowns set to return as global Covid-19 cases top 44 million||The World Health Organization reported that 2 million Covid-19 cases were reported globally in the past week, a new record, as Europe moved towards new restrictions and lockdowns to curb an unabated second wave.Global cases have passed 44 million, according to a Johns Hopkins university tally.Reports said France may enter into a fresh month-long national lockdown as President Emmanuel Macron prepares to address the nation on Wednesday. German Chancellor Angela Merkel met state premiers in a video conference on Wednesday and agreed on a partial lockdown that will see bars and restaurants closing from November 2 to 30. Shops will be allowed to remain open on condition that they set strict social distancing limits, people familiar with the talks said.Records were broken in daily infections and deaths in several countries: Germany reported a new high of 14,964 new infections; Russia saw unprecedented daily deaths at 346 and Iran registered 415 fatalities, its worst ever. The United States added nearly 500,000 cases in a week.The situation is so bad in Belgium that even Covid-positive doctors and nurses have been asked to work as long as they don’t have any symptoms. Belgian hospital admissions soared to a record 689, surpassing the peak reached on March 28.UK’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson is under pressure for a new lockdown amid 367 more deaths recorded on Tuesday, and warnings that hospital patient numbers could double in weeks to more than 25,000. In Italy, business owners and opposition politicians rebelled against new virus restrictions, even as the country registered 24,991 daily cases, a record for the second consecutive day. China has reported 42 new cases of Covid-19 including 22 local transmissions, recording the sharpest increase in several weeks, national health authorities said on Wednesday.Tuesday’s tally was sharply up from 16 on Monday, with all the 22 new local cases reported in the past 24 hours from the remote Xinjiang region’s Kashgar prefecture.Canada’s death toll has crossed 10,000, with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who said the situation “really sucks”, warning that if the current trajectory continues, it may impact family gatherings during the Christmas season.On the vaccine and treatment front, the US agreed to pay Eli Lilly & Co $375 million for 300,000 vials of its experimental Covid-19 antibody.Drugmakers Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline Plc agreed to make 200mn doses of their experimental vaccine available to Covax, a global effort to provide shots for developing nations.The drugmakers signed the supply arrangement with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, according to a statement. Gavi is among the groups working with the World Health Organization to ensure access to immunization for people around the world.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has submitted applications to the World Health Organization for an Emergency Use Listing and prequalification of its coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V, Russia’s sovereign wealth fund said on Tuesday. The only good news came from Melbourne. There was exhilaration and relief as the five million people of Australia’s second largest city were able to return to shops and restaurants after months at home. The pandemic lockdown in the city had lasted 111 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lockdowns-set-to-return-as-global-covid-19-cases-top-44-million/story-0VoIK5JMfNg8W8VnkUnicO.html
29-10-2020||World||Myanmar terror outfit arms itself with Chinese weapons||The Arakan Army, an insurgent group whose activities have severely affected the India-backed Kaladan multimodal transport project in Myanmar, has benefited from the clandestine transfer and smuggling of Chinese-made weaponry, people familiar with the developments said on Wednesday. The group, designated a terrorist organisation by Naypyitaw, clashed with Myanmarese troops on nearly 600 occasions last year, and a majority of the skirmishes took place in close proximity to the $480 million Kaladan project. There have also been at least four instances of Arakan Army cadre targeting the shipments of materials for the infrastructure project, or attacking Myanmar troops providing security to the project, the people said on condition of anonymity. In 2019, just as a key phase of the Kaladan project was nearing completion in Rakhine and Chin states, the Arakan Army shifted its area of operations there, they added. “The Arakan Army has always kept its anti-Kaladan activities below a certain threshold to not raise the ante. But its activities have had the overall impact of severely impeding the execution of the project,” one of the people cited above said.India and Myanmar are currently working to operationalise Sittwe port by early next year as part of the massive transport and transit project that will connect with Kolkata port and help in moving goods to the landlocked northeastern states via Kaladan river. On June 23, the Thai military seized a consignment of Chinese-made weapons, including AK-47 assault rifles, in Mae Sot district bordering Myanmar’s Karen state. The weapons, worth 30 million baht (almost $1 million), were meant to be supplied to the Arakan Army and Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA), both active in Rakhine, the people said. There are also reports that another large consignment of Chinese-made weapons was smuggled into Rakhine state via Monakhali beach near the junction of Myanmar and Bangladesh in the third week of February this year. “This illicit flow of Chinese-made weaponry into Myanmar poses a threat to regional security, and has implications for the Kaladan project. There are strong suspicions that China is orchestrating the actions of the ethnic armed groups in Myanmar to further its objectives,” said a second person from the security establishment. The people said there were growing signs that Myanmar’s military is acting to curb China’s influence, and has had a hand in cancelling or curtailing projects under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The $3.6-billion Myitsone dam project remains suspended, while the Kyaukpyu port project was scaled down. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said it appeared China was trying to undermine the viability of the Kaladan project after being unable to convince Myanmar to give up on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-terror-outfit-arms-itself-with-chinese-weapons/story-s1U39cqQ9G3gvOlhPgk1vM.html
29-10-2020||World||Republicans tell tech CEOs ‘free pass’ legal shield should end||The leaders of big US technology companies came to testify about legislation that shaped the modern internet. They ended up being accused by senators of abusing their power over political speech six days before the election.“Who the hell elected you and put you in charge of what the media are allowed to report?” Senator Ted Cruz, a Republican from Texas, asked Twitter Inc. Chief Executive Officer Jack Dorsey in a congressional hearing on Wednesday.While the fiercest attacks came from Republicans, Democrats on the Senate Commerce Committee also questioned Dorsey, Google’s Sundar Pichai and Facebook Inc.’s Mark Zuckerberg to determine whether Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act needs to be updated.The rule grants online platforms some legal immunity from the content users post. It has come under intense scrutiny after Facebook and Twitter recently limited the online reach of a New York Post story about the family of former Vice President and Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden, prompting claims of bias and censorship. Twitter backtracked, but the episode fueled tense exchanges during Wednesday’s hearing.“The time has come for that free pass to end,” said Senator Roger Wicker, a Mississippi Republican who chairs the panel, referring to Section 230. The questions devolved into partisan bickering. Republicans criticized tech companies’ moderation of US President Donald Trump’s posts, while Democrats said they feared the hearing was a Republican attempt to influence the CEOs days before the election.“They seem to want to bully and browbeat the platforms here to try and tilt them in President Trump’s favor,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut, said. “The timing seems inexplicable except to try and game the refs.”The tech executives, who all appeared remotely, began their testimony by explaining the importance of the rule for building their businesses. Dorsey called Section 230 “the internet’s most important law for free speech and safety,” and argued that repealing it would lead to more policing of content, not less.Dorsey was questioned about what Wicker called Twitter’s “double standard” for labeling posts from different world leaders, saying he’s collected dozens of examples of unequal application of the company’s policies. The CEO said real-world harm is one of the factors Twitter considers when deciding whether to put a warning on a specific tweet.Section 230, passed into law as part of the CDA in 1996, lets internet companies wait to moderate users’ speech until after it is posted online, helping their platforms to grow unencumbered by constant legal challenges. Google’s YouTube video-sharing site doesn’t have to pre-screen the millions of videos uploaded daily, and Facebook doesn’t have to read every comment; they can let user posts flow freely and clean them up later if something bad happens.“Our ability to provide access to a wide range of information is only possible because of existing legal frameworks,” Pichai said.The hearing eventually turned to the actual language of Section 230, which grants platforms the ability to remove content they deem lewd, harassing or “otherwise objectionable,” among other criteria, from their services as long as they act “in good faith.” GOP lawmakers have said the language is too vague and protects the removal of political discourse.Senator Shelley Moore Capito, a Republican from West Virginia, asked the executives about how they define the phrase “otherwise objectionable.” Multiple Republican lawmakers have introduced bills seeking to narrow the phrase, only allowing companies to remove particular categories of content such as those that promote terrorism or self-harm.Zuckerberg argued that the current language enables companies like Facebook to capture more content that might be bullying or harassment, and Pichai said companies need flexibility. Many of Facebook and Twitter’s rules, for example, are worded in ways that give the company more leeway to address new and unexpected issues.Capito also questioned Dorsey and Zuckerberg’s argument that repealing Section 230 would hurt startups. “How many small innovators and what kind of market share could they possibly have when we see the dominance of the three of you?” she challenged.Zuckerberg said that Section 230 was instrumental when he started Facebook. “If we were subject to a larger number of content lawsuits because 230 didn’t exist, that would have likely made it prohibitive for me as a college student in a dorm room to get started with this enterprise,” he said.Next week’s US presidential election was a thread throughout the hearing, often cited as the topic for examples of good and bad content moderation. Senator Tom Udall, a Democrat from New Mexico, asked all three executives if Russia and other foreign countries continue to try to use their platforms to influence the election. All three CEOs said yes.Twitter and Facebook have both recently removed networks of accounts that originated out of Iran and Russia. Facebook now makes monthly announcements about the networks it removes, with its latest update on Tuesday.One idea that has been floated is to create a single system for moderating all the platforms together, ensuring they all play by the same rules. But the three tech companies have no incentives to create a shared system for identifying and moderating harmful information, said Sridhar Ramaswamy, the former head of the advertising business at Alphabet Inc.-owned Google, in a recent interview.He argued that any new system shouldn’t be restricted to the largest tech companies, but should be deployed for the internet more broadly. “An outcome that gives any more responsibility to small teams is not a great outcome,” said Ramaswamy, who now runs the startup Neeva. “Because that then becomes a massive moat that no one else can cross.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republicans-tell-tech-ceos-free-pass-legal-shield-should-end/story-2wN4uC4zMAdSACsojvfnUO.html
29-10-2020||World||Joe Biden votes, attacks President Donald Trump over Covid-19 response||Democratic candidate Joe Biden and his wife Jill Biden cast their votes in their hometown of Wilmington, Delaware on Wednesday after a speech on his plans to tackle Covid-19 if elected, while attacking President Donald Trump’s handling of the pandemic.“I’ll be a president who is not in it for himself, but for others. A president who doesn’t divide us — but unites us. A president who appeals not to the worst in us — but to the best in us...A president guided not by wishful thinking — but by science, reason, and facts,” he said in the speech.Trump, who voted in Florida last Saturday, is rallying supporters in Arizona on Wednesday, defending a traditionally Republican state he won in 2016, but where the race has turned competitive, with just six days left for polling to close for the presidential election.Biden was in Georgia on Tuesday, a Republican state he hopes to breach and expand the battleground in a growing sign of confidence that will take him also to Iowa, another state that Trump carried in 2016. “There aren’t a lot of pundits who would have guessed four years ago that the Democratic candidate for president in 2020 would be campaigning in Georgia one week before Election Day,” he said in Georgia. “But we do — because something is happening.”Trump will hold two rallies in Arizona, hoping to hold on to the state whose creeping leftward tilt due to growing Latino and young demographics in recent years has been accentuated by frustration with the president’s handling of the pandemic.Trump trails Biden in all national polls and battle ground states. He is behind the Democrat by 8.7 percentage points in the FiveThirtyEight weighted average of polls and by 7.3 points in RealClearPolitics average.In Arizona, Trump trails Biden by 2.8 and 2.4 points in FiveThirtyEight and RealClearPolitics averages respectively. He had won the state by 3.5% in 2016, which was a considerably lower margin than Mitt Romney, who won it in 2012.Trump will hold the first rally at an airport in Bullhead City, Arizona that also serves adjoining Nevada’s Laughlin, and then in Phoenix. He will not go into Nevada; his second son Eric Trump was there on Tuesday.Biden’s running mate Kamala Harris is also campaigning in Arizona on Wednesday — among Latina business owners in Tucson and Blacks in Phoenix.More than 71 million Americans have already voted, a record for early balloting, in person, voting stations or through ballots. That’s more than a third of the total of 240 million eligible voters. The unprecedented early voting has already passed the halfway mark for the 2016 total.Trump had held rallies in Michigan and Wisconsin — the two states that won him the presidency in 2016 with Pennsylvania — and Nebraska, a conservative state that comes into play because of its unique system (which it shares only with Maine) of granting electoral college votes by congressional districts, not winner-takes-all.Trump is trailing Biden in both Wisconsin and Michigan — by 7.1 percentage points and 8.3 points respectively in the FiveThirtyEight average of polls and by 5.5 points and 9 points in the RealClearPolitics average. His path to victory will shrink dramatically without these states.First Lady Melania Trump addressed her first rally this cycle in Chester, Pennsylvania, the most critical of the key states this election.And former President Barack Obama was in Orlando, Florida, where he launched a scathing attack on Trump. “What’s his closing argument? That people are too focused on Covid,” he said at a rally, referencing the president’s complaints about the epidemic. “He said this at one of his rallies. ‘Covid, Covid, Covid’ he’s complaining,” Obama said. “He’s jealous of Covid’s media coverage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-votes-attacks-president-trump-over-covid-response/story-wH0HPFqR5eAfovHcrVbkoI.html
29-10-2020||World||Imran Khan punched above his weight; snubbed by Saudi Arabia, Iran||Saudi Arabia and Iran, the Sunni and Shia shoulders of Islam, refused to allow Pakistan missions to hold public events to observe the 27 October anniversary of Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India as a Black Day, a departure from previous years that signals Pakistan’s shifting equations in West Asia.People familiar with the matter said the Pakistan embassy in Iran had proposed an event in Tehran University to observe what it has called a Black Day. But Tehran surprised Islamabad when it communicated its refusal to allow the event. The embassy later settled for a webinar, clearly a sign of Imran Khan government’s growing desperation for its failure to garner support over India’s abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir. Islamabad’s plans to hold a public event within the Pakistani consulate in Riyadh were also blocked by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.People familiar with the matter said the change in stance adopted by two influential Islamic countries is a reflection of Pakistan’s equations in the Middle East, in large measure a fallout of its growing partnership with Recep Tayyip Erdoğan who is attempting to establish Turkey’s prominence in the Middle East. Quite like the Ottoman empire that ruled the region for 500 years before being pushed back.Also Watch l Will Pak Army ‘sacrifice’ Imran Khan amid Opposition protests? Pak scribes comment Pakistan’s proximity to Turkey was on full display this month at the Financial Action Task Force plenary session when Ankara was the only one of the 39 members to push hard for keeping Islamabad out of the global terror financing watchdog’s ‘grey list’ despite its patchy track record.Prime Minister Imran Khan and Turkey’s Erdogan have been partnering to form a new radical Islamic axis as opposed to the established Sunni order led by Saudi Arabia and Shia order led by Iran.The two radical axis countries - Malaysia, who under Mahathir Mohammed was part of this new axis, has now taken a back seat - also made public their opposition to the United Arab Emirates establishing full diplomatic relations with Israel. Pakistan’s statement was much muted, given that it is still in the process of shifting sides, but Erdogan’s first reaction was a shot across the bow. He threatened to break off relations with UAE.But the freshly-minted partnership has its downside. Riyadh’s refusal to allow the Kashmir event was one. Saudi Arabia’s decision earlier this year to demand that Islamabad immediately repay a $ 3 billion loan after Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi tried to shame the royal kingdom into holding ministerial-level meet to discuss revocation of Article 370 was another. Analysts believe Imran Khan had bitten off more than he could chew and eventually had to send Army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa to cool tempers in Riyadh. Gen Bajwa didn’t get the meeting with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman that Islamabad had hoped for but is believed to have helped paper over the deep cracks in the relationship.Analysts suggest that Turkey’s Erdogan, who is seen to aspire for a leadership role in the Islamic world, too may have punched well above his weight. Turkey has its soldiers fighting in Iraq, Syria and Libya set up a garrison in Qatar, an overseas base in the Somali capital Mogadishu and is seen to challenge the Saudi Arabia-led Arab coalition in Yemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-punched-above-his-weight-snubbed-by-saudi-arabia-iran/story-glnjJS8vUSpw9ApniiQJBM.html
29-10-2020||India||MEA was issuing 10 lakh passports per month before Covid-19: MoS||The ministry of external affairs was issuing approximately 10 lakh passports per month on an average before the Covid-19 pandemic struck, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said on Thursday.He also underlined that they are hopeful of resuming the work in full steam and reach the pre-pandemic level in due course as the economy reopens.Speaking at the inauguration of the renovated premises of Regional Passport Office, Hyderabad, Muraleedharan said 517 passport seva kendras, including 424 Post Office Passport, across the country provide passport services.“As a result of the increased capacity, the MEA had been issuing on an average, approximately 10 lakh passports per month before the pandemic struck. We are hopeful of resuming our work in full steam and reach the pre-pandemic level in due course as our economy reopens,” he said in a statement.He said many anachronistic provisions were done away with and the complex documentation requirements were either removed or simplified to ease the difficulties faced by passport applicants. “Thanks to these reforms, today, single parents, orphan and destitute children can easily apply and get passports, which was so difficult if not unthinkable for them before,” Muraleedharan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-was-issuing-10-lakh-passports-per-month-before-covid-19-mos/story-tCN8xCwXX3G2le302v3WZO.html
29-10-2020||India||Onion auctions to resume after Maharashtra chief minister’s assurance||Following an appeal by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, traders in Nashik district have agreed to restart onion auctions from Friday, APMC sources said here late Thursday evening.Earlier in the day, the chief minister met a delegation of onion farmers and traders in Mumbai. The state government will follow up with the Centre the farmers’ demand that onion stock holding limits be increased, Thackeray assured them and requested traders to restart auctions. To contain onion prices, the Centre last week imposed stock holding limits till December 31. Retailers can stock up onion up to 2 tonnes, whereas wholesaler are allowed to keep up to 25 tonnes.In protest against the Centre’s move, traders called off onion auctions in all 15 Agriculture Produce Market Committees (mandis) in Nashik, including at Lasalgaon APMC, Asia’s biggest onion market. Maharashtra cultivates as much as 60 per cent of the total onion crop in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onion-auctions-to-resume-after-maha-cm-s-assurance/story-ZQJ4ZVqZiZYaHuXTq2w9QN.html
29-10-2020||India||India conveys concern to Saudi Arabia over depiction of Jammu and Kashmir in bank note||India said on Thursday it has conveyed its “serious concern” to Saudi Arabia over the incorrect depiction of the country’s borders on a new Saudi currency note, which shows almost the whole of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir as a separate entity. The twenty-riyal bank note was issued by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority on October 24 to commemorate the country’s presidency of the G20 ahead of the grouping’s virtual summit during November 21-22. “We have seen the banknote which gives an incorrect depiction of India’s external territorial boundaries,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a weekly news briefing. “We have conveyed our serious concern to Saudi Arabia, both through their ambassador in New Delhi as well as in Riyadh, for this gross misrepresentation of India’s external territorial boundaries on an official and legal banknote of Saudi Arabia and asked the Saudi side to take urgent corrective steps in this regard,” he said. Srivastava reiterated that the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, which were created after the special status of the region was scrapped by the government in August last year, are “integral parts of India”. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the Indian side is yet to hear from Saudi authorities on how they intend to handle the issue. New Delhi is keen that Riyadh should take some action in the matter before the holding of the G20 Summit, the people said. The Saudi bank note has also irked Pakistan because it depicts Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and Gilgit-Baltistan as part of the separate entity. One side of the note features Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz and the G20 logo while the other features a world map showing the members of the G20 in a darker shade. Islamabad had marked the first anniversary of New Delhi’s changes in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 by issuing a new political map that showed several Indian territories as part of Pakistan. India had responded by describing the map as a “political absurdity”. It has also started featuring weather forecasts for Gilgit-Baltistan and PoK on state-run media. The Narendra Modi government has worked to improve India’s ties with Saudi Arabia in areas ranging from counter-terrorism to energy security in recent years. On the other hand, the traditionally strong ties between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are at an all-time low, especially after Riyadh cut back on financial support for Islamabad. Pakistan has also attempted to create a new bloc of Muslim countries, including Turkey and Malaysia, but without much success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conveys-concern-to-saudi-arabia-over-depiction-of-jammu-and-kashmir-in-bank-note/story-9qFkX6HivqRIum1JglseCM.html
29-10-2020||India||Efforts to assist Afghanistan through Chabahar port appreciated by US: MEA||Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Thursday said that India’s efforts to assist Afghanistan through the Chabahar port were appreciated by the United States during the recently concluded 2+2 Ministerial dialogue.Speaking at the weekly media briefing, Srivastava said: “Our development assistance and multi-modal connectivity infrastructure and trade linkages that have been built and our efforts in this regard through our development assistance to Afghanistan to sustain the growth and development there over the long term was something which was appreciated by the US side.”The MEA Spokesperson was replying to a question -- whether the US had given a green signal to the developments on Chabahar port in Iran.In 2018, Iran and India had signed an agreement worth USD 85 million to develop the Chabahar Port in south-eastern Iran.The Chabahar Port, which provides an alternative route for trade between India and Afghanistan, is located in the Gulf of Oman.The United States has provided a “narrow exemption” to India from sanctions on the Chabahar project in Iran as it plays a vital role in transporting India’s humanitarian supplies to war-torn Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/efforts-to-assist-afghanistan-through-chabahar-port-appreciated-by-us-mea/story-dSB89vtDh63Wq5CLEuN0ZP.html
29-10-2020||India||‘It’s time to take out bicycles and stop using cars’, says Supreme Court||It is time to take out bicycles and stop using “beautiful cars”, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while hearing the matter related to pollution caused in Delhi National Capital Region (NCR) due to stubble burning in neighbouring states.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India(CJI) S A Bobde said that some experts have informed that stubble burning is not the only source of pollution. “We would like you to stop using your beautiful cars. Which you won’t. We should all go about on bikes, not motorbikes but bicycles,” the CJI observed.“Some experts have informed us informally that it is not only stubble burning that creates pollution,” said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. “It is time to take out your bicycles”.The apex court was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the Centre has come out with an Ordinance on curbing pollution and it has been promulgated already.“Nobody should fall sick because of this pollution and if anybody falls sick we will make you responsible,” the bench told Mehta in a lighter vein.The apex court has posted the matter for hearing on November 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-s-time-to-take-out-bicycles-and-stop-using-cars-says-supreme-court/story-WVyzpAUvuh8SjPQwKTp6xL.html
29-10-2020||India||India proposes IFS officer Suresh Kumar as Charge d affaires to Pakistan||India has proposed the name of IFS officer Suresh Kumar as the new Charge d’ Affaires to Pakistan according to sources who said that the bureaucrat has applied for a visa.Suresh is a 2006 batch IFS and has worked as deputy secretary at the Pakistan desk in the Ministry of External Affairs.Earlier, India had proposed name of Jayant Khobragade and it is learnt that Pakistan had denied visa at that time.In June, India and Pakistan downsized by fifty per cent staff at missions both in New Delhi and Islamabad after some members of the Pakistan High Commission were caught spying.India’s top diplomat Acting Charge d’ affaires in Pakistan Gaurav Ahluwalia had also complained about harassment and in a video was seen allegedly being chased by ISI agents.India has rejected any offer of talks with Pakistan maintaining that talks and terror cannot go hand in hand, both countries are witnessing tension and strain in diplomatic relations, it remains to be seen whether or not Pakistan accepts IFS Suresh Kumar and grants him a visa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-proposes-ifs-officer-suresh-kumar-as-charge-d-affaires-to-pakistan/story-9jnqe0a2Sxg65C3aeFHREJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Sushant Singh’s friend seeks CBI probe into Disha Salian’s death||Late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend and gym partner Sunil Shukla on Thursday approached the Bombay High Court, seeking a CBI probe into the the actor’s former manager Disha Salian, who died in “suspicious circumstances”.Salian, 28, died on June 8 after falling off the 14th floor of a residential building in suburban Malad.Six days later, on June 14, 34-year-old Rajput was found hanging in his Bandra home.In the petition, Shukla claimed that both Salian and Rajput died in “suspicious circumstances” and that the Mumbai police has not considered several aspects while probing Salian’s death.“The petitioner (Shukla) has documentary evidence to prove that Disha Salian and Sushant Singh Rajput were in touch from March to April 2020,” the petition said.It added that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is already probing the death of Rajput and hence even Salian’s death case should be handed over to the central probe agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-s-friend-seeks-cbi-probe-into-disha-salian-s-death/story-xMJeS3Duz2swcYrNTYlaSK.html
29-10-2020||India||Border talks with China have no link with issues such as 2+2 dialogue: India||India on Thursday said its ongoing dialogue with China to resolve the border standoff in Ladakh has “no connection” with extraneous issues such as the recent 2+2 ministerial dialogue with the US. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava offered the clarification against the backdrop of reports that China is dragging its feet on finalising a date for the next round of talks of senior military commanders of the two sides as it was irked by US secretary of state Mike Pompeo’s stinging criticism of the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) actions across the region. “As regards the next round of talks, we will let you know when we have further information to share. Let me make it clear that there is no connection between this and any extraneous issue,” Srivastava said when he was asked about the matter at the weekly news briefing. Following the 2+2 talks between the foreign and defence ministers of India and the US on Tuesday, Pompeo told the media that Washington will stand by New Delhi in confronting threats to India’s sovereignty. He also described the CCP as “no friend to democracy [and] the rule of law”. China reacted sharply to Pompeo’s remarks on Wednesday, saying the Sino-India boundary dispute is a bilateral matter. Beijing also said Pompeo’s comments had “instigated China’s relations with other countries in the region”. Srivastava said external affairs minister S Jaishankar had made it clear that the Indo-Pacific region was a “particular focus” of the 2+2 talks, and India had reiterated the importance of peace, stability and prosperity for all countries in this region. “This is possible only by upholding the rules-based international order, ensuring the freedom of navigation in the international seas, promoting open connectivity and respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states,” he added. The disengagement and de-escalation process in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) remains stalled despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks between India and China. The tens of thousands of troops mobilised by the two sides since the standoff began in May are now preparing to remain deployed along the LAC through the harsh winter. Srivastava said the last meeting between the senior military commanders on October 12 had “enabled in-depth discussions between the two sides, resulting in enhanced understanding of each other’s positions”. “The two sides had agreed to maintain dialogue through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible. They had also agreed to implement the understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” he said. In line with these decisions, India has maintained communications with the Chinese side to “arrive at a mutually acceptable solution to the situation along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and restore full peace and tranquillity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-talks-with-china-have-no-link-with-issues-such-as-2-2-dialogue-india/story-3Ryg36Gx3aqTiOIDB7v29L.html
29-10-2020||India||Chinese soldiers in eastern Ladakh provided high-tech gear to manage heavy winter||Thousands of Chinese military personnel deployed at the India-China border in eastern Ladakh have been provided with high-tech equipment to help manage the heavy winter, the Chinese Defence Ministry said on Thursday.At an online briefing of the Chinese Defence Ministry here, spokesman Senior Colonel Wu Quan said that in terms of accommodation, the troops were provided with a new dismountable self-energised insulated cabin, which can be built by service members themselves. In areas where the outdoor temperature is -40 degrees centigrade with an elevation of above 5000m, the indoor temperature can be kept at higher than 15 degrees centigrade, he said while replying to a question.The newly developed outfits, such as the new individual sleeping bags, down training coats, and cold-proof boots, are characterised by cold prevention and heat retention, portability and higher comfortableness, which have been specifically designed for alpine cold areas, he said.Wu said the new thermal insulation devices for food storage are also equipped, and a new type of outdoor instant foods for alpine cold areas are under trial.The military was also using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles(UAVs) to deliver fresh fruits and vegetables to duty posts, he added.The application of high-tech means will facilitate the construction of logistic support capacity and promote the troops’ war preparation work, Wu said. China has deployed thousands of soldiers along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions following the escalation of the five-month-long military standoff with India that began in early May. Though the two sides have held a series of diplomatic and military level talks, there was no breakthrough on the disengagement of troops from the friction points so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-soldiers-in-eastern-ladakh-provided-high-tech-gear-to-manage-heavy-winter/story-uzNwf0ZHNJ8q7hSAhm5gkL.html
29-10-2020||India||3 BJP politicians killed in terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district||Three Bharatiya Janata Party functionaries in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district were shot dead by terrorists late on Thursday evening. The three include the district general secretary of the party’s youth wing.A police officer said The Resistance Front, a terror group propped up last year by Pakistan’s intelligence agency had taken responsibility for the attack. “It has also warned of more attacks targeting politicians,” the officer said.A Jammu and Kashmir police statement identified the three as Fida Hussain Yatoo, Umer Rashid Beigh and Umer Ramzan Hajam. The incident took place in YK Pora locality of Kulgam.“They were shifted to a nearby hospital for treatment where they were declared as brought dead,” the police said.“Today (Thursday), at about 2020 hours, Kulgam Police received information about a terror crime incident at village YK Pora where terrorists fired upon three BJP workers. Senior police officers reached at the terror crime spot,” a police spokesperson said.The BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir unit tweeted condemnation of the terror attack.“J&K BJP strongly condemned this barbaric terror attack on BJP Leaders Fida Hussain Itoo (BJYM District Gen Secy Kulgam), Umer Rashid Beigh (BJYM District Executive Member Kulgam), Umer Hanan (BJYM District Gen Secy Kulgam), those who are responsible for this will not be spared,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-bjp-politicians-killed-in-terrorist-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-kulgam-district/story-uD7xYpxN9EBZPcx1rBnyYP.html
29-10-2020||India||Is there anything left to be said: Priyanka Gandhi’s dig at Mayawati’s ‘will even vote for BJP’ remark||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday responded to Bahujan Samaj Party(BSP) Chief Mayawati’s remarks that in order to defeat any candidate of the Samajwadi Party(SP) her party is ready to vote even for the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP), asking if there is anything left to be said. Amid speculation that some of her party’s Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) could switch sides in Uttar Pradesh(UP), Mayawati said her party will leave no stone unturned to defeat Samajwadi Party candidates, even if it means voting for candidates of the BJP or any other party. Any candidate who dominates over SP’s second candidate will get BSP MLAs’ vote, she said in a statement.Tagging the video statement of Mayawati, Congress General Secretary in-charge UP Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, “Is there anything left (to be said) after this?” In a jolt to the BSP on Wednesday, six party MLAs reportedly met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav hinting that they may switch sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-there-anything-left-to-be-said-priyanka-gandhi-s-dig-at-mayawati-s-will-even-vote-for-bjp-remark/story-ssiQvVPlRqf8bUShoQ8uoI.html
29-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot was released out of panic and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot was released out of panicA Pakistani politician and the country’s military on Thursday tried to control damage caused by his remarks in parliament that Indian Air Force Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman had been released last year by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government after it panicked. Read more‘Guss ke maara’: Minister admits Pakistan’s role in Pulwama attackA Pakistani minister on Thursday admitted its role in the Pulwama terror attack, bragging on the floor of parliament that his country had entered India and beaten it on its own soil. Read more‘India stands with France in fight against terrorism’, PM Modi condemns Nice knife attackPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condemned the attacks in France, including one in Nice where three people were killed inside a church. A man armed with a knife attacked two women and a man at the Notre Dame Basilica in the southern city of Nice on Thursday morning before he was shot by police. Read moreIPL 2020: KL Rahul reacts to being named India’s limited overs vice-captain for Australia tourIPL 2020 has been quite a tournament for KL Rahul. While he has dominated the run charts, leading the Orange Cap race from the beginning, his role as captain of Kings XI Punjab has taken him through a roller-coaster ride. Read moreKangana Ranaut reacts to BMC shelling out Rs 82 lakh to fight case against her: ‘Spending public money to tease a girl’Actor Kangana Ranaut has reacted to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shelling out Rs 82 lakh to fight their lawsuit against her. Kangana had sued the BMC for ‘illegally’ demolishing part of her office building in Mumbai. Read moreDaisy safe: Tamannaah Bhatia looks radiant post Covid recovery in yellow Summer Plaid dress by Pink PorcupinesSouth starlet and Baahubali fame actor Tamannaah Bhatia has recently recovered from the Covid-19 infection and is back to work shooting for adverts and walking in fashion weeks looking in the pink of health. Read more23-year-olds meet for 30 minutes, decide to tie the knot. Their love story after 58 years of marriage will win you overIf you’re searching for something to brighten up a gloomy day, this story of a couple who decided within 30 minutes of meeting that they want to spend the rest of their lives together may be just what the doctor ordered. Read more‘J&K turned into jail’: Mehbooba Mufti as cops detain protesting PDP leadersSeveral PDP leaders were on Thursday detained by police as they tried to stage a protest against the new land laws notified by the Centre for Jammu and Kashmir.  Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pak-military-on-damage-control-after-mp-says-iaf-pilot-was-released-out-of-panic-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZAbd7Qc2JUwVHvUXfj66ZO.html
29-10-2020||India||India backs Macron after attacks by Pakistan, Turkey; says no justification for terror||India on Thursday came out strongly in support of French President Emmanuel Macron’s stance on radical Islam in the wake of the beheading of a teacher in Paris and deplored personal attacks on him by countries such as Turkey and Pakistan. New Delhi’s opposition to criticism of Macron came against the backdrop of foreign secretary Harsh Shringla beginning a two-day visit to France and another terror attack in the French city of Nice, where a knife-wielding man killed three people in a church. Macron has pledged to crack down on radical Islam in France after the October 16 beheading of Samuel Paty, a professor who used controversial caricatures of Prophet Mohammed from the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in a class on freedom of expression. Paty’s killing by a suspected terrorist triggered a heated debate on secularism and Islamophobia in France. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said last week that Macron needs “some sort of mental treatment” for his attitude towards Muslims, while Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan accused the French president of encouraging Islamophobia. Asked about such criticism of Macron at the external affairs ministry’s weekly news briefing, spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said without naming any countries: “We have strongly deplored the personal attacks in unacceptable language on President Emmanuel Macron and we have also condemned the brutal terrorist attack that took the life of a French teacher.” He added, “We believe there is no justification for terrorism for any reason or under any circumstance.” The external affairs ministry also said in a statement that the attacks on Macron violate the “most basic standards of international discourse”. It added that Paty’s murder has “shocked the world”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned recent terror attacks in France, including the one in Nice, in a tweet, saying: “Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. India stands with France in the fight against terrorism.” Shringla tweeted that he had reiterated the “PM’s message to our #French interlocutors and at the public event at the Institute of French International Relations (IFFRI)”. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain responded to the external affairs ministry’s expression of support by tweeting: “Thank you @MEAIndia. France and India can always count on each other in the fight against terrorism.” Amid protests in some Muslim countries over Macron’s defence of the publication of the caricatures of Prophet Mohammed, there was support for the French president from European states such as the UK. Foreign secretary Dominic Raab said the UK stands with France “in sorrow, shock and solidarity at the horrifying events in Nice” and he offered “every support to the French people in pursuing those responsible for this appalling attack”. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted: “I am appalled to hear the news from Nice...of a barbaric attack at the Notre-Dame Basilica. Our thoughts are with the victims and their families, and the UK stands steadfastly with France against terror and intolerance.” France has emerged as one of India’s strongest allies in Europe and has taken a strong position on security challenges facing the country, especially at the UN Security Council. It has consistently criticised cross-border terrorism targeting India and was also one of the first countries to offer support amid the border standoff with China and the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in a clash in June. French defence minister Florence Parly expressed “deep solidarity” over the death of the Indian soldiers in a violent face-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and conveyed her country’s “steadfast and friendly support” in a letter sent to her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh. India’s support for Macron also comes at a time when New Delhi’s relations with Islamabad and Ankara are at a low. Pakistani and Turkish leaders have earned India’s ire by repeatedly raising the issue of Kashmir and treatment of minorities at international forums such as the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-backs-macron-after-attacks-by-pakistan-turkey-says-no-justification-for-terror/story-96JQ8PiCMemPAuc8eIZnIL.html
29-10-2020||India||Cong ‘misleading’ farmers on farm laws, will quit politics if MSP system dismantled: Haryana CM Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday accused the Congress of “misleading” farmers by telling them the Centre’s new farm laws will lead to dismantling of the Minimum Support Price( MSP) system, and added that he will quit politics if that were to happen.On a whirlwind tour of Baroda assembly constituency, where bypolls will be held on November 3 due to the demise of Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda in April, the chief minister said MSP will continue and these laws will only give farmers a greater choice in selling their produce.Addressing a series of public gatherings in different villages, he also touched upon several steps taken by his government for farmers’ welfare.Khattar said the Congress is “misleading” farmers by telling them that the new laws will “ruin” them, and lead to dismantling of mandis and MSP system.“These mandis will continue, MSP will continue. These laws give a greater choice to farmers to sell their produce anywhere,” he said.“MSP is guaranteed in mandis. I announce that if MSP will end, I will quit politics,” he said while addressing a gathering in Kathura village.Khattar was accompanied by wrestler-turned-politician and Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) candidate from Baroda Yogeshwar Dutt, Haryana Minister and Independent MLA Ranjit Singh Chautala, Jannayak Janta Party(JJP) leader Digvijay Singh Chautala, and a number of state BJP leaders.Hitting out at the Congress, Khattar said the opposition party had created a hue and cry when Article 370 was scrapped and claimed that it would lead to a bloodbath in the Kashmir valley.“Has anything happened in Kashmir in the past year?” he asked.The Congress had also made a lot of noise on the Citizenship Amendment Act, he said.The Centre has been saying the recently enacted three farm laws will raise farmers’ income, free them from the clutches of the middleman and usher in new technology in farming.The Opposition and some farmers’ organisations have, however, been agitating against the laws alleging that they will destroy the MSP mechanism, end Agricultural Produce Market Committees(APMC) and allow corporates to arm-twist farmers.Khattar said only the father-son (former chief minister B S Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda) duo is campaigning for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal in Baroda.“No other Congress leader is ready to go there,” he claimed.“Earlier, they used to say Yogeshwar Dutt’s security deposit will be forfeited. But now they have realised that the ground situation is something else and the tide is turning against them,” he said.Urging people to vote for Dutt, Khattar said, “If you make him victorious, it will be the victory of Baroda. But if the Congress candidate wins, it will be the victory of only a few Congress leaders.” Khattar dubbed Narwal as a “dummy candidate” who is not known to many in his constituency.On the other hand, he said, Dutt is an internationally acclaimed wrestler.Khattar also spoke about the steps taken by his government for farmers’ welfare.He said the state government procures crops like bajra, mustard, sunflower, moong, and groundnut at MSP.He added that his government has announced a number of developmental projects for Baroda, including setting up of an industrial model township, a rice mill, and two colleges.Khattar extended an olive branch to Kapoor Singh Narwal, who recently left the BJP to contest the Baroda bypolls as an independent candidate only to withdraw later to support the Congress candidate.He said the BJP has not closed its doors on Narwal.“For us, he is still what he was before,” the chief minister said.Dutt assured people he would work for Baroda’s development, remarking that Dutt will serve his constituents the same way as he had served the country as a sportsperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-misleading-farmers-on-farm-laws-will-quit-politics-if-msp-system-dismantled-haryana-cm-khattar/story-0gsvYaAERfOjs2KXa8a0SM.html
29-10-2020||India||NIA conducts raids in Assam, Maharashtra in Delhi gold smuggling probe||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted raids at four locations in Guwahati and at Sangli in Maharashtra in connection with a gold smuggling case in Delhi. According to a release issued by NIA, the locations where the raids were conducted are premises related to accused people and handlers from where the smuggling case originated. “During the searches, incriminating documents and electronic devices containing details of suspicious transactions as well as of the people involved in the instant crime, who also have linkages abroad including Myanmar and Nepal, were seized,” the release said. NIA had registered a case on September 20 this year following seizure of 83.62 kg of smuggled gold bars having market value of Rs 42.89 crore at New Delhi railway station on August 28 from the possession of eight people. “Interrogation of these accused have so far revealed that they had collected the said consignment from Guwahati for its further delivery at New Delhi on the directions of their handlers who are suspected to have sourced the smuggled material from Myanmar, Nepal and Bhutan,” the release said. Further investigation in the case is continuing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-conducts-raids-in-assam-maharashtra-in-delhi-gold-smuggling-probe/story-zTA0GkvnF1BBsyIaAGPh7H.html
29-10-2020||India||Delhi records 5,739 new Covid-19 cases, capital’s highest single-day spike||The coronavirus cases in Delhi continued to see a spike as the national capital reported more than 5,000 cases for the second consecutive day. In the highest single-day spike so far, Delhi recorded 5,739 new cases on Thursday. While 27 others succumbed to the viral disease, pushing the death toll to 6,423.On Wednesday, the city surpassed the 5,000 mark as it recorded 5,673 cases in a day. Before this, Delhi had logged 4,853 cases on Tuesday, which was its highest single-day tally since 4,473 on September 16. It was the highest number of cases in the city during the second surge of Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDelhi had seen the first surge in cases in June-July, when the Union home ministry had stepped in to control the spread of the infection.Delhi has been consistently registering more than 4,000 cases daily for the last few days. Earlier in the day, state health minister Satyendar Jain said the AAP government has changed its anti-Corona strategy by conducting aggressive tracing and testing in the city, citing it as one of the reasons for the sudden spike in Covid-19 infection.Speaking on concerns regarding the the third wave, Jain said it’s too early to say conclusively. He said one should wait for another week to see the trends before declaring the surge a third wave.“Our main focus is that not a single (Covid-19) case should be left for testing. You can see a rise in number of cases, but it is a good strategy and its results should be seen soon,” news agency PTI quoted Jain as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-highest-single-day-spike-delhi-records-5-739-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/story-PvxB2SMgI4cDUtN572tgzM.html
29-10-2020||India||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa enters bypoll arena, will address poll rallies in Sira, RR Nagar||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa who is also the party’s star campaigner in the state, will address two rallies in Sira of Tumkur district on Friday. BJP is trying its best to wrest a seat in which, not only has it never won, but also never even been a runner-up. The seat has always elected a representative from either Congress or the regional Janata Dal (Secular).Two seats - Sira and RR Nagar - are facing bypolls and will vote on November 3. While the Sira bypoll was necessitated after the sitting JD(S) legislator B Satyanarayana succumbed to Covid-19, the RR Nagar by-poll was caused after the Congress MLA resigned and joined the ruling party. The outcome of the two by-polls will have no impact on the government’s survival as BJP enjoys a comfortable majority of 117 MLAs in a 225-member assembly apart from the support of 3 independents.However all the three main parties -- BJP, Congress and JD(S) - have taken the by-polls as a prestige issue. For Congress, these are the first polls they are facing under the newly appointed KPCC chief DK Shivakumar and victory in both or either of the seats, the party believes, will vindicate their charge of the government’s mishandling of the Covid-19 crisis and flood aftermath.For the regional JD(S), it is a question of defending turf after losing the coalition government and falling out with its erstwhile partner Congress. JD(S) wants to prove it is still relevant and an important third pole in state politics.The ruling BJP has never won either of the seats and will see any addition as a positive outcome. Specially Sira, where Yediyurappa’s son and state BJP vice president Vijayendra is leading the charge. A victory in Sira is likely to boost Vijayendra’s credentials as somebody who has come out of his father’s long shadow and establish him as a powerful political player in his own right.Even as two former CM’s -- Siddaramaiah from Congress and HD Kumaraswamy from JD(S) mounted an aggressive campaign on Thursday in Sira, Vijayendra sounded confident that the party would for the first time win the seat. “In both RR Nagar and Sira, BJP will emerge victorious,” the Karnataka BJP vice president added. Yediyurappa is likely to address a poll rally in RR Nagar also, before the curtains come down on campaigning 48 hours before polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-enters-bypoll-arena-will-address-poll-rallies-in-sira-rr-nagar/story-rZJyWF1XAt74qtKvVAE9xI.html
29-10-2020||India||India asks Saudi Arabia to take corrective step on its G-20 banknote showing J-K as separate entity||India has conveyed its serious concerns to Saudi Arabia both in Delhi and in Riyadh over the distorted map depicting Jammu and Kashmir as a separate territory from India, in its newly released banknote, and urged it to take urgent corrective steps.India has termed it an incorrect depiction of India’s external territorial boundaries,In the weekly media briefing ministry of external affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “We have conveyed our serious concerns to Saudi Arabia both to ambassador and Riyadh , We have taken up this gross misrepresentation of India ‘s exterior territorial boundaries on official and legal bank note of Saudi Arabia , we have asked the Saudi Arabia to take urgent corrective steps in this regard.”The banknote, a new 20 Riyal currency, was released on October 24 to commemorate Saudi Arabia’s presidency of organizing the G-20 on November 21-22. The note features Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and the 2020 G20 Summit logo on one side while the other highlights the G20 nations. “We have seen bank notes and these bank notes have incorrect depiction of India ‘s external territorial boundaries” Srivastava said.“I would further like to reiterate here that union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and ladakh are integral parts of India,” the MEA spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-saudi-arabia-to-take-corrective-step-on-its-g-20-banknote-showing-j-k-as-separate-entity/story-WXbLvoxTPKivr7yINt62pN.html
29-10-2020||India||Officials who embarrassed govt with RTI response on Aarogya Setu face action||Information technology ministry officials who blocked a right to information request on Aarogya Setu, telling a RTI activist that they did not hold any information on the mobile app created by the government will face action, people familiar with the matter said.The ministry of electronics and information technology has given directions to initiate suitable action against the officers concerned.The decision comes after the Central Information Commission pulled up officials including one from the National Informatics Centre, who had evaded giving information to a RTI activist. The NIC had collaborated with experts in the private sector to create the mobile application to trace potential Covid infections and identify hotspots.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had led the government’s campaign to encourage people to download the application on their phones. When some privacy and security concerns were raised by experts, the government put out the source code of the application so that people could satisfy themselves that it was safe. The app has been downloaded more than 16 crore times.But when RTI activist Saurav Das filed an RTI request to get more details about the app, it seemed that no department concerned had any information about it. The NIC, in its response to the RTI, said that they do not hold information on who created the app, while MEITY did not reply and the National e-Governance Division NeGD said the information does not concern them.Das complained to the information watchdog, Central Information Commission, which was also shocked at the response of government officials.Information commissioner Vanaja N Sarna came down hard on the officials as she gave them an opportunity to explain why they should not be penalised under the information law. The law empowers the commission to impose a maximum fine of Rs 25,000 on government officials for default.She told NIC to explain how the government website was created if they did not have any information about it.“The Commission observed that none of the CPIOs provided any information. Therefore, the Commission directs the CPIO, NIC to explain this matter in writing as to how the website https://aAarogyasetu.gov.in/ was created with the domain name gov.in, if they do not have any information about it,” the information commissioner said.“None of the CPIOs were able to explain anything regarding who created the App, where are the files, and the same is extremely preposterous,” the order added.As the news of the government concerned claiming that it had no information about the application in its files emerged, the opposition rushed to jab the government. Finally in the evening, a red-faced government issued a statement to underline that all information about the contact tracing application designed to combat the Covid-19 outbreak was already in public domain.But that didn’t explain the evasive RTI response by its officials. The decision to take action against the bureaucrats and scientists who had blocked the information request came on Thursday. The government also underlined that it was committed to providing all the information sought under the RTI Act by the applicant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-who-embarrassed-govt-with-rti-response-on-aarogya-setu-face-action/story-L3i7wkvkHgiDGRKfg9qxuK.html
29-10-2020||India||‘India stands with France in fight against terrorism’: PM Modi condemns Nice knife attack||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condemned the attacks in France, including the one in Nice where three people were killed inside a church. A man armed with a knife attacked two women and a man at the Notre Dame Basilica in the southern city of Nice on Thursday morning before he was shot by police.“I strongly condemn the recent terrorist attacks in France, including today’s heinous attack in Nice inside a church. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. India stands with France in the fight against terrorism,” PM Modi tweeted. I strongly condemn the recent terrorist attacks in France, including today's heinous attack in Nice inside a church. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. India stands with France in the fight against terrorism.French prime minister Jean Castex said that the country would raise its alert level to “emergency” in response to the attack, which comes during tensions over the re-publication of caricatures of Prophet Muhammad by the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo.Officials said a woman was beheaded and two others were killed by the knife-wielding attacker shouting “Allahu Akbar” in a suspected terrorist act at the Nice church. Nice’s mayor, Christian Estrosi, who described the attack as terrorism, said on Twitter it had happened in or near Notre Dame church and was similar to the beheading of French teacher Samuel Paty in an attack this month in the French capital of Paris. Estrosi said the attacker had repeatedly shouted the phrase “Allahu Akbar” or God is Greater, even after he had been detained by the police.Also read | UK PM Boris Johnson condemns France knife attack that killed 3 peopleOne of the people killed inside the church was believed to be the church warden, Estrosi said. ​“The suspected knife attacker was shot by police while being detained, he is on his way to the hospital, he is alive,” Estrosi told reporters. “Enough is enough. It’s time now for France to exonerate itself from the laws of peace in order to definitively wipe out Islamo-fascism from our territory,” he added.According to police, the three people were confirmed to have died in the attack and several were injured. The French anti-terrorist prosecutor’s department said it had been asked to investigate. The attack came on a day celebration are being held on the holiday of Mawlid, the birthday of Prophet Mohammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stands-with-france-in-fight-against-terrorism-pm-modi-condemns-nice-knife-attack/story-QOcfASpJGVHvr6e9n7jC1H.html
29-10-2020||India||Cabinet gives its nods for MoU between India, Cambodia in health sector||The Union Cabinet on Thursday approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Cambodia for cooperation in the field of health and medicine.The MoU will encourage cooperation between the two countries through joint initiatives and technology development in the health sector, the health ministry said in a statement.“It will strengthen bilateral ties between India and Cambodia. The MoU shall become effective on the date of its signature and shall remain in force for a period of five years,” it said.The main areas of cooperation between the two governments include mother and child health, family planning, HIV/AIDS and TB, drugs and pharmaceuticals, technology transfer, public health and epidemiology, disease control, and medical research and development, the statement said.The MoU will also include areas of medical education, health manpower development in the field of public health, training in clinical, para-clinical and management skills, and any other area of cooperation as may be mutually decided upon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-gives-its-nods-for-mou-between-india-cambodia-in-health-sector/story-nDFh2IgWbJX1BvXnt2TcMI.html
29-10-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh to reopen schools, colleges from November 2: Here are the guidelines||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday announced the reopening of all educational institutions, including schools and colleges, from November 2. The educational institutions will reopen in a phased manner with all Covid-19 precautionary measures in place, officials said.The announcement came after the Centre extended the implementation of Unlock-5 guidelines till November 30. Under the guidelines, the central government had allowed reopening of schools in a graded manner after assessing the coronavirus pandemic situation in their respective regions.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageSchools in Andhra Pradesh have been shut since March when Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed the lockdown to control the Covid-19 spread in the country. As of Wednesday, there were 814,774 active cases of Covid-19 in the southern state and its death toll is at 6,643. Andhra Pradesh is among the worst-affected states by the Covid-19 in the country.Here are the full guidelines to be followed by educational institutions for reopening of schools:1. Schools would open on alternate days and will follow a half-a-day day schedule.2. In the first phase, schools will be reopened on November 2 for Class 9 and Class 10. Junior colleges with Class 11 and 12 (intermediate first year and second year) would also be opened simultaneously.3. In the second phase, schools for upper primary sections comprising Classes 6, 7 and 8 will be opened from November 23.4. In the third phase, primary schools from Class 1 to Class 5 will start functioning from December 14. They, too, will adopt an alternate day, half-a-day teaching module.5. Higher educational institutions like undergraduate and post-graduation colleges will also start classes from November 2. They will also follow the alternate day and half-a-day method.6. The guidelines will be applicable to all government and private educational institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-to-reopen-schools-colleges-from-november-2-here-are-the-guidelines/story-Um9QdB2fn0uSPcUMP5TvqI.html
29-10-2020||India||Election Commission orders removal of Munger SP, DM over violence during Durga idol immersion||The Election Commission(EC) on Thursday ordered the immediate removal of the District Magistrate(DM) and the Superintendent of Police(SP) of Munger over violence during Durga idol immersion that had left one dead and scores injured, officials said.The poll panel has also ordered inquiry into the entire incident by Magadh Divisional Commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao, an EC statement said.The probe has to be completed within a week. Rajesh Meena is DM and Lipi Singh is SP of Munger.One person was killed and over two dozen others, including security personnel, were injured in firing and stone pelting during Durga idol immersion late Monday night.Meanwhile, Munger witnessed violent protest Thursday too when agitators ransacked the SP office and torched a police outpost over the Monday incident.The office of Sub Divisional Officer (SDO) was also allegedly targeted by the protestors, official sources said.They burnt tyres near Rajiv Chowk in the Munger town demanding action against the SP and the police personnel responsible for allegedly opening fire during the idol immersion procession.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) helmed Grand Alliance has strongly criticised the Monday incident, likening the district police with ‘General Dyer’ of infamous Jallianwala Bagh incident in Punjab during British rule on April 13, 1919. IPS officer Lipi Singh is the daughter of RCP Singh, the Janata Dal (United) leader in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-orders-removal-of-munger-sp-dm-over-violence-during-durga-idol-immersion/story-oOWPC77pOUOhf0q8DbBS8J.html
29-10-2020||India||Kolkata International Film Festival postponed due to Covid-19; now to be held in January 2021||The 26th edition of the Kolkata International Film Festival which was scheduled to be held in November this year has been postponed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. It will now be held in January 2021. “After receiving the global film fraternity’s consent, I hereby inform all stakeholders of the Kolkata International Film Festival and cine lovers that our festival has been rescheduled, given the current circumstances. It will now be held from January 8-15, 2021. Let the preparations begin,” Banerjee tweeted. The KIFF was scheduled to be held between November 5 and 12. Started in 1995, it is one of the oldest film festivals in India and over the years has become a star-studded annual event in Kolkata. Bollywood actors including Amitabh Bachchan and Shah Rukh Khan and other celebrities including former Indian cricket captain Sourav Ganguly have attended the inaugural ceremony in the past. In 2019, more than 200 full-length films and around 150 short films and documentaries from more than 70 countries were offered at the 25th KIFF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-international-film-festival-postponed-due-to-covid-19-now-to-be-held-in-january-2021/story-3p4B358GStaquWaA0rekWJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Committed to furnish all information for Aarogya Setu: Govt after RTI body’s notice||The Centre said on Thursday it is committed to furnish all the information sought under the RTI Act over the c contact tracing application and comply with the directions of Central Information Commission, which had issued a notice asking the government to explain the evasive response over the app’s creation.Officials said that the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) has taken the lapses made in providing information on Aarogya Setu app, which has data of millions of users, very strictly. They said the ministry has issued directions to initiate suitable action against the officers responsible for this. It has also directed National Informatics Centre (NIC) and National E-Governance Division (NeGD) to take suitable action against officers dealing with the RTI query in their organisations as well.Also read | Govt pulled up by RTI body over evasive reply on Aarogya Setu. It clarifiesThe ministry, they said, is committed to furnish all the information sought under the RTI Act to the applicant and comply with CIC’s directions. The commission had called the government’s response “extremely preposterous”.The RTI application, filed by Saurav Das, had sought information about the creation of the application in light of privacy concerns around it. Government officials from NIC and NeGD and MeitY declined to comment on the question raised by Das, prompting him to file an appeal with the CIC. The application has been particularly contentious as news reports and data privacy activists have alleged that the app collects information and stores it.Also read | Ministry has no information on who created Aarogya Setu, RTI body issues showcause notice“The CPIO (central public information officer), NIC’s submissions that the entire file related to creation of the App is not with NIC is understandable, but the same submissions if accepted from MeITY, NeGD and NIC in toto, then it becomes more relevant to now find out how an App was created and there is no information with any of the relevant public authorities,” the CIC said in its order dated October 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-furnish-all-information-for-aarogya-setu-govt-after-rti-body-s-notice/story-Q8F6pMuisB3SWoa0Rl5BmL.html
29-10-2020||India||Govt revises bidding parameters for Air India divestment, bids to be invited on equity, debt||The Union government has revised the bidding parameters for Air India’s divestment and has decided to ask for bids at enterprise value. Bids will now be invited on the enterprise value wherein bids will be sought on both equity and debt, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri announced on Thursday. The decision was taken by the Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) on Wednesday following a meeting with the home ministry, Puri said. Considering the impact on Air India and significant deterioration of operating environment for airlines, various options were considered for the disinvestment of Air India. AISAM has decided to change the biding parameters and ask for bids at Enterprise Value. The bids will be invited on Equity and Debt. In the current PIM, the Debt left in the company would be Rs 23,286 crore,” Puri said. The Centre has also extended the deadline for inviting bids till December 14. The Centre in August had issued a notification to extend the deadline for submitting the expression of interest for 100% stake sale of national carrier Air India by two months to October 30. According to the notification issued by the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM), the extension was provided following requests from interested bidders due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. In June, the Centre further extended the deadline to submit bids for the divestment to August 31, the third time since the process began in January. The national carrier was put on the block by the government on January 27 while a deadline of March 31 was set. It was later extended to June 30 and then to August 31 earlier. The government has been planning to sell its entire stake in Air India Ltd amid increasing debt and mounting losses. The Centre had earlier this year, in January, announced the stake sale in the debt-ridden airline after an attempt to auction a majority stake almost two years ago failed to draw any bids. The airline’s accumulated debt is estimated to be more than Rs 69,000 crore. It posted a loss of Rs 8,556 crore in FY19, as against a net loss of Rs 5,348 crore in the previous financial year. The civil aviation minister in June, had called the national carrier a ‘first-class asset’ during a press briefing and said that the government was confident and hopeful about its divestment plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-revises-bidding-parameters-for-air-india-divestment-bids-to-be-invited-on-equity-debt/story-le37OiRmWB8qr8B5da3YbJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Govt revises bidding parameters for Air India’s divestment, to ask for bids at enterprise value||The Union government has revised the bidding parameters for Air India’s divestment and has decided to ask for bids at enterprise value. The bids will now be invited on the enterprise value where bids will be invited on both equity and debt, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri announced on Thursday. The decision was taken by the Air India Specific Alternative Mechanism (AISAM) on Wednesday following a meeting with the home ministry, Puri added. Considering impact on Air India and significant deterioration of operating environment for airlines, various options were considered for the disinvestment of Air India. “AISAM has decided to change the biding parameters and ask for bids at Enterprise Value. The bids will be invited on Equity and Debt. In the current PIM, the Debt left in the Company would be Rs 23,286 crores,” Puri said. Centre has also extended the deadline for inviting bids till December 14. In August, Centre had issued a notification to extend the deadline for submitting the expression of interest for the 100 per cent stake sale of national carrier Air India by two months to October 30. According to the notification issued by the department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM), the extension was provided following requests from interested bidders due to the prevailing situation of Covid-19 pandemic. In June, Centre further extended the deadline to submit bids for the divestment to August 31, the third time since the process began in January. The national carrier was put on the block by the government on January 27 while a deadline of March 31 was set. It was later extended to June 30 and then to August 31 earlier. The government has been planning to sell its entire stake in Air India Ltd amid increasing debt and mounting losses. Centre, earlier this year in January, had announced the stake sale in the debt-ridden airline after an attempt to auction a majority stake almost two years ago failed to draw any bids. The airline’s accumulated debt is estimated to be more than Rs 69,000 crore. It posted a loss of Rs 8,556 crore in FY19, as against a net loss of Rs 5,348 crore in the previous financial year. The civil aviation minister in June had called the national carrier a ‘first-class asset’ during a press briefing and said that the government was confident and hopeful about its divestment plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-revises-bidding-parameters-for-air-india-s-divestment-to-ask-for-bids-at-enterprise-value/story-ebbhEHIAq38zcvWrROa6BN.html
29-10-2020||India||Heavy to very heavy rainfall in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry in next 5 days, says IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during next five days.“A cyclonic circulation lies over north Tamil Nadu, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and neighbourhood in lower and mid-tropospheric levels. Under its influence, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning very likely over Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during next five days,” IMD tweeted.In another tweet, it said isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu during next 24 hours, and again isolated heavy rainfall on October 30, November 1 and November 2 in the state.IMD also predicted isolated heavy rainfall over Kerala and Mahe on November 1 and over South Interior Karnataka on November 2.“Generally dry weather very likely over most parts of Northwest, West, Central and East India during next five days,” it said in a prediction for other parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-in-kerala-tamil-nadu-puducherry-in-next-5-days-says-imd/story-Q0nTO9u6b7Sd3h9Td43riJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Maharashtra extends ongoing Covid-19 lockdown till November 30||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the ongoing lockdown by another month as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to rise in the state. It will now remain in effect till November 30, officials said.While nationwide tally is witnessing a drop in daily cases, Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state by the Covid-19 in the country with 130,286 active cases. As of Wednesday morning, the death toll in the state stood at 14,86,926.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageEarlier this month, the state permitted hotels, food courts, restaurants and bars to restart operations at a capacity not exceeding 50%. However, schools, colleges and other educational and coaching institutions are closed.Since June 15, the state and the railway authorities have resumed limited number of special suburban trains for people employed in emergency services.Currently, the railway authorities are operating 1,410 special services on the Mumbai suburban network, including 10 ladies special trains.The state government on Tuesday wrote to Western Railway and Central Railway seeking suggestions on resuming local train services for the general public. In the letter, the government proposed the opening in a staggered manner in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-extends-ongoing-covid-19-lockdown-till-november-30/story-kMc8fh278SbLcclFsA19gJ.html
29-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 3 dead, several injured in knife attack in France’s Nice and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.3 killed in terror attack on French church, consulate targeted in JeddahA knife-wielding attacker shouting “Allahu Akbar” beheaded a woman and killed two other people in a suspected terrorist act at a church in the French city of Nice on Thursday, while a gunman was shot dead by police in a separate incident. Read moreIn a first, 42 transgender candidates to appear for Assam PSC examIn a first such instance for the state, 42 transgender persons have applied as candidates for the combined competitive (preliminary) examination (CCE), 2020, conducted by Assam Public Service Commission (APSC). Read moreIndia’s average daily Covid tests in past 6 weeks at about 11 lakh: CentreThe Union health ministry on Thursday said nearly 11 lakh coronavirus (Covid-19) tests have been conducted daily on an average in the last six weeks as the total tests crossed 10.65 crore adding that 15 lakh tests can now be done per day. Read moreCovid-19: Most Cathay Pacific pilots and cabin crew accept permanent pay cutsHong Kong’s Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd said on Thursday that a majority of pilots and flight attendants had signed new contracts that will result in permanent pay cuts. Cathay last week announced plans to cut 5,900 jobs to help it weather the pandemic, including nearly all of the positions at its regional airline Cathay Dragon, which it has shut down. Read moreIPL 2020 - ‘This has really turned upside down for them’: Brian Lara reveals what went wrong for CSKIt has been a season to forget for IPL’s most consistent team Chennai Super Kings. They are already out of the race for the play-offs, the first time ever that they won’t progress from the group stage. While the team has failed to put a string of victories together this season, several experts believe the primary reason behind this has been the franchise’s inability to blood youngsters into the team. Read moreKapil Sharma says he felt ‘jealous’ after Akshay Kumar replaced him in an ad, Akshay retorts Kapil’s house is bigger than hisA new promo of The Kapil Sharma Show, featuring Akshay Kumar and Kiara Advani as guests, has been shared online. The actors came to promote their upcoming film, Laxmmi Bomb, and seemingly had a blast shooting for the episode. Read moreMaruti Suzuki reports slim profit in quarter post lockdownThe country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) on Thursday reported 2.04 per cent increase in its consolidated net profit for the second quarter at ₹1,419.6 crore on the back of higher sales. The auto major had posted a net profit of ₹1,391.1 crore in the July-September quarter of the previous fiscal. Read moreFind yourself in a fashion fix this Karwa Chauth? Deck up like Hina Khan in a deep rani pink sharara setWith the fashion industry waking up in the middle of a festive week, after months of quarantine hibernation, a yearn to look unconventional, contemporary and glamorous while sticking to traditional wear is dominating the ethnic closet. Read moreSmriti Irani posts ‘falling ill’ meme after testing positive for Covid, people praise her spiritUnion Minister Smriti Irani is keeping her spirits up after she tested positive for Covid-19. After making the announcement on Twitter, Irani shared a meme on ‘falling ill’ on her Instagram account. The minister is known for sharing quirky and hilarious posts on the photo and video sharing platform and her recent share is no different. Read moreWatch: India backs Macron against ‘personal attacks’; condemns teacher’s beheading||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-three-dead-several-injured-in-knife-attack-in-france-s-nice-and-all-the-latest-news/story-0qRD2YC6vbcmWPfyfLm51N.html
29-10-2020||India||India backs Emmanuel Macron, criticises personal attacks on French president||India has deplored personal attacks by countries such as Turkey and Pakistan on French President Emmanuel Macron for his stance on radical Islam in the wake of the beheading of a teacher in Paris, and said that there can be no justification for terrorism. Macron has pledged to crack down on radical Islam in France after the October 16 beheading of Samuel Paty, a history professor who used controversial caricatures of Prophet Mohammed from the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in a class on freedom of expression. The killing by a suspected terrorist triggered a heated debate on secularism and Islamophobia in France. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said last week that Macron needs “some sort of mental treatment” for his attitude towards Muslims, while Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan accused the French president of encouraging Islamophobia. Also Read: Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to visit France, Germany and UK in NovemberWithout naming any countries, the external affairs ministry said in a statement: “We strongly deplore the personal attacks in unacceptable language on President Emmanuel Macron in violation of the most basic standards of international discourse.” The ministry condemned the “brutal terrorist attack that took the life of a French teacher in a gruesome manner that has shocked the world” and offered condolences to Paty’s family and the people of France. “There is no justification for terrorism for any reason or under any circumstance,” the statement added. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain responded to the external affairs ministry’s statement in a tweet: “Thank you @MEAIndia. France and India can always count on each other in the fight against terrorism.” Thank you @MEAIndia. France and India can always count on each other in the fight against terrorism.https://t.co/oXZ0XpKNSZ pic.twitter.com/iGylUYxUB6The Indian statement came as foreign secretary Harsh Shringla began a two-day visit to France as part of a three-nation tour of Europe that will also take him to Germany and the UK. Shringla is set to interact with top French officials to discuss ways to strengthen cooperation in a wide range of areas, including security and defence, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. France has emerged as one of India’s strongest allies in Europe and has taken a strong position on security challenges facing the country, especially at the UN Security Council. It has consistently criticised cross-border terrorism targeting India and was also one of the first countries to offer support amid the border standoff with China and the killing of 20 Indian soldiers in a clash in June. French defence minister Florence Parly expressed “deep solidarity” over the death of the Indian soldiers in a violent face-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and conveyed her country’s “steadfast and friendly support” in a letter sent to her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh. India’s support for Macron also comes at a time when New Delhi’s relations with Islamabad and Ankara are at a low. Pakistani and Turkish leaders have earned India’s ire by repeatedly raising the issue of Kashmir and treatment of minorities at international forums such as the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-backs-emmanuel-macron-criticises-personal-attacks-on-french-president/story-x15J2NMxCOSbamdsesqpiK.html
29-10-2020||India||Foreign minister Qureshi’s legs were shaking as he said India could attack over Abhinandan: Pakistani MP||Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s “legs were shaking” when he told a meeting last year that India would attack if Indian pilot Abhinandan Varthaman, shot down in a dogfight, was not returned, a Pakistani opposition lawmaker has said. Former speaker Ayaz Sadiq, a senior leader of the main opposition Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) who was at one time close to Prime Minister Imran Khan, made the revelation while speaking in the National Assembly or Lower House of Pakistan’s Parliament on Wednesday. Sadiq was responding to accusations by a member of the ruling Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaf (PTI) party that the former PML-N government had not properly handled national security issues, such as the case of former Indian Navy officer Kulbhushan Jadhav, who was detained by Pakistani authorities in 2016 on charges of espionage. Also Read: Pakistani clerics give approval to Hindu temple construction“In the case of Abhinandan, I remember Shah Mahmood Qureshi was in that meeting which the prime minister refused to attend and the chief of army staff joined us – his [Qureshi’s] legs were shaking and there was sweat on his brow,” Sadiq said, speaking in Urdu. “And Shah Mahmood Qureshi told us, ‘For God’s sake let this man [Abhinandan] go back because at 9pm on that night, India will carry out an attack on Pakistan’,” he said, talking of a meeting of government officials with parliamentary leaders held sometime after Abhinandan was shot on February 27, 2019 amid an India-Pakistan standoff. “But India wasn’t going to attack, nothing was going to happen. But they were going to kneel down and send back Abhinandan, and they did it,” Sadiq said, adding that the ruling PTI shouldn’t level such allegations as this would force the opposition to disclose “such things”. The remarks sparked a strong political reaction in India, with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda highlighting the fear of an Indian retaliation weighing heavy on the Pakistan government, and blaming Congress president Rahul Gandhi for allegedly questioning the Indian military. Sadiq did not offer more details during his brief speech in the National Assembly but subsequently told Dunya News channel that the Opposition would be forced to respond if those in power referred to it as “Modi ka yaar” (friend of PM Narendra Modi). He told the channel that Qureshi made the remarks at a meeting where parliamentary leaders, including those of PML-N and Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), were present. Sadiq also said the opposition had supported the PTI government on all issues, including Kashmir and Abhinandan, but it would no longer be appropriate to provide further support. Tensions between India and Pakistan had spiked following a suicide attack by the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) at Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir on February 14, 2019 that killed 40 troops. India retaliated by carrying out an air strike on a JeM base at Balakot in Pakistan, and this was followed by an aerial engagement along the Line of Control (LoC) that resulted in the shooting down of an Indian combat jet piloted by Abhinandan Varthaman. The immediate tensions eased after Pakistan freed Abhinandan on March 1, 2019, but relations between the two countries continue to be at an all-time low. India has maintained that there cannot be any dialogue with Pakistan till the neighbouring country stops backing cross-border terror. Nadda on Thursday referred to Sadiq’s speech and said it showed how Islamabad, was forced to release Varthaman fearing an attack from New Delhi, and lashed out against the Congress for “mocking the armed forces”. “Congress princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light...” Nadda tweeted in a jibe at Rahul Gandhi. Congress’ princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light... pic.twitter.com/shwdbkQWai“Congress Party premised it’s entire campaign around keeping our armed forces weak. They mocked our armed forces, questioned their valour and tried every trick to ensure India doesn’t get latest Rafale Planes. The people India rejected such politics and punished Congress,” he said in another tweet. As Sadiq’s remarks were played up in India, he issued a video statement in which he claimed the Indian media “distorted my statement and played with the words in an attempt to change it”. He suggested he had meant that Prime Minister Khan’s “legs were shaking and he was perspiring as he couldn’t face the opposition”. He said, “What was their thinking, which country they were taking dictation from, were they directly in contact with Modi, was there any other pressure on them – they didn’t think it fit to share with us and they came and said that we have to immediately release Abhinandan.” Sadiq added: “What was the reasoning, only Imran Khan knows and no one else in Pakistan knows this. His decision was completely wrong.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-qureshi-s-legs-were-shaking-as-he-said-india-could-attack-over-abhinandan-pakistani-mp/story-bUCp9BiO8aOnxmudho3AzL.html
29-10-2020||India||Day after CM’s former aide’s arrest, Kerala CPI (M) secretary’s son held for funding drugs||A day after the arrest of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former secretary M Sivasankar in a money laundering case, the ruling CPI(M) suffered another setback on Thursday after the Enforcement Directorate arrested party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in a narcotics case. Summoned to the ED office in Bengaluru for the second time, he was arrested after he failed to give convincing answers about the alleged funding of the drug racket after a 3-hour questioning, a senior officer said. He will be produced in a court later. Trouble began for Kodiyeri after Bengaluru drug racket accused Anoop Mohammad gave a statement to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in which he mentioned his name. He said Bineesh Kodiyeri, second son of Balakrishnan, had helped him a lot in his “business venture”. Later, his name also figured in the call list of Mohammad. Kodiyeri later admitted that he knew Mohammad and helped him in setting up a hotel in Bengaluru but he was not aware of his alleged drug dealings. But later the ED found that two shell companies floated by Kodiyeri, B Capital Solutions and B Capital Forex, were allegedly involved in many shady deals. Floated in 2015, both firms had failed to file tax returns and other formalities and the ED suspects these firms were floated for alleged money laundering and hawala transactions. During investigation the ED also found that Rs 50 lakh made its way into the account of Mohammad in the last six months and suspects that Kodiyeri was one of the financers of the drug cartel. Earlier the ED had frozen transactions of all his properties. During investigation into the gold smuggling case, the ED also found that there was a close link between gold smuggling and the psychedelic drug cases. The smuggling case came to light on July 5 after 30 kg gold was seized from a consignment that had arrived in the name of the United Arab Emirates consular office in Thiruvananthapuram. And the drug case surfaced on August 28 after the arrest of Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru. There are reports that the third accused in the gold smuggling case K T Ramees and Anoop Mohammad were friends. CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yecury said in Delhi that there was no crisis in the party or the government in Kerala and Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had made his position very clear that the party won’t interfere in the ongoing case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-cm-s-former-aide-s-arrest-kerala-cpi-m-secretary-s-son-held-for-funding-drugs/story-14EFANzH49mc3zsLNyQVHK.html
29-10-2020||India||Folk songs reflect as if corruption is a way of life: Uttarakhand HC||Emphasising that “the folk songs reflect the perception of people”, Uttarakhand high court in a recent order cited two songs of state’s famous folk singer Narendra Singh Negi, saying the folk songs written and sung by Negi reflect “as if corruption is a way of life”. The court not only cited the extracts of two songs but also provided a translation of both the extracts and YouTube link of the song.The 83-page order issued on Tuesday, in which the court had ordered CBI inquiry into the allegations against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, stated “Corruption is such a menace which has penetrated in every realm of life. It appears as if society has normalised it. The folk songs reflect the perception of people. Living in Uttarakhand, the folk songs (written and sung by Narendra Singh Negi) reflect as if corruption is a way of life. Extracts of two of such songs are as below”, the order said The translation of the first song quoted in the order goes like this, “Nobody ever sees a fish drinking water or a bird sleeping on the branch of a tree. Everybody knows that our officer brother takes bribes, but nobody ever saw him taking it…” The translation of the second song quoted by the HC goes like this, “The riches of all the commission and the perennial stream of bribes. The riches of all the commission and the perennial stream of bribes...Stop now!! How much are you going to eat?? Stop now…” Singer Narendra Singh Negi, who hails from Pauri district said he has been writing and singing songs since the 1970s. “I have been writing songs on all kinds of issues. I don’t write songs against a particular party, but my songs reflect the social ills and corruption in our society. I have written anti-establishment songs during both Congress and BJP regime in the state”, he said “Folk songs reflect the aspirations, experiences and perceptions of people. Whatever people feel strongly, reflects in their folk songs and it is a healthy way of bringing such issues to light. If there is corruption in society, its reflection will percolate in folk songs also. Though I have written over 300 songs so far on varied issues, my anti-establishment songs have become more famous due to their increasing popularity,” said Negi who resigned from a government job in 2005. The HC order while talking about corruption in society, stated, “If allegations of corruption levelled against the people in high positions stay in society without them being inquired and cleared, it will neither help the society to grow nor the State to function efficiently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/folk-songs-reflect-as-if-corruption-is-a-way-of-life-uttarakhand-hc/story-fNMPdaL05Z6OzrvXQ0LEGN.html
29-10-2020||India||Move shows determination of government to mitigate pollution: EPCA writes to Prakash Javadekar||The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Thursday wrote a letter to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar welcoming the commission for air quality management in the national capital region and adjoining area ordinance, which has replaced the 22-year-old pollution monitoring body. Bhure Lal, chairperson, and Sunita Narain, member, EPCA, in a letter to Javadekar said that the move showed the intent and determination of the union government to mitigate the high levels of air pollution in the Delhi-NCR region. “Over the past many years, we have worked to find solutions and to recommend action through our reports to government and to the honourable Supreme Court. We are grateful for the consideration given to our work and to the fact that many of our recommendations have been implemented,” the letter read. Also Read: Air pollution: Centre issues ordinance to form new commission to replace EPCAListing the actions taken by EPCA to tackle pollution levels in the region and the impact of those actions, the members said that there were some initiatives that the monitoring body was overseeing and now that the Central commission had taken over, their implementation could be continued to ensure long term solutions for air pollution in the Delhi-NCR region. “...The next phase of the agenda for clean air; fourth generation reforms need to be deliberated upon and implemented. That will necessitate the massive augmentation of intracity public transport, and to move industries, power plants and other users away from polluting fuels like coal to natural gas, electricity and renewable to ensure clean combustion,” the letter read. It added, “We hope that the above listing will help your ministry in following up the necessary actions for combating pollution in this region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/move-shows-determination-of-government-to-mitigate-pollution-epca-writes-to-prakash-javadekar/story-xBL119Tv6a6Oe0Xnjm6FlO.html
29-10-2020||India||India’s average daily Covid tests in past 6 weeks at about 11 lakh: Centre||The Union health ministry on Thursday said nearly 11 lakh coronavirus (Covid-19) tests have been conducted daily on an average in the last six weeks as the total tests crossed 10.65 crore adding that 15 lakh tests can now be done per day. “With 10,75,760 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tests have crossed 10.65 crore (10,65,63,440). Nearly 11 lakh tests have been conducted daily on an average during the past six weeks,” the ministry said.While giving a break-up of states and union territories (UTs), it said 79% of the fresh Covid-19 cases are being added from ten states and UTs. Kerala and Maharashtra continue to report the highest number of new infections which are over 8,000 and 6,000 respectively. Delhi which is also one of the worst hit states from the pandemic might see a third Covid-19 wave amid the surge in its daily tally. The national capital logged its highest ever single-day spike of 5,673 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday which pushed the overall tally to over 3,70,000. Meanwhile, with regard to recoveries from Covid-19, the ministry said the gap between total recoveries and total cases has crossed 67 lakh and it is continuously widening. It also pointed out that the declining trend of active cases is supported by the rising number of people recovering from the disease. The total recoveries which are at 73,15,989 constitute 90.85% of India’s caseload of over 80 lakh cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-average-daily-covid-tests-in-past-6-weeks-at-about-11-lakh-centre/story-K7A5OAe3VfRssisCZk9dbP.html
29-10-2020||India||Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri arrested in narcotics case||Bineesh Kodiyeri, the son of Kerala’s Communist Party of India (Marxist) secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, has been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a narcotics case on Thursday, officials said. He was summoned by ED earlier in the day for questioning over allegations of his connection with an accused in the Bengaluru drug case. This was the third time he was summoned by the central agency.Last time, officials had questioned Bineesh for almost six hours over his financial links with the drug case accused Mohammed Anoop. The youth wing of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) had earlier accused Bineesh of having close connections with a few members of a drug racket that was recently busted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cpm-secretary-kodiyeri-balakrishnan-s-son-bineesh-kodiyeri-arrested-in-narcotics-case/story-g43WRICid1nYOGsIdf1G2O.html
29-10-2020||India||Singer in Tripura molested, 4 arrested after video goes viral||Four men were arrested on charges of molesting a local singer at Nischintapur village near the Bangladesh border in West district of Tripura, police said on Thursday. According to the 26-year-old woman’s complaint, she had gone to the village barely 5 km from Agartala, on Tuesday for Durga puja where she met a man she was acquainted with. While she was returning with him on his motorcycle, he allegedly molested her. After she started crying, some local people came there but harassed her and shot the incident on their mobile phones.A video of the incident later viral on social media where a man is seen twisting her arm from behind and touching her inappropriately while other people are seen abusing her, taking photographs and shooting videos of her along with the man with whom she was returning.A local person later escorted her home. The singer lodged a complaint against Sanjib Barman, the man with whom she was returning on the motorcycle on Wednesday. On the basis of her complaint, police arrested him later in the evening from his home in Agartala. Around midnight three others who had abused were also arrested.“Identification process of the people in the video clip is on. We will arrest them as soon as they are identified,” said Amtali sub divisional police officer Anirban Das. Police did not say if the other three men arrested were seen in the video.The assault on the singer has sparked outrage in the state. Many social and cultural organisations condemned the incident and demanded arrest and strict action against the persons who abused her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singer-in-tripura-molested-4-arrested-after-video-goes-viral/story-HPn5vP9L5agIr7uvl2gSHP.html
29-10-2020||India||Rains lash Chennai, waterlogging reported in several areas||Rains lashed parts of Chennai on Thursday leading to the inundation and water logging in several areas of the capital of Tamil Nadu. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted a ‘generally cloudy sky with heavy rain’ in the city on Thursday.The rains came after the northeast monsoon, a phenomenon which brings rainfall over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, parts of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala during October to December, began. The southwest monsoon withdrew from the entire country on Wednesday, 13 days after its normal date of retreat. The weather bureau said that a cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Bay of Bengal, off north Tamil Nadu coast in lower and mid tropospheric levels.“Under its influence, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning (is) very likely over Kerala, Mahe, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during the next five days with isolated heavy rainfall over south Tamil Nadu during the next two days and over south Kerala during the next 24 hours,” IMD has said.Dry weather is expected over the rest of the country during the next four to five days. There were three low pressure areas -- cyclonic circulation and first stage of any cyclone -- in the Bay of Bengal in October. One of them intensified into a deep depression and crossed the peninsula unleashing its fury over Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa and leaving a trail of destruction, damaging property and crops. The second one developed into a depression bringing rains over West Bengal and the northeastern states last week.The southwest monsoon made an onset over Kerala on June 1, its normal annual onset date. Its timely onset was aided by cyclone Nisarga. The monsoon covered the entire country by June 26, twelve days ahead of its normal date of July 8. Its withdrawal was also late. The southwest monsoon retreated from west Rajasthan and parts of Punjab on September 28, eleven days after its normal withdrawal date.The normal date for the monsoon to retreat from the country is October 15.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-lash-chennai-waterlogging-reported-in-several-areas/story-Ju2fibkTKgXzredeBdaoJP.html
29-10-2020||India||Will leave no stone unturned to defeat them: Mayawati attacks former ally Samajwadi Party||BSP chief Mayawati said on Thursday her party will leave no stone unturned and will vote for the BJP or any other party’s candidate to ensure the defeat of the Samajwadi Party in future elections for the legislative council in Uttar Pradesh. She also said that dropping the 1995 case against the SP was a “big mistake”.“We have decided that to defeat SP candidate in future MLC elections in UP, we will put all our force and even if we have to give our vote to BJP candidate or any party candidate, will do it. Any party candidate, who will be dominant over SP’s second candidate, will get all BSP MLAs’ vote for sure,” Mayawati said while speaking news agency ANIThe former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh also asserted that the SP has insulted Brahmins in the state by insulting Satish Chandra Mishra, her party’s national general secretary. She said when the Bahujan Samaj Party saw the Samajwadi Party’s behaviour towards them after the results of the Lok Sabha elections last year, they realised that they had committed a big mistake by taking back the 1995 case against them.Also read | BSP’s Mayawati suspends 7 rebel MLAs, day after they met Akhilesh Yadav“We should not have joined hands with them. We should have thought a bit deeper. We took the wrong decision in haste. We committed a very big mistake by doing so,” she said.“I want to disclose that when we decided to contest polls with the SP for the Lok Sabha elections in UP, we worked very hard for it but from day one of our coalition SP chief kept telling SC Mishra that since BSP and SP had joined hands, I should take back my June 1995 case,” the BSP chief added.Also read | Amid fluid opposition tie-ups in UP, SP-RLD may forge long-term alliance“Our party had joined hands with the SP to fight communal forces during the Lok Sabha elections. Due to their family in-fighting, they could not gain much from the gathbandhan (alliance) with the BSP. They stopped responding to us post-elections and hence, we decided to part ways with them,” she said.Her comments came even as suspended seven rebel legislators of her party, who had opposed the nomination of the BSP’s official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha. Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Hakim Lal Bind, Mohammad Mujtaba Siddiqui, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel, Hargovind Bhargava and Bandana Singh had also met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday, triggering speculation that they might jump ship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/even-if-we-have-to-vote-for-bjp-mayawati-attacks-former-ally-samajwadi-party/story-jjkyHsjghcrkwQB5alLMHO.html
29-10-2020||India||SC stays CBI probe against Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat two days after the high court had directed the agency to investigate an alleged bribery case involving Rawat before he became the CM. Attorney General KK Venugopal who appeared for the CM and said that the order has to be stayed as it was passed without hearing Rawat and there was no prayer for a CBI probe was before the Court in the petition being considered. He said that the order had destabilized the government as Opposition were raising demands for the CM’s resignation. The three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, “Can such an order be passed in a petition where neither any specific prayer for probe is made nor the state or CM is made a party. All of a sudden everybody is taken by surprise.”The top court stayed the operative portion of the October 27 high court order directing the CBI probe and asked the opposite parties to file response in four weeks. The HC had suo moto directed the CBI to examine allegations leveled by a journalist Umesh Sharma accusing Rawat of indirectly receiving alleged bribe of Rs 25 lakh in 2016 when Rawat was the BJP’s in-charge of Jharkhand. The alleged bribe giver was a Ranchi-based man who deposited this money into accounts held by Rawat’s relatives on the promise of being made Chairman of Gau Seva Committee in Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-cbi-probe-against-uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat/story-Aq2J5Nl3AG6J55o60WFcLK.html
29-10-2020||India||Third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi? ‘Have possibly entered that phase,’ says health minister Jain||A day after Delhi logged its highest daily count of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that it is too early to say the national capital is witnessing the third wave of Covid-19 cases but that it is possible “we are already in that phase.”Click here for full Covid-19 coverageJain’s remark came a day after Delhi recorded more than 5,000 new cases of Covid-19 for the first time. The 5,673 new infections on Wednesday have taken the Capital’s tally of cases due to the disease to 370,014, including 6,396 fatalities.Read: With 5,673 new coronavirus cases, Delhi records its highest single-day spike“It is too early to say that Delhi is experiencing the third wave of Covid-19 cases. We must wait for another week in order to definitively say that, but it is possible we’re already in that phase,” Jain told news agency ANI. “We’ve made some changes to our strategy. Now, when a person tests positive, we also test his entire family and close contacts. We do this not once, but twice - the second time after four-five days,” he added. It is too early to say that Delhi is experiencing the 3rd wave of #COVID19 cases. We must wait for another week in order to definitively say that, but it possible that we're already in that phase: Satyendar Jain, Delhi Health Minister on the spike in COVID cases pic.twitter.com/yxxEyzNsZ6The 5,673 infections Delhi recorded on Wednesday was the second straight day it witnessed its highest single-day spike. On Tuesday, Delhi had logged 4,853 cases, which was its highest single-day tally since 4,473 on September 16. In fact, the national capital has consistently logged more than 4,000 cases daily in the last few days.Officials have attributed the recent spike to re-opening of public places and the ongoing festive season. There are concerns this could lead to a fresh surge of cases not just in Delhi, but across the country.On Wednesday, in view of the Capital’s coronavirus situation, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had announced that all schools will remain closed till further orders. Schools were ordered to stay closed till October 31 before that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-wave-of-covid-19-in-delhi-have-possibly-entered-that-phase-says-health-minister-jain/story-GhaeHcaD8pzByTSx7VzD7H.html
29-10-2020||India||In Covid crackdown, commuters without masks in Mumbai local trains to be fined||Passengers travelling on Mumbai’s suburban railway network without masks will now have to pay fines as part of an exercise to stop the spread of Covid-19. A fine of Rs. 200 and will be charged on the basis of Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) notification on fines for wearing spitting and not wearing masks. No date has been decided yet for enforcing the fines but they are likely to enforced from next week.The Maharashtra government on Wednesday empowered the Government Railway Police (GRP) to collect fines from passengers travelling without masks onboard local trains and on the railway stations. A letter written by Abhay Yawalkar, director, disaster management to the GRP commissioner states that in order to avoid resurgence in the number of coronavirus cases it is imperative that all Covid related protocols are followed by commuters.“One of the main protocols is wearing a facial mask all the time. The state powers the Government Railway Police to impose fines on commuters found to be travelling without masks in the local trains or inside the station premises. The fine will be in line with the circulated dated 9 September 2020 issued by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) or in line with any further circular issued by MCGM in this regard.” states the letter. Meanwhile, the railways has decided to provide free masks to passengers to create awareness on the spread of coronavirus among railway passengers. Awareness campaigns on precautions and preventions to undertake while commuting will also be organised. “Passengers found travelling without masks onboard trains will be given masks and informed about the virus spread.” said a senior Central Railway official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-covid-crackdown-commuters-without-masks-in-mumbai-local-trains-to-be-fined/story-hCQQlP0BleyP13dPd7SzQJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Indian Railways starts additional special Shatabdi trains during festivals. Check details||Indian Railways has started operating three more festival special trains to clear the extra rush during festival season and also for the convenience of passengers. Western Railway said in a press release that Mumbai Central- Ahmedabad special Shatabdi Express will run from Wednesday till further notice. Two pairs of festival special trains between Bhuj and Bareilly, with 74 trips, will also be run to clear the festival rush.Here are the details of these trains:1. Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad Special Shatabdi ExpressTrain No 02009 Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad special Shatabdi Express will depart Mumbai Central daily except Sunday at 6.30am will reach Ahmedabad at 12.45am the same day. Similarly, Train No 02010 Ahmedabad–Mumbai Central special will leave Ahmedabad daily, except on Sunday, at 2.45pms and will reach Mumbai Central at 9.20pm the same day. The train will stop at Borivali, Vapi, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara, Anand and Nadiad stations in both directions. This train has executive chair car and chair car coaches.Also read | Railways to run 392 ‘festival special’ trains from today2. Bhuj-Bareilly Festival SpecialTrain No 04322 Bhuj-Bareilly special will depart Bhuj every Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 5.05pm and will reach Bareilly at 8.35pm the next day. This train will run from October 28 to December 2020. Train No 04321 Bareilly-Bhuj special will leave Bareilly every Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday at 6.35am and will reach Bhuj at 9.30am the next day. This train will run from October 25 to November 29. Also read | Booking, cancellation of rail tickets allowed till 5 minutes before departure from todayThis train will halt at Gandhidham BG, Samakhiali BG, Bhildi, Palanpur Jn, Abu Road, Falna, Marwar Jn, Beawar, Ajmer Jn, Kishangarh, Naraina, Phulera Jn, Jaipur, Gandhinagar JPR, Dausa, Bandikui Jn, Rajgarh, Alwar, Khairthal, Rewari Jn, Pataudi Rd, Garhi Harsaru, Gurgaon, Palam, Delhi Cantt, Delhi Sarai Rohilla, Delhi Jn, Ghaziabad, Pilkhua, Hapur, Gajraula Jn, Amroha, Moradabad, Rampur and Milak stations in both directions. Train No 04322 will also stop at Getor Jagatpura station, whereas, Train No 04321 will have an additional halt at Malakhera station. This train comprises of AC 2 Tier, AC 3 Tier, sleeper class and second class seating coaches.3. Bhuj-Bareilly Festival Special tri-weekly trainTrain No 04312 Bhuj-Bareilly special will leave Bhuj every Monday, Tuesday and Thursday at 2.05pm and will reach Bareilly at 8.35pm the next day. This train will run from October 26 to November 30, 2020. Similarly, Train No 04311 Bareilly-Bhuj special will leave Bareilly every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday at 6.35am and will arrive Bhuj at 12.05pm the next day. This train will run from October 27 to December 1, 2020. It will halt at Gandhidham BG, Samakhiali BG, Dhrangadhra, Viramgam Jn, Ambli Rd, Mahesana Jn, Palanpur Jn, Abu Road, Falna, Marwar Jn, Sojat Rd, Beawar, Ajmer Jn, Kishangarh, Naraina, Phulera Jn, Jaipur, Gandhinagar JPR, Dausa, Bandikui Jn, Rajgarh, , Alwar, Khairthal, Rewari Jn, Pataudi Rd, Garhi Harsaru, Gurgaon, Palam, Delhi Cantt, Delhi Sarai Rohilla, Delhi Jn, Ghaziabad, Pilkhua, Hapur, Gajraula Jn, Amroha, Moradabad, Rampur and Milak stations in both directions.Train No 04312 will also halt at Getor Jagatpura station, whereas, Train No 04311 will have an additional halt at Malakhera station. This train comprises of AC 2 Tier, AC 3 Tier, sleeper class and second class seating coaches. Booking for Train No 04312 opened from October 25 and for Train No 02009/10 & 04322 it opened from October 26 at nominated PRS counters and on the website of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-starts-additional-special-shatabdi-trains-during-festivals-check-details/story-pGmxkD7Ia74KNEmD0MZV0M.html
29-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Congress welcomes Facebook’s India leadership change and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress welcomes Facebook’s India leadership change, asks it demonstrate neutralityThe Congress on Wednesday asked Facebook to demonstrate its neutrality with a thorough revamp of its institutional processes, and also outline steps taken to curb the “spread of false, polarising and hate content” on its platform. Read moreTwitter tenders apology over Leh map fiascoTwitter has tendered a verbal apology before the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) constituted to review the data protection bill after Leh was shown as part of China during a live broadcast, according to news agency ANI. The panel had shown strong displeasure and asked Twitter to tender a written apology and submit an affidavit over the issue. Read moreBihar Assembly Election 2020: Local issues take centre stage as BJP defends Kumrahar seatThe Kumrahar assembly constituency in Patna has traditionally been known as the stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but that tag is under a cloud in the ongoing three-phase Bihar polls. Read moreASER 2020: Nearly 25% students from rural Maharashtra have no access to smartphones for e- classesNearly 25% students from rural Maharashtra have no access to mobile phones, the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2020 by NGO Pratham revealed. Nearly 16% students reported that they could not get help in their studies from parents due to their poor educational backgrounds. The survey was conducted to assess the impact of Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown on the education of students across the country. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘Deep down he must be disappointed to not have donned India blue,’ Kieron Pollard after Suryakumar Yadav’s heroics against RCBTwo days after his name was not included in any of the three India squads that will tour Australia next month, Suryakumar Yadav produced another fine innings for Mumbai Indians in the Indian Premier League 2020. Yadav remained unbeaten on 79 and successfully shepherded MI’s chase of 165 against Royal Challengers Bangalore with five wickets remaining. This was Yadav’s third fifty of the season, with which he took his tally to 362 runs from 12 matches. Read moreAashram Chapter 2 The Dark Side trailer: The walls are closing in on Bobby Deol’s Baba NiralaThe trailer for Aashram Chapter 2: The Dark Side, a continuation of Prakash Jha’s MX Player series, has been released. The set of episodes will pick up after the first ‘season’, which ended abruptly in August. Read moreTwitterati helped 79-year-old medicinal plant seller in Bengaluru: Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-congress-welcomes-facebook-s-india-leadership-change-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZFXDzvqDo6tIrdisIQKdjL.html
29-10-2020||India||Villagers in Jharkhand allegedly behead 3 of family for practising witchcraft||Police on Wednesday recovered decapitated bodies of three people of the same family from a forested area in Jharkhand’s tribal dominated Khunti district who were allegedly abducted more than three weeks ago and killed for practising witchcraft.Police said the heads of the deceased were recovered from another isolated location near the spot and the bodies were sent for postmortem.The deceased were identified as Birsa Munda, 48, his wife Sukru Purty, 43, and daughter Somwari Purty, 20, of Kuda village under Saiko police station.Police have arrested three of the nine suspects from the same village from where the trio went missing on October 7 .“The beheaded bodies were recovered from a pit near Raba rivulet in a nearby forested area. Some villagers reportedly abducted the trio about 23 days ago after accusing them of practising witchcraft. We have arrested three people Soma Munda, Raghu Munda and Bishram Munda of the same village. The accused have confessed their complicity in the crime,” said Khunti superintendent of police Ashutosh Shekhar. He added that a manhunt has been launched to arrest other suspects including a local quack.The disappearance of the trio came to light on October 12 when Telani, a married daughter of the couple lodged a complaint with the police about her missing parents and younger sister, police said. She said that she along with her husband visited her parents’ house on October 8 but found the doors ajar. She said that none of the three members were at home.Telani said that she inquired about their whereabouts from neighbours but to no avail. After searching them at every possible location, she finally approached the police on October 12. She raised suspicion against a few villagers who allegedly abducted the trio due to some land dispute.Police said an initial search launched with dog squads failed to trace the abducted persons.Sources said that a woman of the same village had delivered a baby earlier this month but the infant died after a few days. A local quack informed the family that the death of the baby was due to witchcraft practiced by the deceased Birsa Munda’s family.Munda, his wife and daughter were found missing shortly after this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/villagers-in-jharkhand-allegedly-behead-3-of-family-for-practising-witchcraft/story-1aLg22Olk3xYGFqfIeVIgN.html
29-10-2020||India||Twitter tenders apology over Leh map fiasco: Report||Twitter has tendered a verbal apology before the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) constituted to review the data protection bill after Leh was shown as part of China during a live broadcast, according to news agency ANI. The panel had shown strong displeasure and asked Twitter to tender a written apology and submit an affidavit over the issue.The controversy came to the fore last week when a journalist started a live Twitter broadcast from a war memorial in Leh and realised that the location said People’s Republic of China. It also prompted the secretary of the ministry of electronics and information technology to write to Twitter’s chief executive Jack Dorsey to express the government’s disapproval of the move.The JPC had on Wednesday criticised representatives from Twitter for showing Leh as part of China and said that it amounts to an act of treason. It had raised legal issues regarding data protection as well. The committee also took into account instances of shadow-banning, taking down of accounts arbitrarily, lack of accountability and transparency when it comes to policies and data transfers and location of data centres.Also read | Committed to transparency, will share timely updates with govt: Twitter on geo-tagging issue“Leh being shown as a part of China can be construed as an act of treason and is punishable with unto seven years of imprisonment. The committee was unanimous in flagging the issue and expressed its stern disapproval,” chair of the committee Meenakshi Lekhi told Hindustan Times.However, Twitter had said it swiftly resolved the issue. “The recent geotagging issue was swiftly resolved by our teams. We are committed to openness, transparency around our work and will remain in regular touch with the government to share timely updates,” Twitter said in response to HT. It added that data privacy and protection are at the core of its products.“We thank the Parliamentary Committee for giving us an opportunity to share our views on the personal data protection bill. Privacy and data protection is at the core of our products and services that are designed to earn the trust of people who use them,” Twitter said. “Our focus is on working with governments across the world, including in India, to develop a forward-looking approach to regulation which is practical, realistic, feasible to implement, and takes into account the long-term impact on the wider digital ecosystem that protects the Open Internet and universal access.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-tenders-apology-over-leh-map-fiasco-report/story-XvFQuxemRbPH7FtRciZxSJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: Local issues take centre stage as BJP defends Kumrahar seat||The Kumrahar assembly constituency in Patna has traditionally been known as the stronghold of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but that tag is under a cloud in the ongoing three-phase Bihar polls. Though the BJP has stitched up the caste calculus and its traditional support base appears to be intact, localised issues could prove to be a stumbling block, despite the party’s recent feat such as the Bhoomipujan at Ayodhya for the construction of the long-pending Ram temple. Lack of development in the constituency is the overriding factor, but the BJP may still afford to be cautiously optimistic because of a lack of a strong candidate against its sitting lawmaker.But a tour of the constituency amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak gives a tell-tale glimpse of the broken civic infrastructure. Also read | Millions cast votes in Bihar under the shadow of Covid-19The roads in Kumrahar, which is located in the heart of the state capital Patna and boasts of the historic remains of the ancient city of Patliputra, including an 80-pillar hall of the Emperor Ashoka’s era, are in a pitiable condition. Drainage system is also in shambles, as development has been few and far between since the British colonial era. The open and filthy drain at Saidpur near Moin-ul-Haq Stadium at Rajendra Nagar has been a civic nuisance for local residents, who have to put up with the overpowering stench and mosquito menace. The roads have become death traps and several accidents have been reported from the neighbourhood. The public’s demand to cover and clean the drain has been falling on civic authorities’ deaf ears for years.Public parks and open spaces are also neglected. They have become safe havens for criminal and anti-social activities due to a lack of maintenance. The approach road to Bazaar Samiti, Bihar’s biggest wholesale market, which receives over two dozen truck loads of fruits and fish daily from West Bengal, Maharashtra, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Hyderabad and Karnataka, is in a mess. Basic civic amenities such as washrooms and drinking water are non-existent, much to the distress of thousands of wholesale fruit and fish market dealers and retailers, including women sellers. The state government has been found wanting in ensuring supply of water and the crisis aggravates every summer with unfailing regularity. Kumrahar residents are not spared of their annual monsoon woes, either. In September-October, 2019 Kumrahar had turned into an island after a burst of intense showers. Local residents remained cut off from the rest of Patna and spent a few harrowing days without food, electricity and water supplies. These civic issues may impact BJP candidate Arun Kumar Sinha’s poll prospects. Sinha is pitted against Dr Dharmendra Kumar of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Rajesh Ranjan Pappu of the Jan Adhikar Party (JAP). Kumrahar assembly constituency is a part of the Patna Sahib Lok Sabha constituency and comprises areas under Patna Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) wards 14 and from 16 to 22.Earlier, Kumrahar was a part Patna Central Assembly constituency, but was renamed in 2008 following the delimitation as per the Delimitation Act, 2002 and on the basis of the 2001 Census.The constituency is a treasure trove and boasts of several monuments and heritage sites tracing their origin to the ancient city of Patliputra.Several illustrious personalities from Bihar such as poet Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, novelist Phanishwar Nath Renu, folk singers, Vindhyavasini Devi and Padamshree Sharda Sinha, and dhrupad singer and Padmashree Pandit Siyaram Tiwari have all called the constituency their home at one point in time of their lives or the other.The total voter population of the constituency is 4,21,902, including 225328, 196539 and 35 males, females and third gender, respectively.Upper castes, comprising Kayasthas, Rajputs, Bhumihars and Brahmins, form a bulk of the constituency’s voters, but there is also a sizeable population of Yadavs, Chandravanshi, Dalits and Muslims. Over two dozen candidates are trying their luck at the hustings from Kumrahar, including Vivek Shankar, Amit Kumar and Vinod Kumar Pathak, who are fighting as independents, Ashok Kumar Keshri from the Rashtra Seva Dal and Suryakar Jeetendra from the Socialist Unity Centre Of India (Communist). Sinha, a three-time lawmaker, had won the seat in 2010, when he had defeated Kamal Parwez of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) by over 50% votes. In 2005, he had defeated Aquil Haider of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) by over 40% votes. However, in this election, many candidates are new entrants to politics.“The voters are yearning for a change. Though voters have supported the BJP for over a decade, there has been no development in the country. Worse, last year’s floods turned out to be a nightmare for local residents, as many had died of hunger and water-borne diseases. Our local legislator (Sinha) was missing in action amid the unfolding humanitarian crisis. Why will the public vote for him? We will vote for a party, which helps the public during floods,” said Yogesh Gupta, a young resident of Rajendra Nagar neighbourhood. Gupta alleged that Sinha, despite being a public representative, is aloof and seldom interacts with the public from his constituency. CM Agarwal, a businessman and a voter from the constituency, echoed Gupta. He said the majority of the local residents are unhappy with Sinha.“He was unapproachable, when the public needed him the most last year during the floods. Nobody was compensated for the loss of lives and property. A survey was all that was carried out, but no financial aid was distributed among the flood-affected. Upper caste voters are also seeking a change,” Agarwal said. Dr Amar Kumar Singh, another resident of Rajendra Nagar, said there is no alternative (TINA) factor that appears to be working in favour of Sinha since 2005. Dr Vinod Kumar, a resident of Sandalpur, and Udit Kumar, a yoga teacher from Kazipur neighbourhood, said most of the parties have failed to field strong candidates in Kumrahar. “Voters have no option, but to support the BJP,” they said. Rajeshwar Prasad Singh, a retired professor from Patna University, gave the BJP an outside chance because of a lack of a strong electoral contest. “Be that as it may, Sinha is never seen among his voters at any public function,” he said. However, Sinha rebuffed the allegations and maintained that several development works were undertaken by him. He cited the development of Premchand Rangshala and International level Science City as cases in point.“Many other projects such as an upgrade in Saidpur drainage facility and renovation of Bazaar Samiti are in the works,” he said. “Last year’s floods were a lesson for the state government. Fortunately, no such incident was reported this year,” he added. Pappu, the JAP candidate, said he deserved a chance to serve the people from the constituency. “We have proved how committed we are towards social service. The voters may still remember the way we had distributed food packets and water bottles during the floods and evacuated many of them to safer places. Now, it’s the payback time for the voters,” he said. “The voters of Kumrahar have given three chances to the BJP. Now, the JAP deserves a chance,” he added. Dr Kumar, a dentist and the RJD’s candidate, claimed that Kumrahar brought out Patna’s rear as far as development was concerned. “Besides thoroughfares, all roads and lanes in neighbourhoods are in a deplorable condition,” he said.He said, if he is elected he would resolve teething civic woes such water supply, roads and drainage facility at Saidpur.Kumarahar goes to polls on November 3 in the second phase of the elections. The third and the final phase will be on November 7.The election results will be declared on November 10. Kumrahar Assembly constituency (No 183): At a glance * Kumrahar assembly seat is a part of the Patna Sahib Lok Sabha constituency. * Comprises wards 14 and from 16 -22 of Patna Municipal Corporation. * Was a part Patna Central Assembly constituency * Became a separate assembly constituency in 2008 following the delimitation as per the Delimitation Act, 2002 and on the basis of the 2001 Census* Total number of voters: 4,21,902* Total number of male voters: 2,25,328* Total number of female voters: 1,96,539* Total number of third gender voters: 35* Upper castes, comprising Kayasthas, Rajputs, Bhumihars and Brahmins, form a bulk of the voters * Also a sizeable population of Yadavs, Chandravanshi, Dalits and Muslims. Key issues * Civic infrastructure woes such as pitiable road condition and poor drainage system * Public parks have become safe havens for criminal and anti-social elements*Bazaar Samiti, Patna’s main wholesale market, lacks washrooms, drinking water facilities and its approach road is also broken* Poor water supply||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-assembly-election-2020-local-issues-take-centre-stage-as-bjp-defends-kumrahar-seat/story-3QBXYixisBlAAUBVTct7aL.html
29-10-2020||India||Narrow escape for 18 families as part of building collapses in Dombivli||Eighteen families living in a three-storey building in Dombivli, 41 km northeast of Mumbai, had a narrow escape as half of the structure collapsed early Thursday morning, police said.The families who were asleep rushed out of their rooms around 4 am as soon as the Maina Bittu Niwas building located at Charu Bhama Mhatre school, Kopar village, began to collapse. The residents who managed to escape before the major portion of the building collapsed claimed that as soon as they realized that the structure was cracking, they banged on each other’s doors and ran out. The building had 15 rooms and is 42-year-old according to the local civic body records. “Every family was asleep when the building started collapsing portion by portion. Initially it developed cracks and there was sound due to which residents woke up and rushed out. As soon as we left the building a major portion of it collapsed. There were children and senior citizens living in that portion,” said Sushmita Nagaral, 26, who lived in the building with her parents and younger sister. One fire tender of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) fire department reached the spot around 4.30 am and helped the residents remove their belongings from the remaining portion of the building. “We received a call about the portion of the building collapsed and we rushed to the spot. The residents had already moved out from the building as there was no injury reported. Our team helped the residents remove as much as their belongings as they could,” said Jeevan Borade, fire officer. “Even when we tried removing our belongings the remaining portion was developing cracks and hence we could not pick up much of the belongings. The residents have now gone to their relatives’ places for shelter,” said Nagaral. KDMC officials claimed that notice regarding vacating the building was served to the owner. “We have started demolishing the remaining portion now. The building was unsafe and we had served notice to them to vacate it,” said Bharat Pawar, ward officer, KDMC. As per dangerous buildings list prepared by the civic body there are 187 extremely dangerous buildings and 284 dangerous buildings. The extremely dangerous buildings are more than 30 years old. In total there are 471 unsafe structures in KDMC limits. Earlier on September 21, 38 people died and 25 injured in a Gilani building collapse in Bhiwandi’s Damankar naka. That incident took place around 3.30 am while the residents were asleep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narrow-escape-for-18-families-as-part-of-building-collapses-in-dombivli/story-BG2KxctLX8DnexIW9NDB4N.html
29-10-2020||India||‘Demonstrate neutrality’: Congress welcomes Facebook’s India leadership change||The Congress on Wednesday asked Facebook to demonstrate its neutrality with a thorough revamp of its institutional processes, and also outline steps taken to curb the “spread of false, polarising and hate content” on its platform.It welcomed the change in Facebook India’s leadership team after the resignation of its head of policy, Ankhi Das, but added the matter will not be resolved by just changing one individual.The Congress in August wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and called for an inquiry into a report suggesting the social media company was biased towards the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in censoring hate speech.In his letter, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal asked Zuckerberg to set up a high-level inquiry into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations and suggested the appointment of a new team to lead the India operations till the inquiry is completed.Also Read: Social media CEOs get earful on bias, warning of new limits“As India’s oldest political party that fought for the nation’s freedom and established electoral democracy through the adult franchise, it is deeply disturbing to note that your company may be a willing participant in thwarting the very rights and values that our founding leaders sacrificed their lives for,” he wrote.The Wall Street Journal report in August suggested Facebook was going easy on hate speeches by BJP members and triggered a controversy. The report cited interviews with unnamed Facebook insiders and claimed Das intervened in internal content review processes to stop a ban on BJP’s Telangana lawmaker Raja Singh, whose posts targeted the Muslim community. It said Das told staff members that punishing violations by BJP politicians would damage the company’s business prospects.On Wednesday, Venugopal said Facebook must ensure foolproof checks and balances, which cannot be tinkered by an individual’s whims and political leanings.“It must also outline the steps taken to curb false, polarising and hate news or content, spread rampantly on its platform, threatening India’s social harmony,” he added.The Congress had also demanded a joint parliamentary committee probe into the entire matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-welcomes-facebook-s-india-leadership-change-but-asks-it-demonstrate-neutrality/story-NBgDdnViFBLjwf5Vo7gVqJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Tension in Bagnan in Howrah as BJP calls for bandh after party worker is killed||The Bharatiya Janata Party in West Bengal has called for a 12-hour bandh in Howrah district’s Bagnan town on Thursday after a party worker was shot dead allegedly by goons backed by the ruling Trinamool Congress. Authorities have deployed large police contingents including RAF personnel and water-canons in the area to thwart any law and order violation. With tension brewing in the area, many shops remained closed. The BJP has brought out multiple small rallies. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president in Bengal and member of Parliament Saumitra Khan is likely to reach Bagnan later in the day. Police said that Kinkar Majhi was shot at near his home in Bagnan on October 24. He succumbed at a Kolkata hospital on October 28. Police have arrested one person. While BJP alleged that Majhi was shot dead by TMC goons, the ruling party leaders said that the murder was the fallout of a property dispute and had nothing to do with politics. “There has been no effect of the bandh. Police will take action if any one tries to disrupt public life, violate law and break Covid-19 restrictions,” said Rana Mukherjee, additional superintendent of police of Howrah (rural). In some area scuffle and heated altercation broke out when police stopped BJP rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-in-bagnan-in-howrah-as-bjp-calls-for-bandh-after-party-worker-is-killed/story-hYpbrN2A4B5nF5PxFnZTlL.html
29-10-2020||India||Gold smuggling case: Kerala CM’s former secretary M Sivasankar remanded in ED custody for a week||Former secretary of Kerala CM M Sivasankar, who was arrested in connection with the gold smuggling case on Wednesday after his anticipatory bail petition was rejected by Kerala High Court, was remanded in Enforcement Directorate custody for a week on Thursday. The ED in its remand report said that he was made the fifth accused in money laundering case related to gold smuggling. He was aware of main accused Swapna Suresh’s smuggling activities, the agency said.On Wednesday, he was detained from the Ayurveda hospital where he was admitted for treatment. When Sivasankar got hospitalised, the customs said he was pretending illness to escape grilling by the agencies.Once a very powerful bureaucrat, Sivasankar fell from grace after his name got linked to the gold smuggling case that surfaced on July 5. As much as 30 kg of yellow metal was seized by the customs from a package camouflaged as diplomatic consignment addressed to the UAE consulate.Earlier, the ED had claimed that there were attempts to bail Swapna Suresh out after the seizure of gold hidden in a bag camouflaged as a diplomatic baggage that came to the UAE consulate in the state capital. The agency has also accused Sivasankar of helping the main accused in money laundering. But Sivasankar told the court that he had been grilled for more than 90 hours and none of the agencies could implicate him in the case.A multi-agency team comprising NIA, ED, DRI, Customs and Income Tax is probing the case and 32 people have been arrested so far. There are reports that smuggling was going on for more than a year through the UAE consulate and they smuggled at least 400 kg gold in several consignments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gold-smuggling-case-kerala-cm-s-former-secretary-m-sivasankar-remanded-in-ed-custody-for-a-week/story-c2Twt7swsQKQn0MrNZbIiO.html
29-10-2020||India||NDA always welcoming, we have never abandoned our allies: BJP chief JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda has said the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has never abandoned its allies and that they are always welcoming and accommodating.“[Bihar chief minister] Nitish [Kumar] will remain our leader [in the state], and we will form the government under his leadership, come what may,” Nadda said in an interview with HT amid speculation that the BJP may want to have its own chief minister in the event it gets more seats than Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), or JD(U). Nadda said Kumar will be NDA’s chief minister even if the latter’s party gets fewer seats than the BJP.Replying to a question on the exit of two of the BJP’s oldest allies, the Shiv Sena, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), from the NDA, Nadda said they had their own reasons for leaving. “In Maharashtra, it was a dhokha [betrayal]. Our ally [Shiv Sena] deceived us for seats...they realised at the last minute that they [Shiv Sena] want the chief ministership.”Also read | RJD talks of giving jobs to 1 mn people, but many more have left the state during its regime, says NaddaShiv Sena quit the NDA to form the government in Maharashtra with the help of BJP’s arch-rivals, Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party. The SAD parted ways over the farm laws passed in September, citing the interests of farmers.Nadda insisted Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to farmers and to the people. “They [Akali Dal] participated in all the decision-making process; they were with us when the Cabinet took a decision. [SAD leaders] Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir, and Harsimrat Kaur Badal all gave statements supporting the farm bills, but later under the pressure of Congress, they decide to part ways with us. We have been asking them to explain how we are anti- farmers and they pro-farmer, but they have not been able to do so.”Nadda said they wanted the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which is contesting the Bihar polls separately and has been attacking Nitish Kumar while praising BJP, to be with them. “…but then every party has its targets and ambitions and they have the right to worry about the growth and scope, so they went away. We tried to adjust them, but after all, we had only 121 seats where we had to accommodate them, and the BJP has to worry about retaining its culture and character. We tried to adjust, but it could not be done.”Nadda rejected the view that the LJP was attacking Kumar at the BJP’s behest. “Not at all. At every meeting that I am holding with the leaders of the JD (U), VIP [Vikassheel Insaan Party] and HAM(S) [Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular)], I have stated clearly that the LJP is not our ally. We have made that clear in letter and spirit. We have specified clearly there is no divisive strategy; if anyone is doing so, he is trying to mislead the people.”He disagreed with the view about his party’s growing distance with its allies as there is not a single non-BJP minister in the Union Cabinet at the moment. “Not at all. We have a regular dialogue between allies. Before Parliament sessions, there is an NDA meeting. I personally have meetings with all leaders of our alliance partners at frequent intervals. We give them respect as NDA partners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-always-welcoming-we-have-never-abandoned-our-allies-bjp-chief-jp-nadda/story-ZLuJp3ivxERLio5YQrDYqK.html
29-10-2020||India||Congress mocked our armed forces, questioned their valour, says BJP chief JP Nadda||Referring to a speech by a Pakistani parliamentarian claiming that Islamabad, fearing an attack from New Delhi, was forced to release Indian Air Force pilot Abhinandan Varthaman who was captured in February last year by the Pakistani army, Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda on Thursday lashed out against the Congress for “mocking the armed forces”.In a tweet, Nadda said the speech should dispel the notions that the Congress has about the valour of the armed forces. “Congress’ princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light...” he tweeted. The comment was a jibe at Congress MP Rahul Gandhi.Also read | ‘We don’t believe in abandoning allies’, says BJP chief JP NaddaIn a separate tweet, Nadda said, “Congress Party premised its entire campaign around keeping our armed forces weak. They mocked our armed forces, questioned their valour and tried every trick to ensure India doesn’t get latest Rafale Planes. The people India rejected such politics and punished Congress.”While the Congress had alleged irregularities in the purchase of the Rafale fighter jets, and demanded that the government should be transparent about the Chinese intrusion in Ladakh, the BJP has accused the opposition party of lowering the morale of the forces. The Pakistani MP’s video, the BJP said, lends credence to India’s muscular policy towards Pakistan and to its policy of zero tolerance for terror. In the video shared by Nadda, Pakistan Muslim League-N (PML-N) leader Ayaz Sadiq, while speaking in the National Assembly, is heard saying that their Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had pointed out at an important meeting that if Pakistan did not release Abhinandan Varthaman, India would attack Pakistan “that night by 9 pm.”Varthaman’s plane had ventured into Pakistani airspace during a dog-fight; he was later released in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mocked-our-armed-forces-questioned-their-valour-says-bjp-chief-jp-nadda/story-xxXPhnP2OGIvfiOW9cssOP.html
29-10-2020||India||‘Hopefully now he sees some light’: JP Nadda takes a jab at Rahul Gandhi over IAF’s Abhinandan||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Thursday criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and his party over what he said what their attitude towards the Indian Army, government and the country’s citizens. He used a video of Pakistan Muslim League-N (PML-N) leader Ayaz Sadiq video talking about Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot Abhinandan Varthaman, who was released after he landed in Pakistani custody in February last year after a dogfight between Indian and Pakistani pilots.“Congress’ princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light...” Nadda tweeted.“Congress Party premised it’s entire campaign around keeping our armed forces weak. They mocked our armed forces, questioned their valour and tried every trick to ensure India doesn’t get latest Rafale Planes. The people India rejected such politics and punished Congress,” the BJP leader added as he also posted the video of Sadiq. Congress’ princeling does not believe anything Indian, be it our Army, our Government, our Citizens. So, here is something from his ‘Most Trusted Nation’, Pakistan. Hopefully now he sees some light... pic.twitter.com/shwdbkQWaiPML-N leader Ayaz Sadiq had claimed on Wednesday that the Imran Khan government had abruptly released Abhinandan Varthaman, fearing an attack by India. Sadid in his speech in the National Assembly said that foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had pointed out that if Pakistan did not release Abhinandan Varthaman, India would attack Pakistan “that night by 9pm.”He told opposition leaders that Qureshi in a meeting with the parliamentary leaders, including PPP and PML-N and Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa, had asked for Abhinandan to be released. “I remember Shah Mahmood Qureshi was in the meeting which Imran Khan had refused to attend and Chief of Army Staff General Bajwa came into the room, his legs were shaking and he was perspiring. Foreign Minister said for God’s sake let Abhinandan go, India’s about to attack Pakistan at 9pm,” Sadiq said while speaking in Urdu.Wing Commander Varthaman had shot down a Pakistani aircraft F-16, which had transgressed into the Indian airspace during a dog fight between Indian and Pakistani air force in February 2019. His plane had crossed over to the Pakistani side and was shot down. He was returned to India on March 1 that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hopefully-now-he-sees-some-light-jd-nadda-takes-a-jab-at-rahul-gandhi-over-iaf-s-abhinandan/story-HagcdBnVB5cEW0lKafc9uJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Green Delhi mobile app to be launched today: All you need to know||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will launch the Green Delhi mobile application, which will enable users to register complaints about violation of anti-pollution norms, on Thursday. Due to deterioration of air quality in the National Capital Region (NCR) with the onset of winter, the government has released a seven-point action plan to fight air pollution and the launch of this application is a part of the same plan.Here is all you need to know about the Green Delhi mobile application:1. On October 6, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announced an action plan to fight air pollution. The government’s “Yudh Pradushan Ke Virudh” campaign, along with dust-control strategies, a tree transplantation policy and schemes to encourage electric vehicles, included the launch of the Green Delhi app.2. The app will be launched by CM Kejriwal with the motive of curbing air pollution in the national capital region.3. Users will be able to upload photos and videos of instances of anti-pollution norms violation along with their complaints on the app.4. On Tuesday, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai held a review meeting with officials of the police and public works departments, Delhi Development Authority, the National Highways Authority of India, the three municipal corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council, the revenue and the environment departments to discuss the grievance redressal mechanism in connection with the app.5. A statement issued by Gopal Rai’s office said that failure to address the issue on time will result in action against the concerned nodal officers.6. “The nodal officers are provided training to address issues. Through the Green Delhi application, people will be able to notify the government about burning waste, industrial pollution, dust, etc, by registering complaints online,” the statement said.7. Meanwhile, the Union environment ministry published “The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Area Ordinance” on Thursday with the objective of implementing an approach to monitoring, tackling and eliminating causes of air pollution in Delhi-NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-delhi-mobile-app-to-be-launched-today-all-you-need-to-know/story-8KjNM7nvT7TH58qNE1JX0M.html
29-10-2020||India||RJD talks of giving jobs to 1 mn people, but many more have left the state during its regime: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda has defended their criticism of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)’s promise of one million government jobs when his party has spoken of 1.9 million jobs, saying their main rivals in Bihar do not have the vision to deliver on the promise. He said the RJD does not understand governance, and that is why they come out with such statements.In an interview with HT, Nadda said job creation does not take place in a vacuum and called it a holistic exercise. “You need law and order—the RJD in this aspect is compromised. You need infrastructure—for which you [RJD] do not have a vision. And then comes investment, but you [RJD] do not have confidence in yourself, and people do not have confidence looking at your background,” he said, referring to RJD’s 15-year rule in Bihar.He called migration RJD’s USP. “You talk of giving jobs to 10 lakh [one million] people, but I say in response that many more people have left the state during your regime. [RJD chief] Laluji [Prasad] used to say, ‘people leave Bihar in a torn pair of pants and come back in a suit and a tie’. They now say they will give government jobs; we said we will create opportunities for 19 lakh [1.9 million] jobs.”Also read | ‘We don’t believe in abandoning allies’, says BJP chief JP NaddaNadda disagreed with the view that RJD’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav, who is drawing large crowds to his election meetings, is untested unlike chief minister Nitish Kumar and Lalu Prasad. “Who says he has not been assessed? Did he attend the budget session [of the Bihar assembly] even once in 2019? Where was he during the [Covid-19] lockdown? When Tej Pratap [Yadav, Tejashwi’s brother] was the health minister, what did he do? He did not even get off his horse. Their character has not changed, and nor has their mentality,” said Nadda.He underlined a leader has to go through the paces. “The problem with many of these people is that they have not struggled on the ground; they have never been part of agitations, and therefore do not understand the real problems of the people. They sit in drawing rooms and decide slogans, and are surrounded by so-called master strategists. They have not struggled on the ground, and therefore the level of arrogance has not reduced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-talks-of-giving-jobs-to-1-mn-poeple-many-more-left-during-their-regime-bjp-chief-nadda/story-vuMc2ly2Vvaw1NaMXRL9hI.html
29-10-2020||India||BSP’s Mayawati suspends 7 rebel MLAs, day after they met Akhilesh Yadav||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday suspended seven rebel legislators of the party, who had opposed the nomination of its official candidate Ramji Gautam for the elections to the Rajya Sabha. The seven MLAs include Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Hakim Lal Bind, Mohammad Mujtaba Siddiqui, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel, Hargovind Bhargava and Bandana Singh.The rebels had also met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday, triggering a speculation that they might jump ship. Four of them had also filed an affidavit, saying their signatures on the nomination of the BSP’s national coordinator and Bihar in-charge Ramji Gautam’s nomination for the Rajya Sabha elections had been “forged”. However, the returning officer accepted Gautam’s nomination as the BSP candidate for the November 9 elections for the 10 Uttar Pradesh seats that are falling vacant.Also read | 8 BJP candidates file nomination in UP; Varanasi lawyer springs surprise by filing papers at last minuteMayawati’s party had on Monday fielded Ramji Gautam for the Rajya Sabha elections even though it did not have the number to ensure his victory. The BSP leaders had indicated they expected the other non-BJP parties to support his candidature, Altogether, 11 candidates, including eight from the BJP, have filed their papers for the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh going to the polls in the biennial elections.Out of these 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant, three were earlier held by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), four by the SP, two by the BSP and one by the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-s-mayawati-suspends-7-rebel-mlas-day-after-they-met-akhilesh-yadav/story-lp004xLHwiG88z9sEMIpPO.html
29-10-2020||India||Fire at Jammu airport damages ticket counters||A fire broke out at the ticketing counters of the Jammu Airport around 3 am on Thursday, police said.No loss of life or injury was reported in the incident. “A fire broke out at the ticket counters due to short circuit around 3 am. At least five fire tenders of the IAF and fire and emergency services department were immediately pressed into service to extinguish it,” Station House Officer (SHO) of Satwari police station, inspector Nishant Gupta said. He said that it took around 45 minutes for the firefighters to extinguish the blaze. Pravat Ranjan Beuria, director of the Jammu Airport, said, “The fire broke out at a ticket counter and it was brought under control within an hour. Flights are operating as per their schedule. There is no impact on the flights”.“We have given an incident report to the police. Damage to the counters will be taken care of by insurance companies. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-at-jammu-airport-damages-ticket-counters/story-J0Dw4p97o3XfYPXRlQfRPK.html
29-10-2020||India||Isro to launch earth observation, nine commercial satellites in November||The Indian Space Research Organisation will launch an Indian earth observation satellite and nine commercial satellites in the afternoon of November 7.This will be the first launch of 2020 from India’s only spaceport in Sriharikota, Andhra Pradesh.“India’s Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle in its 51st mission, will launch EOS-01 as a primary satellite along with nine international customer satellites from Satish Dhawan Space Centre. The launch is tentatively scheduled at 1502 hours IST on November 07, 2020, subject to weather conditions,” a statement from the space agency said.The only other Indian satellite launched this year was the heavy-communication satellite GSAT 30, which was launched from Kourou, French Guiana, by the commercial launcher Arianespace.Also Read: Isro, Nasa satellite NISAR scheduled to be launched by 2022A scheduled launch of an earth imaging satellite in March was postponed and did not take place because of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.The pandemic has hampered several big-ticket projects that were planned for 2020 and the next year. India was to launch its first solar mission in the first half of the year; a third lunar mission with just the lander and the rover was also to take place either in the end of 2020 or the first half of the next year.The human spaceflight programme, announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Independence day speech in 2018, was to attempt its first unmanned human-rated vehicle launch in December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-to-launch-earth-observation-nine-commercial-satellites-in-november/story-BRz1cBgawpQxMTaP6F0SLI.html
29-10-2020||India||Air pollution: Centre issues ordinance to form new commission to replace EPCA||The union environment ministry has published “The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Area Ordinance” on Thursday for air pollution control in Delhi-NCR. The commission has an objective of implementing a consolidated approach to monitoring, tackling and eliminating causes of air pollution in Delhi-NCR by coordinating with state governments.The commission will be a statutory authority that will replace the 22-year-old Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) which has introduced several important interventions to control pollution. Among their most significant intervention was converting all public transport in Delhi to compressed natural gas (CNG) in 1998, phasing out polluting fuels like pet coke and furnace oil from industries and imposing pollution charge on old polluting trucks.The commission will have appropriate powers which can act against air pollution on a war footing and will coordinate with the NCR states and central government. It will have the power to issue directions to various statutory authorities established under various laws. The ordinance says that based on court orders, various ad hoc committees like the EPCA were formed to assist courts in implementation of its orders but the new commission may subsume them.Also read | Noida: 33% in an online survey says rules are not effectively implemented to contain air pollutionThe ordinance says that due to absence of an inter-sectoral, public participative, multi-state body, the SC has had to devote “its precious time in constituting various ad hoc and permanent committees at various stages,” and it has been supervising and guiding the air pollution problem in NCR through the MC Mehta Vs Union of India case.The new commission, however, will function completely under the aegis and supervision of the central government. It will have members from all NCR states and the Central Pollution Control Board; from associated ministries like petroleum and natural gas, agriculture, commerce etc. The commission will have powers to take decisions and act against pollution sources under various environmental laws, like the environment protection act and air act.A senior environment ministry official confirmed that the ordinance will be submitted to Supreme Court on Thursday.“Its a good thing that has happened. Government of India is serious about air pollution now. We welcome the ordinance. We will issue a statement soon,” said Bhure Lal, head, EPCA. “There are several concerns with this ordinance, starting with the fact that legal and regulatory changes to tackle public issues like air pollution need a democratic conceptualisation. At the outset it is clear that the central government has taken control over the pollution control matters in the Delhi NCR region. This starts with the fact that the chairperson of this commission is a central government-appointee. The commission will be heavily dominated by bureaucrats, to whom the legal frameworks gives various powers. The enforcement mechanism is clearly top down and so far there is no indication that it will include third party monitoring and citizen-driven enforcement,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research, about the ordinance.“One important issue is limiting the adjudication to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and not any other court. This is problematic as the appointments of the Chairperson and Members of both the Commission and the NGT will be led by the MoEFCC. Also, the ordinance cannot take away the powers of courts to adjudicate on matters related to pollution. The new ordinance will BE yet another distraction, just like the government’s previous attempts with action plans or appointment to new members to the EPCA. It does not address the root causes and legacy of pollution control and abatement in the country. Almost all contributing sectors have these, and need to be built in to any new strategy to address pollution in the NCR. We have to move away from treating pollution as a mere technocratic and legal matter,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-ordinance-to-form-new-commission-to-replace-sc-mandated-epca/story-nWagkwXA33KzD42FbWsTFN.html
29-10-2020||India||With 49,881 new Covid-19 cases, India’s tally crosses 8 million; 8,040,203 cases thus far||India’s tally of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease on Thursday crossed the eight million mark as the country logged nearly 50,000 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking its tally to 8,040,203, according to the Union health ministry’s data.However, the number of cases in the last 24 hours--49,881--mark a significant increase on the 36,470 cases reported two days ago, which was the lowest daily infection count the country had logged since 34,884 on July 18. In the previous spike, meanwhile, there were 43,893 infections.(Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)Number of recoveries rose by 56,480 to reach 7,315,989 or 90.85% of total cases. Active cases fell by 7,116 and are at 603,687 or 7.64% of the caseload. The death toll, meanwhile, rose to 120,527 or 1.50% of the total tally, with 517 fatalities in the last 24 hours.The fresh surge in cases comes as the national capital of Delhi is witnessing a rapid increase in infections in the last few days. On Wednesday, Delhi reported over 5,000 cases for the first time, with 5,673 infections taking the Capital’s Covid-19 tally to 370,014. This was the second straight day Delhi logged its highest single-day cases, after 4,853 on Tuesday.(Read: With 5,673 new coronavirus cases, Delhi records its highest single-day spike)The health ministry pointed out on Thursday that India’s average count of daily deaths due to the coronavirus disease has been declining in the last six weeks. There were 615 daily deaths, on average, from October 21-27 for the sixth week, the ministry said.Also on Thursday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said it had tested a total of 106,563,440 samples thus far for Covid-19, with 1,075,760 samples being tested on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-49-881-new-covid-19-cases-india-s-tally-crosses-8-million-8-040-203-cases-thus-far/story-ShTmSxbXrsXUS8uKzDcVDO.html
29-10-2020||India||Varanasi police bust IPL betting racket, arrest 10 men||Ten people were arrested from two different places of Varanasi in the past two days for betting on IPL cricket matches, police said. Six people were arrested from Teliyana area of Lohta on Wednesday while four others were arrested from Lanka area on Tuesday, police said. Seven mobile phones, an ATM card, a purse and Rs 27,910 in cash were seized from the accused picked up from Teliyana while Rs 1.90 lakh was found with those arrested from Lanka area, police said.Lohta police station officer Vishwanath Pratap Singh said police raided the house of one Brijesh Kumar Gupta where Jai Prakash Patel, Santosh Kumar Maurya, Vikas Singh, Chunnu Kanaujia, Vikki Prajapati were caught placing bets on IPL match featuring Sunrisers Hyderabad and Delhi Capitals.He claimed Gupta was running the betting racket. A case has been registered against all six persons who have been sent to jail, he said.Four persons were arrested from the Lanka area of the city on Tuesday night. They were identified as Ankit Singh, Sanjay Tiwari, Adarsh Kumar Singh, and Anil Patel, police inspector Lanka police station, Mahesh Pandey said. He said that the accused were produced in a court which sent them to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-police-bust-ipl-betting-racket-arrest-10-men/story-PPzaY7KGeizMqcbzC30iIP.html
29-10-2020||India||Nadda says ground beneath Mamata Banerjee’s feet slipping, BJP will form next government in West Bengal||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda has said the ground beneath West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s feet is slipping and they will see to it that they form the next government in the state as the people have decided to say goodbye to her.“The BJP, as a responsible party, has to see to it that we convert those sentiments into votes and for that, with full attention and intention, we are working on the ground,” Nadda said in an interview to HT.Also Read: ‘We don’t believe in abandoning allies’, says BJP chief JP NaddaWest Bengal, where the BJP has gone from strength to strength, is due to go to the polls next year. In the 2019 national elections, the party’s vote share increased to over 40% from a mere 2% in the 2011 assembly polls. The BJP won 18 out of West Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats to emerge as the second-largest party after the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state. It currently has just 16 lawmakers in the 294-member West Bengal assembly. Nadda rejected the view that the BJP is encouraging and benefitting from religious polarisation in the state. He added Banerjee has not lost support because of polarisation, but because “of misgovernance, non-delivery, and cheating the people of the state”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-says-ground-beneath-mamata-banerjee-s-feet-slipping-bjp-will-form-next-government-in-west-bengal/story-B3Gt0ppfAo1VZ7CTKQxuAN.html
29-10-2020||India||Maharashtra golden-backed frog found in Sahyadri Tiger Reserve||Wildlife researchers have documented the presence of the Maharashtra golden-backed frog (Indosylvirana caesari) for the first time from the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR) in the Western Ghats.The unique species was identified earlier this week near a remote waterfall by Wildlife Crime Control Bureau member Rohan Bhate and wildlife researcher Hemant Kenjale during a study tour to explore the reserve’s biodiversity.“There has been very little research and hardly any information available about these species, their reproduction, and other scientific evidence. The amphibian was earlier reported at Amboli, Sindhudurg. However, the recent identification across steep slopes of STR and across waterfalls in some remote areas during the post-monsoon months of September October is crucial for species identification, habitat, and range,” said Bhate.Endemic to the Western Ghats, the rare species is one of the six species of golden-backed frogs (four from Kerala and one each from Karnataka and Maharashtra) discovered by a team of biologists led by Delhi-based amphibian researcher Satyabhama Das Biju and his team in 2014 in the Western Ghats. Of these, the Maharashtra golden-backed frog was found in Amboli and Sindhudurg. The species was named after wildlife photographer and well-known pathologist Caesar Sengupta.“The Maharashtra golden-backed frog differs from other members of its group based on characteristic features of its body and the sharper golden colour on its back,” said Bhate. “STR is home to countless such wildlife treasures that are yet to be discovered.”Also read | Authorities bust pangolin smuggling racket in Satara, 6 arrestedForest officials said prior to this in 2011-12, the Maharashtra Forest Department, International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Amphibian Specialist Group, Sanctuary Asia, and Lost Amphibians of India launched a major project on extinct lost amphibians in India. Following this, there were reports of the species documented near Vasota Fort in Satara in 2013. “In order to update our 10-year management plan of STR, the department has undertaken studies to identify, review, and further explore the endemic flora, fauna, and other biodiversity of STR,” said STR field director Samadhan Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-golden-backed-frog-found-in-sahyadri-tiger-reserve/story-zc8RwOzpYtWM63yoQVcUzO.html
29-10-2020||India||Hanuman langurs abandoning leaves for processed bread, peanuts, finds DST study||A new study funded by the Department of Science and Technology on hanuman langurs (semnopithecus entellus) used widely to scare off monkeys in cities found that they have started developing a taste for urban food, particularly bread and processed peanuts. Their primary natural diet is leaves.The yet-to-be-published paper traces the urban adaptation of langurs coexisting with humans. The study also pointed out that langurs are very thoughtful about their food selection, which is independent of human interferences and scarcity of natural food items, according to a note on the department’s website. Union science minister Harsh Vardhan also tweeted the findings of the study.Also read | Climate change may cause 26% habitat loss for snow trout in Himalayan rivers: StudyThe species is folivorous (herbivore that eats leaves) but they have developed a taste for processed foods. The study could provide important insights into the adaptation of non-human primates for their conservation, better management, and policy-making to develop a sustainable urban ecosystem, the department said.Manabi Paul from the Department of Environmental Science, University of Calcutta, headed the study on behavioral adaptations of urbanized non-human primates whose habitat ranges overlap with human settlements. “The findings have not been published in a journal yet. We will share the paper as soon as it is out,” she said.Her team conducted 83 field-based experiments across West Bengal between December 2018 and March 2020 to understand the feeding pattern of these folivorous colobines (a subfamily of the old-world monkey family) who have a multipartite stomach that facilitates the fermentation of leafy diet.The experiments have been interpreted by mathematical modeling to understand the feeding preferences of these free-ranging non-human primates within an urban ecosystem.“They are extremely adaptable creatures. Yes, their natural diet is leaves but they have adapted very well to co-exist with humans. Similarly with rhesus macaques, who are frugivorous but now eat urban human food. This only shows how adaptable langurs are. Eating such foods are not good for them in the long run because they develop various diseases and tend to become obese. In many places humans feed them urban foods,” said Sindhu Radhakrishna, professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hanuman-langurs-abandoning-leaves-for-processed-bread-peanuts-finds-dst-study/story-fKovjoK1OGQ0MpTCuYGQVI.html
29-10-2020||India||Ahead of MP bypolls Congress ‘charge sheet’ alleges 17 scams in 7 months||The Congress unit in Madhya Pradesh released a “charge sheet” on Wednesday in the run-up to the assembly bypolls for 28 seats alleging there have been at least 17 scams in the short tenure of just seven months of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government so far.Senior Congress leaders Ajay Singh, Arun Yadav and Sajjan Singh Verma released the “charge sheet”.It claims there was a scam in distribution of wheat flour packets among the migrant labourers during the lockdown period. Lakhs of packets were to be distributed in Gwalior. However, when packets were checked 6 to 8 kg of wheat flour was found less in each of the packets.The charge sheet also alleges that despite the government’s claim that it distributed packets of Ayurvedic powder among crores of people in the state to help them fight against Covid-19, the packets were not delivered to most of the houses. Other scams are related to liquor MRP, massive transfers, ration, electricity bills, PPE kits, mid-day meal etc. “The scams mentioned in the charge-sheet are the ones which were committed in the present tenure of the BJP. People have not forgotten the mega scams like Vyapam, e-tendering, tree plantation and many more which were committed during the BJP’s previous rule of 15 years,” said Congress spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta.The BJP dismissed the Congress “charge sheet” as “bogus”.BJP spokesperson in Madhya Pradesh Rajneesh Agrawal said, “The charge sheet released by the Congress is absolutely baseless and bogus. The Congress leaders who released the charge sheet are undergoing a political exile in the Congress headed by Kamal Nath in Madhya Pradesh. The fact is the charge sheet against the Congress is imprinted in the mind of voters who would pronounce their judgment on November 3, the date of polling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-mp-bypolls-congress-charge-sheet-alleges-17-scams-in-7-months/story-Xf3h0p3WiK5wdzxRnlCxHI.html
29-10-2020||India||NIA raids in terror-funding case at Srinagar, Delhi continue for 2nd day||The National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) raids in a case pertaining to funding of NGOs and trusts from India and abroad for secessionist and terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir continued for the second day on Thursday. Raids were conducted in nine places in Srinagar and Delhi belonging to six NGOs and trusts.Former Delhi minorities commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan was among those being raided by the agency on Thursday.On Wednesday, the NIA conducted searches at 10 locations in Srinagar and Bandipora and at one location in Bangalore in connection with the case. The office of Greater Kashmir newspaper and the residence of human rights activist Khurram Parvaiz in Sonwar were among the places raided by the agency.The offices of NGO Athrout were also raided and a case to probe into its fund-raising activities was registered. Hawala racket, misappropriation of funds and terror funding are some of the allegations against these NGOs, officials said on Wednesday.Meanwhile, People’s Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti condemned the raids and called them a “vicious crackdown on dissent.” “NIA raids on human rights activist Khurram Parvez & Greater Kashmir office in Srinagar is yet another example of GOIs vicious crackdown on freedom of expression & dissent. Sadly, NIA has become BJPs pet agency to intimidate & browbeat those who refuse to fall in line,” she tweeted on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-in-terror-funding-case-at-9-places-in-srinagar-delhi-continue/story-OJEoY542lEtfZPrxfKUgIN.html
29-10-2020||India||UP pushes for cow dung diyas this Diwali, income to be used for cow shelters||Amid heaps of cow dung at Lucknow’s Kanha Upavan – a cow shelter maintained by Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) – many women are busy passing solidified cow waste through a grinding machine to prepare a fine powder.The powdered cow dung is then processed, mixed with herbal premix to prepare biodegradable lamps which the state’s Gau Seva Ayog or the cow welfare commission intends to promote in the run up to Diwali – a move which it feels could help generate income for 531 registered cow shelters. Not all of these registered cow shelters are fully functional and the Ayog has ordered a reality check for these animal shelter homes. The big promotion for these diyas (earthen lamps) prepared from cow dung, would happen just ahead of the festival of lights, when the Ayog plans to light one lakh diyas at Lucknow’s Jhoole Lal Vatika on the banks of river Gomti. An even bigger push could come at Ayodhya’s Deepotsav.“If all works out as per our plan, possibly this year we could even have chief minister Adityanath ji celebrating Deepotsav in Ayodhya with cow-dung lamps. We are in talks with Awadh University that organises Deepotsav,” said Shiv Om Gangwar, the officer on special duty (OSD) with the Ayog. The Gau Seva Ayog, headed by UP BJP veteran Shyam Nandan Singh, has already written to the chief minister, his ministers as well as BJP lawmakers to help popularise cow-dung based products that include idols of Laxmi and Ganesha which are worshipped on Diwali. The Ayog would send some cow-dung based products, including diyas and idols to the chief minister, his ministers and a few important temples. “In fact, we have also written to all major temples, trusts and other religious places to use these products which we believe have a great potential in not just generating income for cow shelters but also in ensuring cleanliness. Moreover, being biodegradable, these lamps and idols can also be used as manure after use,” said Singh. The cost of a cow-dung diya would come around Rs 2, though designer ones would cost more. “The demand for these products is gradually growing,” Singh said. Sahkar Bharti, a co-operative wing of the RSS, is also engaged in the exercise to promote cow-dung based products.“Across the state more than 4,000 self-help groups (SHGs) are preparing 3 crores plus diyas while in Lucknow and adjoining districts alone more than 2,000 women are busy preparing not just diyas but festive buntings and various other things,” said Laxman Patra, an office-bearer with Sahkar Bharti. There are nearly 4 lakh abandoned cattle in temporary shelters across the state, say officials of the animal husbandry directorate. As per the 2012 animal census, there are around 1.9 crore cows in Uttar Pradesh and the Ayog feels that for proper upkeep of animals, cow shelters would have to become self-sustainable. The Adityanath government had also announced a cow safari project in Barabanki which is basically intended to be a one-stop-centre for production and marketing of all cow-related projects.Around 15,000 to 25,000 stray cattle will be kept at the safari to be developed also as a pilgrimage point for Hindus who can have a ‘darshan’ of a variety of milch cows at one place, UP officials said.However, the project announced last year is yet to fully take off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-pushes-for-cow-dung-diyas-this-diwali-income-to-be-used-for-cow-shelters/story-96Bap2WRZDhq6gXFcO1yUN.html
29-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Southwest monsoon has withdrawn; northeast monsoon has commenced, says IMD and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Southwest monsoon has withdrawn; northeast monsoon has commenced: IMDMonsoon withdrew from the country on Wednesday (October 28) after a delay of 13 days, as compared to October 15, its normal cut-off date. The country recorded 7% of excess rainfall between October 1 and 28. Read moreWhat Mike Pompeo’s attack on China tells us about India’s new approachChinese diplomats in New Delhi and Beijing went on overdrive on Wednesday, launching sharp counterattacks on the United States after secretary of state Mike Pompeo promised to support India in its confrontation with China after the India-US 2+2 strategic dialogue. Read moreSocial distancing goes for a toss at Delhi’s markets in festive seasonA security guard with a face shield screened with a thermal scanner every visitor entering a popular saree shop at the Lajpat Nagar central market and limited the number of clients to 10 at any given point of time, diligently keeping count on a register. Read more‘If he’s unwell, what is he doing inside the stadium,’ Virender Sehwag questions Rohit Sharma’s omission from Australia tourRohit Sharma’s injury has become a huge topic of discussion after the Indian opener was not included in the squads for India’s upcoming tour of Australia. While there has been no clarity or statement about the nature of his injury from his IPL franchise Mumbai Indians, the BCCI in its official release for the squad announcement had mentioned that Rohit and fast bowler Ishant Sharma will be monitored by the board’s medical team. Read moreAmeesha Patel says she feared for her life on Bihar campaign trail: ‘I could have been raped and killed’Actor Ameesha Patel has said that she feared for her life while campaigning for an LJP candidate in Bihar recently. Ameesha said that her experience was like a ‘nightmare’. The actor had said that she had no choice but to ‘play along’ till she safely reached Mumbai, and even after returning, received ‘threatening’ phone calls. The leader, Lok Janshakti Party’s Prakash Chandra, has denied the allegations. Read moreRecall woes grow for Toyota, 5.8 million units potentially affected worldwideToyota is adding 1.5 million US vehicles to recalls from early this year to fix fuel pumps that can fail and cause engines to stall. The company says the latest recall brings the total to 5.8 million Toyota and Lexus brand vehicles that need to be repaired worldwide. Read moreNASA’s ‘Pumpkin Space Latte’ pic taken from space shows this place. Can you name it?“Wow, it’s incredible,” that’s probably what you’ll be inclined to say for this “pumpkin space latte” picture shared by NASA. Taken from space, this amazingly stunning picture shows a place on Earth. Can you name it, though? Read moreIPL 2020: Mumbai Indians beat Royal Challengers Bangalore by 5 wicketsSuryakumar Yadav smashed 79* runs in 43 balls, as Mumbai Indians chased down the total of 165 set up by Royal Challengers Bangalore in Abu Dhabi in 19.1 overs with 5 wickets to spare. Earlier, Jasprit Bumrah registered figures of 3/14 to restrict RCB to 164/6 in 20 overs. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-southwest-monsoon-has-withdrawn-northeast-monsoon-has-commenced-says-imd-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CbWFtLJUsFOFvLzeJ4Hi1I.html
29-10-2020||India||BCG vaccine offers protection against Covid in elderly: ICMR study||Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine, which primarily provides protection against tuberculosis (TB), is also beneficial against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among elderly people, scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have concluded.The results have been published in a pre-print study. ICMR scientists have been investigating the impact of BCG vaccination on the frequencies of immunity cells--T cell, B cell, monocyte (white blood cells), and dendritic (antigen-presenting) cell subsets -- and total antibody levels in a group of healthy elderly people, who are aged between 60 and 80 years, a month after their vaccination as part of a clinical study to examine its effect on Covid-19 patients. Elderly people, who are aged above 60 years, and those with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and kidney diseases etc; are considered as high-risk groups. They tend to develop severe forms of illness, and also have a high mortality rate among Covid-19 patients. Also read | Pfizer says Covid-19 vaccine may yet be possible in 2020“BCG vaccination was associated with enhanced innate and adaptive memory cell subsets, as well as total antibody levels in elderly individuals, suggesting its potential utility in SARS-CoV2 infection, which causes Covid-19, by enhancing heterologous immunity,” scientists concluded in the research. The BCG vaccine is administered to newborn babies as a part of the Centre’s Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP), which was launched over 50 years ago. “In an ongoing study, scientists at ICMR have found that the BCG vaccine induces increased memory cell responses and total antibody production in elderly,” said an ICMR statement. From July through September, 86 individuals were enrolled in the study, including 54 and 32 in the vaccinated and unvaccinated arms, respectively. All the vaccinated individuals were followed up a month after their vaccination. The median age was 65 (range: 60-78) years in the BCG vaccinated group and 63 years (range: 60-80) in the unvaccinated group. Several clinical trials are in progress to examine the effect of BCG. ICMR scientists zeroed in on an investigation in elderly population because most BCG studies are evaluating its role in protecting healthcare workers and other individuals from the viral infection.Negligible studies are examining the protective effect of BCG vaccination against Covid-19 in the elderly population group. Previous studies in elderly individuals have shown that BCG vaccination protected against respiratory infections in Indonesia, Japan, and Europe. “These data fit very well with the recent finding that BCG vaccination in elderly patients was associated with increased time to first infection and protection against viral respiratory pathogens,” the paper stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bcg-vaccine-offers-protection-against-covid-in-elderly-icmr-study/story-ISYP87rQV5oTDo4ZqPe03K.html
29-10-2020||India||Average daily fatalities due to Covid-19 continuously decreasing in past six weeks, says health ministry||With India reporting relatively lower numbers of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease over the past few days, including single-day death toll due to the disease, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday said the country’s average daily fatalities due to Covid-19 have been continuously decreasing since the past six weeks.With a steadily falling Case Fatality Rate (CFR), India, the ministry further said, is among countries with lowest fatality rates. (Click here for full Covid-19 coverage)“India’s average daily Covid-19 fatality is continuously decreasing since the past six weeks. Steadily falling Case Fatality Rate (1.50%) at present has positioned India globally as the country with one of the lowest CFR,” the ministry posted on its official Twitter handle.A graph attached with the tweet showed India’s average Covid-19 fatalities per day in last six weeks: 1,165 (September 16-22); 1,054 (September 23-29); 1,035 (September 30-October 6); 898 (October 7-13); 763 (October 14-20); and 615 (October 21-27). #IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCoronaIndia's average daily #COVID19 fatality is continuously decreasing since the past 6 weeks. Steadily falling Case Fatality Rate (1.5% at present) has positioned India globally as the country with one of the lowest CFR. pic.twitter.com/YZrtBgkkb6As per the health ministry’s official dashboard, India has thus far recorded a total of 120,010 deaths, which is 1.50% of its total caseload of 7,990,322.(Read: What you need to know about Covid-19 today)“This is because of timely hospitalisation, provision of standard of care prescribed in the National Treatment Protocol , use of non-invasive oxygen, use of steroids and use of anti-coagulents,” the ministry posted in a subsequent tweet.India’s previous three single-day fatalities due to the virus have been 508, 488 and 480 respectively. In fact, the 480 single-day deaths were the country’s lowest since 475 on July 10.(Read: India registers 43,893 new Covid-19 cases as tally nears 8 million; 508 deaths in last 24 hours)Globally, India has the third-highest death toll, after the United States and Brazil. In terms of overall cases, it comes between the worst-hit United States and Brazil, which is third.However, India also the highest number of recovered cases in the world and a recovery rate of nearly 91%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/average-daily-fatalities-due-to-covid-19-continuously-decreasing-in-past-six-weeks-says-health-ministry/story-uDVARZL1lSW5YkQqYuQnJP.html
29-10-2020||India||Man allegedly murdered by wife and her lover in Bengal, body buried under bed||A 38-year-old woman and her lover were arrested Wednesday evening for allegedly murdering her husband in a village in North 24 Parganas district around 70 km north of Kolkata on Tuesday, police said. The woman’s lover later buried the victim’s body under a bed in his house. Police arrested the duo on Wednesday evening. “Villagers spotted some patches of blood near a bamboo thicket in the village and informed the police. Later when police went to the spot, they found blood stains all over the place. The blood trails hinted that something heavy was dragged on the ground. But nothing could be found,” said a senior police officer. The police asked the villagers to remain alert and inform them if they saw any suspicious activities. On Wednesday police received a tip off that there were blood stains in front of a house which was locked.“A team went to the spot and broke open the door. They found some loose soil under a bed. Later it was found that the body was buried there. The body had multiple stab injuries,” said the officer. The victim was identified as Ramkrishna Sarkar 42, a resident of Bongaon in the same district. Investigation revealed that Sarkar was allegedly killed by his wife Swapna and her lover Sujit Das. The house where the body was found belongs to Das. Swapna was allegedly having an extra marital affair with Das. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the trio drank alcohol near the bamboo thicket where Sarkar was murdered. They then took the body to Das’ house where he was buried,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-allegedly-murdered-by-wife-and-her-lover-in-bengal-body-buried-under-bed/story-3VAizPRz6f5oCa5SECydPM.html
29-10-2020||India||Southwest monsoon has withdrawn; northeast monsoon has commenced: IMD||Monsoon withdrew from the country on Wednesday (October 28) after a delay of 13 days, as compared to October 15, its normal cut-off date. The country recorded 7% of excess rainfall between October 1 and 28. There is a significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country, which led the India Meteorological Department (IMD) to announce the withdrawal of monsoon. Though IMD had announced the end of monsoon season on September 30, rainfall continued even after the cut-off date.The northeast monsoon, which triggers rainfall in south India, hit the extreme southern parts of the peninsula on Wednesday. Also Read: Mumbai records most delayed south-west monsoon withdrawal since 1975A cyclonic circulation is lying over the southwest Bay of Bengal off north Tamil Nadu (TN) coast at lower levels of the troposphere. Under its influence, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorms and lightning is likely to occur over Kerala, Mahe, TN and Puducherry during the next five days.Isolated heavy rainfall may occur over southern TN on Thursday (October 29). Dry weather condition is likely over the northwest, west, central and eastern India during the next four-five days. “Monsoon withdrawal couldn’t be announced earlier because widespread rainfall was reported from west, central and northeastern India in October. That has ceased now. Southwesterly wind has changed direction. Now, wind is blowing in the northeasterly direction,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southwest-monsoon-has-withdrawn-northeast-monsoon-has-commenced-imd/story-Xor85gnYb6qaWG5pImUraM.html
29-10-2020||India||Mike Pompeo’s attack on China signals a shift in India’s approach||Chinese diplomats in New Delhi and Beijing went on overdrive on Wednesday, launching sharp counterattacks on the United States after secretary of state Mike Pompeo promised to support India in its confrontation with China after the India-US 2+2 strategic dialogue.“The US will stand with the people of India as they confront threats to their sovereignty and to their liberty,” Pompeo told a news briefing in national capital Delhi just before wrapping up his India visit and proceeding to Sri Lanka, Maldives and Indonesia. US defense secretary Mark Esper, who had delivered the opening statement at the joint media briefing in New Delhi, had also declared that the US would stand shoulder-to-shoulder in support of a free and open Indo-Pacific, in light of what he called “increasing aggression and destabilising activities by China”.Also Read: BECA done, fighters and armed drones next as India turns US positiveThe two remarks - there were others as well - were unusual because visiting foreign dignitaries are expected to steer clear of negative references to a third friendly country at bilateral public events. Pakistan and its terror factories had been the only exception to this rule at joint events in New Delhi. On Tuesday, the joint Press conference was a break from this tradition, implying that India was bracketing China with Pakistan as an adversary.Like always, Foreign Minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh did not name China. Behind closed doors, India has clearly been much more explicit. “The challenge of defeating the pandemic that came from Wuhan also fed into our robust discussions about the Chinese Communist Party,” Pompeo had told the briefing, underlining that the communist party was “no friend to democracy”. Also Watch | BECA pact signed; India & US lash out at China l Who said whatOne step at a time, a person familiar with India’s gradual approach later said, explaining that a shift in New Delhi’s approach was likely to get more pronounced with passing time if China did not indicate any intention of resolving the stand-off along the Line of Actual Control. China’s People’s Liberation Army triggered the stand-off in early May this year when its troops went beyond the routine patrolling points and stayed put. Over the next six-odd months, China and India have moved tens of thousands of soldiers closer to the stand-off points.Also Read: Where the United States takes on China | HT EditorialThe bloody Galwan clash provoked New Delhi to block popular mobile applications linked to China, thrown the rule-book at its Confucious centres, restricted investment flow and created hurdles for Chinese firms bidding for government contracts. All this, without explicitly naming China.It has been a continuation of an approach that New Delhi has adopted for decades and was grounded in the belief that China will accommodate India if it brushed disagreements under the carpet for the larger good of the relationship.Also Read: At NSA Doval’s meeting with Pompeo and Esper, focus on shared objectivesIn an interview to Times Now, Pompeo said the US didn’t want a conflict to break out between India and China. It wouldn’t be good for either of the two, or the world. But he did make it a point to underscore that “anytime a nation shows weakness, you invite Chinese communist party aggression”.Indian officials who have tracked the 175-day long stand-off at Ladakh agree with this assessment.New Delhi has taken steps to stand up to Beijing. In terms of the pre-emptive action taken by commandos from the Special Frontier Force to take control of the southern bank of Pangong Tso in August this year and diplomatically too.India has also invited Australia to join its high-level Malabar naval exercises with Japan and the US, an invite that practically turns the exercise into a QUAD affair.Back in 2007 when India had invited Australia as a non-permanent member for the Malabar exercise, Beijing had made its displeasure known prompting India and Australia to take a big step back. As QUAD appeared to fizzle out over the next few years, an emboldened Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi brushed aside the four-nation informal grouping in 2018, confident that it would dissipate like “sea foam”.Speaking at a Kuala Lumpur event earlier this month, China’s Wang Yi came around to acknowledging that the US Indo-Pacific Strategy presented a “big underlying risk” to stir up confrontation among different groups and stoke geo-political competition with the Cold War mentality.But it has been mostly Xi Jinping’s aggressive expansionist approach that has driven a diverse bunch of countries to come together. At their last meeting, the QUAD foreign ministers decided to make the ministerial meetings an annual affair and could in the not-so-distant future, upgrade the dialogue to summit-level.Former chief of the joint staff of the Japan Self-Defense Forces Katsutoshi Kawano told the Mount Fuji Dialogue, an annual gathering of business and political leaders from Japan and the US that “China’s recent border clash with India and escalating tensions with Australia over its response to the coronavirus resulted in Quad members strengthening their cooperation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-mike-pompeo-s-attack-on-china-tells-us-about-india-s-new-approach/story-oKCqwFrys5sm4ekXIJ3RMK.html
29-10-2020||India||Father of Kannada singer Ananya Bhat held for murder of ex-school principal in Mysuru||The Mysuru police on Wednesday said that they have cracked the murder mystery of retired school principal Parashiva Murthy who was killed on September 20 at Nivedita Nagar in the city. N Prakasha Gowda DCP (Law and Order), said that Vishwanth Bhat, father of well know Kannada singer Ananya Bhat has been arrested along with four others for the murder.According to the police, 64-year-old Murthy was working as a secretary at Vishwa Chetana Sanskrit Patashala (school) at N R Mohalla after his retirement as a school principal. Murthy was allegedly harassing the teaching staff at the Sanskrit College and used to demand a cut from their salaries as well as government grants. Fed up with his alleged constant harassment, Vishwanath Bhat along with two other Sanskrit teachers decided to hire two contract killers Nagesh and Niranjan.The alleged killers agreed to kill Murthy for a sum of Rs 7 lakh, Gowda said.Murthy was found dead with multiple stab injuries at his home on September 20.“Since Murthy was also involved in money lending and other activities, it took us time to crack the case, but finally when we interrogated all associated with him, we were able to unravel it,” the police officer said. A sum of Rs 55,000 and five vehicles have been recovered from those arrested.Ananya Bhat in a statement said that she is estranged from her father and she did not have much information about the alleged crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/father-of-kannada-singer-ananya-bhat-held-for-murder-of-ex-school-principal-in-mysuru/story-LbeMmMNZARieLOIWGQbHyK.html
29-10-2020||India||100 years of Jamia Millia Islamia: Institute with roots in national struggle||Five years after returning to India for good, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi had acquired quite the following among students who were struck by his message preaching brotherhood between themselves and non-cooperation towards the colonial rulers. Sample this: On October 12, 1920, when Gandhi visited the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental (MAO) College in Aligarh, he asked the students gathered, “How can you remain, even for an hour, in an institution in which you are obliged to put up with the Union Jack and profess your loyalty to a Governor or other high-ranking officials, when, in fact you, are not loyal?”Moved, a group of students, faculty members and activists including Mohammad Ali Jauhar and Shaukat Ali — also called the Ali brothers — joined the Non-Cooperation Movement within the fortnight. Even before the month was up, the group had established the Independent National University with an aim to have an indigenous education free from British influence. It was renamed Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI), and shifted from Aligarh to New Delhi soon after. Jauhar became its first vice-chancellor, and Hakim Ajmal Khan its first chancellor. Prominent educationalist Zakir Husain, who went on to become India’s third President, was associated with the university from the start. On October 29, 2020, JMI turns 100, and from temporary quarters in an ashram to operating out of a set of tents for four years, the educational institution today has five schools with nine distinct faculties, 39 departments and 30 centres (spread across Nanoscience, Dalit and Minorities Studies, Peace and Conflict Resolution, and even Information Technology) that educate over 21,000 students of various religious, caste, and class affiliations. The first batch that graduated in 1921 comprised 21 students — all male. Last year, nearly 2,000 students graduated from JMI; at least 35% of them women.  Its alumni span across fields from film, politics and science, to journalism and civil services, and include former Chief Election Commissioner SY Qureshi, filmmaker Kiran Rao, and cricketer Virendra Sehwag, among others. Even actor Shah Rukh Khan was enrolled at the university’s well-known AJK Mass Communication Research Centre (AJK-MCRC).Loveleen Tandon, co-director of Oscar-winning film Slumdog Millionaire, called Jamia a “birthplace of self-discovery”. “In our canteen, you would see people sitting discussing politics, films and speaking about people like (Andrei) Tarkovsky and (Ingmar) Bergman. Being in such an institute opened up a new world for me,” said Tandon who studied at AJK-MCRC in 1998.Former lieutenant governor of Delhi and Jamia vice-chancellor between 2009 and 2013, Najeeb Jung, said: “Jamia is not just a university. It’s a movement started back in 1920 with an aim to provide first-rate modern education. Here modern means secular and nationalist education with the all-round development of students.”Indigenous institutionThe year 1920 was an eventful one. Gandhi gave a call to boycott government-run schools and colleges and the Congress passed a resolution of Non-cooperation advising “the gradual withdrawal of children from schools or colleges... controlled by government and... the establishment of national schools and colleges in the various provinces”. In response, a number of institutions came up such as the Gujarat Vidyapith, Bihar Vidyapith, Kashi Vidyapith, and Modern School in Delhi, besides JMI.“Jamia, which means a university in Arabic, was born out of Gandhi-ji’s call,” said Sabiha Zaidi, director of Jamia’s Premchand Archives and Literary Center, which has a collection of photos, private papers and mementos dating back to its start.The new university aimed to be “nationalist” and “indigenous”, Gandhi’s personal secretary Mahadev Desai recorded in his journal at the time. By 1924, however, it had nearly run out of money. “Mohammad Ali had even suggested closing down Jamia but Gandhi-ji was totally against it. He said, ‘Jamia has to run. If you are worried about its finances, I will go about with a begging bowl’,” Zaidi said.A year later, the university shifted to Karol Bagh in New Delhi. Prominent industrialists sustained it — GD Birla, contributed Rs 50,000; Jamnalal Bajaj, raised Rs 6,000 for a new building — at Gandhi’s behest.In 1938, Jamia established the Ustadon ka Madarsa, which came to be called the Teachers’ Training College at Karol Bagh, and the Idara-e-Talim-o-Taraqqi that would provide evening classes for adult education. “Whenever we talk about the education of Independent India, and more specifically teacher’s education in India, Jamia’s contribution in preparing teachers for an education system free from the British influence cannot be stressed enough,” said Aejaz Masih, head of the faculty of education at the university.“We had no boundaries when it came to learning in Jamia. Though I was an engineering student, I got the opportunity to learn French and read the poetry of Rumi and Tabrez,” said Hanif Quraishi, secretary, Renewable Energy department, Haryana.Shohini Ghosh, officiating director at AJK-MCRC said this was one of the earliest centres for the production of educational films for the University Grants Commission. “Many of us started our careers as producers of these documentaries whose subject ranged from a portrait of Shahjahanabad to the workings of the Railways. Amar Kanwar, who is now a well-known documentary filmmaker and artist, made an award-winning series on the leather industry. Apart from this, AJK-MCRC encouraged us to make independent documentaries that affirmed social justice and questioned discriminatory practices,” she said.2019 political protestOn December 15, 2019, policemen entered JMI’s central library in an effort to quell the students and citizens’ protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Delhi Police used sticks and fired tear gas shells. Civil society activists and opposition parties condemned the violence and demanded a judicial probe. A National Human Rights Commission report released in June stated that the police was “law bound to contain the activities of the unlawful assembly.”Many Jamia students who were a part of the protest, including Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar, have been arrested and charged by Delhi Police. Vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar said that the First Information Report based on a complaint made by the institute is yet to be filed.“Jamia believes in Gandhiji’s principle of non-violence. We have restored the library completely and even changed the colour of the chairs with a hope that it does not remind my students of the violence when they return back to the campus,” said Akhtar.The student-led protest outside the university was suspended after the Covid-19 pandemic hit in March. The matter is currently before the Delhi high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-years-of-jamia-millia-islamia-institute-with-roots-in-national-struggle/story-s6n3HdkjEuHOylSA7THkfM.html
29-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||More tests (9.66 million till Tuesday evening) than any other state barring Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The use of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests alone, unlike UP and Bihar which have largely used rapid antigen tests. Around 127,000 tests per million of the population. These are some of Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 metrics — and they are impressive.The southern state has seen 714,235 Covid-19 infections (till Tuesday), the fourth highest in the country after Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka; and recorded 10,983 deaths, the third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Karnataka. Its case fatality rate of 1.53% is marginally higher than the country’s 1.5%, and its cumulative positivity rate of 7.4% is almost the same as the country’s 7.57%. These are some more of Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 metrics — and they aren’t all that impressive.Also Read: Lockdowns set to return as global Covid-19 cases top 44 millionYet, as the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic winds down in India, I’d like to believe Tamil Nadu is the state that has managed the health crisis the best. Here’s why.The first reason is testing.For a state with a population of around 76 million to test 127,000 people per million is an achievement. India’s overall number is 79,141 tests per million. And Tamil Nadu continues to test aggressively. Significantly, the state relies exclusively on the gold standard RT-PCR molecular tests. I have written extensively about the perils of the indiscriminate use of rapid antigen tests; their false negative rate is around 50%, which means they miss infections in around half the people carrying the virus. India’s 79,141 per million number is built on the back of rapid antigen tests. UP and Bihar rely on them; even Delhi uses far more of them than it should be doing. Tamil Nadu’s dependence on RT-PCR tests means its positivity rate data is much more credible.  The second is the trajectory of positivity rates over time in the state.Also Read: With 5,673 new coronavirus cases, Delhi records its highest single-day spikeThe positivity rate is simply the number of people testing positive expressed as a percentage of the number of tests conducted. Tamil Nadu’s positivity rates started high (when very few tests were being conducted), dipped as the number of tests increased, then rose again as the infection soared, then fell and plateaued with consistently high testing, and finally started ebbing. The seven-day average has been below 5% for two weeks, and the daily number at or below 5% for the past 10 days. The World Health Organization said in May that a rate below 5% for two weeks meant the pandemic was under control. To be sure, this benchmark needs to be achieved even as testing remains consistently high and the right kind of tests are used (Tamil Nadu satisfies both conditions).Both these factors are reflected in the state’s current Covid-19 metrics. On October 27, Tamil Nadu saw a mere 2,522 cases — 5.85% of all cases recorded that day. Even the seven-day average of daily cases has fallen — it was 2,866 on October 27. After a long plateau through August and September (and a peak in July), the trajectory of daily cases has fallen through October.The same is reflected in the number of deaths. On October 27, Tamil Nadu registered 27 deaths (seven-day average: 35), way down from the peak seen in August. Like the daily case numbers, the death toll plateaued through much of September before beginning to fall in October.Other states would do well to peruse the charts accompanying this column carefully — this is how a successful Covid-19 management strategy looks (without using the wrong kind of tests or controlling case numbers through inadequate testing). Does this mean case numbers will not rise again in Tamil Nadu?Definitely not. They could. In May, crowding in a vegetable market in Chennai caused a spike. Earlier this month, frightening videos of crowds in a Chennai saree shop (since sealed by the local administration) did the rounds. Any such foolish behaviour could result in an increase in cases.And does this mean Tamil Nadu will remain insulated from the inevitable second wave?That’s very unlikely, but the state’s administrators have a proven strategy to follow.That’s more than can be said for many other states or Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-idt68L272WWBDMc1fKFkXP.html
29-10-2020||India||Border dispute with India bilateral issue: China to US||China reacted sharply on Wednesday to US secretary of state Mike Pompeo’s remarks targeting the Chinese government and backing India in facing challenges to its sovereignty, saying the Sino-India boundary dispute is a bilateral matter. Beijing also described Washington’s efforts to push the Indo-Pacific policy as an “outdated Cold War strategy” and said Pompeo’s comments during his visit to New Delhi for the India-US 2+2 dialogue had “instigated China’s relations with other countries in the region”. China’s response came in the form of separate but similar statements made by foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin in Beijing and the Chinese embassy in New Delhi. Pompeo told the media after the 2+2 dialogue on Tuesday that Washington will stand by New Delhi in confronting threats to India’s sovereignty. He also referred to the “pandemic that came from Wuhan” and described the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) as “no friend to democracy [and] the rule of law”. He continued the attack while addressing a news conference with his Sri Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawerdena in Colombo on Wednesday, describing China as a “predator”. Pompeo said: “We see from bad deals, violations of sovereignty and lawlessness on land and sea that the Chinese Communist Party is a predator, and the US comes...as a friend and a partner.” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin told a regular news briefing: “I want to say that the border affairs between China and India are things between the two countries. Now the situation across the border is generally stable and the two sides are resolving relevant issues through consultations and negotiations.” Wang was responding to a question on Pompeo pushing for closer India-US ties against the backdrop of the dragging border standoff. India and China deployed tens of thousands of soldiers at friction points in eastern Ladakh in the longest and worst faceoff in decades. Criticising and focusing on the US rather than on India, Wang said: “The Indo-Pacific strategy proposed by the US is preaching outdated Cold War mentality and...confrontation and geopolitical game.” Beijing sees the Indo-Pacific policy as a move aimed at countering its influence in the region, critical because of sea trade routes. Wang also criticised Pompeo’s visit to Sri Lanka. “I want to add that forcing small and medium-sized countries to pick sides is a habitual behaviour of certain US politicians,” he said. Sri Lanka and China are friendly neighbours engaged in cooperation on the basis of “equal-footed negotiations and mutual benefit”, and this won’t be altered by “any smears or slanders by...other countries”, Wang said. The Chinese embassy in New Delhi said in a statement there is “no space for a third party to intervene” in the boundary issue between India and China. It said Pompeo and US defence secretary Mark Esper had “repeated old lies, attacked and made allegations against China, violated the norms of international relations and basic principles of diplomacy, [and] instigated China’s relations with other countries in the region”. The Chinese embassy stopped short of directly criticising India .The statement contended China has been “unswervingly committed to peaceful development and developed friendly cooperation with our neighbours based on mutual respect”. By “hyping up the so-called ‘China threat’”, the statement said, the US is “making pretexts for maintaining its global hegemony and containing China’s development”. Responding to media queries regarding reference to Pakistan in the joint statement by India and the US after the 2+2 meeting, the Pakistan foreign office said: “We take strong exception to Pakistan-related assertions made in the selective and one-sided joint statement, devoid of meeting the objectivity criteria.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-dispute-with-india-bilateral-issue-china-to-us/story-iswsIOq647SJk0bvFnmSOO.html
29-10-2020||India||Row over BSP MLAs meeting Akhilesh Yadav ahead of Rajya Sabha elections||The nomination of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Ramji Gautam for the Rajya Sabha election was held valid on Wednesday even as four party MLAs claimed that their signatures on it were “forged”.But the papers filed by the Samajwadi Party (SP)-supported independent candidate Prakash Bajaj were rejected after a scrutiny of the nominations filed for the November 9 polls for 10 seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant.“The nomination of Bajaj has been rejected. Gautam’s papers have been found valid,” the office of the Returning Officer said.With the rejection of businessman Bajaj’s nomination, all 10 candidates in the fray from UP are expected to win unopposed.Earlier, a controversy erupted after the four MLAs sent a petition to the Returning Officer, saying that they have not signed the nomination papers.The four BSP leaders later went to the SP office to meet SP president Akhilesh Yadav, sparking a buzz that they might switch sides. They were joined by two more BSP MLA. BSP MLA Umashankar Singh alleged that the SP was using money power to lure the MLAs. SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said his party was neither indulging in horse-trading nor luring BSP MLAs. “There is dissatisfaction in the BSP against the party leadership.”Meanwhile, the four rebel BSP MLAs alleged that a senior BSP leader has threatened them with dire consequences, insisting that they will not join another party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-bsp-mlas-meeting-akhilesh-yadav-ahead-of-rajya-sabha-elections/story-KqFEOPnnKmPhIHzdEV0vIJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Sputnik trials may end by March: Dr Reddy’s||Drugmaker Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd on Wednesday rolled out a preliminary timeline for the India trials of Russia’s coronavirus vaccine candidate, with the late-stage expected to be completed by as early as March 2021.Chief Executive Officer Erez Israeli said enrolment to the mid-stage trial of the Sputnik-V vaccine will start in the next few weeks and the trial was likely to end by December.“(Phase 3 trial) can be over as fast as the end of March, but it could go into April or May,” Israeli said on a post-earnings press briefing, adding the timeline will depend on the Phase 2 trial results and further approvals from authorities.With 8 million Covid-19 infections and second only to the United States, India is pinning its hopes on a vaccine to stem the spread of the pandemic.The ongoing festive season and a state assembly election are seen by healthcare experts as adding to the challenges in containing the outbreak.The Hyderabad-based company had received renewed approval for late-stage clinical trials in India of the Sputnik-V vaccine earlier this month, after initially signing a deal with the Russian Direct Investment Fund in September.The company expects to enrol 100 participants for the mid-stage trial and 1,500 people for the late-stage.Shares of the company closed 2.9% lower at 4,951 rupees in a weak Mumbai market after Dr Reddy’s reported https://bit.ly/31PkFO8 a 30.3% fall in consolidated net profit after tax from a year earlier. Net sales, however, jumped to 47.77 billion rupees from 39.98 billion rupees a year ago.The drugmaker, which last week isolated all its data centre services as a preventive measure following a cyberattack, said it was a ransomware attack, but was yet to ascertain if any personal information was accessed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-trials-may-end-by-march-dr-reddy-s/story-SOZwbh0zmEwe7IlGxhEa5O.html
29-10-2020||India||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik holds virtual poll rally, opposition asks why he is not present in person||On a day when Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik addressed election meetings at Tirtol assembly constituency of Jagatsinghpur through video-conferencing facility from his home in Bhubaneswar, opposition parties in Odisha slammed him calling the concept laughable.Patnaik, who has not stepped out of his home since lockdown except for taking an aerial tour and a visit to the Jagannath temple in Puri, kicked off his virtual campaigning and expressed his inability to attend the rally in person due to Covid-19 restrictions. He also praised the work of the Mission Shakti workers in Tirtol and highlighted the development work undertaken in the region. Patnaik addressed around 10,000 people of 8 gram panchayats in Tirtol constituency through video conferencing from Naveen Nivas. Patnaik will address another rally in the Balasore assembly constituency through video-conferencing facility on Thursday.However, his virtual election meeting was slammed by the BJP and the Congress who asked why the CM was not coming out of his home to meet people.BJP leader and Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi said that if a Chief Minister of a State holds virtual rallies without reaching out to people, it’s surprising and laughable. “Virtual rally? It’s laughable. I urge the party which has been at the helm for over 20 years now to reach out to people, and listen to their problems and grievances,” said Sarangi.Senior Congress leader and MLA Sura Routray said, “What can the CM say or reply when he is just staying inside his home. Prices of onion, potato, pulses and vegetables are on a steep rise. Both the BJD and BJP have a secret nexus; it is Congress’ time now.”PCC chief Niranjan Patnaik asked if the CM was not putting thousands of people in jeopardy by organising virtual rallies while he himself was secure. “Aren’t the lives of the people precious? During the pandemic, cores of rupees were misappropriated in the purchase of masks and ventilators. At this time, how is the CM campaigning by spending crores,” asked Patnaik.This is the first bypoll that Patnaik has missed out on campaigning on the ground. During last year’s assembly bypoll at Bijepur, he had successfully campaigned for the party candidate Rita Sahu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-naveen-patnaik-holds-virtual-poll-rally-opposition-asks-why-he-is-not-present-in-person/story-jamIrF3tIB8p3alKP2wnqL.html
29-10-2020||India||Odisha police rescue one-month-old baby. She was sold for Rs 15,000||The police in the western Odisha district of Sambalpur last night rescued a one-month-old girl from a couple who had allegedly bought her from an impoverished couple for Rs 15,000 in yet another case of selling of children in the state.Following a complaint by NGO Childline in Sambalpur, officials of Charmal police station in the district detained a couple from Kusapali village of Sambalpur who had bought the child from a couple hailing from Keutibahal village under Charmal police station area.“The alleged sale came to light after local ASHA and anganwadi workers tipped off Childline. We suspect that the infant’s parents who already had five children may have sold her due to poverty. We have detained the couple who bought the baby and have lodged a case in this regard,” Basant Dalei, inspector-in-charge of Charmal said. “During the investigation, we traced the child’s mother who later revealed the names of the buyer. The sale was done through a notarized affidavit which is illegal.”Stories of child sale are not uncommon in Odisha, once infamous for its poverty in 80s and 90s as scores of poverty-ridden families sold off their sons and daughters to well-off families unable to feed them. Western Odisha districts like Kalahandi and Bolangir are replete with examples of child sale. In 1985, the sale of 2-year-old tribal girl Banita to a blind man for as little as Rs 40 and a saree by her sister-in-law Phanas Punji brought the poverty of the state into the limelight. Though Odisha’s per capita income has jumped from what it was in 1999-2000 to Rs 1.01 lakh in 2019-20, cases of child sale still continue to pour in.Earlier this month, a toddler in Nischintakoili block of Cuttack district was allegedly sold by his poverty-stricken parents to a couple in neighbouring Kendrapara district. The same month, a couple in tribal-dominated Malkangiri district sold off their 9-year-old son to a neighbour as they wanted to remarry and the boy was a hindrance to their plans. The boy was rescued by the district administration, but not before his new family took him out of school and forced him to work as a cowherd.In December last year, the newborn twin girls of a 33-year-old mentally challenged single mother in Cuttack district were allegedly sold by her relatives to two different couples soon after her discharge from SCB Medical College and Hospital. In September 2019, a Muslim couple in costal Balasore town had sold their seven-day-old baby for Rs 20,000 to a childless couple in the town on Friday as it had become impossible for them to manage the family with the meagre income of the daily wage earner husband. The baby was their seventh child.In August 2017, a daily wage-earning couple in coastal Kendrapara district had allegedly sold their newborn girl for Rs 7,500 to a childless couple to settle their hospital bill. The couple in their complaint before the police alleged that the ASHA worker of his village was instrumental in taking them to a private nursing home which raised a huge bill.Head of the department of economics in Sambalpur University, Sanjukta Das said rise in per capita income or rise in GDP has nothing to do with reducing poverty. “The economy as a whole is surely growing but it has excluded a lot of people, particularly the Dalits and tribals. The Gram Sabhas and palli sabhas have failed to amplify the voices of the poor in India’s villages. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic hardships have surely gone up forcing the poor to take extreme steps like selling their child or even ending their lives. We have very little way of knowing how the pandemic has affected the poor unless a proper study is done,” Das said.Citing a study by Directorate of Economics of the Odisha government in 2017-18, social activist Ranjan Panda of Sambalpur said Sambalpur along with 7 other districts had more incidence of poverty than that of the entire state. “GDP growth does not mean equitable growth. If you look at the statistics you would see Odisha has brought down the poverty levels from 57 per cent in 2004 to 32.6 in 2011 while the food grain production has doubled in the same period. But has it helped the poor lead a better life? I don’t think so. I am not surprised by cases of child sale as the pandemic must have broken the back of several poor families. The current model of chasing GDP growth will only bring us doom,” Panda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-rescue-one-month-old-baby-she-was-sold-for-rs-15-000/story-vaZJuHUrgzdBglo4awejIO.html
29-10-2020||India||India extends $1 bn credit line to Central Asian countries for priority projects||India on Wednesday extended a $1-billion line of credit to Central Asian countries for priority projects in connectivity, energy, IT and health care, with the move being perceived as part of New Delhi’s efforts to boost its role as a transparent development partner. The line of credit was welcomed by ministers of Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan during the second meeting of the India-Central Asia Dialogue held via video conference under the chairmanship of external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Acting Afghan foreign minister Haneef Atmar joined the meeting as a special invitee. The meeting discussed cooperation in political and security matters, and all the countries called for settling the Afghan conflict on the principle of an “Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled peace process”, according to a joint statement. The countries also condemned terrorism and reaffirmed their determination to destroy terrorist safe havens, networks, and funding channels. In a tacit reference to Pakistan, the joint statement said: “They also underlined the need for every country to ensure that its territory is not used to launch terrorist attacks against other countries.” Jaishankar told the meeting: “India and Central Asia share ancient historical and cultural linkages. We consider Central Asia as India’s ‘extended neighbourhood’.” He added, “We face common challenges of terrorism, extremism, drug trafficking... All these commonalities make us a natural partner in our developmental journey.”Besides the $1-billion line of credit, India offered grant assistance for high impact community development projects to boost socio-economic development in Central Asia. The ministers emphasised the importance of connectivity in increasing trade and commerce between India and Central Asia, and appreciated New Delhi’s efforts to modernise Chabahar port in Iran as an important link in trade and transport between markets in Central and South Asia, the joint statement said. The ministers agreed to promote joint initiatives to create regional and international transport corridors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-1-billion-credit-line-to-central-asian-countries-for-priority-projects/story-K84RcSGHpIbWhLsJ0pxm7N.html
29-10-2020||India||After 4-day blockade, traffic resumes along Imphal-Dimapur highway in Manipur||After four days of speedy road construction work, normal traffic along the 110 km Imphal-Mao sector of the National Highway 2 in Manipur’s Senapati district has resumed, reports from the district said on Wednesday.The road construction work at Khongnem Thana village, 72 km north of Imphal under Senapati district was started without delay after the completion of necessary formalities with the affected village authority in the presence of concerned officials.On October 23 evening, the 110 km long Imphal-Mao sector of the highway was completely disconnected due to a massive landslide at Khongnem Thana due to incessant rain in the last few days.Since then more than a hundred Imphal bound goods trucks remained stranded along the highway although the smaller vehicles often take roads leading to Imphal via other district routes.The new road is being built on the sunken portion of the highway, which is the main supply route of the state. The state Public Works Department officials had informed earlier that the complete restoration of the highway to its previous shape would take more time.Earlier Manipur’s public health engineering minister L Dikho accompanied by concerned officials had even inspected the construction activities at the landslide hit road. Dikho is an MLA from the Senapati district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-4-day-blockade-traffic-resumes-along-imphal-dimapur-highway-in-manipur/story-HqjPnrZn80aJN0lTJTjwEK.html
29-10-2020||India||Odisha to shut over 8,000 primary schools with less than 20 students||The Odisha government has decided to shut 8,000-odd primary and upper primary state schools from the current academic year on the ground that their minimal student strength is not viable to let them run.A notification by the state school and mass education department said the shutting down of the schools with student strength less than 20 would lead to improvement in the learning environment, better infrastructure facilities, better academic environment and co-curricular facilities for the students.The move termed “Consolidation and rationalisation” under Niti Aayog’s Sustainable Action for Transforming Human Capital in Education (SATH-E) project is already under implementation with around 8000-odd schools in Odisha with student strength less than 20 being closed and merged with nearest schools called Lead Schools over last few months.For a Primary school, a nearby Primary (I-V)/Upper Primary (I-VIII/VI-VIII)/ Secondary (I-X), will be identified for consolidation. Similarly for an Upper Primary (I-VIII/VI-VIII), a nearby Upper Primary (I-VIII/VI-VIII) or high school (I-X/VI-X) would be identified for the merger process. As per 2016 statistics of the school and mass education department, Odisha has around 58,000 primary and upper primary government schools.Joint director in Odisha School Education Programme Authority, Surekha Tarei said so far 6,000-odd schools have been identified in 27 districts for merger while another 2,000 schools are being identified in rest 3 districts for implementing the consolidation move. “The students who would have to travel to a distant school due to the consolidation process would be paid Rs 20 as daily allowance. The process would lead to fully functional schools with an increase in the number of teachers per class and concentrated investment of resources,” she said.As per the state government notification, every student from the schools that are facing closure will be provided a one-time facilitation allowance of Rs 3,000 on their admission to the Lead School. All teachers/headmaster/staff (including mid-day meal cook etc.) of the schools that are facing closure will also move to the Lead School without any change in their service conditions. If the Lead school distance is beyond 1 km, transport allowance as per RTE norms would be provided to the students.Trilochan Nayak, president of All Utkal primary Teachers Federation, decried the consolidation move saying it would bring the education system in Odisha to ruins. “The same government which allowed the schools to open in villages is now shutting down the schools. As on date, Odisha has around 4,400-odd vacant positions at the elementary level which should have been filled up by the government. But instead of improving the infrastructure, the government is just hell-bent on closing the schools. No one consulted stakeholders like teachers and the students while deciding on consolidation. The school and mass education minister also did not resist the move. Even if the government gives transport allowance, how many students in rural areas would be inclined to travel to a distant school for study. This would lead to more dropout in primary level,” said Nayak.Noted educationist Prithwish Acharya also said the consolidation of schools was not a smart move considering that the government is aiming at 100 per cent literacy. “When we talk of universalisation of education, schools with less than 20 students also play a role. The government schools in rural areas help poorer students enrol and complete their education. Besides, it is not the fault of the students that the school has less than 20 students as it’s the duty of the government to provide the necessary infrastructure for education. Many of these schools in rural areas don’t even have mandatory desks and benches for the students forcing them to study under humiliating conditions,” said Acharya.Acharya argued that the government should not think of saving money when it comes to education. “Education in any way is going to cost money. So why not stop funding schools altogether,” he asked.Akshay Hota, a school teacher in Bhadrak, where many primary and upper primary schools would be shut down, said the consolidation move would force many parents to enrol their children in private schools that are relatively expensive. “The poor parents would not probably like to send their children to a far-off school and may enrol them at a private school near home. How many parents can afford that,” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-shut-over-8-000-primary-schools-with-less-than-20-students/story-kFYeSA4pTyyUd9TGhleFBJ.html
29-10-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi records highest ever spike in cases||The Capital crossed another grim landmark in its fight against Covid-19, reporting over 5,000 new cases of the disease in a day for the first time on Wednesday. Reporting a record new-case count for the second day in a row, the city added 5,673 new cases of the viral infection on the day, after 4,853 new cases on Tuesday.On average, Delhi has now reported 4,225 cases every day in the past week, which means the trajectory has now surpassed the previous peak of 4,174, reported for the week ending September 17, at the height of the second surge. Delhi had seen the first surge in cases in June-July, when 3,446 cases were reported in a day at its peak — the week ending June 26. Also Read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayFurther, the positivity rate also went past 9% on Wednesday for the first time since early September.“The trend of Covid cases is on a decline across the country. However, it has remained a matter of worry in three states and Union territories. Delhi is inching towards its third peak, while an unprecedented rise is being witnessed in Kerala and West Bengal,” NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had said in a press briefing on Tuesday. An expert committee headed by Dr Paul had in early October said the number of cases in Delhi could go up to 15,000 a day during the winter months.  “The consistent rise in cases is bad news. The temperature drop has just started, and pollution levels are also going up, both of which increase the risk of transmission and severity of the infection. Another likely reason is that people went out to shop, for pujas, or for get-togethers during the festive season, and the Covid-appropriate behaviour was not followed,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology and infectious diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Also Read: Social distancing goes for a toss at Delhi’s markets in festive seasonEven with more than 60,000 tests conducted on Wednesday, the positivity rate — proportion of samples that returned positive among those tested — crossed 9%, the first time this has happened since the first week of September, when Delhi was conducting only about 20,000 tests a day. The daily positivity rate had dipped to as low as 4.99% on October 6, soon after the government tripled the testing to about 60,000 a day. However, when testing was scaled up in September, most diagnoses were conducted using the rapid antigen method, which gives results in 15 minutes,but is more likely to throw up false negatives. The number of cases in the city started increasing again in the second week of October as the government scaled up the more reliable reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests. In fact, over 17,000 RT PCR tests were conducted in the city for the first time on Sunday. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had on Tuesday attributed the rise in positivity rate to better, more targeted contact tracing. While experts said this could be one of the reasons for the spike in positivity, they also warned that testing needed to be scaled up even further to cover a greater proportion of infected people. “It may be that the government is now focussing on the contacts of a positive case, hence testing more people who are likely to have the infection. This could be one of the reasons for the increase in positivity rate. However, the government would then have to increase testing further to detect infections among the general population,” said Dr Kant. Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) believes that schools must be kept shut, and cinema halls and restaurants, which have been reopened, should also be closed for at least a couple of months. “There is a need to bring back at least 30 to 40% of the restrictions that were in place during the lockdown if we wish to arrest the increase in the number of cases. A study recently published in the Lancet that looks at such non-pharmaceutical interventions in 121 countries found that shutting down schools and offices can effectively control spread of the infection. So, we need to keep schools and colleges closed. We should also close non-essential services such as cinema hall, restaurants and pubs. I would say even the Metro because people are not following preventive measures there too,” said Dr Broor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-delhi-records-highest-ever-spike-in-cases/story-mWWrfdm1qiY7gu3W6xEhsN.html
29-10-2020||India||Implementation of critical air pollution solutions pending, Epca tells SC||Two days after the Centre told the Supreme Court that it was coming up with a composite law to tackle air pollution in the Capital, the apex court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority (Epca) released a copy of a September 11 report it had submitted to the court .“The September 11 Epca report is the first status report on actions taken and those that remain to be taken in Delhi-NCR on air pollution; it was submitted to a new bench that took over the matter. Between September 11 and now, two more short, issue-specific reports on crop stubble fires and diesel vehicles were submitted to inform the apex court on what needs to be done,” said an Epca member who did not want to be named. “This report is being shared now because most action in Delhi-NCR has been taken based on SC orders, including enforcement of pollution control in hot spots, implementation of radio-frequency identification technology, closing of thermal power plants in NCR, the closure of Badarpur power plant in Delhi, implementation of graded response action plan and the Comprehensive Action Plan. Now what remains is very stringent enforcement to meet the air pollution crisis. We do not want to comment on anything else,” the member added.The Centre informed the top court on Monday that it has drafted a comprehensive law to control air pollution, especially in the Delhi-NCR region. This triggered speculation that a new agency or body created by the government could replace Epca.During Monday’s hearing, the Supreme Court suspended its order issued on October 16 appointing former apex court judge Madan B Lokur in a one-man committee to enforce strict ban on stubble burning in Delhi’s neighbouring states Haryana, Punjab and also Uttar Pradesh (UP). The order was “kept in abeyance” by a three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, after solicitor general (S-G) Tushar Mehta informed the court about the new law.On Wednesday, senior environment ministry officials said the new law proposed by the Centre will pave the way for the creation of a new commission for air pollution control in Delhi-NCR. “We cannot say at this time if it will replace Epca because Epca was created by SC. We also cannot say how the new body will impact the role of CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board). Those details will be in court very soon,” a senior environment ministry official who did not want to be named said.RP Gupta, secretary, environment ministry, said: “I cannot divulge any details about the law or the commission until it’s in court. I have not said anything about Epca being replaced. We have to wait a few more days.”Santosh Harish, fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, said: “Air quality management in India, and NCR in particular, is certainly to be tackled at the regional ‘airshed’ level. If this legislation leads to institutional changes to accomplish this, it would well set a blueprint for other parts of the country. That would be progress. But Epca (a statutory body created in 1998 with a similar mandate and significant powers) and the Comprehensive Action Plan in 2018 have attempted to do exactly this.”In the September 11 report, Epca noted that the top court has already passed directions on all large sources of air pollution. A Comprehensive Action Plan (CAP) aimed at reducing air pollution levels was notified by the Union environment ministry in 2018 following the court’s directions but it is yet to be implemented by the ministry completely, the report suggested.Epca has recommended that the environment ministry expedite the implementation of the plan through augmentation of public transport, non-motorised transport and inter- and intra-NCR transport connectivity. This includes time-bound and urgent implementation of the apex court’s directions, also specified in CAP, on the Phase IV of the Delhi Metro, construction of the different phases of Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTs), which will provide seamless connectivity between NCR towns, and the augmentation of buses in Delhi.In its report, Epca referred to findings of an emissions inventory for Delhi developed by the ministry of earth sciences based on data from 2018. It has found that there has been a 40% increase in vehicular pollution between 2010 and 2018 in the Delhi-NCR region and that vehicles contribute to around 41% of the pollution in the national capital.Reducing emissions from vehicles requires further restraint on trucks entering Delhi and on ensuring that there is reduction in overall personal vehicle and that even taxi use is controlled through expanded bus and metro services, the Epca report said.The inventory also showed that 1.1 million vehicles entered Delhi every day at just eight entry points including trucks, taxis and personal vehicles which underscores that the entire NCR region requires better connectivity through public transport.The inventory has also found that industrial pollution contributes around 18% of Delhi’s particulate pollution and industrial emissions have increased by 48% between 2010 and 2018 in the region. Epca said this was because burning of coal is rampant and requires enforcement of the sulphur dioxide (SO2) emission standards for industries and thermal power plants issued following directions by the top court.Santosh Harish said for a new authority to be more successful, it will have to be well-funded, well-staffed, endowed with multi-sectoral technical expertise, and have representation from all the state and local governments, relevant Union ministries, and the civil society. “We don’t yet know why this needs new legislation, and how this legislation will interact with existing laws like the Air Act and the Environment Protection Act,” Harish said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implementation-of-critical-air-pollution-solutions-pending-epca-tells-sc/story-MntnXRsHVZGdeMbjftM9fK.html
29-10-2020||India||India test-fires 10 missiles in 35 days. It is not a coincidence||The Defence Research and Development Organisation will test fire the 800 km range Nirbhay sub-sonic cruise missile in mid-October, the last for the solid rocket booster missile before its formal induction into the army and the navy, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. It would be the tenth missile test-firing by India’s lead defence research organisation in the last 35 days.The DRDO’s effort to fast-track development of ‘Made in India’ strategic nuclear and conventional missiles - it has fired a missile every four days over nearly a month - comes against the backdrop of China’s refusal to step back from the Line of Actual Control.China’s People’s Liberation Army had first clashed with Indian soldiers on the northern bank of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso lake on May 5 this year, setting up a stand-off that rapidly expanded to four locations in East Ladakh.Also Watch: India test fires anti-radiation missile Rudram-1 l All you need to know The stand-off escalated into a bloody clash in June that killed soldiers on both sides. It was the first time that the two countries had lost soldiers on this border in four decades. A little less than two months later, shots were also fired when Indian soldiers occupied the heights on the south bank of the picturesque salt water lake spread across 700 square km.India’s race to test missilesHypersonic Technology Demonstration Vehicle 7 Sept ABHYAS-High Speed Expendable Aerial Target 22 SeptLaser Guided Anti Tank Guided Missile 22 Sept Night trial of strategic missile Prithvi II 23 SeptSupersonic cruise missile BrahMos 30 Sep Laser Guided Anti Tank Guided Missile 1 Oct Supersonic Shaurya strategic missile 3 OctSupersonic Missile Assisted Release of Torpedo 5 Oct Anti Radiation Missile 9 Oct The two countries have held numerous rounds of negotiations at the level of diplomats, military officials and ministers; another round is scheduled on Monday. But China has been reluctant to go back to the positions it held before stepping up tensions.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has held up Chinese president Xi Jinping’s aggression on the border with India as an example of the Chinese communist party’s “bad behaviour”. The US estimates China has mobilised about 60,000 troops in depth locations across Ladakh.The DRDO was quietly told to fast-track its missile programme in the early part of the standoff because the Indian government had doubts about China’s commitment to peace on the border, a missile expert associated with the projects said.The Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle (HSTDV) was the first one to be fired on 7 September. Over the next four weeks or do, the DRDO has test-fired the extended-range version of the supersonic cruise missile BrahMos that can blow up targets 400 km away, the nuclear-capable Shaurya supersonic missiles that can travel at twice to thrice the speed of sound; and the supersonic missile assisted release of the torpedo that targets submarines apart from test-firing the laser-guided anti-tank guided missile just 10 days apart.In between, the DRDO also carried out a night trial of the nuclear-capable ballistic missile Prithvi-II, the surface-to-surface missile capable of attacking targets at a range of 300 km. It is India’s first indigenous surface-to-surface strategic missile.The expedited development and testing has made it possible to deploy the terrain-hugging subsonic Nirbhay missile along the Ladakh border in limited numbers.“The Shaurya missile would be next,” an official said about the new-age weapon that can carry a nuclear warhead weighing around 200 kg and flies at 2.4 km per second. The government has cleared its induction into the military. The Indian Strategic Forces Command will decide locations of its deployment under guidance from the National Security Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-races-to-upgrade-its-armoury-fires-a-missile-every-4-days/story-UB5RQaMY4zVlTlYbNFR8EL.html
29-10-2020||India||‘Talks with China to continue, Indian troops standing firm’: Rajnath Singh||As the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) prepare to hold the next round of military dialogue shortly to reduce friction along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said that talks with China for peaceful resolution of the border crisis would continue even as Indian troops are “standing firm” in forward areas.Addressing the army’s top leadership during the ongoing army commanders’ conference, Singh said soldiers would be equipped with best weapons and gear to carry out their duties. “It is our national responsibility to ensure availability of best weapons, equipment and clothing to our troops braving extreme weather and hostile forces to defend our territorial integrity,” a statement issued by the army quoted Singh as saying. The situation in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where the army is preparing for a long haul, was discussed during the conference chaired by army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane. The border row is in its sixth month and efforts to disengage and de-escalate have yielded no results. The 8th round of military talks between corps commander-ranked officers from the two armies is expected to be held shortly to reduce border tensions.  Indian and Chinese military commanders met for the 7th time on October 12 in their latest attempt to defuse tensions. The Indian side demanded comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April during the talks. The two sides agreed to continue with the dialogue process to arrive at a mutually-acceptable solution for early disengagement in the eastern Ladakh theatre, said a joint press statement issued a day after the talks. In his address at the biannual conference, Singh complimented the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for its efforts to build infrastructure in forward areas and working under difficult conditions to connect far-flung areas. “The Indian Army’s apex leadership is comprehensively deliberating upon all aspects of existing security scenarios, situation along the borders and in the hinterland and challenges for the present security apparatus. In addition, the conference is also focussing on issues pertaining to organisational restructuring, logistics, administration and human resource management,” the army statement said. The four-day conference ends on Thursday. The statement said Singh reiterated the stellar role played by the army in guarding the country’s borders and fighting terrorism, apart from providing assistance to the civil administration whenever needed. “Actions of Indian Army truly ensure the integrity and sovereignty of our great nation,” the statement quoted the minister as saying. The minister also paid tributes to the bravehearts of Galwan, Kashmir and the North-east for making the ultimate sacrifice in the defence of the nation. Singh said that the creation of the chief of defence staff and the department of military affairs was a “momentous decision” and the concept of integrated battle groups and theatre commands would be “game changers in the way Indian Armed forces fight future wars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talks-with-china-to-continue-indian-troops-standing-firm-rajnath-singh/story-s1isetUsPStr18iFoxiW7H.html
29-10-2020||India||Ministry has no information on who created Aarogya Setu, RTI body issues showcause notice||The National Informatics Centre, which designs government websites, has said that it has no information about who has created the Aarogya Setu app and how it has been created. The Chief Information Commission has pulled up the NIC, which comes under the ministry of electronics, and issued a showcause notice to various chief public information officers asking them to provide a reply to an RTI application which questioned about the Covid-19 contact tracing up. The reply can’t be evasive, the CIC has said.The complaint was filed by one Saurav Das who claimed to have approached the NIC, National E-Governance Division (NeGD) and the ministry of electronics and information technology seeking to know about the creation of the application, which has been downloaded by millions of Indians during lockdown. Downloading the mobile application is also a must before entering restaurants, cinema halls, metro stations, as stipulated by the ministry of home affairs. But Das said that neither NIC nor the ministry had data regarding the creations of the app. The CIC has also asked the National Informatics Centre to explain why its name is there on the website but it does not have any information regarding it. Also Watch | Covid update: Aarogya Setu clarification; Sputnik V India trials; Delhi spike“The Commission directs the CPIO, NIC to explain this matter in writing as to how the website https://aarogyasetu.gov.in/ was created with the domain name gov.in, if they do not have any information about it,” Information Commissioner Vanaja N Sarna has ordered.The CIC noted that not only the about the creation of the app, nobody“seems to have” any knowledge about the files created, the inputs received, audit measures taken to check whether personal data are being misused or not. Aarogya Setu is now being appreciated globally. The App is NOT outsourced to any private operator. Mr. Gandhi really high time that you stop outsourcing your tweets to your cronies who do not understand India.Concerns over the app and its security aspects have been raised before. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had earlier accused the government of breaching data security. “The Arogya Setu app, is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a pvt operator, with no institutional oversight - raising serious data security & privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent,” he had tweeted.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had then refuted the allegations and asserted that Aarogya Setu has not been outsourced to any private operator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministry-has-no-information-on-who-created-aarogya-setu-rti-body-issues-showcause-notice/story-CCHofEmjdIaOOvmubCKxKI.html
29-10-2020||India||J&K: NIA raids NGO offices, human right activists, newspaper office in Srinagar||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday had carried out raids on the offices of several non-governmental organisations (NGOs), human rights activists and Greater Kashmir, a local daily, in Srinagar.The raid was also conducted on a house in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district. NIA officials said that they had conducted searches at 10 locations in Srinagar and Bandipora in the Kashmir valley and one more premises in Bengaluru in connection with a case pertaining to NGOs and Trusts raising funds at home and abroad.The funds were allegedly raised in the name of charitable activities and subsequently used for carrying out secessionist and separatist activities in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), which was declared a union territory (UT) on October 31, 2019 following the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5 in the same year. Also read | Outsiders can now buy non-farm land in J&K“A case was registered under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967 on receipt of credible information that certain NGOs and Trusts are collecting funds at home and abroad through donations and business contributions etc; and are utilising these funds for secessionist and terrorist activities in J&K,” an NIA spokesman said.Raids were conducted on the residence and office of Khurram Parvez, co-ordinator of J&K Coalition of Civil Society; his associates Parvez Ahmad Bukhari, Parvez Ahmad Matta, Swati Sheshadri; who is based in Bengaluru; Parveena Ahanger, the chairperson of Association of Parents of Disappeared Persons ( APDPK), and NGO Athrout and GK Trust, among others, the spokesperson said. “Several incriminating documents and electronic devices have been seized. Further investigation is in progress,” he added. Bukhari, a journalist, works for a foreign news agency. Mehbooba Mufti, former J&K chief minister and the chief of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), alleged that the NIA has emerged a “pet agency” of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) “to intimidate and browbeat those who refuse to fall in line”.She alleged: “NIA raids on human rights activist Khurram Parvez and the Greater Kashmir office in Srinagar is yet another example of the government’s vicious crackdown on freedom of expression and dissent. Sadly, NIA has become BJPs pet agency to intimidate and browbeat those who refuse to fall in line.”She alleged that at a time when J&K’s land and resources were being plundered, the government wanted media outlets to write opinion pieces about anodyne topics such as diabetes and yoga. “In BJP’s ‘all is well’ charade, truth is the biggest casualty. Any journalist unwilling to become a part of Godi media (those who speak in favour of the ruling party or government) is targeted,” she further alleged. Meanwhile, the Kashmir Editors Guild (KEG) has expressed its concern over the pre-dawn NIA raids on Greater Kashmir’s premises. “Kashmir media continues to be targeted, demonised, vilified and raided by both state and non-state actors for a long time now,” KEG said in a statement condemning the raids. “This is despite the adversity of an extraordinary situation and the mounting challenges day in and day out,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-nia-raids-ngo-offices-human-right-activists-newspaper-office-in-srinagar/story-AXuuzi4YrHOmRf1RAFbSTP.html
29-10-2020||Editorials||Be transparent on Aarogya Setu | HT Editorial||On April 2, the government launched the Aarogya Setu mobile application, pinning hopes on 21st century solutions to a crisis last seen 100 years ago. This meant moving quickly on coding, design and backend integration with the existing health surveillance system. It is of little surprise then that it relied on private collaborators.What is unusual, however, is that there has been little documentation of the process and the consultation, close to seven months since the launch. Three government departments — the ministry of electronics and information technology, National Informatics Centre, and National e-Governance Division — failed to respond on record to Right to Information requests for details of who helped build and launch the app. The ministry later issued a press release and pointed to a list of contributors contained in the Github (a code repository platform), clarifying that the app’s development included “volunteers from industry and academia”.The controversy and the response reinforce concerns about transparency on the project. Projects of national importance typically follow a detailed and open consultation process. This is paired with a legal framework, particularly if the process involves breaking out of typical departmental workflows. Particularly crucial is full disclosure on the identity of private sector collaborators and why they were chosen. In the case of Aarogya Setu, none of these have been adequately addressed – a reality that is possibly reflected in the government’s decision to walk back on efforts to make it mandatory. It is understandable that in April, the government rushed through these checkpoints. But over 162 million downloads later, it is about time that these disclosures are made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/be-transparent-on-aarogya-setu-ht-editorial/story-KDCsuFniJxuIE2H67JkCZM.html
29-10-2020||Editorials||Where the United States takes on China | HT Editorial||During his visit to India, United States (US) Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, mounted an aggressive critique of the “Chinese Communist Party (CCP)” and “General Secretary Xi Jinping”. This, he clarified in an interview with ThePrint, is an attempt to show that the actions of an authoritarian regime are not of the people of China. The clarity with which the US now views China is the most critical, recent, geopolitical shift in international politics, with enormous implications for the both the world and India. Two questions naturally arise: Is this a permanent rupture or a temporary shift in US policy? Washing-ton first read China’s rise wrong (believing economic growth will lead to greater democracy and more responsible behaviour); it then flirted with the idea of a concert between the two countries; and it has only now woken up to the threat posed by Beijing to the international order. There is reason to believe that while there may be nuanced differences in the approach adopted by different US administrations in dealing with China, this will be a fundamentally adversarial relationship. What, then, does this mean for India? As former national security adviser, Shivshankar Menon, once suggested, the ideal condition for India would be if it has better ties with both China and the US than the two countries have with each other. While this is desirable, it is only possible if Beijing does not pose a threat to Indian sovereignty. Given the adversarial nature of India-China ties, New Delhi has reason to be pleased with the US’s clarity. India doesn’t want a conflict and will have to fight its battles, but having a degree of geopolitical insurance is useful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/where-the-united-states-takes-on-china/story-pz7ve2O5GnLIfdog7fPzKM.html
