30-10-2020||Mumbai||Local trains for all, Diwali to coincide? BMC wary of Covid-19 cases surge in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday expressed concern about a spike in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai after the Maharashtra government proposed to the Western Railway (WR) and Central Railway (CR) to let all commuters use the suburban train services. The civic body said allowing the general public to use local trains around Diwali is likely to lead to a surge in Covid-19 infections, as people are more likely to then step out during the festive season. “One cannot deny that there is likely to be a surge in Covid-19 cases because of the state government’s proposed move. Public is expected to mingle and go out for their Diwali shopping,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (AMC), BMC. “Wearing of masks, sanitising hands and other precautionary measures must be complied with.”The government on Wednesday had written to the general managers of both zonal railways and proposed three time slots during the day for general commuters, while two time slots for essential services staff. The government had also sought a ladies special train every hour.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state government’s Covid-19 taskforce, said, “We need to understand that train services are already functional and we are increasing the load now by opening for all. There are time slots for it and it should not be an issue. “But, we need to be careful and cautious, and masking and sanitsation should be followed. At the same time, overcrowding at stations and inside trains should not happen.”The WR and CR, in their resp-onses to the state’s proposal, had on Thursday sent letters raising concerns about overcrowding. In its letter, WR suggested capping daily passengers to 9.6 lakh and wrote, “Even if we start all 1,367 local train services, we can transport a maximum of 9.6 lakh passengers daily, which is much less than the 35 lakh passengers who were travelling in the pre-Covid regime.” CR told the state it can transport 12.4 lakh passengers daily if all 1,774 of its local train services resume. Approximately 45 lakh passengers travelled daily by CR prior to the lockdown. “Hence, the state government needs to take a call for means of transportation for the balance 33 lakh passengers,” states CR’s letter. The state, however, said these concerns are unwarranted as guidelines are in place to restrict the number of commuters.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the Railways should not play politics over the issue. He said the state has taken “every precaution to avoid the crowding in the trains”, despite which the Railways is raising doubts over operations. “Railways should cooperate with the state government in the interest of commuters in Mumbai,” said Deshmukh.Meanwhile, Joshi said along with further unlocking, the government also plans to increase testing. “Currently, BMC is testing around 15,000 samples daily and it is trying to reach 20,000 tests daily by optimising capacity. Lastly, citizens should still understand that we should go out only when it’s for a purpose, and avoid when not necessary.”The BMC, too, plans to ramp up its daily testing mechanism after the state government’s proposed move. The civic body plans to organise free testing camps in Mumbai. “We have sufficient hospital beds that can cope up with a possible spike in Covid-19 cases,” Kakani said.Medical experts feel people need to be responsible and follow norms to avoid catching the infection, as number of cases rising is inevitable. Subhasree Ray, clinical nutritionist and public health professional, said, “Post the festive season, there will be an inevitable rise in Covid-19 cases. Until there’s a vaccine, the focus should be on enhanced testing, early detection and hospitalisation, preventing complications and mortality. Most importantly, citizens must not behave complacently and adhere to basic preventive protocols to avoid contracting the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/local-trains-for-all-diwali-to-coincide-bmc-wary-of-covid-19-cases-surge-in-mumbai/story-JRPIyJVzHUc5XHwYKGIkaK.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray raises issue of inflated power bills with Sharad Pawar||A day after he met Maharashtra Governor to raise the issue of inflated power bills, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Friday spoke to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on phone, asking the veteran leader to intervene in the issue and provide relief to citizens. According to sources, it was Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari who had asked Thackeray during their meeting to speak to Pawar on the issue. “Rajsaheb has sought time to meet Pawar. He has also apprised Pawar of the difficulties faced by citizens [owing to the inflated bills] and stressed the need for the state government to intervene into the issue and provide relief to the people,” said an MNS leader. The inflated power bills have led to wide-spread resentment among citizens. Thackeray had in July written to his cousin and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, asking him to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-navnirman-sena-chief-raj-thackeray-raises-issue-of-inflated-power-bills-with-sharad-pawar/story-OFItJFk7BQ45XvscfOqc0N.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man booked for hiding his baldness to get married||A 29-year-old man from Mira Road and his family members were recently booked for cheating by Naya Nagar police, based on a complaint from his 27-year- old wife that he had hidden the fact that he was bald. “The main accused got married to the complainant, a chartered accountant, in September this year. The woman later discovered that he was bald and had been wearing a wig,” said Kailash Barve, senior inspector of Naya Nagar police station. The woman took up the issue with her in-laws and alleged that they had cheated her by not informing her about her husband’s baldness. On Tuesday, she approached the Naya Nagar police station and filed a complaint against her husband and his family members. She also alleged that her in-laws were harassing her for more dowry. She told police that her husband was suspicious of her and would hacked into her phone and check her chats and call records. She claimed he also performed forced unnatural sexual acts on her, said Barve.“We have booked the husband and his parents under sections 498 (enticing or taking away or detaining with criminal intent of a married woman), 377 (unnatural sex), 406 (breach of trust), and 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 66 and 66(c) of the Information Technology (IT) Act,” said Barve. “While the other accused got anticipatory bail, the Thane court rejected the husband’s bail application and ordered him to surrender before the police. We will arrest him in a day or two,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-booked-for-hiding-his-baldness-to-get-married/story-PYrLbuRjVjlfEUTOV3RUvI.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police book 3 for duping 19 people of ₹1 crore in investment fraud||Sir JJ Marg police are on the lookout for three men who have been booked for allegedly duping 19 people of ₹1 crore though a fraudulent investment scheme. The victims were promised that they would earn double the amount they invested in a period of nine months in the scheme. The police suspect that the trio may have duped many more people, but they may have not filed a police complaint. The complainant in the case, 45-year-old Naeem Ismail Shaikh, is a businessman from Teli Mohalla, Nagpada. In his complaint (of which HT has a copy), Shaikh said that in 2017 a man named Haji Nasib Ali, whom he knew through his business contacts, informed the complainant about a “money doubling scheme”. Ali told Shaikh that he knew two people, identified as Amir and Rizwan, who can double the investment money in three months. The police have not disclosed the real names of the accused. At first, Shaikh did not believe Ali, but later he told the complainant that Amir and Rizwan own a big tool cutting store at Chor Bazaar. After Ali told him that he himself got his money doubled through the scheme, Shaikh decided to invest money in the scheme. In January 2017, Ali introduced Shaikh to Amir and Rizwan. On Ali’s insistence, Shaikh then invested ₹5 lakh and earned ₹10 lakh after three through the scheme. Shaikh again invested money in the scheme and also informed his relatives and friends about it, following which seven more people invested their money. However, Amir and Rizwan told them that they would get the money doubled in nine months on this occasion. However, after nine months, when the investors did not get their money back, they tried to contact the three accused. At first they kept delaying the payment and later stopped answering the calls. The investors also discovered that the shop that Ali said belonged to Amir and Rizwan was actually owned by someone else. After trying to contact them for several months, Shaikh finally lodged a police complaint against the three. “We have registered a case of cheating and investment fraud worth ₹40 lakh against the accused. We also have information that there are other people who have been duped by the three and a total of 19 complainants have been duped of ₹ 1 crore. We will arrest the accused soon,” said a Sir JJ Marg police officer, who is a part of the investigation. “I had to close my business owing to the lockdown and the money lost owing to this fraudulent scheme. I suspect that Ali was fully aware of the plot and is involved in the crime. He is also not answering my calls,” said Shaikh. The three have been booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust under sections 406, 420 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-book-3-for-duping-19-people-of-1-crore-in-investment-fraud/story-iV9OLOtV1mRshtu95JeNrK.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Traffic warden arrested by Mumbai Police for repeatedly raping 15-year-old, impregnating her||Versova police arrested a traffic warden on Wednesday for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl since June and impregnating her. The incident came to light after the girl fell ill and her mother took her to a doctor. The doctor informed the mother about her daughter’s pregnancy, after which a complaint was filed at Aarey police station. According to the police complaint filed by the girl’s mother, the duo knew each other and the 20-year-old traffic warden raped the girl on the pretext of marrying her. The accused has been arrested under sections 376 (2)(N) [commits rape repeatedly on the same woman] of the Indian Penal Code and sections 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 8 (punishment for sexual assault),10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault), 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The case was later transferred to Versova police station as the incident took place at Lokhandwala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/traffic-warden-arrested-by-mumbai-police-for-repeatedly-raping-15-year-old-impregnating-her/story-gwlx4TgJQv94WzcRwWam9O.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Part of godown collapses in Bhiwandi near Mumbai; three injured||Three suffered minor injuries after a major portion of a godown collapsed on Friday morning, at Bhiwandi’s Shriram compound, in Dapoda village, nearly 33 kilometres from Mumbai. According to the tehsildar, the building, which is around 30-years old, couldn’t bear the load of the heavy machinery operated within.Around 4.45am on Friday, the second floor of the ground-plus-two-storey structure collapsed. Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) said the structure, located in a rural area, was a packaging godown for a cake shop. At the time, five workers were in the godown and had to be evacuated by firemen. Local police and a fire tender from BNCMC reached the site soon after the incident.“The second floor of the godown collapsed on the floor below. After reaching the spot, we rescued five persons stuck in the debris. Three of them suffered minor injuries in the incident,” said Rajesh Pawar, chief fire officer, BNCMC. The injuries were to the workers’ hands and legs, but were not serious enough to require hospitalisation. The three left the site after being rescued. Bhiwandi tehsildar Aadik Patil visited the spot after the incident and said the collapse may be due to heavy machinery being operated in the godown. “I visited the collapse site and found there were huge machines inside the godown. We suspect the load might have caused the collapse. We will inquire about it and take needful action,” said Patil. Earlier this week, on Thursday, 18 families had a narrow escape in a ground-plus-two-storey structure in Kopar village, in Dombivli.Three people suffered minor injuries after a major portion of a godown collapsed on Friday morning, at Bhiwandi’s Shriram compound, in Dapoda village, nearly 33 kilometres from Mumbai. According to the tehsildar, the building, which is around 30-years old, could not bear the load of the heavy machinery operated within the premises.Around 4.45am on Friday, the second floor of the ground-plus-two-storey structure collapsed. Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) said the structure was a packaging godown for a cake shop. At the time of the incident, five workers were in the godown and had to be evacuated by firemen. Local police and a fire tender from BNCMC reached the site soon after the incident.“The second floor of the godown collapsed on the floor below. After reaching the spot, we rescued five persons stuck in the debris. Three of them suffered minor injuries in the incident,” said Rajesh Pawar, chief fire officer, BNCMC. The injuries were to the workers’ hands and legs, but were not serious enough to require hospitalisation. The three left the site after being rescued. Bhiwandi tehsildar Aadik Patil visited the spot after the incident and said the collapse may be due to heavy machinery being operated in the godown. “I visited the collapse site and found there were huge machines inside the godown. We suspect the load might have caused the collapse. We will inquire about it and take needful action,” said Patil. Earlier this week, on Thursday, 18 families had a narrow escape in a ground-plus-two-storey structure collapse in Kopar village, in Dombivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/part-of-godown-collapses-in-bhiwandi-near-mumbai-three-injured/story-riZNCbT2jxBNwfs0IQDOPP.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Boating resumes at Chandigarh’s Sukhna Lake from November 1||The UT tourism department has after seven months decided to restart the boating facility at Sukhna Lake from November 1 at 50% capacity.Rakesh Kumar Popli, director, tourism, said, “With strict adherence to social distancing protocols, we will be starting the service from November 1. Initially, four-seater boats, cruise boats, and shikaras will be available. We will not be allowing single and two-seater boats for the time being.” On a four-seater boat, only two persons will be allowed. There are 78 four-seater pedal boats. On a cruise, only 12 people will be allowed, while a shikara will carry on three persons. “”Temperature of visitors will be checked before boarding and hand sanitisers will be placed at the entry points. Wearing of masks is mandatory. The boats will be sanitised after every trip,” Popli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/boating-resumes-at-chandigarh-s-sukhna-lake-from-november-1/story-3FsIl3EYU2inNMo372aCgL.html
30-10-2020||City||PUDA engineers up in arms over fresh appointments from other department||Members of PUDA Engineers’ Association are up in arms over the fresh appointments from other departments. The members, who were on two-day mass leave till Friday, will decide on the next course of action in the coming week.The engineers are protesting against the recent appointment of Tej Ram Kathnoria as the superintending engineer of GMADA besides other deputations in various regional offices of PUDA across the state. Kathnoria, who has joined from the Punjab public works department, has not only been given the charge of SE, but has also got special powers of chief engineer.Mandeep Singh, president of PUDA Engineers’ Association, said it was only Kathnoria’s appointment, but they are again bringing 10 more employees with him from other departments. “The deputationist has even been given one post higher than their rank in the parent department. We will fight tooth and nail and would chalk out a strategy of protest,” he added.It may be recalled that the then state government has appointed Surinder Pal Singh alias Pehelwan on deputation from Mandi Board as the executive engineer in GMADA in 2012 and was later given the charge of chief engineer. In June 2017, Punjab’s vigilance bureau had registered a case against him after it unearthed 92 properties worth ₹59 crore he had allegedly amassed. He was jailed and is currently out on bail.Mandeep Singh said the incident of Surinder Pal had tarnished the image of PUDA. “Now, with the appointment of fresh deputationists, it is feared that it may lead to the same situation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/puda-engineers-up-in-arms-over-fresh-appointments-from-other-department/story-t0e4hsnrybUKEq9BLkv6MK.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||2 weeks after reopening, occupancy at Chandigarh cinemas remains low||Pandemic paranoia, limited options and “poor selection” of films are keeping moviegoers out of Chandigarh’s cinemas, which were allowed to open from October 15.As per online ticketing service BookMyShow, there weren’t more than five to six bookings for any show on Friday, a trend that is expected to continue over the weekend. This comes even as two new English movies – ‘The Rental’ and ‘The New Mutants’ – were released on Friday. Only older Hindi and Punjabi films are currently being screened in cinemas. A Korean movie about K-pop group BTS will also be released on November 3, bookings for which are, however, yet to pick up. Sarabdeep Singh, a city-based PR professional, who would regularly watch movies in cinemas before the Covid-19 crisis, said, “I have been waiting to watch Christopher Nolan’s Tenet for a long time, but it still hasn’t been released. I haven’t watched a single movie since cinemas reopened and I won’t mind donning all the safety equipment required for watching a movie these days. But the movie has to be worth the effort.”Meanwhile, PVR Cinemas launched a one-week ‘Halloween Film Festival’ on Friday, wherein movies such as ‘It Chapter 2’, ‘The Conjuring 2’ and ‘Lights Out’ will be screened. The entertaining company had also organised a special show for 35 ‘corona warriors’ at its cinemas at an IT Park mall. Single screen cinemas to reopen next yearSingle screen cinemas in the city, including Neelam Theatre in Sector 17 and Kiran in Sector 22, are yet to restart movie screenings. Manager of Neelam Theatre, SK Sharma, said, “I have written to the Chandigarh deputy commissioner, stating that it is not feasible for us to reopen before January 1, 2021. We had opened the theatre for a couple of days, but nobody is interested in coming. The cost of running a cinema hall, including power bills and salaries of workers, will be too much. Until hit Bollywood films start releasing, it will not be suitable for us to reopen.”Sharma said the administration should help single screen cinemas, which are already suffering big losses, during reopening. He has also asked the UT administration to offer some rebate on taxes on tickets and electricity. But I haven’t heard back from them on this, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-weeks-after-reopening-occupancy-at-chandigarh-cinemas-remains-low/story-pY1kwn0lZ8K00tyC1APiWM.html
30-10-2020||City||Ban on single-use plastic, polythene in Ambala Sadar from tomorrow||The Ambala Sadar municipal council has announced a complete ban on the use and sale of single-use plastic and polythene in its jurisdiction from November 1. Officials said the ban comes following the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the Centre. The violators will have to deposit a fine ranging from ₹500 to ₹25,000. Rajesh Kumar, secretary, Sadar municipal council, said the ban will be imposed from the first day of the month and efforts are being made to make maximum residents aware.“Single-use plastic and polythene are dangerous for the environment. Our motive of implementing the ban is not to collect fines, but to spread awareness. We expect the residents to avoid usage of polythene when they buy anything from market and carry a jute/cotton bag with them,” he added. Ritu Sharma, coordinator of Swatchh Bharat Mission, said that initially, the violators won’t be fined, but the polythene bags will be seized from them and they’ll be handed over the items they’ve bought. “But, later they will be penalised as per the weight of the confiscated item. Since January, we have collected nearly ₹1.5 lakh in fine for littering and burning of polythene in open,” she added. “We have held meetings with bodies representing the commercial and religious organisations and most of them have agreed to comply. We will also ensure that there is no use of disposable items at religious events,” Sharma said.On the ban, locals have given mixed response. Residents are hopeful about the ban, while shopkeepers are worried. Dr Neena Malhota, a resident of Ajeet Nagar area, said the authorities should ensure that small hawkers selling fruits and vegetables are inspected properly. “We have been using cotton bags since long and will be happy to see others doing the same. Polythene had been banned earlier too, but there was no proper execution and the entire exercise remained on papers only,” she added. A plastic disposable items’ seller in the area, Aniket, however, said it took too long for the authorities to realise its hazards.“We are small traders and sell the items as per their demand. But, I think there should be a check on the manufacturing of these items more, rather than on shopkeepers or residents,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ban-on-single-use-plastic-polythene-in-ambala-sadar-from-tomorrow/story-FOT3fnfRSGwAPuGCiAMJWI.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 6,190 Covid-19 cases, 127 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 6,190 cases, pushing the case count to 1,672,858, making it the 13th consecutive day when daily cases recorded were less than 10,000. A steady fall in active cases continued even on Friday, as it further reduced to 125,418, which means 7.49% patients are taking treatment at various hospitals and Covid care centres in the state at present. The toll reached 43,837 as 127 casualties were reported in the past 24 hours, health officials said. The state has reported 289,566 cases in October, compared to 593,192 in September and 371,238 in August. Mumbai continued to record the highest cases in the state with 1,145 fresh infections on Friday. Its case count reached 256,505. The number of active cases in the city also increased to 19,027. The city’s toll touched 10,261, with 32 new casualties, Nagpur city stood second with 432 cases, taking its tally to 77,483, followed by Pune district with 322 cases, pushing the case count to 76,966. Maharashtra’s case fatality rate (CFR), however, stayed at 2.62%, keeping it on the second position after Punjab (3.14%) (with 4,168 deaths) till Thursday. The state has completed 89 lakh Covid tests with 69,693 conducted on Friday. Its tally stood at 8,906,826. The positivity rate for the day dropped to 8.88% against the overall positivity rate of the state that stood at 18.78%. The number of recovered patients also crossed the 15-lakh mark with 8,241 recoveries recorded in the past 24 hours. The tally stood at 1,503,050. The recovery rate was recorded at 89.85%. “Herd immunity has also played a role in the drop, whether people agree or not. When a section of the population gets infected, the number of people who are likely to be attacked with the virus goes down. It is not the only factor for the decline, but one of the contributory factors,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state and public health expert. The other reason for decline in cases is that the people are also responding to the appeals and advice of the state government and they want this to be continued for next two months, he added. Herd immunity occurs when a high percentage of the community is immune to a disease, making the spread of that particular disease from person to person unlikely. Even individuals not vaccinated are offered some protection because the disease has little opportunity to spread within the community, it is said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-6-190-covid-19-cases-127-deaths/story-VIUDd8pFDDz6xXohH2KqHI.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh Readers’ Take: Sweeping changes required for waste management||Compost pits in every sectorWe must focus on decentralised waste management through which households must segregate waste at source to manage it as a resource. Compost pits should be dug in every locality to process organic waste. Well engineered landfills have to be created or waste-to-compost and bio-methanation plants set up to reduce the load of landfill sites. Economic opportunities generated by recycling garbage could lead to waste minimisation and ensure protection of human health and environment. Smart waste technologies involving in-vehicle monitors, innovative tools for fast sorting processes with optical sensors, magnets and advanced disk screen are eco friendly, improve energy efficiency and reduce operational costs and collection frequency. This acts as an ongoing evolution which eliminates particular job functions at which humans are inefficient or are exposed to risk. The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) must subject unskilled workers to rigorous training as flexibility and adaptability are likely to remain key human advantages. They must initiate mapping and integration of various stakeholders like urban local bodies, commercial centres, markets associations and hotels to take the bull by the horns. Komal Singh, Chandigarh Privatise system Strikes should be banned by the government. By launching strikes, the workers pay attention only to their demands instead of doing their work. The garbage collection system should be privatised as it will mean a cleaner city and efficient safai karamcharis. Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali Lessons on cleanliness for youthEach and every resident of this city has to be made aware of the garbage disposal system, especially children. Lessons on waste and its control should also be included at primary levels in schools. This is likely to encourage youngsters to actively participate in ensuring the cleanliness of their surroundings and be acutely aware of the consequences of allowing dumping of garbage just about anywhere. Strict implementation of littering laws and the two-bin system is a must. Sunibala Laishram, Chandigarh. Zero tolerance to garbageThere should be zero tolerance to garbage and waste material. The road near the Central Library in Chandigarh’s Sector 34 is a case in point. One can see waste piled up there, emitting an unbearable stench. Residents must take the initiative to take care of their city and not dump garbage randomly. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali What happened to reduce, reuse, recycle?The MC has failed to follow the three R’s of waste management: Reduce, reuse and recycle. The garbage problem is getting worse by the day due to this problem. The Sehaj Safai Kendras remain dirty, the garbage processing plant at Dadumajra has run out of space. The effluent treatment plant is not operational. Toxins such as dioxins and furans are being released in the atmosphere. The challan of Rs10,000 for littering is yet to be issued to any individual till date as is the other fine of Rs 5,000 for dumping unprocessed construction/ demolition waste in low lying areas, landfills and public places. The UT administrator, MP, mayor and councillors need to stand up and handle this health issue on an emergent basis. The imposition of heavy fines is right. But, creating awareness by conducting road shows, multimedia campaigns, visiting schools and educating children to make them aware of the need to keep our city ‘clean and green’, has to be an ongoing exercise. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurMC, don’t bow to pressureWhenever MC attempts to improve the waste management situation in Chandigarh , the sanitation workers and door to door garbage collectors launch an agitation and stop work, as a result of which garbage piles up in every corner of the city and the MC authorities have to bow to the pressure. This should not be allowed to happen. Subhash Chugh Set up resource management centresPeople have to realise how important it is to segregate waste at source. Dry waste such as paper, cardboard, clothes and polythene rappers should be put in one bin and wet waste, mostly leftover food, vegetable peel etc should be put in another bin to be given to waste collectors separately. Resource management centres should be set up in every sector where wet waste should be dumped into large composting bins to convert it to organic manure. Tiles, eco bricks and other useful products can be made by compressing dry waste through hydraulic means. TBS Bedi Adjust collectors in new setupWaste collectors should be adjusted in the new setup and continue to earn their livelihood. The public must be educated through audio and video messages to coordinate with their RWAs and collectors and keep their surroundings clean. The area councillor can play an effective role in this respect. The MC should arrange for vans for door to door collection of garbage on alternate days in the beginning. It will be better if perishable black and green plastic bags are provided on nominal charges to the residents for segregating dry and wet garbage. Charges for collection can be claimed through water bills. Accountability for any kind of lapses should be fixed at each level. Sham Sunder Sharma Citizen engagement mustCollective and collaborative citizen engagement can stem the rot. For optimal management all stakeholders – residents,welfare associations and the civic administration must coordinate work responsibly. Aggregation should be done at the initial stage itself, with use of green and blue bins. People should reserve two bags – for plastic/polythene waste and hazardous waste. Welfare associations can liaison for spreading awareness and keeping an eye on the ground situation; and the administration should own its duty of collection, transportation and disposal. Sanitation workers should not be allowed to put at risk the health and hygiene of the residents and ensure that all areas are kept clean. Discipline is not antithetical to democracy. It’s time to tame this bane of democracy where vote bank politics override professional order to the detriment of public purse and convenience. Directions of the National Green Tribunal and higher judiciary mandates on waste management should be enforced quickly and heads must roll for non-compliance. Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula Fix waste and service conditionsImmediate steps need to be taken through scientific and innovative means to clean up the city. Waste should be collected through covered vans with separate days fixed for picking up biodegradable and other garbage. A wage structure with service conditions agreed upon by all worker unions should be fixed to prevent frequent strikes. The public and resident welfare societies must organise frequent mohalla meetings/workshops to make residents aware of the importance of segregation of biodegradable and other waste besides ensuring adequate cleanliness in their surroundings. SS Arora, Mohali All for tokenismThe plausible reasons for the avoidable mess are the piecemeal measures, coupled with tokenism, adopted by the MC authorities and administration to fix the waste collection problem. The authorities must act and put cleanliness measures in place and implement them strictly instead of turning every minor event into a photo opportunity.Ramesh K Dhiman, Chandigarh Focus on waste processingThe MC should closely monitor the amount of garbage/waste generated and processed. Out of the 450 metric tonnes (approximately) being generated daily only one-fourth is processed, so this gap has to be fixed with a ‘fast action plan’ with focus on urgent changes required and amendment of defunct rules. Budget sharing with teams concerned working at the ground level for collection and processing of waste should be done with daily achievable goals set. Madhav Bansal, Chandigarh Recycling the keyDifferent categories of garden/kitchen waste can be composted to procure organic manure. Waste materials generated from construction of buildings can also be used to make bricks and waste paper can be recycled. Usha Verma, Chandigarh Put dustbins everywhereThe government should ensure that green and blue dustbins are installed at each nook and corner of the city. Garbage collectors should be paid on time and their legitimate demands taken care of to ensure they don’t adopt unethical practices like strikes and closures. Sanitary workmen need to keep the city clean and act as proactive members of the society by effecting the small changes desired to keep the city clean. Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh. People have to take the initiativeWe citizens have to develop a better civic sense, not only to solve the problem of garbage disposal but also to keep the city clean. How many of us pick up a banana peel lying on the road? Very few. But there will be many who will not think twice before throwing out paper packets and other waste material on the streets from their cars; or urinate in the open or spit anywhere and everywhere. One of the ways to dispose of garbage is by chemical decomposition. In Chandigarh, garbage can be turned into fuel, energy, and manure. With Indian Institutes of Technology and so many engineering colleges in the country, why can’t we find ways to convert garbage into an asset, rather than letting it be a problem? Recycling and conversion is the answer. At home, let us have colour coded buckets for wet and dry garbage. If the waste collectors do not turn up, we ourselves dispose it in a garbage bin on our way to work. Take initiative, do it yourself. Finally, the authorities have to be serious in treating waste management as a priority issue. Colonel R D Singh (retd), Ambala Cantonment Monetary benefits can workGPS watches might not be a very effective way to get safai karamcharis to work, but offering small monetary benefits to the good performers can make them work harder and therefore improve the waste management system. Avinash Goyal Reduce garbage at household levelThis ‘throwaway’ culture has to end with citizens making every effort possible to reduce garbage generation at the household level. However, when it comes to garbage collectors, they should be encouraged to sell recyclable items to make some money. RWAs should come forward with innovations to make compost. Best out of waste competitions in sectors can also get locals interested in coming up with interesting ideas. MC authorities and even RWAs can come together to identify the cleanest areas in the city and award the waste collectors and safai karamcharis working there.Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliOpposition to use of MC trucks unfairThe opposition by garbage collectors to the MC authorities’ move to introduce garbage collection vehicles is unjustified. The workers can be taught to drive and can collect the garbage in these vehicles. The trucks should collect waste from all localities and segregate it properly. These changes should be carried out immediately. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhGet on with compostingPeople need to adopt environmental friendly practices. Start by composting your food waste or garden waste instead of dumping it. If it sounds like too much work send your organic waste to a recycling facility instead of dumping it in landfills. For effective waste management, waste minimisation, reuse, recycle and energy recovery are more sustainable than conventional landfill or dumpsite disposal technique. Avoid using single use plastic and try as much as possible to reuse and recycle material. Do not hoard and collect things you do not need. Ishita NaraPromote exemplary work cultureOn October 2, 2014, the Union government launched the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to implement effective scientific municipal waste management and bring about behavioural change among the people. At the beginning of the mission, various cleanliness drives were organised with much fanfare by politicians and bureaucrats. Three years back, two small dustbins were distributed to each house but the MC failed to implement segregated garbage schemes properly. From then on, Chandigarh has been performing poorly in the Swachh Survekshan. All of this happened because of the neo-liberal policies under which every project related to this mission was been assigned to contractors. During Covid-19, the work of sanitation workers assumed greater importance but their contribution was not recognised or rewarded. If we want the city to return to its past glory as one of the cleanest places in the country, the MC will have to fill up all vacancies of safai karamcharis, make arrangements for equipment like bins and dumpers. Exemplary work culture has to be promoted with discipline, dedication, and honesty the principal value of all MC employees.SK Khosla, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ht-chandigarh-readers-take-mc-needs-to-make-haste-to-dispose-of-waste/story-fe0esfNr2x1njbsT7gG70N.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn is geared up for second Covid wave, says Badnore||After a sharp spike in coronavirus cases, the pandemic has considerably subsided in the past couple of weeks in Chandigarh. Hindustan Times talks to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on how the administration has fared so far, and what are the challenges ahead, including fund crunch in the wake of the pandemic.Q. What is your assessment of the current state of Covid-19 pandemic in Chandigarh?A. The situation in Chandigarh is well under control as positivity rate has come down and active cases have also decreased substantially. The number of micro containment zones has also decreased. There is no positive patient at Covid care centres in Panjab University (Hostels 9, 10 and International Hostel) and their functioning has been temporarily suspended. All efforts are in place to prevent second surge during the festival season as testing has been stepped up.Q. How is the administration gearing up for a second wave?A. UT is already geared up for any second surge, if it happens, as adequate infrastructure has been created at PGIMER, GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and Dedicate Covid Hospital, Sector 48. As of today, there are 432 vacant Covid beds out of 550. There are 294 vacant oxygenated beds out of 390. There are 138 vacant ICU/HDU beds out of 160. There are 79 vacant ventilator beds available out of 95. Even during the peak on September 13, sufficient beds were available. In addition to this, Covid care centres were requisitioned. Sufficient medical and paramedical staff has been recruited and trained and are ready to tackle any second surge. Q. Centre’s expert panel flagged some missteps in handling the pandemic in initial weeks, such as poor testing, high positivity rate and high mortality. What are the lessons learnt?A. The Union health ministry did not find any missteps or lacunae in our handling of Covid. They gave some suggestions, which have been accepted.Q. Administration could spend less than half of Covid funds allocated by the Centre, as per the Union health minister. Why did this happen?A. Most of the PPE equipment, including gowns, face shields and N-95 masks, were provided by the Centre for free. Chandigarh already had adequate health infrastructure and there was no sudden expenditure on infrastructure and healthcare workers in the three premier health facilities. Initially, only RT-PCR tests were being done, for which the Centre provided free kits. In the past couple of months, rapid antigen testing has started, for which kits have been procured from Covid funds. Out of ₹ 10.43 crore, ₹ 6.77 crore (65%) have been spent to date. Further purchase of diagnostics, drugs, equipment and manpower is in process. Q. Lack of coordination between UT, Punjab and Haryana again came to the fore, with the three often adopting different strategies for lockdowns, resulting in confusion. What steps should be taken to have a better institutionalised system for coordination?A. The three administrations were following health ministry and ICMR guidelines issued from time to time and were in constant touch with each other. Regular war room meetings of the UT administration were also attended by deputy commissioners and civil surgeons of Mohali and Panchkula. A common pattern of lockdown and curfews was followed for the tricity after due deliberations. Q. The PGIMER and UT administration differed on a number of issues. The PGIMER kept on suggesting targeted testing and was reluctant on allowing patients from outside. Did this impact Covid management?A. At all times, PGIMER, GMCH-32, health department and Chandigarh administration were on the same page, as daily war room meetings were held. All decisions were taken after detailed discussions. Central guidelines for testing and treatment protocols were followed at all times, and there was no adverse impact on Covid management.Q. Since the onset of pandemic, some of the UT’s big ticket projects, such as shooting range, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 upgrade, and Tribune flyover, are in limbo. How do you plan to bring them back on track even as the Centre has put restrictions on spending?A. Fifteen-acre land has been earmarked in Sarangpur for the proposed GMSH-16 medical college, and the detailed project report has been submitted to the Centre. The Tribune flyover is being funded by the ministry of road transport and highways, but the matter is pending in the high court. For the shooting range, the ground work for issuance of NOC by the forest department has been started.Q. MC’s revenue has also dried up and ongoing works such as road repairs have been affected. How does the administration plan to help?A. The MC is constantly making efforts to increase its revenue at its own level from advertisements and increase in certain user charges. The administration has made no cut in grant-in-aid approved in the budget estimates despite the cut on spending by the Centre. The administration has also approved collection of cow cess and corona cess on sale of liquor. Additional grant-in-aid is being sought in the revised budget estimates, and would be released if approved by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-is-geared-up-for-second-covid-wave-says-badnore/story-zqdQfdZYO7VNEcAq5C8zVK.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||HC hands over NRI’s property grab case in Chandigarh to CBI||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday roped in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe an alleged attempt to grab an NRI’s ₹30-crore property in Chandigarh’s upscale Sector 5.The detailed order, passed by HC bench of justices Daya Chaudhary and Meenakshi Mehta, is awaited, but a number of lawyers associated with the case have confirmed the development. The case came to light in August, when Padamjit Singh, 84, a former United Nations executive who lives in the US, alleged that a petition filed on July 8 using his name was not, in fact, filed by him. The property — House No. 17 in Sector 5 — as later verified by the Chandigarh administration is owned 50% each by the NRI and his brother’s family. The July 8 plea had claimed that Singh never sold his 50% share of the property to a woman named Pritam Kaur. However, Singh’s affidavit in August stated that he had sold his share of property to the woman and that he had authorised none to file the July 8 plea.When the lawyer appearing in the July 8 petition was questioned, he told court that the matter was brought to him by another lawyer and all requisite permissions to file the plea were obtained on mail. Subsequently, the HC had sought response from all parties involved, including family members of the NRI’s brother who had further given power of attorney to a third person, and the woman who had bought the property.On October 12, seeing gravity of the case, the HC had hinted at handing over the matter to the CBI and asked all the parties to complete their pleadings, further observing that not only the fraud is alleged to have been played by the parties in different manners, but a tactic has also been adopted just to cheat the other parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-hands-over-nri-s-property-grab-case-in-chandigarh-to-cbi/story-rSZP32xXgqTFXA7IX1WWYL.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Minor sexually harassed in Ludhiana: Mother, 4 men booked||Four men have been booked by Hathur police for sexually harassing a minor girl by conniving with her mother. Police have also booked the woman for helping the accused in the crime.The case has been lodged based on the complaint of the woman’s husband, who is resident of Manuke village and an ex-armyman. The complainant said that when he was away on duty, his wife had developed illicit relations with the accused men, Gagan Singh, Balkar Singh and Vicky, all residents of Moga, and Vipan, a resident of Gurdaspur.He said he came to know that the accused used to sexually harass his minor daughter in connivance with his wife.The complaint had been lodged on October 4. After investigating, the case has been registered.Sub-inspector Manjit Kaur, who is investigating the case, said that the police have booked the woman and the four men under Section 354-A (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 8 and 16 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences act. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/minor-sexually-harassed-in-ludhiana-mother-4-men-booked/story-nchkt4Xqaj5pSt4T0ebmRM.html
30-10-2020||City||Two held for vehicle lifting in Ludhiana, 7 bikes recovered||The Focal Point police have arrested two accused for vehicle lifting and recovered seven motorcycles from their possession on Thursday.The accused have been identified as Ashu alias Rocky of Tajpur and Pawan Kumar of Rawat village of Meharban of Ludhiana.Inspector Mohammad Jamil, Focal Point station house officer, said the accused was arrested from near Jamalpur T-point on a tip-off. Following the information provided by the accused during the questioning, six more motorcycles were recovered from their possession.He added that the accused used to steal motorcycles from parking lots by using duplicate keys and then sell it further for money.The duo was produced before the court on Friday and sent to police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-vehicle-lifting-in-ludhiana-7-bikes-recovered/story-RVTO8Xk21vcbTDjqhJ1KbI.html
30-10-2020||City||Man booked for raping neighbour in Ludhiana||The Dehlon police have booked a man for allegedly raping his neighbour and threatening to circulate objectionable pictures of her on social media. The woman claimed that the accused’s mother, sisters and some other relatives had also helped him in the crime.In her statement to the police, the woman, 25, claimed that she is married and had strained relations with her husband as he used to beat her in an inebriated state. On January 26, she had a fight with her husband following which, she decided to go back to her parents’ house. As she was leaving, the accused and his family members, who live in the neighbourhood, asked her to come and stay with them till the matter is sorted. However, during her stay there, the accused, who is also married, raped her. He also clicked some objectionable pictures of her and threatened to circulate it on social media if she revealed the incident to anyone.She said the his mother and sisters also tried to convince her to stay mum, saying that he would marry her after divorcing his first wife. Sub-inspector Jatinder Kaur, who is investigating the case, said an FIR under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused.The woman added that she had filed her first complaint on February 5, which was marked to the women’s cell for investigation. However, the officials at the women’s cell started favouring the accused, following which she moved another application on February 19, requesting the police chief to mark the inquiry to some other officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-for-raping-neighbour-in-ludhiana/story-xD2MGfgm1Smiv3PwGVUn9H.html
30-10-2020||City||Bank staff in Ludhiana booked for withdrawals from dead woman’s account||Employees of the Punjab National Bank’s Mullanpur branch have been booked for withdrawing cash from the savings account of a dead woman after issuing cheque book using her forged signatures.The FIR has been lodged on the statement of the woman’s son, Sukhdev Singh of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar, Mullanpur Dakha. Sukhdev said that his mother had passed away on February 22, 2002.However, on April 26, 2014, Rs 40,000 was withdrawn from her savings account, and again on May 15, 2020, Rs 2, 945 had been taken from her account. Sukhdev later found that a cheque book had been issued in his mother’s name in 2014, which was used to withdraw the cash. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jagdish Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the bank’s employees. The police will add the names of the accused in the FIR after investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bank-staff-booked-for-withdrawals-from-dead-woman-s-account/story-BthBuPSY7Qi2KEg0yOWXGO.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC chief directs civic body officials to initiate public dealings||Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has directed zonal commissioners and superintendent engineers to conduct public dealings between 9am to 11am from Monday so that grievances of residents can be addressed. He also directed all supervising engineers to check ongoing development works in the city everyday. He said boards should be placed outside sites where projects are underway carrying details including contractor’s name, name of supervising engineer/executive engineer concerned and dates of commencement and completion of work. He added that if zonal commissioners need to hold meetings, it should be done every Wednesday after 5pm. Sabharwal also asked zonal commissioners to provide all information regarding ongoing development works in the city. He added that special attention should be paid to cleanliness so that Ludhiana can get a better ranking in Swacchh Survekshan 2021. Cycle rally on Saturday The municipal commissioner also deployed officials for the smooth conduct of a cycle rally scheduled for Saturday. This is the first public rally to be held after the Covid lockdown was imposed in March. The event will be flagged off from Guru Nanak Stadium at 6.30am and will culminate on Ferozepur Road near MBD Mall while passing through Rani Jhansi Road, Ghumar Mandi and Aarti Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-mc-chief-directs-civic-body-officials-to-initiate-public-dealings/story-xlfImBvxWKUvi7Kz5Znq2M.html
30-10-2020||City||Ludhiana: Covid claims two more lives in city||Two patients died of Covid-19 while 65 others tested positive for the virus on Friday. With this, the district’s toll has gone up to 835. The deceased include a 56-year-old male from Basant Avenue, Dhandra Road, and a 60-year-old male from Lohat Baddi village in Raikot.Among the patients who tested positive are an undertrial, a pregnant woman and healthcare workers. A total of 30, 249 persons have tested positive for the virus so far, out of which the 19, 168 have recovered. The city currently has 243 active cases. Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma said that the reports of 2, 138 samples taken for testing are currently pending. He said that now, the total number of patients related to Ludhiana is 20, 249, while 2, 748 patients are related to other districts/states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-covid-claims-two-more-lives-in-city/story-Hu6Itie0UO8p3TKfke4sqN.html
30-10-2020||City||To claim credit, Ludhiana cops ask people to bring back already released items for supardari||To claim credit for all items released on superdari, the Ludhiana police asked people to bring back their belongings, even those that had been returned months ago, for the ceremony on Friday.One such claimant, Venus Gulati of Field Gunj, said that police had seized his car on July 19 after he was caught with illicit liquor. He got bail the same day and got back his vehicle two days later on supardari. But on Thursday, he received a call from the police, asking him to report at the police station with the vehicle. “When I reached there, the cops asked me to leave the car at the station and receive it on Friday in front of the police chief,” he said. While handing over the car keys to Gulati on Friday, police announced that he was one of the persons whom the police had helped to get supardari from court. Another such claimant, Billu Kashyap of Ghumar Mandi, said that the Division Number 8 police had impounded his handcart on February 25. But due to the lockdown, he could get it released only 15 days ago. Kashyap too said that he was coaxed by the cops to take it back during the ceremony. Similarly, Ashok Kumar of Field Gunj stated that one of his relatives, Rahul Kumar, had borrowed his motorcycle in March this year. Rahul along with his accomplice had executed a crime using the motorcycle so it was seized by the police.“We had released the vehicle from the court on superdari in July. The bike was damaged so I had to spend over Rs 2, 000 on its repair. Two days ago, the Division Number 2 police asked me to come to the police station with the motorcycle. When I asked them, they said it was just a formality and that they will hand it over to me on Friday.”‘I will gift my recovered phone to needy student’Meanwhile, Dr Pardeep Kumar, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Lalton Kalan, who had lost his phone to snatchers, received it back from the police chief today. He said that as he has already bought a new phone, he will be gifting the recovered phone to a needy student who can use it for online classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-claim-credit-ludhiana-cops-ask-people-to-bring-back-already-released-items-for-supardari/story-vqeMt7a9ScnVMxXhnRELoJ.html
30-10-2020||City||Five more Covid deaths in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded five more Covid-related deaths and 556 fresh coronavirus infections on Friday. The UT’s Covid count has mounted to 94,330 and the death toll stands at 1,471.Officials said that 347 people tested positive in Kashmir and 219 in Jammu. Two people died in Jammu and three in Kashmir.So far, 86,026 people have recovered from the disease in the UT and the recovery rate has increased more than 90%. Presently there are now 6,835 active cases in J&K.A total of 978 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 493 in Jammu. Also, the total tests conducted in the UT have crossed 22.84 lakh.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 109. In Kashmir, the maximum fresh cases were witnessed in Srinagar where 141 more people tested positive, followed by Baramulla at 66.Srinagar tops the case tally with 19,245 cases and 353 deaths followed by Jammu district with 17,458 cases and 255 deaths.Till date, 6.55 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 16,336 in home quarantine, 6,835 in isolation, and 45, 064 under home surveillance. Besides, 5.85 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-more-covid-deaths-in-j-k/story-xP8ul0DuT2STa5Ufcp0X4I.html
30-10-2020||City||Ludhiana police hand over case property worth Rs 4 crore to its owners||Running out of space due to case property accumulation at police stations across the city, Ludhiana police on Friday handed over 239 impounded vehicles, 213 mobile phones and Rs 6.74 cash to its owners on supardari (interim custody). The total worth of these properties comes to around Rs 4 crore, the police claimed.As per law, case properties cannot be sold or disposed of till the trial is complete, so these can only be handed over to its owners on supardari. The owners are bound by law to produce the property before court as and when required.Unclaimed properties will be auctioned off on November 3. Another camp to release the seized items on supardari will be conducted on November 21.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said as many as 42 four-wheelers, 9 three-wheelers and 188 two-wheelers, 213 mobile phones and Rs 6.14 lakh cash were handed over to the owners on Friday. Most of these items were involved in or had been used in burglaries, snatchings, theft and mishaps.“As many as 2,200 more vehicles are still lying at the police stations across the city. We have not been able to trace the owners in some cases while in others, the owners are not willing to come to claim it. Therefore, such vehicles and phones will be auctioned off on November 3,” said the police chief.He further added, “Police had initiated the process to auction unclaimed vehicles in October 2019. The process had to be complete by May 2020, but the Covid-induced lockdown threw the plans off track,” he added.Before being handed over to the owners at the auction site, the vehicles were washed and cleaned. Some of these vehicles have been lying in the police station compounds for over five years and are unfit for plying on roads. Owners could be seen take these away on cycle-rickshaws and three-wheelers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-hand-over-case-property-worth-rs-4-crore-to-its-owners/story-dDRpx8KebTC94OqRyWWmvM.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, register pollution complaints in Chandigarh through an app||Acting on a National Green Tribunal directive, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee has developed a mobile app to facilitate residents’ complaints regarding air pollution.Created with the assistance of the National Information Center (NIC), Delhi, the Android-based app is currently in the testing stage. It has been developed on the lines of the Central Pollution Control Board app “Sameer”.“The tribunal had directed CPCC to develop a public grievance redress portal for complaints on air pollution, along with a supervisory mechanism for its disposal mechanism,” said a UT official.NGT also told the committee to evaluate functioning of such portals on a real-time basis in the interest of protection of environment and public health, and to enforce the rule of law. “In particular, analysis may be undertaken about the number of complaints received, nature of issues raised and remedies provided. Such exercise has to be ongoing,” the tribunal’s order stated.Worsening air qualityChandigarh’s air quality index (AQI) was largely under the “satisfactory” category before the Covid-19 lockdown in March. Thereafter, it shifted to the “good” category.The air quality is measured through the AQI. An AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe. In the months following the lockdown, the pollution levels have been consistently rising following lifting of restrictions and increase in economic activity and are currently at the “moderate” level.Emergency preparednessCPCC has also developed a Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) as part of the city’s emergency preparedness in case air quality dives severely. This was stated by the committee in its recent meeting with the NGT.The strategies include reduction in number of vehicles and effective traffic management. It also lays down closing of polluting industries, shutting schools, control of diesel generator set usage, stopping construction activities, odd and even scheme for private vehicles, and closing of brick kilns, stone crushers, hot mix plants and power plants.Besides this, the plan includes mechanised cleaning of road, sprinkling of water, curtailing open burning of coal/wood at open eateries, road dust, construction dust and entry of trucks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/soon-register-pollution-complaints-in-chandigarh-through-an-app/story-lhMGip17jeAMGxh95e9MUK.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two Ludhiana girls clinch top spots in state-level painting contest||Two female students from Ludhiana clinched the first and second positions in separate categories at the state-level online painting contest, results for which were declared by the Punjab education department on Thursday.Students from over 22 districts participated in the competition and eight participated in each category. They made paintings on the life of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Kamalpreet Kaur, a Class 8 student of Government Senior Secondary School, Sohian, bagged the second position in general category, while Dilnaz Kaur of Government Senior Secondary School, Billowal Chaminda, bagged the first position in the children with special needs (CWSN) category. District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, congratulated the winners and the staff for guiding them.Rajinder Kaur, Kamalpreet’s guide teacher, said, “Kamalpreet joined our school in Class 6 and has participated in all art competitions since then. When the state education department announced the competitions to be held online in July, we started the preparation, took some time to finalise the ideas and then selected students started preparing their paintings.”“Kamalpreet was quick and impressive with her colour selection and brought uniqueness and brilliance in the painting. She beautifully portrayed a ship caught in a storm and Makhan Shah Lubana, a Sikh devotee, offering prayers to Guru Tegh Bahadur,” she said.Dilnaz Kaur, a Class 12, had earlier bagged first position in two competitions at the district level, poster making and painting. Paramjit Kaur, Punjabi teacher, helped her with the poster-making competition.Her guide teacher, Maninder Kaur, said, “Kaur has suffered from polio since childhood, but this disability has never stopped her from achieving her dreams. She is unable to walk without support, so her father drops and picks her from school daily. This is a big achievement and she has worked hard to clinch this position. She is a brilliant student in the class and always performs outstandingly in competitions. We have just helped her with ideas and she has come up with a beautiful and impressive painting.”In the painting, Kaur has tried to show that how Guru Tegh Bahadur sacrificed his life to save Kashmiri Pandits who were forced by the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb to convert to Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-ludhiana-girls-clinch-top-spots-in-state-level-painting-contest/story-B701nWTOA2BvYooge8yzjJ.html
30-10-2020||City||Himachal CM directs officials to expedite work on Nagchala greenfield airport||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday directed the authorities to expedite formalities for the construction of greenfield airport in Mandi district and expansion of the airports in Kangra and Shimla.Presiding over a review meeting here, Thakur said land measuring 2,936 bigha has been identified for construction of the greenfield airport at Nagchala. The site clearance has been obtained in January.He said the Ministry of Civil Aviation in November 2019 allowed the Airport Authority of India (AAI) to go ahead with a 2,100-metre runway in the first phase. However, the state would acquire land for the runway up to 3,150 metres for the next phase.For this, the state had signed a memorandum of understanding for the development and operation of this airport with a joint venture company on January 15.The chief minister said as per estimates a total expenditure of Rs 7,448 crore would be incurred on the airport.The proposed airstrip would require channelization of the Suketi rivulet.For the expansion of the airport in Gaggal near Kangra, the Chief Minister said 1,780 bigha of land has been identified for operation of A-320 type of aircraft. The cost of land acquisition and allied activates would be Rs 3347.18 crore.About the expansion of the Jubbarhatti airport near Shimla, the Chief Minister said that the Union civil aviation minister in November 2019 had agreed to provide funds for expansion of the runway by 300 metres.For this, land measuring 182 bighas has been identified. He said a proposal for the social impact assessment has been submitted.With the construction of the said airports, tourism activities would get a boost along with the economy of the state, besides provision of employment avenues to the local people.A presentation was also made on various tourism projects being implemented in the state by tourism and civil aviation secretary Devesh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-directs-officials-to-expedite-work-on-nagchala-greenfield-airport/story-lexIk9ldi0y4ngzkr7LTwO.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University syndicate members demand immediate meeting||Amid row over delay in the senate elections at Panjab University, a group of syndicate members have demanded an immediate meeting, which has not been held in the last three months.A representation by 11 syndics to PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar states that the syndicate, as is the past practice, meets at least once a month to take up various agendas for approval, but due to the delay, the day-to-day functioning of the university and its affiliated colleges has been adversely affectedCiting various sections of the PU calendar, the representation states that its sanctity should be maintained.PUTA seeks interview scheduleMeanwhile, Panjab University Teachers Association has written to the V-C, demanding the full schedule of screening committee interviews for promotions under the career advancement scheme. “We are disappointed with the fact that only 15 interviews have been scheduled while there are more than 65 teachers whose cases for promotion under CAS are pending. It appears that the two-day schedule for interviews has been fixed just to ensure that the dharna of PUTA executive, scheduled for November 3, gets somehow derailed,” the representation states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-members-demand-immediate-meeting/story-Zr04RwPTDO7zaeEQCzFwfK.html
30-10-2020||City||Himachal police urge people to report cybercrimes on available platforms||In order to curb increasing cybercrimes in the state, the Himachal Pradesh Police has appealed to the people, especially women, to report such incidents freely on the various available platforms, including Himachal cyber helpline, WhatsApp number 9805953670, toll-free number 155260, landline number 0177-2620331 and email id cybercrcell-hp@nic.in.SP (cybercrime) Sandeep Dhawal said that as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data of the years 2017, 2018 and 2019, the total cyber crime cases registered in India were 21,796, 27,248 and 44,546 respectively. Out of these, cybercrimes against women were 4,242 in the year 2017, 6,030 in 2018 and 8,347 cases in 2019. The year-wise percentage of such crimes against women comes out to 19%, 22% and 19% respectively.He said that the total number of cybercrime cases in Himachal during the above comparative years were 56, 69 and 78 respectively, while those against women were 30 in the year 2017, 52 in 2018 and 47 in 2019.“The year-wise percentage comes out to be 53%, 75% and 60%, respectively. This shows that cybercrimes in the state are primarily occurring against women,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-police-urge-people-to-report-cybercrimes-on-available-platforms/story-R4rKz51y5qCS6Xay24DxzH.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two succumb to Covid in Panchkula; no casualty in Chandigarh, Mohali||Two people succumbed to Covid-19 in Panchkula on Friday, though Chandigarh and Mohali saw some respite with no casualty. Also, 160 people tested positive for the virus across the tricity.Chandigarh reported 65 fresh cases, including eight in Sector 45, which took the total to 14,351. While 13,469 patients have recovered so far, including 65 discharged on Friday, 225 have died. The number of active cases stands at 657.In Mohali, 49 cases surfaced, including 30 in the main city, while 21 patients were discharged. As many as 12,298 people have tested positive so far, of whom 11,536 have recovered, 236 have died and 526 are still to be discharged.Two men, aged 65 and 88, with comorbidities died in Panchkula, taking the district’s toll to 113.A health worker was among 46 people who were found infected with the virus. As many as 7,124 people, including 144 health workers, have tested positive so far. While 6,819 patients have recovered, 192 cases remain active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-succumb-to-covid-in-panchkula-no-casualty-in-chandigarh-mohali/story-zaDLDs4MhFyXrdTdLCZaQL.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman, son booked for abetment after father-in-law ‘commits suicide’||A woman and her son have been booked for abetment to suicide after her 74-year-old father-in-law died in mysterious circumstances at their house in Sector 22, Chandigarh Police said on Friday. The case has been registered on the complaint of the deceased’s daughter and on the basis of a suicide note found in his shirt’s pocket. It has also come to light that the family initially tried to conceal the alleged suicide that took place on Thursday. The elderly man’s postmortem report is awaited, and police have not yet ruled out murder. The victim’s daughter-in-law, aged 41, is a bank clerk, and grandson, 21, has studied till Class 12 and is preparing for competitive exams. While the woman has been sent to judicial custody, her son will be produced in court on Saturday. They have been booked under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the police station in Sector 17.The victim’s son is an advocate. All names are being concealed as it is a case of suicide.Family told doctors he had breathing problemAccording to police, the alleged suicide took place on Thursday morning. They got the information in the evening.The family had initially taken the body to the civil hospital in Sector 22 and informed the doctors that the elderly man had been having difficulty in breathing and collapsed.Not suspecting any foul play, doctors reportedly declared the man “brought dead” and handed over the body to the family, who brought it back to home.It was only after the victim’s daughter arrived from Delhi that she suspected foul play and called police.On reaching the house and quizzing the son, police were told that the man was found hanging from the ceiling in his room around 8:30am. With the help of other family members and tenants, he claimed to have removed the body and rushed it to the civil hospital, where his father was declared brought dead and the body handed over back to him.Suicide note recovered from shirt’s pocketWhile shifting the body to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, in the evening, police recovered a small piece of paper from the shirt’s pocket. Written in Hindi, apparently by the victim, it stated that he was very sad and his daughter-in-law and grandson were responsible for his death, said a police official privy to the probe. Police said the man’s daughter has told them that he had not been keeping well, and the two suspects used to constantly taunt him for being a liability. Postmortem report awaited for further actionMeanwhile, police are suspecting further foul play in the case, as questions remain on the family’s claim that the victim was found hanging from the ceiling.A police official investigating the matter said the cloth allegedly used by the victim to hang himself has not been recovered. Police had asked the family to hand it over to them, but they failed to do so. Search of the house, too, led to no recovery. The body has been kept at the mortuary in GMSH, and its postmortem will be conducted after receiving the Covid-19 test report. “The real cause of death will be ascertained after we receive the postmortem report. Further action will be taken on its basis,” said Ram Rattan, station house officer, Sector 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-woman-son-booked-for-abetment-after-father-in-law-commits-suicide/story-TMgbcq7kdCw38EYHNngUrN.html
30-10-2020||City||Himachal CM lays foundation stones of projects worth ₹24.7 crore in Sundernagar||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday laid foundation stones and inaugurated various developmental projects worth Rs 24.70 crore in Mandi district’s Sundernagar through video-conferencing from Shimla.He said Sundernagar legislative assembly constituency was fast forging ahead on the path of progress and prosperity and it was for the first time that Rs 219 crore was allocated under the Central Road Fund (CRF) for the construction of a road from Salapar to Tattapani.Jai Ram inaugurated the science laboratory building at Government Senior Secondary School, Nehri, in the area constructed for Rs 1.15 crore.Apart from this, the CM laid the foundation stone of Krangal-Kindar road to be built for Rs 13.73 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. This would benefit people about six panchayats of the area. He also laid the foundation of ITI building in Nehri, a project worth Rs 7.94 crore. The ITI would impart skill training for trades such as electrician, turner, plumber, fashion design and technology and information technology. The foundation stones of Forest Rest House and Chief Minister Lok Bhawan, both in Nehri, were laid.While addressing the virtual rally from Shimla, the state head said that all the developmental projects kicked off by him would be completed within the stipulated time period, and that paucity of funds would not come in the way of development.Jai Ram said that developmental projects worth Rs 500 crore were being executed in Sundernagar, which include Rs 200 crore schemes of Jal Shakti department and Rs 100 crore projects of PWD.Stating that Nehri had remained neglected by the previous government, the CM said now they were laying special stress on development of the area. He said the ITI in Nehri would go a long way in providing employment-oriented education to the youth of the area. The Chief Minister Lok Bhawan, he said, would be an additional source of income to the Panchayat Samiti.The CM said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has visited the state four times in the past three years, which shows the love and bonding he shares with the state and its people. He said the PM dedicated the Rs 3,300-crore Atal Tunnel in Rohtang to the nation, opening new horizons for development in the land-locked tribal areas.He said that several historic initiatives taken by the Union government have helped pave the way for a strong and vibrant India. He also mentioned the various developmental schemes launched by the state government for the welfare of its people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-cm-lays-foundation-stones-of-projects-worth-24-7-crore-in-sundernagar/story-Xt2ntXZx74VoftUBcEomoI.html
30-10-2020||City||Two robbed of phones, motorcycles in Ludhiana||Two persons were robbed of their motorcycles and mobile phones in two separate incidents on Thursday. The police have lodged two cases and initiated an investigation.In the first incident, a Machhiwara resident was robbed of his motorcycle and mobile phone at Kohara-Machhiwara road.The victim, Vijay Singh, 35, said that he was returning home from Mullapur Dakha on his motorcycle on Thursday evening and as he reached Kohara-Machhiwara road two miscreants intercepted him and flashed a sharp-edged weapon at him and took his phone before fleeing with his motorcycleHe sounded the police. ASI Jashandeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Section 379-B of the IPC has been registered against two unidentified accused at Koomkalan police station.In a similar incident, four miscreants robbed a farm labourer of his motorcycle at Kaunke Khosa village on Thursday. The complainant Gurtej Singh of the same village said that he had given his motorcycle to his worker Lalu, who was going to the field when four miscreants on two motorcycles intercepted him and badly thrashed him. They took his mobile phone and motorcycle and sped away.ASI Amritpal Singh, who is investigating the case said that an FIR has been lodged against unidentified accused under Sections 379-B, 341 and 323 of the IPC at Sadar police station of Jagraon. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-robbed-of-phones-motorcycles-in-ludhiana/story-0weO9cXjvUBGzYTQaTMWnL.html
30-10-2020||City||Punjab education department launches competitive exam series||Punjab education department, lending yet another new dimension to its Sikhiya Sudhar Muhim, has launched Udaan: Competitive exam series. The project aims at giving wings to aspirations of medical and non-medical students, especially belonging to underprivileged backgrounds, who are aspiring to get admission in medical and engineering courses in premier institutions. Under the project, students of Classes 11 and 12th in the science stream would be provided sheets comprising multiple-choice questions (MCQs) in the subjects— physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology on a daily basis. These sheets would be uploaded on the Punjab Educare app and the department’s Facebook page. Besides, these sheets would also be sent to the students through WhatsApp groups. Divulging details, Jaswinder Kaur, assistant director, said that the competitive exam series would prove a boon for the science students, especially who cannot afford to coach from private institutions, to prepare them for various entrance examinations to seek admission in medical, engineering, nursing, paramedical courses, architecture courses. Under the exam series, a team of resource persons comprising principals, who have been deputed as district mentors in the subjects at the district level, lecturers serving at government schools and meritorious schools, have been deputed for preparing the question banks, said Jaswinder Kaur while adding that apart from providing the MCQs sheets, doubt clearing sessions would also be organised by school lecturers. These sessions could be organised both online as well as in form of physical classes as per the convenience while adhering to Covid guidelines. The district education officers, principals, district mentors and school lecturers have been asked to sensitise students of the science stream to avail the maximum benefit of the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-education-department-launches-competitive-exam-series/story-2xuUkUU1dXbaRVH5MppLiK.html
30-10-2020||City||Scholarship exams: Online registration process begins, last date to apply is November 15||The online registration process for the National Means and Merit Scholarship (NMMS) exam and Punjab State Talent Search Exam (PSTSE), and National Talent Search Exam (NTSE) has started for students of Classes 8 and 10. Students can register at www.epunjab.gov.in and the last date to apply is November 15. NMMS is a centrally sponsored scheme for Class 8 students. The students who qualify for the examination become eligible for Rs 12,000 per annum (Rs 1000 per month) scholarship for four years from Class 9 to 12. This year, 229 students from Ludhiana cleared the scholarship exam, out of a total of 5,867 who appeared in the exam last year. While PSTSE is an exam conducted by the state government and those who crack the test get Rs 200 every month till they complete Class 12. Over 7,507 students applied online for the exam and 60 cleared the scholarship test this year. The Punjab State Talent Search Examination is conducted annually for students of Classes 8 and 10 to provide financial help to deserving government school students. The exam is aimed at preventing students from dropping out of school due to financial constraints. The question paper comprised two parts: a mental ability test (90 marks) and a scholastic aptitude test (90 marks). District Education Officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “I have directed principals to inform teachers regarding the scholarship exam and make maximum students apply online for the exam. If students clear the test, the scholarship can be utilised for further studies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/scholarship-exams-online-registration-process-begins-last-date-to-apply-is-november-15/story-kU8yZm1ojg4ngr89qMHlDL.html
30-10-2020||City||Air quality in Ludhiana worsens amid spurt in farm fires||As farm fire incidents continued to be reported from across the state, the air quality index (AQI) of the city deteriorated, according to the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).The data shared by the PPCB shows that the air quality had moved from moderate to poor.On October 23, the AQI level reached 222, which is stated to be poor and it kept rising further and was recorded 248 on October 24. The next day (on Dusshera) the AQI reached an alarming level and particulate matter (PM) 2.5 was recorded at 280, while the air quality remained moderate on October 26 and 27. But the PM 2.5 levels began to rise from October 28 and 29 after the AQI level reached 224 and 226 respectively. While on Friday, the AQI was recorded 186.PPCB officials said there is a constant rise in stubble burning cases. As per the data shared by the board, over 879 stubble burning incidents have been reported from September 21 to October 29 , whereas 581 and 329 farm fires were reported in the corresponding period in 2019 and 2018 respectively.What is PM 2.5 and why we need to worryParticulate matter (PM) of the order of size of 2.5 microns is called PM2.5. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), PM 2.5 can penetrate the lung barrier and enter the blood system.“Chronic exposure to particles contributes to the risk of developing cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, as well as lung cancer,” states the WHO website.The particles with a diameter of 10 microns or less (PM10) can penetrate and lodge deep inside the lungs.What doctors sayDoctors believe that mandating the wearing of masks due to the Covid-19 spread will help people while they are outdoorsIf possible, use a mask which blocks PM2.5Those who have dust allergy or a compromised immune system should avoid going outPeople should wash their hands and face at regular intervalsAvoid smokingSand, soil and municipal waste should not be carried in open trolley/trucksPlayers, athletes and senior citizens should avoid exercises/walks during these daysPatients, particularly asthmatic or those suffering from heart and eye ailments, must remain indoorsParents are advised not to let their children play outsideGo to the nearest hospital if you feel breathless or palpitation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-in-ludhiana-worsens-amid-spurt-in-farm-fires/story-mBCWrWRZEsz6m4yeNGywiO.html
30-10-2020||City||Tourism no option, 2,000 villagers in Kullu’s Malana face livelihood issues||Eight months after covid-19 forced lockdown rocked the state, over 2,000 villagers in the remote village of Malana in Kullu district’s Parvati Valley are struggling for livelihood. A narco-tourism destination, even as every government has tried to wean villagers away from the trade, the village that traces its origin to ancient times, is known for fiercely guarding its independent traditions, which it has successfully preserved. Over 15,000 tourists visit it during a normal year. “The panchayat banned the entry of outsiders much before the lockdown. Thankfully, there is no case of covid-19, but villagers now face livelihood issues,” says Malana panchayat secretary Tek Chand. “Tourism activity has halted, villagers are facing difficulty in fending for themselves. Potato is the main cash crop, but there are no buyers for that also this time,” says panchayat pradhan Bhagi Ram, adding , “Barring few, residents have small land holdings in Malana,” he said, adding that the government should make provisions for granting land to villagers who are landless to help them to wean away from the narcotic.”Traditionally, inhabitants of this land-locked village used to make baskets, ropes and slippers from hemp. In the late 1980s, however, visiting foreigners taught villagers to extract the intoxicant resin from cannabis. Hippies made this forest land their transit home and introduced drug culture to the Kullu Valley, which is known for its splendour and scenery. Malana panchayat comprises two villages Saura behad and Dhara Behad and has a total population of 2,000 in 475 households. Successive governments have tried to wean villagers away from narcotic trade, there is no other cash crop to rival cannabis in Malana. Maize and potatoes that villagers grow don’t fetch handsome returns. “Even now, the village wears a deserted look as most of them are camping in forest to extract herbs,” said a local youngster, a member of Navyuwak Mandal, who did not want to be blamed.Cannabis extracted from the hybrid hemp plants is grown in a clandestine manner is sold at exorbitant prices in the international market as well in key tourist spots in the country, particularly in Goa. To market the local charas, drug peddlers have invented their own brand names like Skunk balls, AK-47. The Malana cream, which is the charas extracted from hemp in the forest land of Malana village, remains the most sought after.Villagers also claim that they the descendants of the great Greek King Alexander, with some of his soldiers also believed to have settled here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tourism-no-option-2-000-villagers-in-kullu-s-malana-face-livelihood-issues/story-DOZ560150yrfPlJQwLtdWK.html
30-10-2020||City||Three more cattle dead at Panchkula cow shed||The number of bovine deaths at the Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham in Panchkula reached 74 with three more cows dying on Friday. Though the preliminary post-mortem report has hinted at food poisoning, a detailed report from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Madhuban, is awaited to establish the exact cause of the cattle deaths.A three-member investigation team, comprising the chief executive officer of the District Rural Development Agency, Nishu Singhal, assistant commissioner of police Raj Kumar and animal husbandry department deputy director Dr Anil Banwala, will submit a report after getting the forensic analysis. Different samples of food, fodder, viscera from stomach, blood and froth have been sent for testing and the report is still awaited. Dr Banwala said, “Three more cows have died. As many as 20 bovines have recovered, while six are under treatment and responding well to it.” No direct feeding Meanwhile, as an immediate corrective measure, the district administration has decided to keep checks on cattle’s feed at the gaudham. Feed will be checked before it is served to cows and visitors won’t be allowed to directly feed them. A special team of animal husbandry department will regularly collect samples of the cattle feed. “New standard operating procedures are being prepared, so that such incidents do not happen again. The animal husbandry director has been asked to prepare a list of what can be fed to the milch and abandoned cattle. Feed according to this checklist will be given to animals,” said MS Yadav, CEO of the Mata Mansa Devi trust. As many as 1,500 cattle are housed in the seven cow sheds at the gaudham located next to the Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula. There are 550 bovines sheltered in shed numbers 2 and 3, where 74 animals have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-more-cattle-dead-at-panchkula-cow-shed/story-Tckl2AhsjGCehuIlbovqmI.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims 11 lives in Haryana, 1,650 infections surface||Haryana recorded 1,650 new coronavirus infections and 11 deaths on Friday. Most cases were reported from Gurugram (399), Faridabad (270), Hisar (195) and Rohtak (106). Significant infections were also reported from Sirsa (92), Rewari (84), Sonepat (69), Mahendergarh (68), Jhajjar (57) and Karnal (55). The fresh infections have pushed the cumulative number of cases in the state to 1,65,467. As per a medical bulletin, 1,179 patients recovered from the virus, taking the total number of recovered patients to 1,51,839. The total number of active infections stood at 11,851. The recovery rate was 91.76% and the fatality rate was 1.07%. Four fatalities were reported from Hisar, three from Gurugram, two from Panchkula and one each from Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar.The bulletin said there are 210 critically-ill patients in the state, of which 30 were on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/virus-claims-11-lives-in-haryana-1-650-infections-surface/story-EqnMGJtTn0Fqs5RDnQvJBO.html
30-10-2020||Noida||Air quality ‘very poor’ in Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon, Faridabad||The air quality largely remained “very poor” in Noida Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Faridabad in the National Capital Region on Friday, according to a government agency. Concentration of major air pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. The average 24-hour AQI was 394 in Greater Noida, 382 in Ghaziabad, 379 in Noida, 367 in Gurgaon, 337 in Faridabad, according to the CPCB’s Sameer app at 4 pm on Friday.Prominent pollutants in Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad were PM 2.5 and PM 10, it stated. Prominent pollutant in Ghaziabad and Gurgaon was PM 2.5, it added.All five satellite cities of Delhi have four air quality monitoring stations except for Greater Noida, which has two. The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there, according to the app.The CPCB states that an AQI in the “very poor” category can lead to respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. PTI KIS KJ KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-very-poor-in-noida-ghaziabad-gurgaon-faridabad/story-1UwsKwTxjW1Q7oBX2ezYVI.html
30-10-2020||City||50% of Mohali’s fields under stubble burning: Admn survey||Rapid response teams and village-level nodal officers appointed to monitor stubble burning in the district have found that 50% of the total fields in Mohali are under stubble burning, while 35 farmers have been fined to the tune of Rs 90,000 for the offence. Through a survey carried out over the past month, the teams found that around 25,800 hectares of land was under paddy cultivation, which is expected to result in 1.29 lakh quintals of crop residue. “The survey teams detected stubble burning at 53 sites and another 56 with no violation. Till October 20, we have imposed environmental penalty of Rs 90,000 on 35 farmers found burning stubble in their fields,” deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said. Besides, 54 FIRs have also been lodged. While one case was registered under Section 39 of the AIR (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, another 53 were under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.The rapid response teams have been trained to use ATR mobile app to share action taken on the spot. Response time is fixed and it is mandatory for every officer to update action taken within the stipulated period. Machines available on rentA total of 1,700 stubble management machines are available in the district. These can be sourced on rent through 67 cooperative societies and 29 custom hiring centres. Besides, there are 75 combines with the super straw management system and 4,000 harrows for stubble management. ENVIRONMENTAL PENALTYLess than two acres Rs 2,500Two to five acres Rs 5,000Over five acres Rs 15,000A red entry, making the offender ineligible for any government facility or bank loan, is also made in the respective land records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-of-mohali-s-fields-under-stubble-burning-admn-survey/story-X8PRZMAlq8fKKmzhkp2xSO.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||14 Haryana cities register ‘very poor air quality’||The number of cities in Haryana registering ‘very poor’ air quality increased from 10 to 14 on Friday. The air quality index (AQI) of six cities — Ambala, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Narnaul and Yamunanagar — was found to be ‘poor’ while the AQI for Hisar remained severe, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). As per CPCB data, cities with ‘very poor’ AQI are Bahadurgarh (AQI value: 366 ), Ballabgarh (358), Bhiwani (303), Charkhi Dadri (338), Dharuhera (376), Faridabad (337), Fatehabad (398), Gurugram (367), Jind (388), Manesar (336), Panipat (303), Rohtak (335), Sirsa (342), and Sonepat (354). AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, and 101 to 200 moderate. However, AQI between 201 to 300 is classified poor, 301 to 400 very poor and it crosses over to the severe zone at 401. After remaining satisfactory for many days, Panchkula slipped into the ‘moderate’ category after it recorded an AQI of 146 on Friday. Meanwhile, as per the latest data of the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), 229 fresh active fire locations had been detected in the state on Thursday, taking the total cases of farm fires during this year’s paddy harvesting season to 5,066.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/14-haryana-cities-have-very-poor-air-quality/story-8EwFQX0Zexoby3Z99hZOII.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||North-east Delhi violence reminiscent of carnage during days of partition, court observes||Parts of North East Delhi gripped by a communal frenzy in February this year were reminiscent of carnage during the days of partition, a Delhi court observed while dismissing the anticipatory bail plea of an accused in connection with a case related to the murder of Intelligence Bureau staffer Ankit Sharma during the violence.Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav, in his order on Thursday, said that the riots spread like wildfire across the smoke-grey skyline of the national capital engulfing new areas and snuffing out more and more innocent lives.The court made the observations while dismissing the anticipatory bail plea of Muntajim alias Musa, who had moved the court for relief citing the medical ground of his wife’s illness.“I have also gone through the medical documents qua the wife of the applicant filed along with the application. Most of the documents are prescription slips and one ultrasound report, all of which pertain to the year 2018 and are not recent ones. In any way, the said medical documents are of no help to the applicant, as the same do not prima facie establishes that the wife of the applicant is suffering from any serious ailment or otherwise,” the order said.“Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality vis-a-vis gravity of the offence, I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of anticipatory bail to the applicant. The application for anticipatory bail is accordingly dismissed,” it added.The court also noted that the custodial interrogation of the applicant is necessary to unearth the conspiracy for planning, instigating and executing the riot action plan. “The allegations against the applicant are grave in nature. His presence/custodial interrogation is also necessary for his identification by way of judicial Test Identification Parade from public witnesses,” it noted.Advocate Mohd Athar, representing the applicant, submitted that he has been falsely roped in the matter merely on the basis of disclosure statements made by co-accused persons and added that he has not been captured either in any CCTV footage or any viral videos.“His call detail records location is of no help to the investigating agency as he is resident of the same locality. It is further argued that the applicant has not been identified by any of the public witnesses cited in the matter,” Athar submitted.Special Public Prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary strongly opposed the anticipatory bail and submitted that this is an unfortunate case of the brutal murder of a young officer of Intelligence Bureau by the riotous mob in the evening of February 25 and added that the applicant was an active member of the said riotous mob.“It is emphasised that the applicant is a resident of Nand Nagri and his presence at the scene of the crime at the time of the incident was not natural. His CDR location has been found to be at the scene of the crime on both February 24 and 25, when the intensity of the communal riots was maximum,” Chaudhary submitted.Chaudhary further argued that CDR analysis qua the mobile phone of the applicant clearly establishes that he had been in regular touch with two co-accused persons, both of whom played an active role in the murder of Ankit Sharma.“Co-accused Haseen had in his disclosure statement categorically admitted to having stabbed Ankit Sharma number of times with his knife and his accomplices having hit him with ‘dandas’ and thereafter throwing his body in the ‘nala’,” he added.At least 53 people were killed and hundreds of others were injured in the violence that took place in northeast Delhi between February 24 and 26 sparked by clashes between groups supporting and opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-east-delhi-violence-reminiscent-of-carnage-during-days-of-partition-court-observes/story-g4jyixDOUXwShFH4uq9thL.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Computer instructors awaiting salaries despite relief from tribunal||Even as the Chandigarh Administrative Tribunal (CAT) had directed the UT education department on October 21 to disburse the salaries of 155 computer instructors, who haven’t been paid since June, the instructors are still awaiting their dues.The tribunal had ordered, “The respondents (education department) are restrained from replacing the applicants by appointing persons on contract through outsourcing. The respondents are also directed to consider the claim of the applicants for release of salary, which they have not yet paid as per the submission made by the learned counsel for the applicants.”But the teachers, who have also written to the district education officer (DEO) about this, said the department had not followed the tribunal’s directions even after 10 days.“For so many months during the pandemic, we have survived without any pay and it’s still held up. We hope the department pays our dues soon,” said a junior computer instructor, wishing anonymity.On the department’s part, UT director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “The UT finance department has been apprised of the matter, which will be resolved soon.”Till May 31, these employees had been drawing salaries through the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC). After the contract was given to a company in June through the Government E-Market (GEM) portal, the contractor had allegedly demanded Rs 12,000 per person from the instructors to pay their salaries. The instructors had also lodged a complaint regarding this with the UT education department and written to the UT administrator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-computer-instructors-awaiting-salaries-despite-relief-from-tribunal/story-x5pC1QixRgKn9Lc1XtbaOK.html
30-10-2020||City||Haryana space centre, Ambala administration lock horns over farm fire data||Ambala district administration and agriculture department have found substantial difference in the farm fire cases reported through satellite by the Hisar-based Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) and the actual stubble burning incidents.As per the data provided by the agriculture department, there had been 464 active fire locations (AFL) of kharif crops reported by the Hisar centre till last week, of which stubble burning was detected at merely 31 sites, about 6.7% of the total number. Deputy commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Sharma said there was regular monitoring of stubble burning incidents by the agriculture department and pollution control board. “Our daily reports have found a stark difference between multiple data and the actual fire cases are only 6-7%. Around 20% locations were cross-checked by a team of senior officials comprising deputy director of agriculture, area tehsildar, and block development and panchayat officer and it was found to be true,” he added. Till October 25, 14 FIRs had been registered against farmers for burning the crop residue and 17 challans were issued. The authorities have collected ₹42,500 as a penalty from violators. Sources in the agriculture department said that such anomalies were also pointed out earlier too, where the thermal scanners captured the images of cremations or garbage burning that were mistaken for AFL. Meanwhile, HARSAC director VS Arya said there could not be a fault in the satellite capturing. “There was a navigation problem in Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra and the department was helped by the centre’s team,” the official added. “The resolution of the satellite is 375×375 metres and an AFL is within this area. If an AFL is not found at a particular area, that could also mean that the officials may have been checking just the specific farm or site. The fire could be near or around the captured area. Also, the satellite doesn’t capture small fires like those of cremation or heaps of burning garbage,” the director said. Deputy director of agriculture Girish Nagpal said to check an AFL, the department officials are accompanied by a panchayat secretary and patwari to a village. “The team reaches the location with the help of longitude and latitude coordinates. To report if a fire is found or not, a photo of the farm/area along with the coordinates is taken,” he added. As the pollution levels deviated between “poor” and “very poor” category, the pollution control board is keeping tabs on the construction and industrial activities in the district. Board’s regional officer Nitin Mehta said, “The body is also inspecting the mining screening plants and has given guidelines on dust suspension to a few construction activities in the city area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-space-centre-ambala-administration-lock-horns-over-farm-fire-data/story-uQ1bcPcZiqmbRWEkmvHmGK.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Visit PGIMER OPDs only after teleconsultation||Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has reiterated that patients will be permitted to visit the OPDs from November 2 only after prior appointment through the teleconsultation process.This process is important to avoid crowding and lower chances of spread of the Covid-19 infection, the institute said. This will be followed in all OPDs of PGIMER – New Outpatient Department, Advanced Eye Centre, Advanced Cardiac Centre, Advanced Paediatrics Centre, Drug Deaddiction and Treatment Centre, and Oral Health Sciences Centre.“Patients will be evaluated first through teleconsultation. Only those requiring further examination will be called to the OPD by appointment from November 2 onwards. The date and time of appointment will be intimated to the patients through SMS. This will ensure requisite physical distancing among patients and attendants visiting the OPDs,” the institute said in a release on Friday. It added that overcrowding can lead to an outbreak of Covid-19 among this susceptible population. Hence, physical OPDs will be run through the appointment system only and patients coming without an appointment will not be entertained.Only one attendant should accompany a patient, which is absolutely vital to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection in the community.“The primary aim of PGIMER is to prevent exposure of patients with comorbidities to Covid-19 infection. In view of the current dip in patients, the institute will attempt to scale up the elective outpatient services,” the release said. PGIMER has been providing round-the-clock emergency services through the pandemic. It has also been providing regular elective outpatient services through teleconsultation and in physical form for cancer patients, obstetrics and those requiring semi-urgent medical or surgical care. TELECONSULTATION NUMBERSNew OPD 0172- 275-5991Advanced Eye Centre and DDTC: 0172- 275-5992Advanced Cardiac Centre: 0172-275-5993Advanced Paediatric Centre: 0172-275-5994Oral Health Sciences Centre: 0172-275-5995Obstetrics: 7087003434Registration time 8am to 9.30am||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/visit-pgimer-opds-only-after-teleconsultation/story-pNrxXIou88vUV1pU4LjeoI.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh extends 100 per cent tax waiver for bus operators till December 31||In a relief to bus operators in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered 100 per cent waiver on Motor Vehicle Tax till December 31 for all stage carriage, mini and school buses, while deferring payment of arrears of taxes, without interest and penalty, to March 31, next year.The move will result in total financial benefit to the transport sector to the tune of Rs 100 crore, according to an official statement.The chief minister also directed Transport Minister Razia Sultana to discuss and resolve other issues of concern to mini private bus owners by the next week.The decisions and directives were announced by the chief minister at a virtual conference with various private transport associations in the state. Besides Razia, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and Transport Secretary K Siva Prasad were present at the meeting.Though the transport department had initially suggested waiver up to 50 per cent of tax till December 31, the chief minister, responding to the concerns of transporters, overruled the department to announce 100 per cent relief, the statement said.The transporters were earlier provided 100 per cent relief for two months, till September 30, by the state government.“The chief minister took note of the problems faced by the transporters, who pointed out that with less than 10 per cent commuters availing the bus services, they were unable to meet even the cost of diesel to run their vehicles.    “Though the state transport and PRTC (state transport), being prime routes, were in demand, private bus operators continued to suffer due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” representatives of the transport associations told the chief minister.  Amarinder agreed with the transporters that their industry, run entirely by Punjabis, needed further support from the state government in the present situation and accepted their demand for total tax waiver till the end of this year, the statement further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-extends-100-per-cent-tax-waiver-for-bus-operators-till-december-31/story-uZyTwWDA5qnpz97bcrPIcL.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana CM’s flying squad raid: Private school found holding regular classes in Bhiwani village||A team of the chief minister’s flying squad raided a private school in Bhiwani’s Badesra village that had been holding regular classes in violation of the Centre’s Covid guidelines on Friday.Acting on an anonymous complaint, the squad raided the private school and found students of Classes 1 to 12 attending classes, most of them without face masks.Sub-inspector (SI) Sunil Kumar, who is part of the flying squad, said, “As per guidelines, students from Classes 9 to 12 can visit the school with mandatory consent of their parents for short durations to clear doubts. However, the school was running regular classes and had not taken precautions against the virus. An FIR will be lodged against the school’s owner under the Disaster Management Act,” the SI said.Bhiwani district education officer (DEO) Ajit Sheoran said, “Students were sitting close to each other without face masks. The parents, too, did not flag the matter. Had a student gotten infected who would be responsible. The school authorities, teachers and parents were all at fault.” A teacher, requesting anonymity, said, “We started classes at the parents’ request as there are very few Covid cases in the area. Many parents said they will not pay the fee unless classes were resumed. Another reason for starting classes was that many students did not have access to a phone and could not attend online classes. Our school was raided but politicians who are brazenly flouting norms while taking out rallies in Baroda are not being censored.” This week, Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal had indicated that the decision regarding re-opening of the primary and middle schools was likely to be taken in the first week of November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cm-s-flying-squad-raid-private-school-found-holding-regular-classes-in-bhiwani-village/story-sMuQUb7xgz8KR9arqDr3PL.html
30-10-2020||Dehradun||20 rafting guides in Haridwar contract Covid-19 in last 2 weeks||River rafting activity, which resumed last month after nearly seven months in Rishikesh, has suffered a major blow with a total of twenty river rafting guide personnel found Covid-19 positive in the past two weeks. On Thursday, sixteen rafting guides tested positive for the disease while four guides had also tested positive in the last two weeks. River rafting was allowed late last month with approximately 10,000 tourists and adventure seekers in the past four weeks flocking to riverside stretches in Uttarakhand’s Rishikesh adjacent to NH-58 Badrinath Mana-Ghaziabad highway. According to block health in charge Fakot, Tehri Garhwal Covid-19 sampling is being done for the people involved in rafting in Rishikesh. “As a precautionary measure apart from people involved in rafting,  people involved in activities involving hotel, restaurant and guest houses are also being tested so that the chain of Covid-19 spread can be broken. In the last two weeks, 20 rafters have tested positive”,  Dr Jagdeesh Chandra Joshi said Dr Joshi said not only rafting and hotel industry personnel but tourists arriving and staying here should ensure adhering to social distancing norms, wear face masks, resort to regular sanitisation and consult doctors in case they feel Covid-19 related symptoms. Also read: Truck with 25 tonnes of onion missing for a month, police launch manhuntDinesh Bhatt, president of Rafting Association of Uttarakhand said that prior to the resumption of rafting activities, stringent measures were put in place by the association members like social distancing, sanitisation to lessening the number of people in a single raft. “Covid-19 is a global pandemic so we are taking all possible precautions. We are adhering to guidelines and directives issued by the health department and the government to ensure reining in the spread of Covid as well as testing of all guides and related personnel. Rafts are being sanitised on a regular basis and all personnel involved and rafters on board have been mandatorily directed to wear face masks,” said Dinesh Bhatt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/20-rafting-guides-in-haridwar-contract-covid-19-in-last-2-weeks/story-q5f1yUMc1mrLL8l5UfAbPL.html
30-10-2020||Patna||‘Murder plot of Janata Dal Rashtravadi’s Sheohar candidate hatched in Tihar jail’: Police||The conspiracy to kill Sheohar assembly candidate Srinarayan Singh of Janata Dal Rashtravadi party was hatched in Tihar Central jail, police said on Friday. Police claimed that the killing was the result of a gang war. Santosh Jha’s gang has taken the responsibility of Singh’s death. Seven criminals on three motorbikes gunned down two people, including Singh while he was campaigning in Bihar’s Sheohar assembly constituency on October 24 after which one of the attackers was lynched by the slain leader’s supporters. Investigations have revealed that the plan to murder the leader was chalked out by Vikash Jha alias Kalia, a gangster lodged in Tihar Jail. Vikash is a close associate of dreaded gangster Santosh Jha who was serving a life term for the murder of two engineers and facing trial in 20 criminal cases and was shot dead in Sitamarhi’s court on August 28, 2018. Two of the shooters were arrested late on Thursday night and the police recovered two pistols, eight live cartridges and three motorcycles used in the crime. Sheohar Superintendent of Police Santosh Kumar said that the preliminary investigation suggested that following the murder of dreaded gangster, Vikash took all the command in his hand and gave directions to eliminate Singh. He hired seven criminals, including Gauri Shankar Maharaaj alias Kisan Jha, Niraj Pathak alias Chinese, Babu Saheb Jha, Purshottam Kumar Mishra and three others. The gang members continuously recce Singh’s movement and were staying in Patna to eliminate him at a political party’s office when he was roaming about for party tickets. During the interrogation, they confessed that Vikash frequently got in touch with them through WhatsApp call for three months. When Singh filed nomination, the arrested criminals tried to kill him but due to heavy deployment of police forces, they changed their plan. Finally, the assailants fired on him when he, along with supporters, were returning from Hathsar village after campaigning for the elections. Singh, along with Santosh Kumar Mahto and Alok Ranjan Mahto, received bullet injuries. Singh and Santosh died during the treatment while Ranjan is said to be out of danger. Also read: ‘Conversion just for marriage’s sake not acceptable’ - Allahabad High CourtThe police said that on the fateful day, Gaurishankar Jha was beaten to death by a mob while Niraj Pathak was caught with firearms. The Sheohar SP constituted an SIT under the supervision of sub-divisional police officer to nab the accused at the earliest. The SP said that Vikash Jha is also made the prime accused in the double murder case and raids are on to nab three more culprits. Singh, who was earlier with the RJD, was facing 30 criminal cases. He was contesting as a candidate of the Janta Dal (Rashtravadi), which is part of the Upendra Kushwaha-led alliance that has Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM and Mayawati’s BSP as members. Bihar’s Sheohar assembly segment is witnessing a keen contest between sitting JD(U) MLA Sharfuddin and RJD candidate Chetan Anand Singh, son of jailed former MP Anand Mohan. Vikash Jha alias Kalia, serving life term in the sensational double murder of two engineers in Darbhanga, escaped from the prisoners’ ward of Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur on August 18. Earlier he had escaped twice from remand home and Sitamarahi judicial custody. The STF managed to arrest him from Nangloi area of National Capital on October 18, 2019 and the police recovered a pistol and seven live cartridges from his possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/murder-plot-of-janata-dal-rashtravadi-party-s-sheohar-candidate-hatched-in-tihar-jail-police/story-kG9cU2xMsxFuA6nSJDeSiP.html
30-10-2020||Lucknow||UP’s new ordinance to check air pollution covers state’s most industrialised districts||Industrialists in Uttar Pradesh’s six most industrialised and highest revenue-generating districts - that are part of the National Capital Region (NCR) - on Thursday said they wanted subsidised piped natural gas (PNG), instead of coal and wood, for their units to check air pollution.They said PNG was already being supplied to industrial units near Taj in Agra and Firozabad district. Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar (Noida), Bulandshahr, Hapur and Baghpat districts of UP are part of the NCR which now falls under the ambit of ‘Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020’.After promulgation of the new ordinance by the Centre to check air pollution in NCR, industrialists of Uttar Pradesh’s NCR want the state government to make sure there will be no harassment of industrialists.The ordinance stipulates a fine of up to Rs 1 crore with imprisonment of five years. “The state government must make available subsidised PNG to all industrial units in the state’s NCR. The government is already doing this for industrial units in Agra and Firozabad districts,” said Pankaj Kumar, national president of Indian Industries Association (IIA), a lobby group of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector. “We will soon hand over a memorandum to chief minister Yogi Adityanath with the list of suggestions for industrial units in the NCR,” added Kumar. A majority of UP’s industrial units are in Gautam Buddha Nagar (Noida), Ghaziabad and Meerut, which are considered maximum revenue and employment generators for the Uttar Pradesh government. Maximum investment in Uttar Pradesh is also in Noida and its adjoining regions. Smoke emanating from boilers of industrial units is considered among major air-polluting factors in the NCR along with burning of stubble. In these boilers, coal and wood is used as fuel.Also read: LeT behind killing of 3 BJP leaders in Kashmir, says senior police official“Industries have always been a soft target for any action. An industrialist contributes to the nation’s growth and economy. He is not a criminal. Prosecution of an industrialist cannot be accepted in any way,” said Kumar.“We are in favour of all measures to check pollution in NCR. But we will oppose any coercive action against an industrialist in the name of checking pollution,” Kumar added. In Ghaziabad alone, there are around 110 industrial units that use coal and biomass as fuel for boilers. According to the new ordinance, a committee will be constituted to manage air pollution in Delhi-NCR and its adjoining areas for better coordination and resolution of problems related to the air quality in Delhi. The 18-member committee will be headed by a chairperson appointed by the Centre. Its member-states will be Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan. It will have the authority to stop the power supply or take action against any industrial unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-new-ordinance-to-check-air-pollution-covers-state-s-most-industrialised-districts/story-4YFOSFRwQGKhbzCI3M45lK.html
30-10-2020||Pune||Maratkar murder probe: Six Pune police staff suspended||PUNE: Six staff members of the Pune police have been suspended on Thursday as a result of an investigation into the murder of Shiv Sena youth wing leader Deepak Maratkar. The development was confirmed by Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police. The six staff members are suspected to have played a role in facilitating a meeting between a jail inmate and people accused in the Maratkar case, while the inmate was undergoing treatment at Sassoon General Hospital. The jail inmate in question is identified as Bapu Nayar. The police have arrested 10 people in the Maratkar murder so far and invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act against them. Maratkar was repeated stabbed unto death in Budhwar peth in the wee hours of October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratkar-murder-probe-six-police-staff-suspended/story-lfpDBfYZQU3cg4gq4BNnxI.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Kapurthala jail head warden, warden sent behind bars for assaulting deputy superintendent||Two jail officials were arrested and placed under suspension after they attacked the deputy jail superintendent of Kapurthala Modern Jail when he tried to frisk one of them on Friday morning. Police said warden Sukhwinder Singh of Ghurma in Barnala district and head warden Jasbir Singh of Ferozepur were sent behind bars for attacking deputy superintendent, security, Vijay Kawarpal, with lathis and injuring him. “Sukhwinder misbehaved with Kawarpal when he attempted to frisk him as he reported for duty this morning. They had an argument after which Jasbir joined Sukhwinder and both attacked Kawarpal with lathis,” jail superintendent Baljit Ghuman said. The deputy superintendent sustained minor injuries. The two jail officials were arrested after a complaint was lodged against them and they were placed under suspension immediately, he said. A case was registered under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty); 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions); 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Four days ago, three inmates were injured in a group clash at the Kapurthala jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kapurthala-jail-head-warden-warden-sent-behind-bars-for-assaulting-deputy-superintendent/story-L5hQHMey8sFMU1iCoGzX2L.html
30-10-2020||Election:||Bihar polls: Amid tall claims on jobs, total silence on revival of industrial units shut for 30 years||Even as the issue of unemployment has gained resonance this Bihar election and at least two political parties have promised to create jobs in huge numbers, there is near-total silence on the revival of industrial units, private or public, which once used to dot the landscape in north Bihar before they shut shop over the last three decades.On an average, these small-scale industrial units used to employ nearly 1,000 people each and produced or manufactured a wide range of products, ranging from sugar, medicines, heavy machinery to oyster buttons, popularly known as sap button industries.Talking about sugar factories alone, there were 15 of them in north Bihar only, each employing at least 1,000 people and buying produce from 25,000 farmers.“At least 11 of them were shut in mid-nineties, mainly due to demand of extortion money from local strongmen. Some had to shut because of power supply problems. No initiatives were made to reopen them, except for two at Sugauli and Lauria which were restarted on the initiative of the then secretary with the government of India and now MLA from Bagaha, RS Tiwari,” said Sanjay Kumar Pandey, a marginal farmer from Sugauli.Radheshyam Sah, a former employee of Motipur sugar factory in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district, says, “I was the sole bread earner in my family. But the mill was closed in 1996 after two temporarily closures. Since then, 600 of its permanent employees and 1,200 temporary workers have been left to fend for themselves. Neither the state nor the union government has taken any initiative to reopen it.”Things are no better for oyster button-based industries at Mehsi in east Champaran district. The industry was started by an enterprising inspector of schools, Bhulawan Lal, an inhabitant of Mehsi, who began handcrafting buttons from oysters found in the river Sikrahna in 1905.Also read: Historical, mythological characters figure in personalised barbs“We earned Rs 10,000 to 50,000 every month. But things completely changed in mid-nineties when criminals started demanding extortions. Small-time entrepreneurs shut their establishments. The big ones shifted their trade to places outside the state,” says Md Maqbool of Mehsi, who once ran his own oyster button business.Maqbool says more than 10,000 people in the area were engaged in nearly 150 oyster-based units which manufactured buttons and fancy wall hangings.The latest industry to shut shop is Bharat Wagon, an enterprise of Railway ministry, which used to produce 200 goods wagon every year at very low cost at two units situated in Muzaffarpur and Mokama. Both were shut last year.“Around 1,600 employees from Muzaffarpur unit have lost their livelihood,” said SK Verma, president of its employee’s federation.Apart from these, nearly 150 industrial units engaged in production of agricultural products and chemicals and located in industrial estates closed in the last 30 years.Experts feel that if these industries are opened again, the issue of unemployment would be resolved to a great degree. “And once the youths start getting jobs, the crime rate will also go down. But no government showed inclination. The Nitish Kumar’s government, which paid attention to issues like safe drinking water, uninterrupted power supply to each household and sanitation, apart from concrete roof topped houses, never thought of it,” says Krishna Mohan Prasad, a retired university teacher.Md Iqbal Shami, general secretary of the RJD and spokesperson, claimed efforts were made to revive some of these units during the RJD’s tenure. “I am sure this issue is on Tejashwi Yadav’s mind when he makes announcements of providing jobs to youths,” he said.Suresh Kumar Sharma, MLA from Muzaffarpur and minister for urban development, said PM Narendra Modi-led union government had tried a lot to save the Bharat Wagon units. “But both units were running in heavy losses. Even the decision to shut these units was taken during the UPA government. To compensate, we have started a rail engine manufacturing unit at Madhepura,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-polls-amid-tall-claims-on-jobs-total-silence-on-revival-of-industrial-units-shut-for-30-years/story-YGKxgQtKCn91ssPR39afnM.html
30-10-2020||Pune||Police search six properties of absconding RTI activist Barhate, relatives in Pune||Pune: The Pune police, on Thursday, conducted a search at six properties linked to RTI activist Ravindra Barhate, who has been booked under the stringent MCOCA and declared an absconder. During the search, the police seized multiple documents related to RTI applications filed by Barhate, responses, work of well-known builders and contractors from Pune and Mumbai, correspondence with multiple government organisations including Pune Municipal Corporation, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, Revenue Department, PMRDA, District Collector’s office, Income Tax office and the ZP office, among others. The documents will be made a part of the investigation, according to a police statement. The six properties which were searched include his registered residence in Madhusudha Apartment in Lullanagar, Kondhwa; another independent house owned by Barhate called Rayri in Sargam Society, Dhankawadi; a pharmaceutical store run by his daughter in Dhankawadi; her father-in-law’s house in Mukundnagar; Barhate’s sister’s house in Erandwane; and the house of Barhate’s brother-in-law in Bibwewadi, Market Yard, according to a statement issued by senior police inspector Pratibha Joshi of Kothrud police station. In another similar case registered at Hadapsar against Barhate, MCOCA was invoked. He had been declared an absconder in the case registered at Kothrud police station which was the first of multiple cases registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-search-six-properties-of-absconding-rti-activist-barhate-relatives/story-TypIpyU2utqxUh30bwc8cK.html
30-10-2020||City||J&K Police arrest two LeT associates in Handwara; seize firearms||Jammu & Kashmir Police on Friday claimed to have arrested two terrorist associates along with arms and ammunition in north Kashmir’s Handwara town. On the basis of specific information regarding the movement of anti-national elements, the police, along with 21 Rashtriya Rifles and 92 Battallion CRPF, had established nakas at different locations in Handwara and were checking vehicles and pedestrians. Also read | LeT behind killing of 3 BJP leaders in Kashmir’s Kulgam, says senior police official“During checking at Chinar Park, Handwara, two persons on a bike appeared suspicious. They tried to escape on spotting the search party and so, were apprehended,” the spokesperson said. He said that the duo identified themselves as Liyakat Ahmad Mir and Aqib Rashid Mir of Hyen Trehgam, Kupwara. “Arms and ammunition were recovered from their possession. During questioning, it surfaced that they work with LeT terror outfit as associates and were about to distribute the arms and ammunition among terrorists in South Kashmir,” the spokesman said, adding that a case has been registered and investigation was begun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-police-arrest-two-let-associates-in-handwara-seize-firearms/story-7h9A0jpe0yoBaVV0ZxqOIP.html
30-10-2020||Pune||PMRDA identifies three sites for Pune traders to shift business outside city||Pune: Days after Pune traders sought land outside the city, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) has shortlisted three sites located on the outskirts. According to PMRDA officials, the sites showed to representatives of Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) are Uruli Kanchan, Markal and Wagholi in Haveli taluka. The move comes after the representatives of FTAP, an umbrella body of various trader organisations, met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and sought 1,000 acres on the outskirts of city to shift 30 wholesale and semi-wholesale markets. These markets are currently located mostly in peth areas, where traffic congestion has become a major problem. According to PMRDA commissioner Suhas Divase, a visit for traders to the three sites will be organised next week. “We had a joint meeting with the members of FTAP and PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, where we showed them the integrated concepts of marketplaces on the outskirts of city limits such as China, Dubai, and Chennai in India. We have identified locations in Uruli Kanchan, Markal and Wagholi. All these lands are government owned and easily accessible. We will be visiting the sites along with a contingent of revenue officials, FTAP team and PMC officers,” said Divase. Vikram Kumar, who was present with his team at the presentation, said, “We are happy to support the decision of traders and PMRDA. Our team created concept designs and showed Google maps pointers for the land plots available to be developed as wholesale markets. Shifting traders will make peth areas traffic-hassle free.” Fatehchand Ranka, president, FTAP confirmed of being shown the land located in the eastern part of the city on map. A delegation comprising FTAP, commissioners PMC and PMRDA will be making a visit next week, he said. “We took the decision during the pandemic to shift wholesale and semi wholesale market on city outskirts considering the fact that peth areas are congested and difficult to get thoroughfare. We approached the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the government with this idea and also had a meeting with NCP chief Sharad Pawar,” said Ranka. Ranka said that they were looking for contiguous land, free of any loopholes to create one of the best wholesale markets in the state. FTAP had sought 1,000 acres which will be required to shift 34 markets, including timber, steel, medical, garments and metals. Marketplace on city’s boundaries Trade associations that have sought land for shifting include Pune Plywood Dealer Association (100 acres), Transport association (100 acres), Pune Automobile Dealers Association (100 acres), Used Car Dealer Association (100 acres), 80 acres for Brass and Copper Merchant Association, Stainless Steel Merchant Association, Non-ferrous Metal Association and Aluminium Association, Tiles and Sanitary Ware Association (60 acres), Pune Timber and Saw Mill Association (50 acres), Chemical Dealer Association (50 acres), Furniture Association (50 acres), Medicine, Pharmaceutical and Surgical (25 acres) and Hardware Wholesale Dealers Association (25 acres). They have also requested to be allocated land closer to the ring road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmrda-identifies-three-sites-for-pune-traders-to-shift-business-outside-city/story-pXodxTLCVD1DOcELRxmzoJ.html
30-10-2020||Election:||Bihar Assembly Election 2020: All eyes are on these seats in Phase 2||After the completion of the first phase of Bihar assembly elections, the focus has now shifted to the second phase during which 94 constituencies in 17 districts of the Seemanchal region will be held on November 3. In the outgoing assembly, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) holds only 20 of the 94 seats that are up for grabs. Districts such as West Champaran, East Champaran, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Araria, Purnea, Kishanganj, Katihar etc fall under Seemanchal. Besides, elections for the second phase will also be held in districts like Samastipur, Patna, Vaishali and Muzaffarpur.Click here for complete Bihar Assembly election coverage 2020The third phase of the elections will take place on November 7 and the counting of the polls will be conducted on November 10.Here are the key seats which will see polling in the second phase of Bihar Assembly Election 2020:1. RaghopurRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav, the chief ministerial face of the Grand Alliance, is seeking re-election from the Raghopur seat. He had won the seat on his maiden outing in electoral politics in 2015. His main rival is Satish Kumar of the BJP, who had defeated former chief minister and Tejashwi’s mother Rabri Devi from the same seat in the 2010 polls and had also contested in 2015 where he lost the RJD’s stronghold of Raghopur to Tejashwi.2. HasanpurRJD candidate, the elder son of party chief Lalu Prasad and brother of Tejashwi Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav is fighting the Bihar assembly from the Hasanpur constituency this year. Tej Pratap has moved out of his constituency Mahua in Vaishali district to Hasanpur in Samastipur and is pitted against two-time sitting MLA Rajkumar Rai of the Janata Dal(United).3. BankipurThe Bankipur assembly seat is set to see a contest between Congress’ Luv Sinha and the BJP’s Nitin Nabin. Luv Sinha is the son of actor Shatrughan Sinha who lost Patna Sahib to Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in the Lok Sabha polls last year when he fought on a Congress ticket. Incumbent Nitin Nabin is aiming a third term from the seat and has been the head of the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) till recently and has now been appointed as the party’s in charge for Sikkim.4. JhanjharpurJhanjharpur assembly constituency that falls in the Madhubani district will witness a tight contest between sitting RJD MLA Gulab Yadav and the BJP’s candidate Nitish Mishra. In 2015, the seat had seen the same contest. Nitish Mishra is the vice president of the BJP’s Bihar unit and the son of Jagannath Mishra who served as the chief minister three times. His late uncle Lalit Narayan Mishra was also a well- known politician. 5. ManerThe state BJP spokesperson and close confidant of Union minister of state Nityanand Rai, Nikhil Anand is fighting from the Maner assembly seat against two-time sitting MLA of the RJD Bhai Virendra. Nikhil Anand joined politics after a career in journalism and was chosen over Shrikant Nirala who has fought from the Maner seat since 1990.6. BegusaraiThe Begusarai assembly seat will witness a contest between sitting MLA Amita Bhushan and the BJP’s Kundan Singh. The CPI’s Kanhaiya Kumar, former JNU students’ union president, contested in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 from Begusarai. Notably, the BJP’s Kundan Singh is one of the richest candidates from the seats going to the polls in the second phase. 7. GovindganjSitting MLA and the Lok Janshakti Party’s (LJP’s) Raju Tiwari, Congress leader Brajesh Kumar and the BJP’s Sunil Mani Tiwari will be in a triangular fight in Govindganj. The seat is very crucial as the last time the BJP won this seat was 10 years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-assembly-election-2020-all-eyes-are-on-these-seats-in-phase-2/story-OXdDxjDc04nrGLFaF5DjML.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC waives cooling off period for divorce in view of woman’s pregnancy||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday accepted a Mumbai-based woman’s plea in dissolving her troubled marriage on an urgent basis on the grounds that she was pregnant from some other person, whom she wanted to marry soon, and granted her prayer for waiver of the compulsory six-month cooling-off period before the customary grant of divorce by mutual consent.The woman got married on August 15, 2014. However, she had started living separately from December 2018 following a marital discord.The estranged couple decided to get legally separated by filing for divorce by mutual consent and presented a joint petition under section 13B of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, to the family court at Bandra on August 4. The couple had also filed an application seeking waiver of the six-month cooling-off period, as per section 13B (2) of the Act. Also Read: Bombay HC refuses bail to former IL&FS executive Ramchand KarunakaranUnder section 13B(2) of the Act, a court can grant divorce by mutual consent only after six months and before 18 months of presentation of a joint petition by a married couple.The wife moved HC after the Bandra court rejected the waiver application on September 9.At HC, she and her husband pointed out to Justice Nitin Sambre that they were living separately since December 2018 and were leading independent lives. They also cited that they had decided to get legally separated and had also finalised the consent terms, as they were unable to live together.The wife’s counsel drew the court’s attention to the fact that the woman was pregnant by another man, whom she wanted to marry soon. As a result, there is urgency in securing the decree of divorce and also the need for waiver of the cooling-off period.The husband supported her plea for the waiver. His lawyer submitted that the request was justified since both the man and his estranged wife had led independent lives for over two years and the latter was pregnant and carrying the child of the person she plans to marry.Justice Sambre accepted the request in view of the 2017 ruling of the Supreme Court (SC) in Amardeep Singh’s case, which had said that the period mentioned in section 13B (2) of Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 was not mandatory.The apex court had ruled that a court is empowered to use its discretionary powers to waive the cooling-off period on a case-by-case basis, especially where there is no possibility of a man and a wife to reunite and there are chances of their alternative rehabilitation.“In this backdrop, it will be appropriate, particularly having regard to the health condition of the petitioner, to allow the joint application moved for waiving the period as specified under section 13B of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955,” said Justice Sambre while granting the prayer for the waiver.HC also directed the family court to dispose of the divorce petition as expeditiously as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-waives-cooling-off-period-for-divorce-in-view-of-woman-s-pregnancy/story-YKkXl8NsQKavfrzm3oTFCO.html
30-10-2020||Pune||Pune varsity to hold re-exams after ABVP affiliated students stage protest||To press for demands related to final year examinations and other student related issues, the student volunteers of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) staged a “Pungi Bajao” protest at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) main building on Thursday. The protest started at 11 am outside the SPPU main building.Later, the protesting students surrounded SPPU pro-vice-chancellor Prof NS Umrani when he came to talk with them.Students said that they will not leave the varsity campus before having a meeting with vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. After a wait for more than five hours, Karmalkar met the protestors and assured to take steps to address their demands.“Since last more than a month, even before the final year exams started, we have been demanding that the exam be conducted with adequate planning so that students do not face any inconvenience. The mismanagement of SPPU administration has caused thousands of students appearing for final year exams to face difficulties. We have been meeting SPPU officials regularly and raising our concerns, but no one is ready to hear it and so we decided to hold the protest today. The students are facing any issues, including test paper going missing, wrong questions and login issues. Till now more than 14,000 complaints have been lodged by students related to examination and we demand it to be addressed at the earliest,” said Anil Thombare, ABVP Pune functionary.Umrani said, “We will be holding re-examination for those students who faced issues while appearing for online/offline exams in the first week of November. We have checked the complaints sent by students in detail and special exams will be conducted on November 5, 6 and 7. I met students on behalf of the vice- chancellor. I assure that appropriate steps will be taken to address their complaints.”Issues faced by studentsSoham Narkar, a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Legislative Law (LLB) third year student, said, “We used to earlier get BA degree along with LLB, but now it has been cancelled by SPPU. The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s law department dean, a newly appointed madam, said that she is unaware about the changes.“She doesn’t know why this degree has been cancelled. The ‘Criminal Justice’ paper which was scheduled three days ago was cancelled it did not show in the exam system.”Another final year Bachelor of Arts student Radhika Purohit said, “I am appearing through online mode for examination. I have faced late login issues due to technical problem. It is a common inconvenience faced by most of college students appearing for the final year examination. Most of the online questions does not show any answer options. On the day when we were to appear for German language paper, French language paper was given to us. It is complete exam mismanagement by Savitribai Phule Pune University.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-varsity-to-hold-re-exams-after-abvp-affiliated-students-stage-protest/story-fGibETrm2D7jfCyH1u95tN.html
30-10-2020||Pune||Ban on yoga, laughing clubs at public gardens reopen in Pune on November 1||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s decision to reopen 81 public gardens from Sunday (November 1) comes with many instructions and one warning. The administration said that the gardens will be closed again if residents violate the virus prevention measures.Pune Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday issued an order to reopen public gardens.“Though gardens are being reopened, children under 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years are not allowed to enter gardens. Gardens are mainly reopened for exercise, walking and jogging purposes,” stated the order issued by Kumar.PMC has 196 gardens across the city. In June, the civic body had briefly reopened the gardens though it had to revoke its decision after people began crowding. PMC plans to reopen garden in phased manner beginning with 81.As the gyms and most of the activities have resumed, mayor Murlidhar Mohol had announced this week to reopen the public garden. As per the mayor’s instructions, municipal commissioner issued the order. Many of the public gardens controlled by PMC have open gyms and jogging tracks.While allowing people in garden, PMC has decided not to allow any festival related programmes while activities such as yoga, laughing clubs will not be allowed as well.The dos and don’ts*Timings morning 6 am to 8 am, Evening: 5 pm to 7 pm*Citizens need to maintain social distance and wear mask*No permission for laughing clubs, yoga, festival programme and group activity*Kids below 10 years, citizens above 65 years are not allowed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ban-on-yoga-laughing-clubs-at-public-gardens-reopen-in-pune-on-november-1/story-30HrJgHq5rdx3wcYnXnWiN.html
30-10-2020||Pune||Bhavani peth ward in Pune sees dip in daily Covid positive cases||Bhavani peth ward, one of the city’s Covid hotspots, is on the recovery path. The coronavirus cases reported from the area in the past few days have reduced to single digits. The preventive measures taken by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials and staff are giving positive results.Of PMC’s 15 regional ward offices, Bhavani peth was the worst affected and most of the parts falling in this ward office were under containment. Slum areas, including Kashewadi, Lohianagar, Mominpura, Raviwar peth, Guruwar peth and Pune station area also reported high number of positive cases.Bhavani peth ward office area, one of the densely populated localities in the city, have shown a decrease in fresh Covid cases, according to the data released by the Pune Municipal Corporation.“The ‘My family, my responsibility’ campaign launched in the ward from last month has borne fruits. We have screened more than 45,000 people till date. We focused on elderly citizens and people with comorbidities.“Around 150 people with Covid symptoms were found and put it isolation. Some of them admitted to hospitals and others sent to quarantine centre or under home isolation as per the health conditions. This step helped in containing the spread of the virus in our ward to a larger extent,” said Sachin Tamkhede, PMC assistant municipal commissioner and Bhavani Peth ward officer.“On an average, we conduct 140 tests in our ward and increase the number when needed.“We also hold regular public awareness campaigns. Along with the help, we take action against those found violating the social distancing and face mask norms.“It has helped in checking the infection spread. Yet, we need to be extra cautious. With the possible second wave of virus hitting the city, I appeal to residents to strictly follow the safety measures and use mask in public places.” Tamkhede said.Talking about the dip in virus cases in Bhavani peth ward office, Dr Prakash Rokade, medical officer at Aundh Civil Hospital said, “As each disease has a start, peak and downfall, similar is the case with coronavirus. The cases reached the peak in the last two months, and now we are seeing a decline. We cannot immediately say that it is due to herd immunity, only a detailed serological-survey will reveal that phenomenon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/bhavani-peth-ward-in-pune-sees-dip-in-daily-covid-positive-cases/story-l3vstWWjEm6aHCXLp11fhN.html
30-10-2020||City||Maharashtra: Two army recruits held for stealing gold ornaments worth Rs 8 lakh in Nashik||Two recruits undergoing training at the army’s Deolali base in Maharashtra’s Nashik have been arrested for allegedly stealing gold ornaments worth Rs eight lakh and Rs 37,000 cash from a businessman’s residence in Mumbai’s Goregaon. Vishal Kumar and Chirag Chaudhary are from Uttar Pradesh and police have recovered the stolen gold ornaments and Rs 6,000 from them.Defence spokesman Mehul Karnik said the two were away from the base at the time of theft on October 9 and October 10. “The investigation is under progress.”The two were recruited under sports’ quota.Sunil Amin, the business, told police in his statement that he had befriended Kumar in 2016 and had been in touch with him over the phone. The two would meet whenever Kumar visited Mumbai.On October 9, Kumar and Chaudhary visited Sunil at his residence, where they had food and alcohol. “Vishal and his friend stole the valuables at around 2 am when the victim was sleeping and left the house,” said police inspector Vinod Patil.When Amin woke up in the morning, he saw the main door of his house was open and valuables were missing from a cupboard. Patil said the two accused were captured on CCTV cameras installed in Amin’s building. “We checked their call data records and found their location at Deolali.”The two were arrested from the camp and brought to Mumbai on October 29. A court sent them in police custody till October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-two-army-recruits-held-for-stealing-gold-ornaments-worth-rs-8-lakh-in-nashik/story-2btfJhaWLnsBvmmZUZKiuJ.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Goods trains will stay off track in Punjab till farmers lift blockades||With farmer organisations in Punjab extending their protest against the Centre’s farm laws, the Railways on Friday said freight movement in the state will remain suspended indefinitely. Ferozepur additional divisional railway manager (ADRM) Sukhwinder Singh said no goods trains will operate to and from the state till all tracks and railway stations are cleared of protesters. He said as farmer unions are sticking to their decision of holding protests on and near tracks at various spots, it was decided not to resume services. “After a thorough assessment of the ground situation, it was felt that the situation is not fit to restart freight services to and from Punjab. The railways will resume services once the situation eases on the ground,” he said.FARMERS TARGET SUPPLY TO PRIVATE POWER PLANTS Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) members started an indefinite dharna to disrupt coal supply to private thermal plants by blocking the tracks last Friday. The BKU activists started squatting on the rail route to the Vedanta Group-owned Talwandi Sabo power project at Banawala village in Mansa district. Last Saturday onward, they began blocking the rail line to the Rajpura thermal power plant, a subsidiary of the Larsen and Toubro (L&T) Group, for an indefinite period. Train services to a mega foodgrain silo operated by the Adani Group in Moga district were disrupted by BKU activists on Friday. TRADE UNION STEERS CLEAR OF BLOCKADESThe Left-leaning trade union disassociated itself from other farmer organisations’ rail roko and ended blockades by its activists on October 13. Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), the organisation that spearheaded the rail blockade since September 24, shifted the dharna from Devidas Pura to Jandiala Guru station on Monday. Its members refused to lift the blockade. A three-member committee of state ministers met BKU leaders on Thursday but they did not agree to allow train services to private thermal plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/goods-trains-will-stay-off-track-in-punjab-till-farmers-lift-blockades/story-NgKtsGJl3Llllv3Se0B96M.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal state selection panel to hold exams from November 29 to January 24||The Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission (HPSSC) has released the written examination schedule for appointment to 38 posts. The notification says the exams will be held from November 29 to January 24. HPSSC secretary Jitendra Kanwar said admit cards will be uploaded on the site 15 days before the exam. The exam for the appointment of laboratory assistants will be held on November 29 in Shimla, Hamirpur, Mandi and Dharamshala in the morning session, while the exam for medical laboratory technician grade-2 will be conducted in Hamirpur and Shimla in the evening session on the same day. The exam for the appointment of trained graduate teachers (TGT), non-medical, will be conducted in the morning on November 30, while the exam for TGT, medical, will be held in the evening session on the same day at all district headquarters. The exam for the post of sub inspector, fisheries, will be conducted in Shimla, Hamirpur, Mandi and Dharamshala in morning session on December 6, while the test for the post of supervisor will be held on the same day in Hamirpur and Shimla. The exam for the post of senior assistant, accounts, will be conducted in the morning session on December 8 in Hamirpur and for the post of hotel superintendent in Hamirpur during the evening session on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-state-selection-panel-to-hold-exams-from-november-29-to-january-24/story-nJ8DwX8SudZOQgRlSEWAcJ.html
30-10-2020||City||Jamshedpur: Man beats neighbour to death for trying to stop a drunken brawl; arrested||A 20-year-old man was arrested in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand, on Friday for allegedly killing his 30-year-old neighbour by hitting him on the head with a baseball bat for opposing his drunken brawl with his friends at Janigora in Sarjamda locality under Parsudih police station, police said. “Rahul Surin has been arrested this morning and sent to jail after production in a local court here,” Ajay Kumar, Parsudih PS officer-in-charge, said.Rahul and his friends were having a drunken brawl outside his house around 10 pm on Thursday night. Sharma, who lived in a rented house close by, stepped out to stop the brawl as it seemed to be getting out of control.Also read | Villagers in Jharkhand allegedly behead 3 of family for practising witchcraftAs per the complaint filed by the brother of the deceased, Rahul got into a scuffle with Sharma when the latter tried to intervene. The accused hit him on the head with a baseball bat, leaving him profusely bleeding, and fled the spot. Locals rushed Sharma to Jamshedpur Sadar Hospital (JSH) where doctors declared him brought dead due to excessive blood loss.Sharma was a school van driver by profession and had married only two months ago. His brother Ramesh said they hailed from Barkagon in Gaya district of Bihar. When police reached the scene of crime with Sharma’s wife late on Thursday, Rahul and his family were not at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jamshedpur-man-beats-neighbour-to-death-for-trying-to-stop-a-drunken-brawl-arrested/story-kIUf6xiCkkSTYuAv8y5htN.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala to ban single-use plastic and polythene bags from November 1||Single-use plastic and polythene bags will remain prohibited in Ambala, with effect from November 1, the Secretary of Municipal Corporation, Ambala City said on Thursday.“Awareness is being created among people and announcements are also being made. Polythene and single-use plastic are lethal,” he said.“Single-use plastic and polythene are being banned from November 1. Shopkeepers are being requested not to use polythene bags to give goods to customers. Customers should refuse to accept such bags. If they don’t agree, they will be penalised,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ambala-to-ban-single-use-plastic-and-polythene-bags-from-november-1/story-JgZmVsWaUh74Ih09TPcD2O.html
30-10-2020||Election:||Bihar poll campaign gets acerbic; historical, mythological characters figure in personalised barbs||With the first phase of Bihar elections over, the state’s poll atmosphere has now become more acrimonious with jibes flying thick having shades of personalised attacks and references of historical characters and episodes adding more colour to the high decibel campaign. On Thursday, Union minister Giriraj Singh attracted eyeballs when he likened Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief ministerial face Tejashwi Yadav to Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. Singh said the 31-year-old Yadav scion had sidelined his parents - jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad and former chief minister Rabri Devi - by projecting himself as the face of the RJD in all party posters, akin to what Aurangzeb had done after taking the throne from his father Shah Jahan who was held captive at the Agra Fort for long after being deposed, as per historical records. “Pictures of Lalu and Rabri are missing in the RJD posters. Tejashwi has come to politics on the Lalu Yadav’s legacy but the latter is missing in the pictures. It’s the same like many emperors have done in the past just like Aurangzeb,” he said. The reference of infamous Jallianwala bagh tragedy – one of the dark episodes of pre-independence movement when hundreds were killed during a peaceful demonstration inside a park in Amritsar on April 13, 1919, in a police shootout by General Dyer - too got a mention. Tejashwi, on Wednesday, drew parallels between the Jallianwala Bagh tragedy and Munger police firing on Monday night in which one person was killed and 27 got injured. The Grand Alliance leaders wondered who was playing “General Dyer” - an indirect attack on chief minister Nitish Kumar. Incidentally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Tejashwi as ‘Jungle Raj Ka Yuvraaj (prince of the Jungle Raj)” without naming the 31-year-old in his election speeches in Patna, Muzaffarpur. PM Modi’s veiled jibe had undertones of a personal attack and accentuated the NDA’s poll narrative against the RJD promoting “Jungle Raj” - a euphemism for poor governance and law and order during previous the RJD’s 15-year rule. The Yadav scion has not reacted to it. Also read: Eating out, grocery shopping more dangerous than air travel during Covid-19 - StudyA few days back, the RJD’s chief ministerial face had invited big flak when he remarked how “the weaker sections dared to sit in front of ‘Babu Sahebs’ during his father’s tenure as the CM,” giving the BJP a handle to call the remark a casteist slur against the upper caste Rajputs. The RJD leaders were quick to go for damage control saying Tejashwi had made the remark in the context of bureaucrats and ‘babu culture’ and that the BJP had purposely given a spinoff to give caste colour. Even chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is known for making less off the cuff remarks, has shown signs of being temperamental when he recently said, “some leaders have yearning for sons despite having several daughters showing how they have little respect for women” - a remark seen as an indirect attack against his bete noire and jailed RJD chief who has nine children including seven daughters. Tejashwi called it an insult to all women, including his mother Rabri Devi, by the JD(U) chief. “Does it behove of a Prime Minister to speak against Tejashwi? PM Modi has lowered the dignity of the post he holds by making such a statement. Even CM Kumar, fearing of losing power, is using street language. Such utterances have not affected Tejashwi and shows how the young RJD leader has shaken both the PM and CM in this election,” said RJD’s national vice president Shivanand Tiwary. On his part, JD(U) state spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan defended PM Modi’s barb against Tejashwi saying it mirrored how the Yadav scion is carrying the legacy of the previous RJD rule marked by lawlessness and poor development. Political observer and former principal of Patna College, professor Nawal Kishore Choudhary said the political discourse turning more personalised and getting acerbic is sign of how the ruling NDA is under pressure from its rival RJD. “The NDA thought it would be a decisive victory but it’s not a cakewalk now. Tejashwi’s unemployment issue has put pressure on the ruling BJP-JD(U), which is now harping on ‘Jungle Raj’. It is relevant because Tejashwi is carrying the legacy of his father and cannot avoid it. The attacks are getting shriller as both the NDA and the GA want to aggressively mobilise their core voters in the next two phases,” he said. Also read: Generational shift in Bihar’s political arena?The use of such acerbic political lingo has happened in the past elections in Bihar. In 2015 assembly polls, PM Modi’s statement at a Muzaffarpur rally, saying there was something wrong in the political DNA of chief minister Nitish Kumar had raked up a big furore. The PM had thrown the jibe at the CM for breaking off with the BJP before the 2014 parliamentary polls and later also withdrawing support from Jitan Ram Manjhi, who served as the CM for a short while. Kumar had called PM Modi’s remark against him an insult to the people of Bihar. The JD(U), which was part of the Grand Alliance with the RJD in 2015 election, had also demanded withdrawal of the words spoken by PM Modi and launched a campaign by sending lakhs of samples of hair and nails to PM’s office to test the DNA of the people of Bihar. In the same polls, the RJD chief had stirred a controversy when he had called PM Modi a political ‘Ravana’. In 2019 parliamentary polls, a senior JD(U) leader Sanjay Singh had called RJD chief’s eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha MP “Shurparnakha” to assert how Bharti was playing a role of causing friction between her two brother Tej Pratap and Tejashwi in the RJD’s first family similar to the mythological character in Ramayan who had caused differences between demon king Ravana and brother Vibhishana. The RJD had hit out at the JD(U) saying it was a party harbouring devils and evil spirits who cause harm to others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bihar-election/bihar-poll-campaign-gets-acerbic-historical-mythological-characters-figure-in-personalised-barbs/story-uxiDNp5mndBHAfYWq6xPpO.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Commuters can now hail bike taxis across the city||Mumbai residents will now have an option to use a bike taxi to reach a particular destination faster despite heavy traffic. Transport authorities have given permission for bike taxis to operate; the first such service was launched on Friday. Though other cities have such taxis, where commuters can hail a motorcycle to travel, Mumbai authorities have only recently given permission to launch the service. Rapido, a bike taxi platform, introduced 2,000 bike taxis in the city on Friday. The fare of the bike taxis will be Rs6 per km and, as an introductory offer, there will be a 50% discount on the first ride. Also Read: Maharashtra plans app, colour coding to control crowd in local trainsCommuters will be able to book a bike taxi by downloading the Rapido mobile phone application. Passengers will have to create an account on the mobile application. The facility is available on both android and IOS platforms.“The pandemic gave us an opportunity. It left almost 8 million daily commuters in Mumbai looking for an alternate mode of travel. There is a demand for an accessible, affordable, and safe everyday commute option.” said Aravind Sanka, co-founder, Rapido.A bike-owner can also register on the application and operate it as a bike taxi.The bike taxi services will also be introduced in other cities in Maharashtra in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-commuters-can-now-hail-bike-taxis-across-the-city/story-D9ZEkgY8uS0RMBzIrDKPGO.html
30-10-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Part of under-construction bridge collapses, six labourers injured||At least six labourers were injured when a part of an under-construction bridge collapsed in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on Thursday afternoon, said police. Ujjain district collector Ashish Singh suspended an engineer, Raghunath Suryawanshi, involved in the project. He ordered an inquiry into the quality of construction material and also to fix the responsibility for the collapse.A case has also been registered against a private contractor under Indian Penal Code’s Section 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery), said Satyendra Shukla, police superintendent, Ujjain. Shukla added a 15-metre part of the bridge collapsed when a stone slab was being fixed.Mahesh Parmar, the local Congress lawmaker, staged a sit-in with several other people and demanded a high-level inquiry into the collapse.“The mishap smacks of massive corruption involved in the construction of the bridge. The bridge is being constructed from 2019 and it is going to be become an important link for connectivity between Ujjain and many districts of Rajasthan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-part-of-under-construction-bridge-collapses-six-labourers-injured/story-blHYiGQvlbBbLBvFtOI9FL.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra plans app, colour coding to control crowd in local trains||The Maharashtra government, which plans to throw open suburban trains in Mumbai and adjoining densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for all commuters soon in three specific time slots during the day amid the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ) outbreak, is looking at the use of technology to prevent overcrowding in trains. Suburban trains’ non-peak hours refer to until 7.30 am, between 11 am and 4 pm and after 8 pm. The state government is developing a web-based application (app) and planning to introduce a colour-coding mechanism while allowing the public to use the suburban trains during non-peak hours.Also read | In Covid-19 crackdown, commuters without masks in Mumbai local trains to be finedThe state government, which had requested Western and Central Railways to allow all commuters, was in turn told by the rail authorities to use technology for crowd control.The state government has started work on the railways’ proposal.“We will develop the app. We are also working on the colour-coding mechanism to restrict the number of passengers in suburban trains,” said Kishor Raje Nimbalkar, secretary, relief and rehabilitation department of the state government.An official from Mantralaya, the state secretariat, said the app would help passengers to book tickets and decide the time slot they wish to travel. This will enable the railway authorities to issue a stipulated number of tickets in a bid to prevent overcrowding in trains. The tickets will be issued to passengers with the colour-code, specifying the time slot during which they are expected to travel.Western and Central Railway authorities have raised concerns about their capacity. They can run 3,100 trains daily. They have pleaded helplessness and stated that they would allow 700 commuters per train and around 22 lakh passengers daily, as compared to 70 lakh during pre-Covid-19 times.The state government has maintained that appropriate steps are being taken to prevent overcrowding in trains. “We have allowed 30% of private sector employees to travel by trains, which have reduced around 20 lakh daily commuters. Besides, another 20 lakh commuters have become less owing to closure of schools, colleges and other educational institutions. If the railway authorities operate at their full strength of 3,100 train services, no overcrowding will occur during peak hours. We have also suggested running a special train for women passengers every hour. The move is in line with encouraging staggered office hours. More ladies specials will help women commuters to travel during non-peak hours,” said a state government official, requesting anonymity.He added: “We don’t want to impose more restrictions, but encourage passengers with staggered timings. Now, it’s up to the railway authorities to operate at their full strength.”Mumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said that the state administration would work out ways to ensure reopening of train service for all commuters at the earliest, despite the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-plans-app-colour-coding-to-control-crowd-in-local-trains/story-d0M7QWASR837V0QvBQiVFN.html
30-10-2020||Bhopal||Love for food lands couple in police custody after evading arrest for 6 months||Love for food landed a couple from Jalandhar in police custody four days back after they managed to evade arrest for about six months having defrauded several people in Bhopal in the name of doubling their income, said police. According to the police, the couple identified as Manish Sharma,42, a resident of Pali Hills, Jalandhar and his wife Manisha Sharma, 40, had been hiding in Jalandhar, their home town, for the past six months since they left Bhopal after defrauding at least 5 people of Rs 60 to Rs 70 lakh. They shut all their social media accounts and switched off their mobile phones leaving hardly any clue with the police to track them down. “The couple Manish Sharma and Manisha Sharma did everything they could think of to the evade arrest. We didn’t have any clue to reach them. But a food delivery site helped us nab them. After fleeing from Bhopal, the couple once ordered food online in Jalandhar from a popular food delivery site but instead of ordering the food from a new account, they ordered it from their old registered account which they used to order food online in Bhopal too. The cyber team tracked them down in Jalandhar,” said Gopal Dhakad, additional superintendent of police (ASP), crime branch, Bhopal. Also read: India registers 48,648 new Covid-19 cases, lower than Thursday“A resident of Bhopal, Santosh Bairagi, lodged a complaint at Crime branch Bhopal a few months ago that he had invested Rs 9 lakh in a company owned by Manish Sharma who stayed at Katara Hills in Bhopal as he had promised to return double the money invested. But in April, they left the house and switched off mobile phones. Even their Facebook accounts were also deleted,” said the police officer. “After getting the clue regarding their whereabouts from the food delivery site, a team of crime branch was sent to Jalandhar recently. The team had a house to stay in on rent near the accused’s house and having been convinced about their identity, arrested them. The couple was brought to Bhopal on Tuesday and arrested on Wednesday,” said the officer. During interrogation, the couple confessed their crime. They said they used to befriend rich people and convince them to invest in their company to get double the amount of investment. There may be more victims which may come to light during the interrogation, said the police officer. The accused have been booked under sections 420 (cheating) and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). They were produced before the court on Thursday and the court sent Manisha on judicial remand while Manish Sharma on police remand of three days, said Sai Krishna Thota, superintendent of police, Bhopal (south).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/love-for-food-lands-couple-in-police-custody-after-evading-arrest-for-6-months/story-wM5oF7TAcy3nLyj0OLR11O.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Govt proposes throwing Mumbai local trains open to all around Diwali, BMC expects spike in Covid-19 cases||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has expressed concern about a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases following the Maharashtra government’s proposed move to throw the suburban trains – the lifeline for Mumbai and the adjoining densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) – open for all commuters around the Diwali festival, which will be celebrated on November 14, at three specific time slots during the day.The BMC authorities said allowing the public to use suburban trains around Diwali might lead to an uptick in Covid-19 cases as more people are likely to go out for shopping and mingling with their friends and relatives because of the festival of lights.Also read | In Covid-19 crackdown, commuters without masks in Mumbai local trains to be finedThe civic body reinforced precautionary measures for the public such as the use of masks and sanitisers in a bid to rein in the spread of the contagion. The Maharashtra government on Wednesday proposed to the Union Ministry of Railways to allow all commuters to travel by suburban trains. The government has written to the general managers (GMs) of Western Railway and Central Railway and proposed time slots to allow all commuters to use suburban train services. Three time slots during the day have been proposed for all commuters and also a ladies special train for women passengers after every one hour. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (AMC), BMC, said: “One cannot deny that there is likely to be a surge in Covid-19 cases because of the state government’s proposed move. The public is expected to mingle and go out for their Diwali shopping.” He added: “Wearing of masks, sanitising hands and other precautionary measures must be complied with.”BMC is also planning to ramp up its daily testing mechanism because of the state government’s proposed move. The civic body plans to organise free testing camps in Mumbai and management of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. “We have sufficient hospital beds that can cope up with a possible spike in Covid-19 cases,” Kakani said. BMC’s data showed that around 54% of Covid-19 beds are lying vacant in Mumbai. The city has reported 2,55,360 Covid-19 cases and 10,229 viral disease-related deaths till Thursday. At present, Mumbai has 19,082 active Covd-19 cases. So far, 2,25,526 Covid-19 patients have recovered from their viral infection. In a separate move, all restaurants in Mumbai have been allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity from Sunday (November 1), as compared to the existing 33%. In early October, the state government had allowed reopening of restaurants with 50% of their capacity across Maharashtra. However, in Mumbai, the BMC had capped it at 33% till Saturday (October 31).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-proposes-throwing-local-trains-open-to-all-bmc-expects-spike-in-covid-19-cases/story-rBjdEaxuU8Onm2L4TErRNJ.html
30-10-2020||City||Farooq Abdullah prevented from leaving residence to offer prayers: National Conference||Former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah has been prevented from offering prayers at Srinagar’s revered Hazratbal mosque, where a big gathering is expected for the congregational Friday noon prayers on the occasion of the Prophet Muhammad’s birth celebrations, his party said.A spokesperson for Abdullah’s National Conference (NC) said the administration has blocked the exit to the latter’s residence to stop him from going to Hazratbal. “NC condemns this infringement of fundamental right to pray, especially on the auspicious occasion of Milad Un Nabi [the prophet’s birthday],” the spokesperson said.Also Read: J&K coalition is anti-BJP, not anti-national, says Farooq AbdullahPeople aware of the matter said the administration conveyed to Abdullah, who is also a member of Parliament, that he would not be allowed to go to Hazratbal.People’s Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti said preventing Abdullah from offering prayers exposes the government of India’s deep paranoia and iron-fisted approach towards Jammu & Kashmir. “It is a gross violation of our rights & is highly condemnable,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farooq-abdullah-prevented-from-leaving-residence-to-offer-prayers-national-conference/story-XHztgTslBST7vYK0Hm9IuO.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses bail to former IL&FS executive Ramchand Karunakaran||The Bombay High Court on Thursday rejected bail application of Ramchand Karunakaran, former managing director of IL&FS Transportation Networks Ltd. (ITNL), who has been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the money laundering investigation being conducted by the agency.Karunakaran was arrested by the ED on June 19, 2019, in connection with the proceedings under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002.According to the ED, the committee of directors of IL&FS Financial Services Ltd. (IFIN), in connivance with promoters of IL&FS group, sanctioned loans to several group companies which were under financial stress and unable to discharge their outstandingloans. The new loans were sanctioned to repay their earlier loans and to be utilized by the groups, otherwise than, as mentioned in the Credit Approval Memorandum, and committed schedule offences. It is further alleged that the committee did so in order to maintain the credentials of the IFIN and in lieu to continued to receive high remuneration.Karunakaran sought bail contending that he was neither part of the committee of dire torture nor was he included in top management of the group, and therefore no accusations could be attributed to him.Besides, he pointed out that, three members of the committee, Ravi Parthasarathy, Ramesh Bawa and Hari Sankaran were not arrested by the ED, in fact, they have been granted bail under section 88 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) by the designated court on September 23, 2019, and sought relief for him on the ground of parity.Also read: JP Nadda condoles BJP workers’ killings in J-K’s KulgamED’s counsel Hiten Venegainkar opposed the bail plea pointing out that the applicant faced serious allegations. He pointed out that the forensic audit conducted by Grant Thorton has revealed that Karunakaran was a member of the IFIN committee of directors and was this equally liable.As regards his ground of parity, Venegainkar submitted that at least two members of the IFIN committee - Ramesh Bawa and Hari Sankaran - have been arrested by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office, which has also initiated proceedings under relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 against IL&FS group.In this backdrop, Justice Bharati Dangre refused to accept the submissions made on behalf of Karunakaran and rejected his bail plea.“The magnitude of the offence involving the applicant is enormous and the amount involved is huge,” said the judge, while rejecting his bail plea. The court said the effect of the conspiracy hatched by the accused, focusing on a desired result, makes it a serious economic offence. HC said the IFIN was facing a serious liquidity crisis leading to the inability to fulfil debt obligations. “Investigation has revealed that those at the helm of affairs played a hoax and in a disguised way duped the stakeholders and general public whose monies were at stake.”The HC also noted that the investigation brought out that while the profit of the IFIN declined, the remuneration and commission etc. paid to directors increased substantially.“This had a wide impact on the economy of the country since the IL&FS is a finance company which subdued the equity from shareholders like the LIC, HDFC, Central Bank of India and State Bank of India,” said justice Dangre, commenting upon the overall adverse impact caused by IL&FS crises.“The default crisis in the IL&FS has adversely impacted the growth of non-banking finance companies. It has jeopardised hundreds of investors, banks and mutual funds associated with IL&FS and sparked panic among equity investors, as several NBFC faced turmoil amid a default scare,” said the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-former-il-fs-executive-ramchand-karunakaran/story-Qq2xemrEr88xu535ecS9yK.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 3 injured as major portion of godown collapses in Bhiwandi||Three persons suffered minor injuries after portions of a godown collapsed at Bhiwandi’s Harihar compound Dapoda village nearly 33 kms away from Mumbai, early on Friday morning. The incident took place around 4.45 am when the first floor of the building collapsed. Five workers present in the godown were buried under the debris and were evacuated by firemen. Three of them suffered minor injuries. As per the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC), the godown of Monginis cake is located in the rural part of the Bhiwandi. A fire tender of BNCMC and local police had rushed to the spot soon after the incident. “The first floor of the godown collapsed. Five people were stuck under the debris and we managed to evacuate them. Three of them suffered minor injuries,” said BNCMC chief fire officer Rajesh Pawar. An officer from Bhiwandi Tenshildar office , who did not wish to be named, said,“Our team has visited the spot and are inquiring about the incident. Further decision will be taken after the detailed visit.” Earlier on Thursday, eighteen families had a narrow escape in a building collapse in Kopar village, Dombivli. In a building collapse on September 21, 38 people were killed and 25 injured at Dhamankar naka of Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-3-injured-as-major-portion-of-godown-collapses-in-bhiwandi/story-1UqlaJrFsUqhl64VXDQD2M.html
30-10-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: PIL to be filed to restrict gathering during Kali Puja, Jagadhatri Puja, Chhath Puja||A Kolkata lawyer is likely to move the Calcutta high court on Monday seeking orders to restrict the gathering of devotees and visitors during Kali Puja, Chhath Puja and Jagadhatri Puja, all three of which are scheduled in November. On October 19, the Calcutta high court, while hearing a PIL filed by the same lawyer, had banned the entry of visitors in Durga Puja pandals and mandated the erection of barricades. The court had also capped the number of puja committee members who could enter the pandals. “We are planning to move the high court again early next week. Kali Puja, Jagadhatri Puja and Chhath Puja will take place in November. Lakhs of people are expected to gather in some districts where these pujas are celebrated in a big way. We will seek orders to restrict gatherings as there is a pandemic and relaxation could lead to a massive surge in Covid-19 cases,” said Sabyasachi Chatterjee, the lawyer who filed the Durga Puja PIL for petitioner Ajay Kumar De. Also Read: India scales up Covid-19 testing capacity; positivity rate dropsWest Bengal has witnessed a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases during the festive season with people coming out in large numbers for puja shopping, eating out and pandal-hopping without wearing masks and without maintaining physical distance. Even though because of the pandemic and the high court order, Durga Puja celebrations were muted this year, the state is now reporting around 4,000 new cases every day. “While Jagadhatri Puja is celebrated in a big way in Hooghly district, some places such as Barasat in North 24 Parganas celebrate Kali Puja in a big way. In 2019, devotees had violated the National Green Tribunal directions while celebrating Chhath Puja in Kolkata. The pandemic is going on and there need to be some restrictions,” Chatterjee added. In West Bengal, the maximum number of cases is being reported from Kolkata and North 24 Parganas. Around 900 new cases are being reported from each of these two districts. Citing the example of Kerala which witnessed a massive surge in Covid-19 cases after guidelines were relaxed during the festival of Onam, a doctors’ forum in West Bengal had warned the Mamata Banerjee administration that a similar situation could arise in the state after the festive season if the authorities showed laxity. On October 26, West Bengal had reported 4,121 new Covid-19 cases, which was the second-highest number of cases in India after Kerala. While Kerala with 4,287 cases topped the list, Maharashtra with 3,645 cases ranked third.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-pil-to-be-filed-to-restrict-gathering-during-kali-puja-jagadhatri-puja-chhath-puja/story-DxfslAUa8c5gJ2fifQvJZN.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farm fires harming Punjab more than Delhi: PAU study||Stubble burning in Punjab is a localised problem and doesn’t add to air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), rather farmers are choking their own children and brethren by setting the fields on fire, finds a study by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). The study says that the south-easterly direction of wind is highly unlikely to affect the air quality in the neighbouring states of Haryana and New Delhi. The study says that the detailed analysis of wind speed done over three years shows that fall in temperature in October and November reduce the formation of air currents. “So, a stable atmosphere is created in which only little vertical movement of air current occurs and horizontal transport of air is also reduced,” says the head of the department of climate change and agriculture meteorology of PAU, Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, who has compiled the study. LOW WIND SPEED, DIP IN TEMPERATURE CREATES CLOSED-ROOM SITUATIONShe, along with her team, has analysed the data of three years from 2017 to 2019 to conclude that the low wind speed and dip in temperature lead to a closed-room situation in which hardly anything enters or goes out. She observed that only once, the wind speed exceeded 5km per hour (6.11 per hour) and “the wind direction was towards the south east (opposite Delhi)”. “Every paddy-growing state is suffering from factors adding to its air pollution. In simple terms, Punjab’s smoke is not travelling 300-400 km to choke the lungs of Delhi, rather Punjab farmers are harming their own children and brethren by setting the fields on fire,” said Sidhu. FIRECRACKERS AROUND DIWALI WORSEN THE PROBLEM She said firecrackers around Diwali worsen the problem. While quoting the data of previous three years, she said smog was witnessed for 12 days till now this year, 10 days in 2019 and 11 days in 2018. She said the number of smog days may increase this year as the incidence of stubble burning was relatively high. The PAU finding is the second such study that claims Punjab farm fires are not contributing to Delhi’s pollution. In 2018, a joint study by the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Mohali, and Punjab Pollution Control Board had concluded that a significant contribution to Delhi’s air pollution was from within the NCR or Uttar Pradesh. However, the PAU’s study has been criticised by local environmentalists, who says such studies could encourage more fire fires.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farm-fires-harming-punjab-more-than-delhi-pau-study/story-Vu9coUA0AvgIYuKKQp2LMN.html
30-10-2020||City||Jammu: Car crash kills 3, injures 6 in Ramban||A five-day-old girl was among three persons who died while six others were injured when a car they were travelling in skidded off the Dam-Rajgarh link road in Ramban district late Thursday. The vehicle rolled down the hill and fell on another road beneath at Kana Batti just above Baghlihar Hydel project. Soon after the mishap, locals and policemen from Chanderkot reached the spot and launched a rescue operation. The dead and injured were shifted to the Ramban district hospital. One of the three dead was identified as Vipan Singh of Saroo Rajgarh. The injured have been identified as Haleema Begum, 35, of Rajgarh, Hafeeza Begum, 45, of Rajgarh, driver Firdous Ahmed, 28, of Chakka Rajgarh, Rustam Ali, 50, of Rajgarh, Ramesh Kumar,32, of Kastigarh and Mushtaq Ahmed, 40, of Chhuchhattar. Police have taken cognizance of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-car-crash-kills-3-injures-6-in-ramban/story-xiqFScbSfBl6F20X85DGOK.html
30-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: SP, BSP start new chapter of bitterness||The Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the two main regional political players in Uttar Pradesh (UP), are back to their old ways of playing bitter rivals, where tit-for-tat is the name of the political game.The rivalry, which began due to the infamous guest house incident on June 2, 1995 and lasted for a good 24 years, had a momentary reprieve ahead of last year’s parliamentary elections. Also read | Mayawati suspends 7 MLAs, says will back even BJP to defeat SPThough both the SP and the BSP had fought last year’s parliamentary elections in an uncharacteristic alliance on the lines of 1993, the bonhomie came unstuck after the polls, as the political formation made little impact at the hustings.The 1995 incident refers to a ruckus caused by SP lawmakers and supporters at a state-run guest house, where Mayawati, the then BSP chief Kanshi Ram’s closest aide and the then general secretary of the party, was meeting her legislators purportedly to pull the plug on the Mulayam Singh Yadav-led coalition government. The SP lawmakers and workers had gone on a rampage, forcing Mayawati to lock herself in a room, while they detained several of her legislators, claiming they had defected to the SP.The echoes of the unsavoury episode lingered on for years.The latest chapter of SP-BSP discord traces its origin to the biennial Rajya Sabha elections for 10 seats from UP, when an independent candidate Prakash Bajaj filed his nomination papers at the last moment on Tuesday (October 27) with 10 SP lawmakers in tow. His entry into the fray implied that there would be an electoral contest, as there were 11 candidates for 10 vacant RS seats. The SP’s manoeuvre had cast a doubt over the prospects of BSP candidate Ramji Gautam, who was fielded by the party even though it is short of the requisite 37 votes to record an outright win. The crisis worsened on Wednesday afternoon, when four BSP members of UP legislative assembly (MLAs), who had proposed Gautam’s candidature, petitioned the returning officer (RO) seeking withdrawal of their names. Later, they met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav at his party headquarters in Lucknow along with three more BSP MLAs.On Wednesday evening, the RO found Gautam’s nomination valid and rejected the nomination papers of Bajaj, who enjoyed the support of 10 SP lawmakers.On Thursday morning, Mayawati suspended the seven rebel BSP MLAs and promised to pay the SP back in its own coin. She also raked up the guest house case.“The BSP made a mistake by withdrawing the (guest house) case,” she said.Mayawati owned up to another mistake such as the decision to contest last year’s parliamentary polls in alliance with the SP. Earlier in 1993, the SP and the BSP had got into an alliance for UP assembly polls. Later, though they had formed the government, differences cropped up in no time.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had stepped in and offered to make Mayawati the chief minister. She was weighing in on the BJP’s offer, when the SP lawmakers and supporters had attacked the guest house on June 2, 1995. The SP and the BSP had buried the guest house hatchet and contested last year’s parliamentary polls in alliance in UP, but Mayawati walked out soon after the election results were declared. “It is behenji (Mayawati), who drew first blood. We were flabbergasted, when she broke the alliance on her own. Now, she has sided with the BJP and her MLAs and party leaders are upset. They are looking for an opportunity to join the SP. She herself is playing games. She has no business to blame us,” said a SP leader. Rajendra Chaudhary, spokesperson of the SP’s UP unit, on Wednesday termed the charges levelled by Mayawati as “baseless allegations”. He said, “The truth is that the BSP has sided with the BJP. The SP had sincerely followed the alliance dharma with the BSP till it decided to snap ties. We had successfully transferred all SP votes to the BSP candidates. The SP suffered at the BSP’s expense, as we managed to win only five seats in the Lok Sabha elections. The BSP needs to do a number crunching before it talks about teaching us a lesson. How many MLAs does it have? The BSP suspended seven MLAs on Thursday. How many MLAs does the party have now? Our party chief fulfils the promises he makes. He respected all opposition parties, when he was the CM. He believes in the democratic system.”The RS polls will be held on November 9 and the results will be declared on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-sp-bsp-start-new-chapter-of-bitterness/story-3dGrxcbaWTus779NsEE8xH.html
30-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Work continues on war footing to complete Kashi Vishwanath corridor project by August 2021||Construction work to complete the ambitious Kashi Vishwanath (KV) corridor project by August next year is in progress on a war footing, authorities said. Nine of the 24 buildings to come up as part of the project have started taking shape with over 2,500 workers engaged in the construction.The project is aimed at the expansion and beautification of the Kashi Vishwanath temple which will ensure visibility of the temple directly from the ghat. It is being developed on an area of 5 lakh sq ft.“The main complex of the temple, Mumuksh Bhavan, food court, Yatri Suvidha Kendra-1 and 2, main platform, virtual museum, city gallery and security chamber are among the buildings taking shape,” said a senior official of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board (SKVSADB).Also Read: 1,000 devotees to be allowed at Ayyappa shrine in Sabarimala during pilgrim seasonThe officer added that these buildings were likely to be ready by the first week of February. Work on other 15 buildings was also continuing simultaneously, he said.Chief executive officer, SKSADB, Sunil Verma said, “We will ensure that the project is ready by August 2021.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation of the project worth over Rs 1,000 crore on March 8, 2019. The Uttar Pradesh government had formed the SKSADB to ensure the completion of the project.State public works department (PWD) is the executing agency of the project, also known as Kashi Vishwanath Dham.Executive engineer, PWD, Sanjay Gore said red sandstone from Chunar was being used in the buildings. Baleshwar stones will also be used on the surface and walls.Makrana marble and Kota granite will also be used. Mandana stones, which look like the red sandstone of Chunar, will be used to build stairs at the ghat.The corridor will be equipped with several facilities for devotees. There is plan to install a big screen TV on the ghats for live streaming from the Kashi Vishwanath temple so that the devotees may have ‘darshan’ of the deity soon after taking a holy dip in the Ganga.As many as 290 buildings were acquired and demolished to create space for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-work-continues-on-war-footing-to-complete-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-project-by-august-2021/story-vxyDl0pXWv5FNHEhRbdHXM.html
30-10-2020||Kolkata||Marginal improvement in actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s health, say doctors||Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee (85), who has been undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private hospital in Kolkata for coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-induced old-age related ailments for the past three weeks, improved marginally on Thursday.However, doctors said that his condition was still critical. “He has shown marginal improvement. He has opened his eyes even though he didn’t respond to verbal commands,” Dr Arindam Kar, who is leading the team of doctors treating the actor, told media persons late in the evening on Thursday. Chatterjee had tested Covid-19 positive on October 6. He was admitted to the hospital and has been on ventilator support since Monday afternoon. The actor has developed secondary infections, including pneumonia. He also has a series of comorbidities. “We have been able to stabilise him for a while. It is still a long way to go,” the doctor said.Chatterjee, one of the most celebrated actors in West Bengal, has received several awards and honours, including the Padma Bhushan, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award and France’s Legion of Honor. He is best known for his collaboration with Oscar-winner auteur Satyajit Ray and the Feluda series.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/marginal-improvement-in-actor-soumitra-chatterjee-s-health-say-doctors/story-hOmM1y4FkWYDpjgKc3VU3L.html
30-10-2020||City||Gauhati HC seeks affidavit from NRC coordinator on inclusion of ineligible names in list||The Gauhati high court (HC) has asked Hitesh Dev Sarma, the Assam coordinator of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), to file a comprehensive affidavit on how some ineligible people managed to get included in the final NRC list for the north-eastern state released in August, 2019. The two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Manojit Bhuyan and Soumitra Saikia, directed Sarma last week to file the affidavit within three weeks, when the next hearing of the case is slated to be held. The court was hearing a petition by Rahima Begam, a resident of Mukalmua in Assam’s Nalbari district, who had challenged a 2019 order of a foreigner’s tribunal, which had declared her an alien. Begam’s name figured on the NRC list that aims to weed out illegal foreigners. The NRC list, which was released on August 31, 2019, had excluded 1.9 million applicants. Around 33 million applicants had applied for their inclusion in the list. Also read | Assam NRC list: The eligibility issue and other latest developmentsThe list, which was a revision of a similar exercise first introduced in 1951, was compiled following a Supreme Court (SC) order and the exercise was conducted under the apex court’s supervision. The HC noted that the present case was of “great importance” and was not a “solitary instance” and stressed that insertions of names of ineligible people in the NRC list was “against the law”. “This is not an isolated case. Let the Assam NRC coordinator file a comprehensive affidavit and bring on record the situations along with necessary particulars, where inroads into the list may have been created by individuals, who are undeserving and not legally entitled to be included in it,” the court said. The court stated that the affidavit should not be restricted to Nalbari district, to which the petitioner Begam belongs, but must include details from all 33 districts of Assam.Earlier in October, Sarma had written to all deputy commissioners (DCs) and district registrars of citizen registration (DRCR) and directed them to issue speaking orders for deletion of the ineligible people’s names from the list. The letter didn’t mention the number of such ineligible people.However, reports, quoting sources, said that around 10,000 ineligible people have been identified, whose names will be removed from the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gauhati-hc-seeks-affidavit-from-nrc-coordinator-on-inclusion-of-ineligible-names-in-list/story-lMudlDua4fMSNlvH3ZSHCI.html
30-10-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government to provide free Covid-19 vaccine||The Uttar Pradesh government will provide Covid-19 vaccine to people in the state free of cost, said the state’s health minister Jai Pratap Singh.“People in UP will get the vaccine free. What I am saying is nothing new. Already the Union health minister and the Prime Minister have said that all citizens in the country will get the vaccine free,” said Singh.Talking about preparations, Singh said that the state was preparing for the logistics, transportation and cold-chain maintenance of the vaccine when it is ready.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine update: Brazil expects vaccine by June 2021, Russia temporarily pauses trialsVaccination became a political issue in Uttar Pradesh and other states when the BJP’s Bihar assembly polls manifesto and leaders’ speeches promised free vaccine to residents of Bihar.Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav, in a tweet on October 22, attacked the BJP government over the issue. He said: “Today the ruling BJP, in its Bihar polls manifesto, is saying that it will administer free Corona vaccine to people of Bihar. Why was such an announcement not made of the people of UP and other states? In forthcoming polls, in UP and other states, people will teach BJP a lesson for such opportunistic and narrow politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-government-to-provide-free-covid-19-vaccine/story-NST5oLN6UuLNL6iJmEgsBJ.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI remains in very poor category; likely to improve from Saturday||A day after the Air Quality Index (AQI) dropped to the severe category, pollution levels in the national Capital remained in very poor category on Friday morning. According to the data shared by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI value was 380 at 7 am. On Thursday, the air quality was “severe” for a major part of the day. However, the average AQI for the day settled at 395 – dangerously close to the severe category. Also read | Centre brings new law to tackle NCR air crisisAir quality enters the very poor zone between 301-400 mark and crosses over to the severe zone after exceeding 400 causing distress and respiratory illnesses, especially in children and those exposed to the bad air. Till 1pm on Thursday, the average AQI oscillated between 402 and 408. At monitoring stations in Mundka, Bawana, Narela, Wazirpur and Anand Vihar, pollution levels neared the 500 mark, the worst AQI recordings since January. Scientists attributed the bad air to calm surface wind conditions that have led to the accumulation of pollutants in the atmosphere and stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana that is affecting the National Capital Region (NCR). Satellite images from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) showed a thick cover of smoke over the Delhi-NCR region on Thursday.VK Soni, head of the environment monitoring research centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said the wind speed was below 4kmph on Thursday. He added that the situation was expected to improve from Friday. “By Saturday, there will be a significant improvement in the air quality,” Soni said. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) of the Union ministry of earth sciences said stubble fires spotted over Punjab and Haryana were the highest (2,912) this season on Wednesday and their share (36%) in the city’s PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels too hit a new high on that day. A day after Delhi reported the coldest October in 26 years recording a minimum temperature of 12.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, IMD has predicted a misty day on Friday with minimum temperature likely to drop to 12 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature is predicted to remain at 32 degrees Celsius – marginally lesser than Thursday’s 32.2 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-remains-in-very-poor-category-likely-to-improve-from-saturday/story-5aA55MgXG1C6J7GxwPoWEI.html
30-10-2020||Lucknow||UP’s first organ transplant organisation in SGPGI soon||Uttar Pradesh will soon have its first State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) at Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). SOTTO will keep all information about transplants and follow the rules made under the Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (ROTTO ). The SGPGI will work as an organ banking nodal centre. A website of SOTTO will soon be created as well.Dr Rajesh Harshvardhan of SGPGIMS said, “All 26 government and private hospitals will work under SOTTO. The hospital administration will also launch campaigns to make people aware about organ transplant.” Also read | UP hospital put Covid patient without diabetes on Insulin for 10 daysThe SGPGI will conduct its first webinar on October 31 in which additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dubey and reputed doctors will take part. The health professionals will discuss the role and significance of SOTTO, organ, tissue harvesting and transplantation. SGPGI director Dr RK Dhiman said, “With the formation of the first SOTTO centre, organ transplantation will now get a major boost in Uttar Pradesh. People can easily donate organs and get organ transplantation. In fact, they will also be able to donate organs of brain dead patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-s-first-organ-transplant-organisation-in-sgpgi-soon/story-J83w01x36IEHczfmv6ayuK.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Tests increase by 11.6% in October, positivity rate drops in Mumbai||Covid-19 tests in Mumbai have increased by 11.6% in October in comparison to the last month. Civic officials attributed this rise to several initiatives taken under the door-to-door survey of ‘My Family My Responsibility’ to check cases.According to data analysed by HT, during September 1-27, as many as 315,563 tests were conducted. While in the last 27 days, 352,430 tests have been done in the city. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said ramped up testing resulted in more cases being detected. Around 13,000- 15,000 tests are being held every day since September. “We have increased Covid-19 testing since August. Until August 24, we were testing around 5,500 people per day in the city. But now, this number has gone over almost 15,000. At three instances, the daily testing had crossed the 16,000-mark, including rapid antigen tests,” he said.As a result of increased testing, positivity rate has seen a drop to 14.26% this month which was 17% till September-end. According to the BMC dashboard, the overall doubling rate in Mumbai stands at1 49 days. “Despite increasing testing to over 16,000 per day, the number has remained stable and constant. We haven’t noticed any sudden surge in the number of cases which gives the assurance that the situation might have come under control,” added Kakani. Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayFor instance, as per the civic body’s dashboard, on October 27, 15,825 people were tested for Covid-19. Out of this, 734 people tested positive -- 4.6% positivity rate. Civic officials believe door-to-door survey under the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ has also contributed to increased testing . “Whenever we see any one with symptoms of Covid-19 during the survey, we run tests on them. This has helped in early diagnosis,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, part of the state Covid-19 task force.At present, almost 40% daily tests are being conducted by the rapid antigen test which gives reports within 15 minutes. “The false negativity rate of the rapid antigen test is lesser than 1%. So, we have decided to extend its use. Now, hospitals also test suspected cases with rapid antigen kits,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital. Early diagnosis has also helped trace close contacts faster which has helped to break the chain of infection among people. In Mumbai, so far over 3.1million close contacts of positive cases have been traced. Social workers have welcomed the growing number of testing in the city. “With the ongoing festival season, it is important to run tests on the maximum number of people, including asymptomatic cases. An early detection also increases chances of recovery,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-tests-increase-by-11-6-in-october-positivity-rate-drops-in-mumbai/story-3vjxFrhfKzfTDmN2Z7H5fJ.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Air pollution: New law, new hope, old challenges||Union government’s decision to set up a new umbrella agency to fight air pollution may run into the same problems that dogged the Supreme Court-appointed Epca, experts warned, while some others also said that any renewed focus on the problem was welcome and the answer to the long persisting problem could lie in a new federal body.Till Thursday, the most crucial agency monitoring and acting on the pollution issue was the environment pollution (prevention and control) authority (Epca), which was set up in 1998 and had a mandate empowered by the top court.“There are several concerns with this ordinance, starting with the fact that legal and regulatory changes to tackle public issues like air pollution need a democratic conceptualisation. At the outset it is clear that the central government has taken control over the pollution control matters in the Delhi NCR region. This starts with the fact that the chairperson of this commission is a central government appointee. The commission will be heavily dominated by bureaucrats, to whom the legal frameworks gives various powers. The enforcement mechanism clearly top down and so far there is no indication that it will include third party monitoring and citizen-driven enforcement,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.She added, “One important issue is limiting the adjudication to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and not any other court. This is problematic as the appointments of the chairperson and members of both the commission and the NGT will be done by the Centre.”SN Tripathi of IIT-Kanpur, however, welcomed the move, saying the commission will better coordinate efforts to curb air pollution among National Capital Region (NCR) states. “There was no single body, authority, ministry or state which was empowered or dedicated to do that. This ordinance is an excellent example of learning from what the US did in California. While the US Environment Protection Agency (USEPA) was an autonomous and empowered body set up to manage air pollution across the country, California posed a singular challenge as a hotspot, that’s when the California Air Resource Board was set up to tackle that particular airshed. The problem of dealing with air pollution in California has a striking similarity to NCR in terms of meteorological and other conditions that we see in the Indo-Gangetic plains,” said Tripathi, who heads of the civil engineering department.Legal experts said the commission may not be able to do much more than what Epca was already doing. Environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta said the commission has been given powers similar to the one conferred on Epca by a 1998 notification. Epca had powers under section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986.“Epca, in its 22 years of existence, has rarely exercised its statutory powers and had become an advisory body to the Supreme Court. The same situation is likely to take place with regard to the new commission. Section 12 gives power to entertain complaints. Such power already existed with Epca, but was never exercised. The same is likely to continue with the new commission. The reason is simple. Under the ordinance, if an offence has been committed, a complaint has to be filed before the judicial magistrate first class. Given the fact that a majority of members of the commission are serving government servants, including chief secretaries and secretaries, it would amount to filing cases against themselves. It is for this very reason that Epca never filed a single complaint before the magistrate in 22 years of its existence,” Dutta said.The environment ministry in a note issued to journalists on Thursday said actions and orders made by Epca shall continue to be effective and deemed to have been done under this ordinance.Legally, however, the commission would be more powerful than Epca, said Dutta. He said that the commission will have parliamentary mandate after the ordinance is passed. “It will become an Act of Parliament, independent of other statutes. For NCR and adjoining areas this commission will operate. It is a complete code in itself,” he said.Shibani Ghosh, a public interest lawyer and a CPR fellow, said that even under the new body, criminal conviction would be used as the primary tool to deter environmental offences.“The commission has to file a complaint in a criminal court for non-compliance or contravention of its directions and orders. Whether it decides to exercise this power, and how often, would depend significantly on its staff and resources as criminal prosecution is a very time intensive process. The fear of criminal conviction has failed to deter environmental offences in India so far and it is unfortunate that the new law continues to use that as the primary tool for enforcement,” she explained.Dutta said the commission’s initiatives could reduce judicial intervention. “With the commission, it will now be a completely bureaucrats driven exercise,” explained Dutta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/new-law-new-hope-old-challenges/story-5sn2w4GUk7x4lX9ekiGgFO.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||At 12.5°C, Delhi logs lowest temperature in October in 26 years||The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 12.5 degree Celsius on Thursday, the lowest in October in 26 years, because of a thin cloud cover and other weather conditions including slow wind speeds, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The normal minimum temperature for this time of the year is 15-16 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.The last time Delhi recorded such a low temperature in October was in 1994, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre. The city had recorded a minimum temperature of 12.3 degree Celsius on October 31, 1994.The city recorded the all-time lowest temperature for this month -- 9.4 degree C -- on October 31, 1937. The absence of a cloud cover was among the reasons for the below-normal minimum temperature at this time of the year, the senior IMD scientist said. “The main reason behind this is that we did not have much cloud cover, which causes the surface to cool rapidly. In the next two-three days, too, the minimum temperature is expected to be around 12 degrees Celsius,” Srivastava said, adding that another possible reason was slow wind speeds that allow the formation of mist and fog.Minimum temperatures are likely to dip to 11 degrees Celsius in Delhi by November 1, the IMD scientist added.Low temperature and low wind speed also exacerbate air pollution in the city -- which has become an annual health crisis with the onset of winter every year -- as pollutants settle closer to the land and are unable to disperse. “Temperature plays a huge role in determining the pollution levels. If the early morning temperature is low then the pollution particles get trapped closer to the ground. Low temperature was one of the reasons that kept the pollution levels close to the severe zone on Thursday,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre.Delhi on Thursday recorded an average Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 395 (“very poor” category) while the air quality was “severe” (above 400) in some parts of the capital earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-12-5-c-delhi-logs-lowest-temperature-in-october-in-26-years/story-DrSBYfuLZ3rNGZxJYDtrMI.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 crisis in Delhi: Positivity rate nears 10%||The graph of Covid-19 disease in Delhi continued to climb, with the city registering 5,739 new cases in a day — a record high again — on Thursday. Reporting a record number of new cases for the third day in a row, Delhi’s tally of Covid-19 cases now stands at 375,753, which includes 338,378 recoveries and 6,423 deaths. On Wednesday the city had added 5,673 new cases of the viral infection, after reporting 4,853 new cases a day earlier on Tuesday.On average, Delhi has now reported 4,491 cases every day in the past week, which means the trajectory has now surpassed the previous peak of 4,174, which was reported for the week ending September 17, at the height of the second surge.The positivity rate, which went past 9% on Wednesday for the first time since early September, increased further to 9.55% on Thursday. Delhi had seen the first surge in cases in June — the week ending June 26 — when 3,446 cases were reported in a day at its peak..Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at ICMR said the government now needs to stay focused on keeping up with the testing numbers and spread mass awareness on wearing masks. “Delhi’s current situation is a culmination of many things — temperatures have come down making the environment moret conducive for the virus, the festive season because of which there is probably the highest interaction between people that the city has ever seen since the advent of the virus in March. And then there is air pollution, because of which many are already suffering from flu-like symptoms,” he said. Earlier this week, NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul had said in a press briefing that Delhi is inching towards its third peak. On Thursday, state health minister Satyendar Jain too said it “appears that Delhi is heading towards a third wave”, but said there would be clarity on this only by next week.“The trend of Covid cases is on a decline across the country. However, it has remained a matter of worry in three states and Union territories. Delhi is inching towards its third peak, while an unprecedented rise is being witnessed in Kerala and Bengal,” Dr Paul said on Tuesday.On Thursday, the government conducted 60,124 tests of which 17,029 were through reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), considered the most reliable Covid-19 testing method so far. It was on Sunday when Delhi had for the first time conducted over 17,000 RT-PCR tests. Testing in the city was scaled up from September onward but most diagnoses were conducted using the rapid antigen method.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-crisis-in-delhi-positivity-rate-nears-10/story-vZCdBXDuxeYKdVJuowTGVM.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Lesser-known historical edifices||Every granny needs a monument. And every granddaughter, another one close by.This double requirement is perfectly fulfilled in south Delhi’s breezy Green Park locality, which is home to two of the city’s lesser-known historical edifices—Dadi-Poti ka gumbad (big dome), or the domes of grandmother-granddaughter.Both stand next to each other, perched upon a gentle slope. This evening, there’s no one around. The setting sun is streaming through the leafy foliage of surrounding trees. The Aurobindo Market is a stone’s throw away, but this compound radiates such intense vibes of solitude that it is hard to imagine any shopping place for miles around. That’s not what makes this twin monument so special. In a city where almost all monuments commemorate male rulers, it is a relief to come across centuries-old landmarks enshrined to women— who, additionally, might have nothing to do with royalty. They might indeed be as common as we are. One can only regret not knowing who these two women were, beside being somebody’s “Dadi” and “Poti”.But well, here’s a blooper. According to the all-knowing Archaeological Survey of India slab, the names for these tombs were “perhaps coined (so) because of the fact that one tomb is bigger than the other.” It adds that there is absolutely no information about who were buried there.Whatever, the buildings evoke the melancholy caused by faded grandeur. The walls are especially impressive—very rough, and composed of uneven chunks of rubble, as if the monuments had been built, then immediately demolished, and quickly rustled up again from the broken stones.It is dark and musty inside the bigger mausoleum, Dadi’s gumbad. About half a dozen graves lie on the eastern side. Sky light is streaming in from a pair of arched entrances placed side-by-side, like two friends whispering into each other’s ears. Through another opening, one can enjoy the glimpses of a lush bougainvillea tree. One more opening, high up towards the ceiling, gives a view of Poti’s gumbad. Its entrance is locked. According to the book Delhi, the Built Heritage, Dadi’s dates to the Lodhi era and Poti’s is from the age of Tughlaqs. By now, two other visitors have come. Both are lying on the grassy slope, their back turned towards the gumbads. The man’s head is on the woman’s shoulder, almost romantically.What will Dadi say?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-lesser-known-historical-edifices/story-1QEJL6kC6qa2Yv3Y93mblK.html
30-10-2020||Lucknow||Unnao Ex-MP Annu Tandon quits Congress||Senior Congress leader and former Unnao MP Annu Tandon said on Thursday that she had resigned from the primary membership of the party, accusing the state Congress leadership of “misalignment” with her and not supporting her work. State Congress leaders, however, said that she was expelled for anti-party activities. Another party leader from Unnao and UP Congress Committee general secretary Ankit Parihar also resigned from the party. Tandon, who was associated with the party for 15 years, sent a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday. Her resignation comes at a time when a bypoll is scheduled to take place in Bangarmau, one of the six assembly segments of Unnao, on November 3.  “As far as my future path goes, I will be consulting with my workers, who are core to everything I have believed so far and I am confident that we will continue to be a force for good, a force for change and a means to truly represent the voice of the people,” Tandon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/unnao-ex-mp-annu-tandon-quits-congress/story-HrdfYhoCOMCbx7pp270QkI.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Overcharging by roadside vendors burning holes in Chandigarh residents’ pockets||Already reeling under exorbitant prices of onions, Chandigarh residents allege roadside vendors are overcharging for other vegetables as well in the absence of a check on their pricelist.With apni mandis closed, residents say they are forced to rely on roadside vendors and those who have set up temporary stalls. But, their prices are not being monitored.On Thursday, HT found that capsicum and tomatoes were the most overpriced. Vendors in Sectors 18, 19, 35, 46 and 48 were found selling capsicum for Rs 120 a kg against market committee’s price of Rs 70 per kg, while tomatoes, priced at Rs 55 per kg, were being sold for Rs 70 per kg.Locally grown vegetables like bottlegourd and cucumber mostly had the same rates. When questioned, Guddu a vendor in Sector 18, said, “We buy up to 25kg vegetables in wholesale, but around 2kg gets crushed under their weight, so we have to adjust the cost to curtail the losses. Softer vegetables like tomatoes and capsicum are more prone to this, hence more expensive rates.”Some residents alleged that even though vendors, who had been allotted space to set up stalls, charged fairer rates, those trading through carts fleeced them the most.“Even though the quality of vegetables was poor, I was charged Rs 80 per kg for onions and Rs 65 per kg for potatoes. I’m a senior citizen and don’t mind paying a little extra to have vegetables delivered to my house, but vendors make the most of residents not having other options,” said Nirmal Singh, president of the Sector 38-D Resident Welfare Association (RWA).Administrator of the Chandigarh Market Committee, Nazuk Kumar said she will look into the matter.Meanwhile, members of the Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) said it was high time this practice was reined in.“Every week we get complaints of fleecing from various RWAs of the city. We will be holding a meeting on November 1, where overcharging for vegetables will be one of the top agendas to be discussed,” said CRAWFED chairman Hitesh Puri.Onion prices drop slightlyMeanwhile, from Rs 75 for a kg last week, onion prices have reduced to Rs 65 a kg.The rates decreased slightly with improvement in supply from Maharashtra, but will remain on the higher side till the end of November, officials at the Sector 26 vegetable market said.Meanwhile onions from Afghanistan have also started coming in. “We got two truckloads on Thursday, which were sold at a wholesale price of Rs 25 per kg,” the officials said.Potato rates have also dropped from Rs 55 to Rs 45 per kg with the usual supply from Himachal Pradesh improving. Along with these, locally grown potatoes, which are of better quality, are also being supplied.DISPARITY IN PRICESRates of various vegetables (per kg) as found on ThursdayVegetable Market committee VendorCapsicum Rs 70 Rs 120Tomato Rs 55 Rs 70Onion Rs 65 Rs 70Potato Rs 45 Rs 55||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/overcharging-by-roadside-vendors-burning-holes-in-chandigarh-residents-pockets/story-vXFvJpaEKOxe2ljU4gPHqJ.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC House revokes hike in water charges, admn to take final call||Pending approval of the UT administration, the municipal corporation on Thursday decided to rollback the increase in water charges notified in September.The resolution passed in the General House meeting asked for continuation of the rates effective before the new rates, comprising a hike of up to 200%, were notified by the administration on September 11.“We will send the House decision to the administration. But, till a new notification is issued by UT to this effect, the increased tariff notified in September will remain in force,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav.Against an expenditure of around Rs 225 crore on city’s water management, the corporation earns only around Rs 70 crore. With the tariff increase, MC had expected to earn additional Rs 80 crore. “In my note with the House resolution, I will mention the losses incurred by MC in water management,” Yadav said.Heated arguments exchangedTempers flared as the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sparred over the water tariff hike. Both parties brought separate agendas on the matter.While the Congress demanded cancellation of the tariff hike notification, the BJP sought a discussion on the issue, to be followed by a revised notification.The House rejected Congress’ agenda, as the BJP councillors led by party’s state chief and councillor Arun Sood contended that it was illegal as the House didn’t have the power to cancel a notification issued by the UT administrator. This prompted heated arguments between the councillors of both parties. Congress’ Devinder Singh Babla and BJP’s Gurpreet Singh Dhillon even had a verbal spat, with one of the councillors heard saying, “Haath lagake toh dikha (I dare you to touch me)”.It was only after BJP councillors intervened that the duo took their seats.BJP targets MC officialsFollowing their recent public criticism of MC officials, BJP councillors targeted them at the House meeting as well.On the issue of fines imposed by the enforcement department on vendors, the BJP councilors alleged that the department was selectively targeting small vendors, who were already struggling to make ends meet amid the pandemic, while larger commercial establishments were being allowed to go scot-free.On the management of the gaushala in Industrial Area, councillors from the saffron fold accused the MC officials of willfully ignoring decisions taken by the House. “This shows, they don’t respect the House,” Sood said.He said MC officials were even ignoring the corporation’s commitment made to the Prime Minister’s Office in 2019. “The civic body had committed that within 100 days of the second term of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Sector 38 West motor market road will be converted into a cemented road. But even as 2021 nears, they haven’t started the work.”Congress demands mayor resignationLeader of Opposition and Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla trained guns at mayor Raj Bala Malik over her alleged failure to deliver on any development agendas and demanded her resignation.Even as most BJP councillors stood up in the mayor’s defence, she responded to the Congress demand, saying, “I will not resign. I was not elected by you (Congress). We are 20 and you only five.”No garbage charges in villages for of nowThe House also deferred the imposition of user charges on door-to-door garbage collection in 13 villages and markets. Councillors contended that the civic body had yet to completely and effectively collect garbage from these areas. The charges are mandated under the Solid Waste Management Bylaws 2018. MC was planning to impose charges varying from Rs 50 to Rs 100 for houses and Rs 200 to Rs 2,000 for commercial establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-revokes-hike-in-water-charges-admn-to-take-final-call/story-EujzndaMscyBx8KCa1aTuL.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Fissures erupt between cultural academies’ office-bearers, UT administration||Work at the three state-funded academies of the city that patronise performing arts, literature and fine arts has come to a standstill, but for an odd online show here and there, as funding has not made available to them since the first lockdown was imposed. However, a controversy has erupted over the unceremonious removal of some academy heads after they had completed their terms. The term of the chairpersons of the three academies was to end on March 15. While Madhav Kaushik of the Chandigarh Sahitya Akademi (CSA) did not seek an extension, it is learned that Kamal Arora of the Chandigarh Sangeet Natak Akademi (CSNA) and Bheem Malhotra of the Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi (CLKA) expressed interest in extending their tenure. While Malhotra continues in his position, UT adviser Manoj Parida wrote to the academis, saying that since the terms of the CSA and CSNA chairpersons were over, interim charge was being given to secretary cultural affairs Vinod P Kavle. Their positions have been advertised and will be filled in as per constitutional procedures. Meanwhile, CSA vice-president Gulzar Singh Sandhu, who believes that the post should have come to him constitutionally, has resigned in protest. Sandhu, who is experienced at heading literary bodies and was also former chairperson of the Punjab Arts Council, said, “Due to administrative delays, the resignation took time to process. They have even asked me to return the honorarium that I received during the period. All I was getting was ₹12,000 to cover conveyance expenses. Asking for a refund is in poor taste. My wife and I have contributed ₹6 lakh to Covid victims. Why would the paltry sum matter to me?” Meanwhile, Arora said, “For years, I worked as vice-chairperson and chairperson of the CSNA. I have worked with dedication and done good. It was hurtful that copies of the notice were sent to the other academis, too. The matter could have been handled with more grace.” UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “Government money cannot be left to private hands. Culture department manages these academies as the nodal department. It ensures that rivalry among artists is contained and political selections are curtailed.”Meanwhile, eyebrows are being raised about the CLKA being left unscathed. There is a buzz that works made by artists at workshops over the past decade and more have been gifted to bureaucrats, including those by some well-known artists of national and international fame, whose works are expensive. It is an inside joke that the paintings hang in the restrooms of bureaucrats’ homes. Kaushik, whose hands are full as vice-president of the national Sahitya Akademi and as member of the Press Council of India, said, “The art academies need more autonomy and should not be under the direct control of the administration. Also, there should be an age restriction on the office-bearers and those touching 80 or beyond it should not be in running for these appointments.” Same old names doing the rounds However, it has been seen that many are reluctant to leave. Surprisingly, Sandhu who was the CLKA chairperson, continued to work as vice-chairperson under Kaushik. Painter Madan Lal, who has also been an office-bearer of the CLKA in the past, said “The road to creativity is tough and artists are required to prove their worth. Yet, the power these administrative posts bring is cherished and thus the performer turns promoter with ease.” Ironically, the names of the same office-bearers keep circulating in the academis housed in the city whether under the union territory or the state governments of Punjab and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fissures-erupt-between-cultural-academies-office-bearers-ut-administration/story-Du0SxrAIffG55Ifw0bEZPO.html
30-10-2020||City||6th Leh council: Oath ceremony coincides with first anniv of UT status to Ladakh||The 26 newly-elected councillors of the sixth Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC)-Leh will be administered oath of office and secrecy on Saturday, which coincides with the first anniversary of Ladakh’s conversion into a union territory without legislature.Additional district commissioner Sonam Chosjor said, “All 26 councillors will be administered oath by principal district and sessions judge Ranbir Singh Jasrotia at Sindhu Sanskriti Kendra at 9.30am on Saturday.”Chosjor added that thereafter, the chief executive councillor and deputy chief executive councillor will be elected. The term of fifth LAHDC-Leh will end on Friday.After the oath-taking ceremony, celebrations will be held to mark the first anniversary of the UT status to Ladakh. On October 31, 2019, Ladakh was made a UT without legislature while J&K was converted into UT with legislature. The people of Leh have been demanding constitutional safeguards under sixth schedule and on September 28, former BJP minister and ex-president of the BJP’s Ladakh unit, Chering Dorjay, had cautioned the Centre of a sustained campaign in case the apex body was hoodwinked.The apex body of People’s Movement, an apolitical body which has former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang, Dorjay, Thiksay monastery head Rinpoche Nawang Chamba Stanzin and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora, has been demanding constitutional safeguards under sixth schedule of the Constitution to Ladakh on the lines of north-eastern states of having constitutional safeguards under sixth schedule of the Constitution. Home minister Amit Shah had then given an assurance to the delegation that later withdrew its call to boycott the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6th-leh-council-oath-ceremony-coincides-with-first-anniv-of-ut-status-to-ladakh/story-JQnzaaUyltWwAvJqlykEZJ.html
30-10-2020||City||Youth shot dead over financial dispute in J&K’s Kathua||A 24-year-old was allegedly shot dead by another youth in Kathua town here on Thursday.The deceased was identified as Sanjeev Kumar, 24, of Shiva Nagar in the border town. Kathua SSP Shailendra Kumar Mishra said, “Accused Bhanu Pratap Singh, 22, of Patel Nagar, was arrested and the weapon used for the crime, a .12 bore single barrel gun, was seized.”“The deceased was an employee of the social welfare department. There was some monetary dispute between the two. The accused has been booked under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code,” he said.Police said that the accused owed Rs 8,000 to the deceased. “On Thursday morning, Kumar went to the accused’s house and demanded the money be returned. The accused went inside the house and came back with a gun. They got into a heated argument and the neighbours heard a gunshot. The accused shot Kumar in his chest from point blank range,” police added.Kumar was accompanied by one of his friends. The accused then helped Kumar’s friend to shift the victim to the district hospital. The accused reportedly takes drugs and was alone at his house at the time of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/youth-shot-dead-over-financial-dispute-in-j-k-s-kathua/story-nNEuUXCHlnbD0Q7GjhAR5I.html
30-10-2020||City||New land laws realise dream of Pt Premnath Dogra, says J&K BJP||Abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A followed by the new land laws have realised the dream of late leader Pandit Premnath Dogra, the BJP said here on Thursday.Known as ‘Sher-e-Duggar’, Dogra was instrumental in forming the Jammu Praja Parishad party in 1947 along with Balraj Madhok. He was opposed to the policies of Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah.“His whole life, Dogra relentlessly led the struggle for ‘Ek Nishan, Ek Vidhan, Ek Pradhan’. The scrapping of J&K’s special status and introduction of the new land laws is a real tribute to Praja Parishad’s movement. Everybody needs to understand it in an appropriate context,” said Ashwani Kumar Chrungoo, senior BJP and Kashmiri Pandit leader in a statement.He said the disgruntled elements under the banner of “Gupkar-Circus” can’t export their political narrative to Jammu and Ladakh.“The befitting reply of the leaders warning them to keep their hands off Ladakh is a well-timed caution to all in J&K. Their stand is not only appreciable but also worthy of being followed by the people of Jammu region,” he added.“When the people of J&K can have properties and assets all over India, how can the same rights be denied to others from different states in the scheme of equal rights for all in our Constitution? The Gupkaris should first abandon their acquired properties in places like Mumbai, Delhi, Gurugram, Kochi, Chennai, Kolkata and Bangalore etc. and then advocate their theory on moral grounds,” he argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-land-laws-realise-dream-of-pt-premnath-dogra-says-j-k-bjp/story-UeHZwYhBh2ctC58w7PGgJP.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||HC restrains Amravati Enclave developer from further construction||The Punjab and Haryana high court has restrained the developer of Amravati Enclave from carrying out any further construction in the absence of fresh approval from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. The HC bench of Justice SN Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri acted on the plea of one Col (retd) BS Rangi, who had alleged violations of various norms and claimed that the developer had started further construction even as environmental clearance was pending. The developer, Amarnath Investment Private Limited, had argued that environmental certificate was already taken, but it got expired. However, the court did not agree and directed that the developer and its agents should not take up further construction until the environmental clearance is renewed. The matter pertains to the development of extension of the enclave across over 2.6-acre land in Bhagwanpur village. The court was told that the licence was granted to developer in 1996 for the development of group housing colonies in Bhagwanpur, Islam Nagar and Chandimandir. It was in 2010 that it got permission for the extension of the enclave, where as per the petitioner, construction has been started without environmental clearance.The petitioner had alleged non-compliance with the Haryana Building Code rules and fire safety norms. The court was also told that three blocks constructed under earlier society have come up “dangerously” and even in medium-density earthquake, heavy destruction can be caused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-restrains-amravati-enclave-developer-from-further-construction/story-b0SnkZabRVTBDuK1yJXX5L.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 to shut 200-bed Covid care centre as active cases plunge below 5%||With the active case ratio dropping below 5%, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at Sector 32 will be closing its 200-bed Covid care centre set up at Sood Dharamshala in the next two days after the current batch of patients will be discharged after completing the isolation period.Officials said as the number of cases has seen a major dip and recoveries have also reached around 94% after a surge in September, in the coming days, patients who will not opt for home isolation will be admitted to Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital in Sector 46 and the government hospital in Sector 47. Besides the active cases of infections, the number of hospitalised patients from Chandigarh has also dropped below 100, officials said.“For the optimum utilisation of the resources, we will close the Covid care centre at Sood Dharamshala and reopen if the need arises in the future. The staff will be deputed to other duties as well. Most of the patients will be admitted to the ayurvedic college and the Sector-47 hospital. However, in GMCH-32, the area earmarked for Covid-19 patients will continue as such keeping in view the predictions of the second surge,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, acting director, Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32.Earlier, the UT health department had closed down the centres set up at the Panjab University hostels with patient load witnessing a dip.“The staff for those centres has been kept on the reserve duty and will be mobilised in a short span of time whenever the requirement arises,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur, director, UT health department. Of the total 14,292 patients of Covid-19 in Chandigarh, 13,402 (93.7%) have been cured and discharged while 225 (1.57%) have died. As many as 665 (4.6%) are the cases with active infection.Currently, the weekly average growth rate of infection stands at 0.4% against the 0.6% at the national level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-32-to-shut-200-bed-covid-care-centre-as-active-cases-plunge-below-5/story-DqbfCraeqp5AzkyRqTUwBP.html
30-10-2020||City||Knife-wielding robbers target truck driver in Zirakpur, take away cash, documents||Three miscreants attacked a truck driver and robbed him of cash, jewellery and important documents in Zirakpur, where he had come to drop rice bags at a godown on Thursday. The victim is Rajesh Kumar, a native of Haryana’s Kaithal district. He was rushed to a private hospital by a security guard of a nearby hotel from where, he was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital at Chandigarh’s Sector 32. Police said Rajesh was attacked by three unidentified persons with knives. The accused also stole ₹6,000, a silver chain and some of his important documents including his driving licence, Aadhaar card, PAN card and truck’s registration certificate. Rajesh in his statement given to the police mentioned that he had brought bags filled with rice meant to be delivered at a godown in Zirakpur. He said around 3pm, he stopped his vehicle on a lane outside a hotel to ask the address of the godown. He said he saw three youths standing on the other side of the road, so he went up to them. “However, two of them were carrying knives and knocked me down before attacking my back, shoulder and stomach,” the victim said. He told the police as the trio started mulling slitting his throat, he raised alarm, to which a security guard responded and came to his rescue. He said the accused then fled towards the Baltana area. The Zirakpur police have registered an FIR under sections 392, 324, 341 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the three unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/knife-wielding-robbers-target-truck-driver-in-zirakpur-take-away-cash-documents/story-7MUOsddbQqh6UggcOO4btO.html
30-10-2020||Noida||E-rickshaw driver shot and critically injured by SUV-borne armed men||A 35-year-old e-rickshaw driver was shot at and critically injured in what police suspect to be a road rage case near Bhopra in Sahibabad on Thursday morning. The victim was identified as Raja Mansuri, a resident of New Seemapuri. “We are trying to find out the exact sequence of events which took place and how the e-rickshaw driver became the victim during the incident,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). He added that the family of the victim gave a police complaint on the basis of which an FIR under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) was lodged at Sahibabad police station. However, the police could not confirm whether the incident was due to road rage or personal enmity.The family members of the victim said that he was rushed to MMG Hospital and thereafter referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi for higher treatment. “He probably went to Ghaziabad to drop passengers. He has suffered a gunshot to his head. He is not able to speak due to his condition,” said Samir Mansuri, the victim’s nephew. “Since none of the family members were at the spot, we will not be able to tell exactly what happened during the incident.” The police said that they have formed teams to trace the SUV and the assailants and also trying to scan CCTV footages in order to get clues to the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/e-rickshaw-driver-shot-and-critically-injured-by-suv-borne-armed-men/story-SthwnWF1qtKH9SeDm18pcK.html
30-10-2020||Noida||Contractor alleges 1.5 cr fraud by developer||A 45-year-old proprietor of a material contracting firm based in sector 100 has alleged that a developer had duped him of Rs 1.5 crore Mukul Srivastava said he was roped in by the developer for a project in sector 98 in July 2018. “Once the initial work was done, two bills of almost ₹10 lakh were generated in March and July of 2019 of which the developer paid us ₹7.8 lakh. Because of the partial payment, we trusted him enough to do the ret of the work that amounted to ₹85 lakh,” said Srivastava.However, he alleged that the developer sold a portion of the project to another builder without his knowledge.“All of them assured me that the balance payment would be honoured by the original developer and the new bills will be settled by the second one for which fresh work orders will be generated. However, even as I continued with the work, a new work order was not generated nor was I paid the balance,” he said.In September, 2019 the developers allegedly threatened Srivastava.Based on his complaint with the district court, a case of cheating, forgery and criminal intimidation was registered against nine persons- owners and directors of the two firms- at the Phase 2 police station.“We have filed a case and we will question all the people involved. A probe in the case is underway and due action will be taken,” said Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/contractor-alleges-1-5-cr-fraud-by-developer/story-JQBOtazhC8sbZ7VJWdCuHI.html
30-10-2020||Noida||Active cases fall below 1000 mark after 77 days in Gzb, focussed testing ordered ahead of festivals||Ghaziabad: After a gap of nearly 77 days, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad district has fallen below the 1000-mark on Thursday to 829. Gautam Budh Nagar, meanwhile, suffered one more death from the disease, taking the toll to 68. According to the state control room records, Ghaziabad had last had fewer than 1000 active cases on August 13. Since then, it reached the peak active case count of 2,126 on September 14, a day after it recorded the highest single day spike at 303. The control room figure of October 29 stated that the district has reached total of 18339 cases which includes 83 deaths and 17427 discharges so far. “We had increased daily testing in October to detect positive cases which spiked the active cases in the district. However, with this strategy we were able to detect more and more positive cases and this finally led to decline in overall active cases,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. According to the health department figures, the district till October 28 had taken up 423148 testing which also includes 249705 tests through rapid antigen kits. “We will now focus testing on different groups ahead of the festival season. They will include autorickshaw drivers, cycle-rickshaw drivers, beauty salon workers, shopkeepers, etc. This is being done under a 15-day drive directed by the state officials ahead of the festival season,” Dr Gupta said. The Uttar Pradesh government appointed nodal officer, Senthil Pandian C, also reviewed the situation with Ghaziabad officials on Thursday. “Public awareness and adherence to social distancing norms will be of prime importance during festivals along with enforcement. We do not wish cases to rise when people come out in large numbers in markets and mix up,” Pandian, said. He added that he has also directed officials to enhance testing from 3100, directed by state officials, to about 5000 per day. The special drive for focussed testing of different groups ahead of the festivals has been initiated at state level. “We have seen in other countries and nearby states that there is surge in cases and there is also, probability of a second wave of cases. To tackle this, we have directed for a special drive in which focussed testing of different groups will take place on different days. Since such groups are likely to come in contact with large number of people during the festivals days, we intend to test them beforehand,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health).On Thursday, Ghaziabad saw 83 new cases, taking the total count to 18,339. There were no new deaths, which meant the toll stood at 83 and mortality rate fell further to 0.45%. The recovery rate is 95%. Gautam Budh Nagar had 130 new cases taking the total count to 17422. The recovery rate was 93.4% and 1086 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/active-cases-fall-below-1000-mark-after-77-days-in-gzb-focussed-testing-ordered-ahead-of-festivals/story-hRXLaEao6xJhkDwgJlIoLM.html
30-10-2020||Noida||Protesters block DND Flyway for 5 hrs seeking justice for dead businessman||Traffic on the DND Flyway was hit for around five hours after family members of 22-year-old Delhi-based businessman who died by suicide in September, along with 1500 other people, blocked the road demanding justice.Protesters claimed that Aman Baisla had blamed several people in a video allegedly made shortly before his death, and that the police had failed to arrest them. The Delhi Police said they were investigating the matter and that the protesters, who gathered responding to a social media campaign, were dispersed after senior officers intervened. Baisla lived in Delhi’s Rohini and ran used to sell amenities to hotels. On September 29, his father, Man Singh, found him dead in his office. In the FIR, filed at Delhi’s Shahbad Dairy police station on October 4, Singh stated that Baisla had once told him that his former business partner had borrowed some money from him. “She was threatening to file a rape case when my son asked her to return the money. The woman’s two accomplices were threatening him. On September 29, I counselled my son and returned home,” he said. When Baisla did not return home by 11pm, the complaint read, Singh returned to the office and found the door locked from inside. He claims to have broke open the door and found Baisla hanging.The case was registered against unknown persons under sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). On Thursday, police on both sides of the Delhi-Noida border, it seemed, were caught off guard.Over 200 people parked their cars on the DND Flyway and blocked the traffic movement on both sides from 11am to 4pm.Baisla’s grandfather Hari Kishan, who was among those who protested, said the Delhi Police had picked up the two suspects but later released them. “We demand the police interrogate the suspects and arrest them,” Kishan said. Manish Awana, the family’s advocate, said, “We came to know that the suspects were seen with some Delhi Police personnel in a photo. The suspects are influential and hence we demand police security to the victim’s family.” The Delhi Police, in a press statement, said, “A call for protest at DND Flyway was given on social media for #justiceforamanbaisla. Around 1500 to 2000 people gathered at around 11am at DND Flyway toll bordering UP and Delhi. Later they proceeded towards Delhi to go to PHQ (Delhi police headquarters). Protesters were stopped and negotiated by senior officers ... and finally made to disperse peacefully.” “Case has been transferred to Crime Branch and is being investigated quickly and on priority. If there is any apprehension about photo of some persons with local police, it will be inquired into and necessary action will be taken on it . If there is an apprehension about security threat to any person, proper assessment will be done and security can be provided under the witness Protection Program after due assessment,” it read.Ganesh Saha, DCP Traffic, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the traffic was diverted on the route due to protest at DND Flyway. “The Delhi-bound traffic was diverted to Mayur Vihar link road and also to Kalindi Kunj road. Delhi police had restricted Noida bound traffic till the evening,” he said. While the police had diverted the traffic, some commuters were trapped in the middle. “I had taken my son to a doctor in Delhi. On return I am caught in traffic jam for one hour,” said Rakesh Arya, a Noida resident Sector 30 resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/protesters-block-dnd-flyway-for-5-hrs-seeking-justice-for-dead-businessman/story-vdodEzyCFpqdyasBLcyH9O.html
30-10-2020||Noida||Locals protest after man murdered, body left at Noida elevated road||Noida: Over 100 people from Nithari village gathered near the sector 25 intersection under the Noida elevated road on Thursday morning to demand justice after the death of a 26-year-old resident the previous evening. Although initially thought to be a hit-and-run case, a bullet was found in his head during autopsy.Kamal Sharma’s body was been found near the exit from the elevated road towards Iskcon temple. According to police, they had received a memo from the district hospital around 7.30 pm that an unidentified vehicle had hit the motorcycle Sharma was riding. The man declared brought dead at the hospital. The autopsy on Thursday morning revealed the bullet injury. “Prima facie it had appeared to be an accident case but the autopsy has revealed that he was shot there and left at the spot. The body has been handed over to the family for the last rites,” said Prabhat Dikshit, station house officer, sector 24 police station. Family members and others blocked the road under the elevated road with Sharma’s body. “He lost his father almost 20 years ago. He is the oldest among three siblings and was the sole earning member of his family. With him gone there is no one left to support his elderly mother and two sisters. The family should be given monetary compensation,” said Mohit Kumar, a family friend. The protesters also demanded a government job for his family. They also claimed that police had been negligent in the case and was trying to term a murder as an accident.“His murderers should be arrested immediately and the family should be given the justice they deserve while police should do their job more efficiently,” said Kumar. Senior police officers and politicians reached the spot and spoke to the family, assuring them of all possible help. It was only after this that the public dispersed and conducted his last rites. Till the time of going to print, police were yet to receive a complaint from the family. Police officials said that as soon as the family files a complaint, a case of murder will be registered. However, a probe in the case had already begun, they said. Police officials said that the CCTV footage in the area was scanned and on the lookout for witnesses. “We are looking at all possible angles, including any personal enmity. His cell phone records are being looked at and a thorough investigation is ongoing,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/locals-protest-after-man-murdered-body-left-at-noida-elevated-road/story-dAa7CYchhOxTL9y28sRKGL.html
30-10-2020||Noida||High contribution of stubble burning affects AQI in NCR||Ghaziabad: A sharp decline in air quality on Thursday in the national capital region region was primarily attributed to stubble burning that contributed nearly 36% to the pollution, according to the system of air quality and eather forecasting and research.Around 2912 incidents were recorded, the agency said. According to statistics from the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory, the instance of stubble burning combined in three states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have reached 24819 during the period October 1 to October 28 with share of Punjab at 21335. During the same period in 2019, the total counts were 21015 with Punjab’s share of 15575 while the counts during the same period in 2018 were 187708 with Punjab’s share at 12878. The officials of the Indian Meteorological Department said that low speed north-westerly winds brought the effect of stubble burning to NCR. “Even if we assume that stubble burning has about 36% contribution, the other factors including vehicular and industrial emission, dust generated from roads, construction sites and garbage burning, etc share the rest of the percentage. There is absolutely no decisive plan to deal with such sources. Even if the Centre has announced to bring in a new law to control air pollution for the Delhi/NCR, it will take time for implementation,” said Akash Vashishtha, a Ghaziabad-based environmentalist. “It would mean that this winter season too, the residents of NCR will have to battle the high pollution levels. Even during the period when stubble burning is not in prevalence, the pollution levels remain high throughout the year.”During the current month when the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) is already in effect from October 15, there had been regular instances of stubble/garbage burning at Kushaliya, Morta, Indirapuram and Mohan Nagar among others. “We are keeping checks on instances of local stubble or garbage burning and FIRs are also getting lodged. On Thursday, the major factor responsible for deterioration in AQI was due to high contribution of 36% due to stubble burning besides the local polluting factors. The Ghaziabad city was more affected as the pollutants affecting Delhi further came down towards Ghaziabad and deteriorated the AQI here further,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. “The monitoring station at Loni was affected as AQI went to 431 under ‘severe’ category while the other three stations remained under higher side of ‘very poor’ quality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/high-contribution-of-stubble-burning-affects-aqi-in-ncr/story-qlXWKAsyD7PApw41WMV4tN.html
30-10-2020||Noida||Air quality falls sharply, Greater Noida most polluted in state||Following a short breather, Noida and adjoining areas saw a sharp deterioration in air quality on Thursday with several areas of the city plunging into the “severe” category when even healthy people are affected. This is the first time this season that the air deteriorated to this level.On the day, Greater Noida was the most polluted city in Uttar Pradesh and second most polluted city in the national capital region (NCR), second to Charki Dadri in Haryana, about 90 kms west of Delhi. Slow wind did not help ventilation and pollution levels were almos nine times the standard in Greater Noida and seven times in Noida and Ghaziabad. “We are ensuring that adequate dust and emission control measures are taken to avoid further drop in the air quality, but the issue is that the met conditions are highly unfavourable at time leading to the spike in pollutants,” said Archna Dwivedi, regional officer, UPPCB, Greater Noida. The Air quality index (AQI) of Greater Noida on Thursday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 412 or ‘severe’ against 324 a day earlier. The AQI of Noida was 383 against 301 a day earlier, while the AQI of Ghaziabad was 389 against 317 a day earlier. Meanwhile, sector-1 area of Noida also turned ‘severe’ with an AQI of 405. According to the pollution monitoring agencies and experts, weather conditions and higher share of stubble burning among the local emissions in the region led to the sharp deterioration of the air quality. The wind speed, according to the weather analyst was nil for most of the day, while some areas across Noida and Ghaziabad saw a wind speed of around three to five kmph for some time. “The wind speed was negligible for most of the day and only for a very short time the winds reached a maximum speed of five kmph, which was not enough for the dispersion of pollutants. The forecast is however promising as winds are likely to increase from October 30 up to 10-12 kmph, while on October 31 the winds will increase further,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), both PM2.5 and PM10 values of Noida and Ghaziabad saw sharp rise. For Greater Noida, the PM10 was 589.02 microgrammes per cubic metres (µg/m³) and PM2.5 levels were 275.6µg/m³. For Noida, the PM10 and PM2.5 levels were 459.99µg/m³ and 275.05µg/m³, respectively. For Ghaziabad, the PM10 level was 438.36 µg/m³ and PM2.5 was 255.13µg/m³. The CPCB standard limit for PM2.5 is 40µg/m³ while that of PM10 is 60 µg/m³. “PM10 or the large particles causes health issues like breathing issues by reaching up to the lungs however the PM2.5 damages the body further by mixing in the bloodstream thereby causing heart related issues,” said Shambhavi Shukla, program officer, air pollution, centre for science and environment (CSE). Meanwhile, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the stubble burning share in PM2.5 in the entire region of NCR, including Noida and adjoining regions was estimated to 36 per cent. “The stubble burning share in PM2.5 is estimated as 36 percent for today…Increased surface wind speed and better ventilation conditions are likely to significantly improve the situation by 31st October,” said a SAFAR statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-quality-falls-sharply-greater-noida-most-polluted-in-state/story-d71DcEgpEHIRHx0hkTZIGM.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Security guard, secretary of Tardeo society booked for harassing nurses of Mumbai Hospital; society says complaint false||Tardeo police on Wednesday night booked a security guard and secretary of a south Mumbai housing society for restricting the movement of nurses of Bhatia Hospital and harassing them. The Tardeo Court Cooperative Housing society has countered the allegations, claiming a false case has been registered against them.Around 24 nurses working at Bhatia Hospital, which is a Covid-19 treatment centre, have been given accommodation by the hospital administration in three of their four flats in the society (one flat is under litigation). One of the nurses, Jency Thomas, on Wednesday filed a complaint with Tardeo police station, against the security guard and secretary of the building for restricting their movements. Thomas alleged that on Wednesday when she tried to move out of the society with her colleague, they were stopped by the security guard, who claimed that they were not permitted to go out. The nurses were told that they would have to take permission from the secretary of the society Kartik Mehta if they chose to step out of the property. The nurses returned to their room and called for help from the hospital administration. In her complaint, Thomas claimed that they were allowed to leave their rooms only after the head of the human resources department of the hospital, Nitin Warde intervened with the help of police. Denying the allegation that the nurses were stopped on Wednesday evening, Mehta said, “The incident is wrongly portrayed, as the hospital forcefully brought 12 more nurses to the building for their accommodation, which is why the security guard too had called on the police helpline. When we narrated the forceful entry, the police did not register our complaint, but registered a case against us,” Mehta alleged. Warde claimed that the nurses have been facing harassment from the society ever since the pandemic began in March. “There have been several instances of such harassment and a written complaint was also given to the police,” he said. The society claimed there has been a dispute between the society and hospital over accommodation of nurses. “There had been an issue for use of the flats of Bhatia Hospital. The flats were being used by nurses, whereby the hospital created a dormitory sort of system which is what the society had objected to,” said Mehta.”The nurses were given accommodation in the society since lockdown began. However, they were removed as the society objected. Later, in September, the hospital again wanted to accommodate nurses in the flats. After we reached an amicable solution, we had allowed 12 nurses to stay in three flats,” Mehta said. In the letter written by Warde on behalf of the hospital to the Tardeo police on August 20, several instances of harassment from the society towards the nurses were highlighted. “Due to the nationwide lockdown as well as suspension of train services, doctors, para-medical and nursing staff had to be additionally accommodated in the said residential premises. Although proper care was taken by the management of the said hospital, the office bearers of the society started raising objections and created unprecedented hurdles for the staff to continue their stay, including restricting their movements in and out of the society owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic situation,” the letter stated. In another letter written on September 28, the hospital continued to highlight continuous harassment of the nurses as they were not allowed to enter the building. The hospital had last month requested the deputy commissioner of police and assistant commissioner of police to book the society members for constant harassment of the nurses. It also requested the police to grant them protection. Mehta denied the allegations of harassment of the nurses, saying they have been given all support possible. “We have taken good care of them and a separate lift was allotted for them,” Mehta claimed. Nitin Warde said the flats were not being used as dormitory and are being used for accommodation of doctors and nurses for more than 30 years. “We used to give the flats for accommodation of doctors. Subsequently, when we got Mumbai-based doctors, we started giving accommodation to nurses. The society took objection since the beginning of the pandemic and nurses were asked to leave the premises overnight in April,” Warde said. “On Wednesday, after taking due certificate from BMC over purpose of use of the flat, 12 nurses with the help of hospital management entered the society. We tried to submit a letter to the manager, but it was not accepted. This was all video recorded. The society guard later came to the flat and threatened them, saying they would not be allowed to go out now and called the police. In front of the police, the issue was discussed and after verification, the complaint was registered,” Warde said. Warde said the society had been resisting the accommodation of nurses since the pandemic began. “The hospital owns three flats in the society since 1963, and hospital’s staffers live there. There have been issues since the beginning of the pandemic as the society feared for the health of senior citizens and small children who stay there. However, police had intervened and resolved the issues,” said Firoz Bagwan, senior inspector of Tardeo police station. “On Wednesday, the complainant was going out to buy food after returning from duty. The watchman stopped her. Following the statement of the nurse, a case was registered under section 341 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and a notice under section 41 was sent to the watchman and secretary of the building, instructing them to be present at the police station for inquiry,” Bagwan added.Refuting the allegation that society made a complaint against the hospital for their forceful entry of the nurses in the society, he said, “The complaint was made by the nurse only, about restraining her from leaving the society premises, which we have registered . After proper investigation, a report will be submitted to the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/security-guard-secretary-of-tardeo-housing-society-booked-for-restraining-harassing-nurses-of-mumbai-s-bhatia-hospital/story-qJ5cdQBUatHb9fMJDOoyiK.html
30-10-2020||Education||‘Committed academician; indecisive administrator’: Academicians on DU V-C Yogesh Tyagi||People familiar with Delhi University (DU) vice-chancellor (V-C) Yogesh Tyagi -- who was suspended by the President on Wednesday on charges of dereliction of duties, abuse of power and lack of commitment – had mixed reactions to offer on his tenure as an academician. Some said he is a “dignified person, a committed academician, a remarkable teacher” while others termed him as an “indecisive administrator and an incompetent V-C”. A native of Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut district, Tyagi was appointed the 22nd VC of DU in March 2016. Before that, he was a professor and dean of the faculty of legal studies at South Asian University (SAU) in New Delhi. He was a professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University’s (JNU) School of International Studies (SIS) and served as its dean between January 2009 and December 2011.VG Hegde, chairperson of International Legal Studies at SIS, who knows Tyagi from the days when he was a student in JNU, said, “He is a remarkable academician and his achievements in the field of international law is commendable. He has been a meticulous person who would take a lot of time in taking decisions. During his tenure as dean, some colleagues felt his nature in delaying the decision-making process made him unsuitable for the administrative posts”“However, he was a fabulous teacher who was admired by his students. He was so dedicated that we used to teach for 2-3 hours at a stretch. He was one of the best teachers I have seen,” said Hedge, who had also worked with Tyagi at SAU between 2012 and 2016.JNU registrar Pramod Kumar, who was a student at the university when Tyagi was warden of Narmada hostel, said, “I can’t recall any fellowship or scholarship that he did not win. He was internationally known for his academic credentials.” Tyagi was on deputation from JNU when he had joined SAU and later DU as the V-C. He continued to stay in his allotted house in JNU even after joining DU till January 2019. He shifted to the VC lawns – which houses the V-C’s residence – in DU’s north campus after retiring from JNU last year.He had been working in DU at a salary of Rs 1 per month since 2016.Tyagi’s personal records, including his date of birth, are not available on DU’s official website. According to officials at JNU, he is 67 now. He received his LLM from Columbia University School of Law in New York and did his MPhil and Ph.D. in legal studies from JNU. Recalling a 2010 incident when Tyagi was dean of SIS, a professor at the school said, “Tyagi was chairing a board meeting. Some bills were placed before him to clear but he did not sign. It was strange. It’s not the first time. He would not sign a piece of paper just like that. He had some kind of paranoia.” Another faculty member at SIS, who wished not to be named, said, “Tyagi was an executive council member in JNU in 2010 and there was some issue we wanted him to raise during a meeting. Later, we got to know, he came out of the room when the issue was raised in the meeting. How can a dean do something like that?”Around 10 years down the line, similar allegations have been levelled against Tyagi in his capacity as the V-C of DU. Delays in appointments to key posts and implementation of flagship schemes of the education ministry, pending inquiries in vigilance and sexual harassment complaints, and alleged lack of commitment, were among the charges levelled against him, according to an order issued by the union education ministry while announcing his suspension on Wednesday. A senior DU official, who wished not to be named, said Tyagi refrained from signing any paper or file from day one in his capacity as the V-C. “He would rather ask the officiating pro-VC or the registrar to sign files. However, as per norms, all files should be signed by the V-C. Due to his reluctance to sign files, work got delayed year after year. During an academic council meeting in his initial days, he was asked to make a decision on some matter. Replying to which, he had said, ‘God will take care of it’ and deferred the matter,” the official said.JL Gupta, an EC member at DU, who has been associated with the university since 1962, said Tyagi’s “lack of trust” and “indecisiveness” made his tenure a “complete administrative failure”. “He had always appointed people on key term posts, such as Pro-VC, dean of colleges and controller exams, on a temporary basis, which is totally in violation of the university’s norms,” he said.Students said he remained “unapproachable”. Amit Tanwar, who was president of DU Students’ Union in 2017 when violence broke out in Ramjas College, said, “He took it very casually and did not even receive calls we made to inform him about the incident when it was happening. It’s after a lot of pressure from students that he met us. ”But some of his close associates at DU remembered Tyagi as a “man of dignity”. “He is a no-nonsense person. You would spot him taking morning and evening walks with his old mother in the Viceregal Lodge. He never took anyone’s favour even for a cup of tea. He worked without any salary at DU. This is so unfortunate that all this has happened just a few months before his term was already ending (March)”.Tyagi could not be reached for a comment/||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/committed-academician-indecisive-administrator-academicians-on-du-v-c-yogesh-tyagi/story-5em33mBg2ynbnSRyDJQBnJ.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department releases SOPs for teachers, non-teaching staff in state schools||After the Maharashtra government allowed 50% attendance for teachers and non-teaching staff in schools across the state, the education department has now released a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the same.As per the SOPs, teachers can be called to school for work related to online learning or other academic business. Schools have been asked to ensure that they sanitise their premises and regularly check temperatures. Teachers have been instructed to follow safety guidelines like wearing masks, following physical distancing, etc.Even as teachers have been asked to attend school, physical classes will not resume for students at least until October 31. Similarly, schools need to follow the policy of “staying home if unwell” for teachers who are feeling sick – especially those who have comorbidities or are above the age of 50 years.Responding to the SOPs, schools said that the guidelines had created a lot of confusion about the nature of attendance required. “Teaching is currently taking place online, so there is no clarity on whether teachers need to come to school even if they are teaching online from their homes. Similarly, there is no mention of the dates for Diwali vacations. Also, the government is not able to give us any funds for all the precautionary measures listed in the SOPs,” said Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principals’ Association.Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of the Teachers Democratic Front, said, “It is wrong to expect physical attendance from teachers even as they continue to hold classes for students online daily. Travelling in Mumbai is still not easy with restrictions on public transport, and teachers are unnecessarily asked to attend school when they can complete their work from home more efficiently.”On October 7, the Maharashtra cabinet decided to physically reopen schools only post Diwali. The state education department will draw up guidelines with respect to reopening in the next few days. The state government’s extension of lockdown rules until November 30 means that schools in the state are likely to remain shut for students until then. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “We will not risk the lives of students by reopening schools at once. While plans about partial reopening post Diwali are on, priority will be given on reopening higher standards [Class 9 to 12].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-releases-sops-for-teachers-non-teaching-staff-in-state-schools/story-gSmHNIZZgbiD2tlBfvZKOP.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government approves incentive scheme for bulk drug park in Raigad, medical equipment park in Aurangabad||The Maharashtra government on Thursday approved a 10-year special incentives scheme to set up a bulk drug park at Raigad near Mumbai and medical equipment manufacturing park at Auric City in Aurangabad. The Centre has proposed three bulk drug parks to be set up in the country to reduce the dependence of Indian drug manufacturing companies on China. It has asked the states to send their proposal for incentive schemes and the top three will be selected by the Centre for setting up the bulk drug park, said a senior state minister, on condition of anonymity. If selected, the state has proposed the bulk drug park to be set up in Raigad district and has earmarked 5000 acre in 17 villages in Roha and Murud tehsils for the project, he added. If approved, the projects will offer a big scope for production of drugs as well as medical equipment in the state, the official said. The estimated cost of the bulk drug park and medical equipment manufacturing park is ₹2,442 crore and ₹424 crore, respectively. In a bid to promote indigenous manufacturing of drugs and medical equipment, the Central government in July has announced guidelines and schemes for the development of bulk drug and medical device parks. According to the cabinet decision, the state has decided to waive of 100% goods and services tax (GST) on the first sale of the product. It has waived electricity fees against power consumption for next ten years, a waiver in stamp duty for buying a plot, taking a plot on lease, bank loan and other related activities. The state has also decided to give a concession of ₹1.5 per unit in power tariff for a period of 10 years against power consumption. Besides, they will also get a concession of ₹2 per unit against power consumption for sewage management, water supply, solid waste management and other related activities for 10 years. This particular concession will be provided by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) against which the state government will pay ₹50 crore per annum to the industrial body. The state government will also assist MIDC in getting a license for power supply for the parks, said an official from the state industries department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-approves-incentive-scheme-for-bulk-drug-park-in-raigad-medical-equipment-park-in-aurangabad/story-qt57pcVULMS4UP9mYlG8MP.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||BMC standing committee does not approve increase in telescopic charges for water consumption in Mumbai, Covid-19 expenditures||In its second meeting since the lockdown was imposed in March, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee on Thursday did not pass a proposal to increase water charges in the city, if Mumbaiites’ consumption increases over 150 litres per day. The committee also did not pass proposals on emergency expenditures related to the coronavirus outbreak made by the administration in the past eight months that were tabled before the committee for post-facto approval, citing lack of details about where the money was spent. The proposal for increasing water charges was recorded by the committee to warrant the need for more water usage in households during the Covid-19 outbreak, as people required to wash hands more often, and rinse other items purchased from outside. Called telescopic rates, the BMC presently charges citizens twice the normal rate, if water consumption is between 150 and 200 litres; three times the rate if it is between 200 and 250 litres, and four times the rate for consumption above 250 litres. The civic administration had proposed to increase these charges to four, five and six times the rate, respectively. Ravi Raja, leader of the opposition in the standing committee, said, “All parties unanimously supported and recorded the proposal. During Covid times, it is not proper to burden Mumbaiites financially.” Asif Zakaria, a member of the standing committee and corporator from Bandra, said, “The World Health Organization (WHO) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have directed and justified frequent washing of hands. It is obvious that water consumption will increase. But now is not the time to charge citizens more for it.” A senior civic official from the hydraulics department, said, “Telescopic rates were approved by the standing committee in 2008, to discourage people from excessive use of water. However, despite these rates, use of water did not reduce. So the department had proposed to increase telescopic rates by four, five, and six times. Our production cost for water is presently ₹14.99 per kilolitre, and BMC charges residents ₹5.62 per kilolitre, up to consumption of 150 litres.”The committee on Thursday also referred back proposals related to Covid-19 expenditure done by the administration so far, that had been tabled before the committee for post-facto approval. The committee noted that the proposals lacked details about how and where the money had been spent. Meanwhile, over 100 other proposals related to infrastructure work of roads, stormwater drains, gardens and other civic departments were cleared by the committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-standing-committee-does-not-approve-increase-in-telescopic-charges-for-water-consumption-in-mumbai-covid-19-expenditures/story-ECveQdbkmYiQIuDnCj7wyO.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||In line of fire, Chandigarh Police scramble to bring gangsters for interrogation||Facing the heat for heightened criminal activities in the city, Chandigarh Police have claimed that they are making efforts to interrogate all local active gangsters to crack down on their network. This comes after UT administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed concern over the rise in shooting incidents during the crime review meeting with senior functionaries of the Chandigarh administration on Thursday. Badnore made it clear that police action on ground was more important, while directing the police department to nab the culprits at the earliest to instil confidence into the public. Meanwhile, DGP Sanjay Baniwal assured that “no effort will be spared in solving these cases as expeditiously as possible”. “Actions have been taken such as identifying the people working for such gangsters and running extortion rackets. The details of FIRs registered against them have been shared with the senior administration officials,” said a senior police officer, who attended the meeting. “We have already identified the criminals operating in the city – members of Lawrence Bishnoi and slain gangster Davinder Bambiha’s gangs. As several gang members are lodged in jails, we have initiated the process of getting them out on production warrants. They will be brought to the city to identify and break the network,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. He also apprised the senior administration officials of the real-time information exchange between different wings of the police department and their counterparts in other states regarding movement of gangsters, intelligence and regular checking of pubs and bars — one of the favourite visiting spots of gangsters and their men. Talking about the initiatives taken, the police said that intensive patrolling, increased number of nakas and enhanced visibility of cops on Chandigarh streets are among the measures implemented to nab the active criminals. Badnore said for better quality of policing, Chandigarh administration should urgently set up mechanism to fund research at Panjab University’s cyber and psychology department for police and related work. Cops fail to secure gangster Dilpreet’s custodyThe Chandigarh Police have for the second time failed to secure the custody of gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan alias Baba to question him regarding his role in the murder of Gurlal Brar, a former student leader and aide of gangster Bishnoi. Gurlal was gunned down outside a city mall on October 11. Two persons have so far been arrested, who had supplied motorcycle to the shooters, which as per the police investigation was arranged by Dilpreet. Police have now applied for Dilpreet’s fresh warrants, who is in a Sangrur jail. Rise in motor vehicle thefts cause of worry Swelling number of vehicle thefts and low recoveries was also a cause of concern for the administration. UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida asked the Chandigarh Police to make concrete efforts to recover the stolen vehicles. It was deliberated that how vehicles parked in markets, houses and offices were being stolen with impunity and without fear of law. “The beat staff have been directed to actively work towards checking the vehicle thefts and police are also working to have security guards deployed at various public parking places. The police data pointed out that lesser number of vehicles were stolen from paid parkings,” said a senior officer of the Chandigarh Police. Data base of bouncers being createdConsidering the frequent visits of gangsters to discos and pubs and involvement of bouncers in violence, UT administrator Badnore directed DGP Sanjay Baniwal to make sure that all bouncers deployed at pubs and bars are verified and their proper records are maintained. Moreover, licensing authorities have been asked to take action against clubs/bars operating without proper verification of staffers and bouncers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-line-of-fire-chandigarh-police-scramble-to-bring-gangsters-for-interrogation/story-FdmGB1Uef6NjIYj2x2qG5M.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government and Railways look at options to prevent overcrowding in Mumbai trains, encourage staggered workplace timings||In response to the state government’s proposal to the Railways, to resume local train services for all, Central (CR) and Western Railways (WR) have raised concerns of overcrowding. However, the state on Thursday said these concerns are unwarranted as guidelines are in place to restrict the number of commuters.The state government on Wednesday had proposed resuming regular local train services for all citizens, but with stipulated time slots. Those with valid passes and tickets should be allowed to travel in the day’s first service up to 7.30am; then between 11am and 4.30pm; and finally, between 8pm and the last train of the day. The state also suggested increasing suburban local train services for women to an hourly frequency to incentivise travelling during non-peak hours. On Wednesday, CR and WR both sent letters to the state, raising concerns about overcrowding. Aslam Shaikh, guardian minister of Mumbai city, said, “The letter by the Railways is in response to the one we sent to them for opening up railway services to all. Chief secretary will hold a joint meeting with the Railways in response to the queries raised. We are positive about the dialogue and expect Railways to start operations for all at the earliest.”In its letter, WR suggested capping daily passengers to 9.6 lakh and wrote, “Even if we start all 1,367 local train services, we can transport a maximum of 9.6 lakh passengers daily, which is much less than the 35 lakh passengers who were travelling in the pre-Covid regime.”CR has told the state it can transport 12.4 lakh passengers daily if all 1,774 of its local train services resume. Approximately 45 lakh passengers travelled daily by CR prior to the lockdown. “Hence, the state government needs to take a call for means of transportation for the balance 33 lakh passengers,” states CR’s letter. WR also asked the state to introduce a mobile application to ensure passengers are segregated and social distancing is maintained on trains. An official from Mantralaya said the concerns raised by CR and WR are unwarranted. “We have allowed only 30% of employees in private sectors, which has reduced commuters by 20 lakh. Another 20 lakh have been reduced owing to closure of schools and colleges. If the Railways operate at their full strength of all 3,100 services, there will be no question of crowding during peak hours,” said the official. Passenger associations expressed doubts about the practicality of staggered train timings as proposed by the state. “The timings mentioned by the state are not correct for regular office goers. The offices should also agree on staggered timings. The Railways and state government should reconsider the stipulated timings,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. The state official said the government expected private offices to introduce changes in their timings to complement the proposed timings of train services. “If the Railways are operating at their full strength, there shouldn’t be any problem in encouraging commercial establishments to go for changes in office hours,” said the official, who said the state is in the process of developing an app to facilitate staggered travel.Rajiv Podar, president, Indian Merchant Chamber and Industry, said, “The last seven months lockdown has made work from home a reality and many businesses will continue the same partially at least. That itself will reduce the load of passenger traffic. Staggering office timing is also difficult to monitor and control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-and-railways-look-at-options-to-prevent-overcrowding-in-mumbai-trains-encourage-staggered-workplace-timings/story-MiHfeZpMRl1QO89Ll1SctO.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||260 applications for firecrackers licences received in Delhi, 138 get permission to sell||More than a fortnight ahead of Diwali, a total of 260 applications for firecracker shop licences have been received so far by Delhi Police, which issued 138 licences till Thursday -- a number much higher compared to 2019 when only 97 had applied of which 62 had received permission to sell firecrackers.Eligible shopkeepers can start selling from Monday.Suvashish Chaudhary, joint commissioner of Delhi Police’s licensing unit, said only those who met requirements prescribed by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) were allotted licences. “All firecrackers sold in the market have to be green in nature and PESO-certified,” Chaudhary said.“Eligible shopkeepers have been allowed to begin selling from Monday,” Chaudhary said. The process of issuing licences had commenced on October 23 and Wednesday was the last day. Many of those whose requests were rejected can file an appeal, which may be considered over the next few days. The highest number of applications was received in the central police district this year. Thirty-three shopkeepers had applied, of whom 24 were granted licences.Pollution caused by firecrackers on Diwali night is a huge cause of concern in Delhi-NCR, with air quality plummeting to hazardous levels every year after the festival, which will be celebrated on November 14 this year.A day earlier on Wednesday, environment minister Gopal Rai announced an enforcement campaign to stop the use of traditional firecrackers and to ensure only green and less polluting varieties are available this time. As part of the campaign to be launched on November 3, 11 squads of Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and police will inspect firecracker manufacturing units and shops to ensure polluting firecrackers are not sold. According to Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central), apart from selling PESO-certified firecrackers only, shopkeepers have to ensure social distancing and allow only customers with face masks.“Then, there are other requirements such as having a six-metre road in front of their shops, having fire clearance and operating out of commercial areas,” said Bhatia.Narendra Gupta, president of the Sadar Bazar Firecrackers Association, said the stock of green firecrackers this year is better than last year.“Last year, we had only about four varieties of green firecrackers. This time we have about 40,” Gupta said, adding that while the influx of customers has been encouraging, shopkeepers are apprehensive as Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Delhi.Teams of Delhi Police and PESO will carry out checks in markets and licensed shops to see if traditional polluting crackers were being sold. “Sellers will be booked under the Explosives Act and even arrested if they are not following norms,” Chaudhary said.An official of PESO, who didn’t want to be identified, said licensing permission was entirely Delhi Police’s prerogative and his organisation can carry out checks at shops to ensure only green firecrackers were being sold.In 2017, ahead of Diwali, the Supreme Court had put a temporary ban on the sale and purchase of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR. In the last two years, however, the court had ordered that only low-emission and improved fireworks could be sold in Delhi, owing to concerns over rising air pollution. Residents were allowed to burst only green crackers between 8pm and 10pm. These green crackers are said to have 30% lower emission as compared to traditional fireworks. The noise levels are lower -- 125 decibels against 160 decibels in traditional ones. In 2018 and 2019, despite the ban on the sale of crackers and due to the low availability of low-emission varieties, pollution levels in the city saw a major spike after Diwali as people openly burst firecrackers. Till last year, only ‘phuljhari’ (sparklers), rocket and ‘anar’(flower pots) were available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/260-applications-for-firecrackers-licences-received-in-delhi-138-get-permission-to-sell/story-9os4fGnVDDMhoC2zUJCiCO.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Delhi air quality stays severe for most parts of day, settles at very poor||Low wind speeds coupled with an increase in cases of stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana pushed the air quality to “severe” for a major part of Thursday. The 24-hour rolling average of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings at 4pm showed that while the overall air quality index (AQI) in Delhi settled at 395 --- in the “very poor” category --- the hourly average AQI was above the “severe” mark for most part of the day. Till 1pm, the average AQI oscillated between 402 and 408. At monitoring stations in Mundka, Bawana, Narela, Wazirpur and Anand Vihar, pollution levels neared the 500 mark, the worst AQI recordings since January. On October 23, AQI reached perilously close to the “severe” zone with a reading of 366. An AQI of 201 to 300 is considered “poor”. A reading of 301 to 400 is in the “very poor” category and is associated with respiratory illnesses, especially in children and those exposed to the bad air. An AQI of 400-500 is considered “severe”.Scientists attributed the bad air to calm surface wind conditions that have led to the accumulation of pollutants in the atmosphere and stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana that is affecting the National Capital Region (NCR). VK Soni, head of the environment monitoring research centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said the wind speed was below 4kmph on Thursday. He added that the situation was expected to improve from Friday. “The wind speed through the day was below 4kmph. But the situation will improve from tomorrow (Friday). By Saturday, there will be a significant improvement in the air quality,” Soni said. He said wind speed will pick up to 8-12kmph on Friday. And by Saturday, the wind speed will be around 15-18kmph. Satellite images from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) showed a thick cover of smoke over the Delhi-NCR region on Thursday. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) of the Union ministry of earth sciences said stubble fires spotted over Punjab and Haryana were the highest (2,912) this season on Wednesday and their share (36%) in the city’s PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels too hit a new high on that day. Pawan Gupta, a senior scientist of earth sciences at the Science and Technology Institute (STI), Universities Space Research Association (USRA), said the number of farm fires spotted over Punjab and Haryana are likely to have crossed the 2,000 mark for the third consecutive day on Thursday. “It appears we are entering the heavy burning period. The satellite recording shows that the stubble fires crossed the 2000 mark for the third consecutive day. The impact of this can be seen in the thick haze over the northern India,” Gupta said.Low temperatures on Thursday also led to the accumulation of pollution particles closer to the surface. The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 12.5 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the lowest in October in 26 years. IMD recordings showed that the maximum temperature in the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading of the city, was 32.2 degrees Celsius. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-stays-severe-for-most-parts-of-day-settles-at-very-poor/story-pgz3z7mClmavhfioxAh6KM.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Baroda assembly bypoll: Congress, BJP lock horns in Jat-dominated Hooda bastion||A head to head contest between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress is in the offing for the Baroda bypoll in Haryana. The seat fell vacant following the demise of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda on April 12. While the BJP has fielded Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, who lost by about 4,800 votes to Hooda in 2019 assembly election, the Congress has put its money on a newcomer, Indu Raj Narwal, a former member of Sonepat zila parishad. Battle of prestige for Hooda The bypoll is a battle of prestige for former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda since the Baroda assembly constituency is considered his backyard. The constituency in Sonepat district lies adjacent to Hooda’s own constituency, Garhi-Sampla Kiloi in Rohtak. A win here will underscore Hooda’s hold in the Deswali belt and restore the Congress tally in the assembly to 31. The by election also holds significance for the ruling BJP as the outcome will be construed as a reflection on the one-year rule of the BJP-JJP alliance. Also, the enactment of three farm laws by the Centre, which led to protests across the state, may affect the complexion of the contest in a constituency which is primarily agrarian in nature. Jat domination, a plus for Congress The Congress and Hooda are banking heavily on the support of Jat voters who have a brute 50% majority in this Deswali belt constituency. The Congress nominee, Indu Raj Narwal,40, is a Jat who comes from Rindhana village in neighbouring Gohana tehsil, a village known to spring up international kabbadi players. A rank newcomer, Narwal got the Congress nomination due to his proximity to Hooda. He was a surprise pick after Hooda’s original choice Kapoor Singh Narwal, a turncoat from the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) stable and who till recently was in the BJP, was not given a Congress nomination. Narwal draws confidence from the fact that Hooda, his MP son Deepender and their loyalists are industriously canvassing for him. Narwal’s prospects have also improved after Kapoor Singh withdrew his candidature as an independent at Hooda’s instance. Had Kapoor Singh stayed in the contest, he would have hurt the prospects of the Congress candidate. Champion wrestler banks on charisma, non-Jat votes His BJP rival, Yogeshwar Dutt,37, a Commonwealth gold winning wrestler is a Brahmin and banks heavily on being a sporting icon and the BJP’s ability to sway the non-Jat votes. Dutt who comes from Bhainswal Kalan, a Jat dominated village had made his electoral debut in 2019 assembly polls after securing a BJP nomination from Baroda. He lost the assembly election by about 4,800 votes to the Congress candidate, Sri Kishan Hooda. His second shot at Baroda will depend on his star power and consolidation of non-Jats in this Jat dominated constituency. Brahmins account for about 12% votes in Baroda. Om Prakash Chautala’s Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has fielded Joginder Singh Malik,41, a candidate who badly lost the 2019 assembly election from Baroda. Malik, a Jat candidate finished a poor fifth securing only 3,145 votes, less than 3% of the total votes polled. Former BJP MP from Kurukshetra, Rajkumar Saini, who had floated his own outfit last year has also thrown his hat in the contest. However, the INLD candidate and Saini are unlikely to affect the outcome of the Congress versus BJP contest. Quotes Yogeshwar Dutt, BJP “This battle is to elect an MLA, not a chief minister. Till 2024, ML Khattar will remain the CM. All the political parties have betrayed you. The BJP has carried out development projects worth Rs 500 crore in Baroda constituency. My sole aim is to serve you with honesty in the same way as I did for the nation as a wrestler. I never believed in caste and a wrestler does not belong to any caste.” Indu Raj Narwal, Congress “I was born in a poor farmer’s family. I owe my candidature to Bhupinder Singh Hooda and in fact he will be your MLA if I win. This election will set the tone to elect your own government. This is the right time to defeat the anti-farmers’ government, who brought three farm laws against the wishes of the agrarian community. After my win, the BJP government will fall on its own as many MLAs are not happy with functioning of this government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/baroda-assembly-bypoll-congress-bjp-lock-horns-in-jat-dominated-hooda-bastion/story-pfK8VTSfQ3DM9DPQZJk66N.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Farmer bodies oppose air pollution ordinance; Haryana,UP govts welcome it||Farm bodies and Punjab government termed the ordinance promulgated by the Centre to set up a commission for air quality management in National Capital Region (NCR) as “anti-farmers” whereas governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana welcomed the decision, saying it would help in curbing air pollution which has been in very poor to severe category for the past fortnight in the region.President Ramnath Kovind on Thursday notified the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Area Ordinance which creates a statutory body to manage air pollution with powers to issue directions to the state governments and initiate criminal proceedings against the violators leading to fine of up to Rs 1 crore and jail term of five years.Terming the ordinance as dictatorial, Balbir Singh Rajewal president of a faction of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said, “The central government has failed to give compensation to farmers for stubble management as mandated by the Supreme Court. Now, the new ordinance has been enacted to arm-twist the hapless farmers”.He asked how would small farmers pay a penalty of Rs 1 crore for failing to arrange additional Rs 5,000 per acre to manage paddy stubble. “There is no infrastructure to store 160 lakh tonnes of stubble which is almost equivalent to the paddy crop of a single season,” he said.Rattan Mann, Haryana state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Tikait) said the law again reflects anti-farmer face of the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre. “The farmers of Haryana cannot blamed for air pollution in Delhi, there are several other reasons are behind it. Buy we want to make it clear that we will oppose any anti-farmer decision and soon a state level meeting of farmers will be called in this regard,” he said. Even Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the ordinance fails to recognise ground reality. “Rules and laws passed by the Centre invite so much criticism and leads to upheaval because people on the ground are not consulted,” he said, adding his party opposes the new provision for setting up of a commission. Government response Punjab’s minister, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, said the ordinance was “ridiculous” for having very severe provisions. “Most of the farmers in Punjab do not have the entire property of the value of a penalty amount. I think the Centre has made up mind to eliminate farmer and wants the corporate to usurp their land,” he said, demanding a re-think of the new proposal. A Haryana environment department official, requesting anonymity, said that the ordinance would help the administration to enforce the environment regulations more strictly and there would be fear of violation because of stringent punishment provisions.Uttar Pradesh principal secretary, environment, Sudhir Garg, welcomed the ordinance and said it was a step in the right direction. “Once we get the copy, the government will study it minutely--all the board aspects and fine prints. We will have internal meetings. Only then will we be able to comment. But, overall, it is a welcome step,” he said.Industry upset Different industry body leaders said that the Ordinance will further slow down the industry output which is facing dire straits due to Covid-19 and economic slowdown.Pritam Singh Sachdeva, president, Northern India Roller Spinners’ Association, said targeting industries alone will not help until the government ensures that people are made aware about the impact of air pollution.“The efforts should be made to cut air pollution especially by reducing vehicular emission. Targeting industries alone will not help,” he said.Bhim Rana, president of Panipat Dyers’ Association said the Ordinance may adversely impact in Haryana, as most of the industries in the state falls in the NCR region. Jugal Kishore Bhiana of the Haryana Plywood Association, however, said the commission should provide a time period of at least a month for the violating industrialist to appeal.President, Ludhiana based All Industries and Trade Forum, Badish Jindal, said their fear was creation of another commission could lead to further harassment by the government departments. “The government talks about ease of doing business but it is continuously taking steps which are putting the industry under unnecessary pressure,” he said.Another Ludhiana based Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) president, Gurmeet Singh Kular, said, “Establishing a new department means that the government is not satisfied with the working of NGT, CPCB and PPCB. The government is trying to put more pressure on the industry, which is already struggling to come back on track in the post-lockdown period due to ‘rail-roko’ agitation by farmers.” Uttar Pradesh based Pankaj Kumar, national present, Indian Industries Association, a lobby body of medium and small scale industry (MSME) sector, “We are in favour of measures to check pollution in NCR but will oppose any coercive action against an industrialist in the name of checking pollution.” The industry bodies in three northern states claimed that they have been targeted in the name of controlling air pollution even though they contribute the most for nation’s growth and economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmer-bodies-oppose-air-pollution-ordinance-haryana-up-govts-welcome-it/story-JJfmIVQRIM3ni2VnKzwZMO.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Pollution commission is just old wine in new bottle, implies Delhi govt||The Union government’s Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in National Capital Region and Adjoining Area Ordinance, promulgated late on Wednesday, has raised questions about the relevance and powers of the city’s pollution control board, and by extension the Delhi government’s role, in controlling alarming levels of pollution in the Capital.The Delhi government on Thursday suggested that the move will not succeed, with state environment minister Gopal Rai saying that instead of forming committees, the Centre should have focussed on ensuring action on the ground. “The powers to monitor and enforce pollution control norms were with Epca, and are also with our state-level body, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the central body, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). But unless there is action on the ground, no agency can help,” Rai said.The new CAQM will replace the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, or Epca, and the Delhi government claims that the Centre’s ordinance has politicised the air pollution issue. “We do not see how the new commission is any different from the existing bodies like Epca and CPCB. What is needed is actually a body to be headed by the Union environment minister with representation of all state chief ministers. This body should meet on a regular basis and agree on a measurable, timebound action plan,” a statement by the Delhi government said. “We need to fix targets and accountability, else we will keep passing the buck from one commission to the next and the result will be the same,” it added. Several senior government officials and experts said that the Commission will render state pollution control boards, including DPCC, toothless. “It seems like the air pollution part will now be looked after by this Commission. This essentially means that the Centre is withdrawing the powers to enforce the Air Act (1981) from DPCC as well as from the state pollution control boards of NCR states. This new Commission will have all the powers -- to direct, to enforce and to make any rule pertaining to air quality. In a state at the same time two bodies cannot operate,” a DPCC official said, asking not to be named.To be sure, however, nether Epca nor the state pollution boards have been able to tackle the NCR region’s annual winter pollution crisis that plunges the city into a public health emergency. Even on Thursday, the air quality was well above safe limits, hovering around the “severe” mark through the day.Some officials expressed concern that with the air quality slipping to “severe”, dissolving Epca may compromise the winter segment of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) -- under which various measures are taken and restrictions imposed depending on AQI levels -- by leading to laxity in enforcement. “Even though the ordinance says that anything done by Epca will not be repealed, the Commission is yet to be appointed. Who takes the call on enforcement till the commission is formed?” a second DPCC official said.Union environment secretary, in an interview to HT, however, said that the Commission would be constituted in quick time, and will take steps to ensure better implementation of Grap in coordination with the states, rather than derail it. “The implementation of Grap will not stop under the ordinance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pollution-commission-is-just-old-wine-in-new-bottle-implies-delhi-govt/story-FQCEEi8T5p99759Ko9oaqO.html
30-10-2020||City||New body may face similar challenges as Epca, say experts||New Delhi: The Union government’s decision to set up a new umbrella agency to fight air pollution may run into the same problems that dogged the Supreme Court-appointed Epca, experts warned, while some others also said that any renewed focus on the problem was welcome and the answer to the long persisting problem could lie in a new federal body. Till Thursday, the most crucial agency monitoring and acting on the pollution issue was the environment pollution (prevention and control) authority (Epca), which was set up in 1998 and had a mandate empowered by the top court. “There are several concerns with this ordinance, starting with the fact that legal and regulatory changes to tackle public issues like air pollution need a democratic conceptualisation. At the outset it is clear that the central government has taken control over the pollution control matters in the Delhi NCR region. This starts with the fact that the chairperson of this commission is a central government appointee. The commission will be heavily dominated by bureaucrats, to whom the legal frameworks gives various powers. The enforcement mechanism clearly top down and so far there is no indication that it will include third party monitoring and citizen-driven enforcement,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.She added, “One important issue is limiting the adjudication to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and not any other court. This is problematic as the appointments of the chairperson and members of both the commission and the NGT will be done by the Centre.”SN Tripathi of IIT-Kanpur, however, welcomed the move, saying the commission will better coordinate efforts to curb air pollution among National Capital Region (NCR) states. “There was no single body, authority, ministry or state which was empowered or dedicated to do that. This ordinance is an excellent example of learning from what the US did in California. While the US Environment Protection Agency (USEPA) was an autonomous and empowered body set up to manage air pollution across the country, California posed a singular challenge as a hotspot, that’s when the California Air Resource Board was set up to tackle that particular airshed. The problem of dealing with air pollution in California has a striking similarity to NCR in terms of meteorological and other conditions that we see in the Indo-Gangetic plains,” said Tripathi, who heads of the civil engineering department.Legal experts said the commission may not be able to do much more than what Epca was already doing. Environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta said the commission has been given powers similar to the one conferred on Epca by a 1998 notification. Epca had powers under section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, which include power “to direct --- the closure, prohibition or regulation of any industry, operation or process; or stoppage or regulation of the supply of electricity or water or any other service to the polluter. It also had powers to take suo motu action on the basis of complaints, take steps to ensure compliance with vehicle standards, powers to enter, inspect and seize material from premises of polluters and many others”.“Epca, in its 22 years of existence, has rarely exercised its statutory powers and had become an advisory body to the Supreme Court. The same situation is likely to take place with regard to the new commission. Section 12 gives power to entertain complaints. Such power already existed with Epca, but was never exercised. The same is likely to continue with the new commission. The reason is simple. Under the ordinance, if an offence has been committed, a complaint has to be filed before the judicial magistrate first class. Given the fact that a majority of members of the commission are serving government servants, including chief secretaries and secretaries, it would amount to filing cases against themselves. It is for this very reason that Epca never filed a single complaint before the magistrate in 22 years of its existence,” Dutta said.The environment ministry in a note issued to journalists on Thursday said actions and orders made by Epca shall continue to be effective and deemed to have been done under this ordinance.Legally, however, the commission would be more powerful than Epca, said Dutta. He said that the commission will have parliamentary mandate after the ordinance is passed. “It will become an Act of Parliament, independent of other statutes. For NCR and adjoining areas this commission will operate. It is a complete code in itself,” he said. Shibani Ghosh, a public interest lawyer and a CPR fellow, said that even under the new body, criminal conviction would be used as the primary tool to deter environmental offences. The commission will have the powers to levy a fine which may extend up to ₹1 crore or imprisonment for a term of up to five years or both. Ghosh said it is not practical. “The commission has to file a complaint in a criminal court for non-compliance or contravention of its directions and orders. Whether it decides to exercise this power, and how often, would depend significantly on its staff and resources as criminal prosecution is a very time intensive process. The fear of criminal conviction has failed to deter environmental offences in India so far and it is unfortunate that the new law continues to use that as the primary tool for enforcement,” she explained.Dutta said the commission’s initiatives could reduce judicial intervention. The SC was monitoring the air pollution issue in NCR until now through Epca. “With the commission there will be little judicial monitoring. It will now be a completely bureaucrats driven exercise as the body mainly consists of bureaucrats,” explained Dutta. The commission doesn’t include members from ministry of health, ministry of labour and ministry of rural development who are also stakeholders in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-body-may-face-similar-challenges-as-epca-say-experts/story-HCwkM2BrbNn6U15x3QEcXJ.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||‘New body shows govt intent’: Epca bows out with grace after 22 years||The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) on Thursday welcomed the ordinance to put in place a new anti-pollution agency that replaces the 22-year-old monitoring body. In a letter to union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, Epca chairperson Bhure Lal and member Sunita Narain said the move shows the intent and determination of the union government to mitigate the high levels of air pollution in the Delhi-NCR region. “Over the past many years, we have worked to find solutions and to recommend action through our reports to government and to the honourable Supreme Court. We are grateful for the consideration given to our work and to the fact that many of our recommendations have been implemented,” the letter read. Enlisting the action taken by Epca to tackle pollution, the members said there were some initiatives that the monitoring body was overseeing and now that the central commission has taken over, these can be implemented. “...The next phase of the agenda for clean air; fourth generation reforms need to be deliberated upon and implemented. That will necessitate the massive augmentation of intra-city public transport, and to move industries, power plants and other users away from polluting fuels like coal to natural gas, electricity and renewable to ensure clean combustion,” the letter read. It added, “We hope that the above listing will help your ministry in following up the necessary actions for combating pollution in this region.” Meanwhile, in an informal meet with the media, senior environment ministry officials said, “Only two members (Sunita Narain and Bhure Lal) of Epca were calling the shots. Other members hardly participated. We thought it was necessary to dissolve the body.”While the Epca members put up a brave face, officials in the Delhi government said the body was an appointed by the SC, which meant that all action taken by them was monitored by the apex court. “This (new) body will be full of bureaucrats. At least with Epca, the SC was constantly monitoring action and action-taken reports were submitted regularly. Political interference will be more. Earlier, the problem was implementation and even now it will exist and there is no solution to that,” a senior government official said. Javadekar said, “To reduce air pollution in NCR, the government has set up a commission through an ordinance. It will be very effective because Delhi-NCR is an airshed and cannot be treated separately. Courts have set up various committees working independently. Instead of that, this new law will have higher penalty and stricter punishment and I believe it will be far more effective.”Many experts said the commission could help reduce Supreme Court oversight as it was monitoring the issue through Epca. “With the commission, there will be little judicial monitoring. It will now be a completely bureaucrat-driven exercise,” explained environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta.“The critical departure is the attempt to limit the role of the judiciary and assertion of the role of the executive and the power of the elected representative in decision-making related to air pollution matters. The ordinance states this is the “highest degree of democratic oversight for effective implementation” and the commission will function under the oversight of elected representative with regular reports to the Parliament,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment. “The implication of this super structure for the federal framework is not yet clear. Even though the membership of the commission will include key ministries and state governments at the level of secretary to the government of India and chief secretaries to the state governments, its power to take measures, issue directions and entertain complaints will require central political oversight,” Chowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-body-shows-govt-intent-epca-bows-out-with-grace-after-22-years/story-lr7zIQkrokJhzB2yXaCisI.html
30-10-2020||City||Delhi home dept will seek legal help on police refusal to share FIRs on riots||New Delhi: The Delhi government’s home department has decided to seek the law secretary’s opinion on Delhi Police’s refusal to share copies of FIRs related to the February communal riots with the elected government and the Delhi Assembly panel for minority welfare, the Delhi Waqf Board said in a statement on Thursday.The decision was taken during House panel proceedings on Wednesday. The Delhi Waqf Board is assisting the panel in matters concerning the violence in north-east Delhi that claimed 53 lives and left over 600 people injured.The board said the home department has been directed by the Delhi Assembly panel to write to police and demand an explanation on why no case has been registered against BJP leaders such as West Delhi MP Parvesh Verma and Kapil Mishra, who unsuccessfully contested the assembly polls in February, for allegedly delivering provocative speeches in the run-up to the polls and days before the riots.“Several videos were played during the proceedings in the House. Kapil Mishra and Parvesh Verma can be seen in them,” the statement said. The House panel is chaired by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Amanatullah Khan, who is former chairperson of the Delhi Waqf Board.In response, Verma said, “The police have probed the cases and submitted their findings to the court of law. I have a clean chit. The intervention of the panel in this regard makes no sense.”Mishra said, “Some people in AAP are desperate to divert attention from people such as Tahir Hussain (AAP’s municipal councillor) who is accused of murder, Umar Khalid, Khalid Saifi, etc. And, hence, they are repeatedly trying to make false cases against me and Mr Parvesh Verma. All of their attempts have failed in the past. I have firm faith on law and Constitution.” The panel took note of several cases in which riot victims did not get appropriate compensation. People related to four such cases appeared before the panel on Wednesday.One was a minor who had sustained a bullet injury and the bullet is still stuck inside his leg. His case was recorded as a simple injury and so received only Rs 20,000 compensation. There is another case in which a person sustained severe injuries on the head leading to partial loss of memory. His case too was recorded as that of simple injury, the Waqf Board said.It said that out of 3,300 cases of compensation, 657 were dismissed after a survey. The committee has asked for the survey to be done again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-home-dept-will-seek-legal-help-on-police-refusal-to-share-firs-on-riots/story-Xh6WsqsDH6451RucP9wz9O.html
30-10-2020||City||Miscreants rob elderly man of scooter, cash and mobile phone||An elderly man was robbed of his scooter, cash and mobile phone when he had gone to look at his family-owned plot in Mani Shah Colony near Alamgir village on Wednesday.The victim, Mohinder Singh, 66, of Delta City at Malerkotla road, said that as he was looking around the plot, two men turned up at the spot and started assaulting him. They then snatched his wallet, which contained around Rs 1,500, a mobile phone and the keys of his scooter and locked him up in a room. He cried for help but the accused managed to escape with his possessions.Later some passersby helped him and informed the police. Assistant sub-inspector Ranjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 379-B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to the committing of snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/miscreants-rob-elderly-man-of-scooter-cash-and-mobile-phone/story-DwatmTNKUS9CQWYhqah3aL.html
30-10-2020||City||One-year-old falls into bucket of water, saved by Kalwa civic hospital after private hospitals refuse admission||One-year-old Divya Yadav, who fell into a bucket of water accidentally and became unconscious on Tuesday, was saved by the doctors at the civic-run Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa. The Kalwa hospital provided timely treatment when most private hospitals refused to admit her on Thursday.The Yadav family residing in Waghoba Nagar, Kalwa, was shocked when Divya fell into a bucket of water while playing in their house. “She was playing in the house and we did not realise when she went near the bathroom and fell into the bucket of water. We heard a splash and saw her head down in the bucket. We immediately took her out and saw that she was unconscious. Upon taking her to a private hospital, they refused to admit her and recommended that we take her to Thane Municipal Corporation’s Kalwa Hospital. The doctors there put her on oxygen support immediately and rescued my child,” said Umashankar Yadav, the child’s father.As soon as the child was brought to Kalwa Hospital, the paediatric department took charge. The child was unconscious as water had entered her lungs through her mouth and nose.“Her body was turning cold and blood circulation was not proper. We first removed the water from her lungs and provided oxygen support so that her body would start functioning normally. She responded well to our medical procedures and treatment. She is recuperating well now,” said Dr Vandana Kumavat, paediatrician, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Kalwa Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-year-old-falls-into-bucket-of-water-saved-by-kalwa-civic-hospital-after-private-hospitals-refuse-admission/story-tUy0eAflJUJionxws1wOgL.html
30-10-2020||City||BJP rebel Patil wins Ulhasnagar civic body elections with Sena’s help||In a major setback to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), BJP rebel Vijay Patil won the standing committee chairman elections with the help of Shiv Sena party on Thursday.With the support of Sena’s five votes, Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) one vote and one vote from Republican Party of India, Patil managed to win eight votes. BJP candidate Jaya Makhija got seven votes. Also, the resignation of Prakash Nathani from BJP two days before the elections led to the failure of the party in the elections.“Vijay Patil had worked closely with Sena earlier and for the last four years, he was with BJP after he won the civic elections from BJP’s ticket. However, he was not satisfied with the treatment he got from the party and hence he came back to us. We decided to support him based on the work he had done for us earlier,” said Rajendra Chaudhari, city president, Shiv Sena, Ulhasnagar.BJP’s former standing committee chairman, Rajesh Vadhrya, said, “Sena has always played this role of taking away our party leaders and winning the elections. We lost because one of our members resigned prior to the elections. Although Sena does this every time, when they need to come into power, they join hands with BJP.”Earlier, in the November 2019 civic mayor elections , the BJP lost the mayoral post to Shiv Sena’s Leelabai Aashan, who won by 43 votes against BJP’s Jeevan Idnani.The previous standing committee of UMC had 16 members out of which nine represent BJP and 7 Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bjp-rebel-patil-wins-ulhasnagar-civic-body-elections-with-sena-s-help/story-JszeqXKJHGvhX2DiCiCWKJ.html
30-10-2020||City||Audit all deaths to handle Covid situation better in future, mayor asks Thane civic body||Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske has asked the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) administration to conduct an audit into all the deaths that occurred in the city so far with details of symptoms of each individual death, the number of days the person was admitted and so on.This has been suggested with the aim to be able to handle the pandemic or any similar situation in a better manner in the future.Mhaske, Thane mayor, said, “A committee should be formed by the civic body to conduct an audit on the number of deaths in the city. It will comprise those from the health department, Thane Task Force, and representatives of the related hospitals, administration officers, health officers from the respective wards and officers appointed for Covid care. A daily audit has to be conducted such that we can decide a solution or method that will be beneficial in the future if a similar situation arises.”Mhaske also suggested that this audit would help keep an eye on the private hospitals and understand if they followed the prescribed manner of treatment for all the patients. The audit will not only be for the deaths happened so far but also for any that happens in the coming days as well.The TMC has recorded 1,206 Covid deaths till now. “Although the civic body has managed to control the pandemic within the city, we can still adopt many ways that will help us to handle the situation better in the future,” added Mhaske.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/audit-all-deaths-to-handle-covid-situation-better-in-future-mayor-asks-thane-civic-body/story-dEMPAmJeAvSZv9esyfGZpO.html
30-10-2020||City||Kejriwal launches Green Delhi App||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched a mobile application through which people would be able to register complaints regarding violation of anti-pollution norms in the Capital.The mobile application – named Green Delhi App – would allow users to upload photos, videos and track the status of their complaints. It is a part of the government’s seven-point action plan to combat air pollution, which also includes dust control strategies, encouraging electric vehicles and the tree transplantation policy.“Through this application, people can take a photo or shoot a video and audio of instances of garbage burning, industrial pollution, construction dust, etc., and upload them on the app to report it. While reporting the activity, we will automatically get your location and that of the source of pollution,” said Kejriwal at the web-launch of the application from his office. Kejriwal said that a complaint lodged on the mobile application will be dispatched to the concerned departments, which will have to resolve the complaints in a “time-bound manner”.He said, “There will be specified timelines for each type of complaints. When the issue is resolved, the concerned department will also upload a picture that should show that the complaint has been resolved within the specified timeline. If the complainant is not satisfied with the resolution of the complaint, she can reopen the complaint.”The agencies and departments include the Delhi Pollution Control Committee, the environment department, forest department, the police, the public works department, Delhi Development Authority, the National Highways Authority of India, the three municipal corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council and the revenue department. Representatives from each of these agencies and departments had attended a meeting held in this regard by environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday.The monitoring of the resolution of all complaints and the number of complaints received will be done in the government’s 24x7 green war room, which was inaugurated in the premises of the Delhi Secretariat earlier this month, said the chief minister adding, “Around 70 Green marshals have also been deployed for effective resolution of complaints registered on the app.”Helpline numbers operated by agencies including the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and Central Pollution Control Board would continue to function parallelly, a senior government official said.(end)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-launches-green-delhi-app/story-Tr0E8vH1w5Ez6UmgEIs1rO.html
30-10-2020||City||Kamothe family’s gadgets hacked, police probe on||The phones and laptops of a 44-year-old man’s family in Kamothe were hacked into following which his acquaintances started receiving threatening messages. In a few instances, his teenage daughter’s teachers have also received demands for money from the hacked account. The Kamothe police are now investigating the case.According to Kamothe police, the complainant, Kishore Mahale, works at a private company. Mahale’s daughters, aged 16 and nine, have been using the devices for their online classes during the lockdown. Police suspect the accounts were hacked during the usage.Mahale noticed that two phones belonging to his wife and daughter, along with two laptops, were completely hacked since August 21. Since then, Mahale’s contacts have been receiving abusive messages. The abusive messages, at various instances, were also being sent from one hacked phone to the other as well in their house, said police.To prevent further harassment and difficulty in online classes for his daughters, Mahale reset the phone and laptop and even got the internet service provider to reset the WiFi router, officials said.However, that still did not help. Eventually, the family realised that the elder daughter’s teachers were also getting demands of money along with other threats and abuses from the daughter’s account. Mahale, then, approached the police on Friday and lodged a complaint.“We have registered a case based on the complainant’s statement. It appears to be a targeted hacking and we are investigating if someone known to the family is behind the mischief,” said Sanjay Patil, senior inspector at Kamothe police station.The Kamothe police have registered a case against an unknown person under Indian Penal Code and Information and Technology Act for Criminal Intimidation and Defamation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kamothe-family-s-gadgets-hacked-police-probe-on/story-XD3S5nu23ceGGmGPMTTQsL.html
30-10-2020||City||More than 80% drivers don’t follow safety guidelines, say Thane highway police||THANEIn a Covid Awareness campaign started by Highway Police in Thane district, the police have distributed more than 7,000 masks and 3,500 sanitizer bottles so far to the truck drivers and other vehicle drivers along the highway.The highway traffic police claimed that more than 80 per cent of the drivers don’t follow safety guidelines and soon action will be taken.Two weeks ago, the Highway traffic police started distributing sanitizer and masks to the truck drivers and others who didn’t wear them. The police also issued them a warning to use them. The drive was carried out along Khalapur Toll Naka, Mumbai-Nashik highway and Gujarat highway.Assistant police inspector of Palspe region, Subhash Pujari, said, “We have stationed teams across highways to check those vehicles, especially truck and trailer drivers, if they were wearing masks and carrying sanitizers. We provide them with masks and sanitizers and explain to them the dos and don’ts for safety. We have also warned the drivers that we would take action if they were found without a mask again.”Additional Director General of Police (highway traffic), Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, said “Our main motto is to inculcate the habit of wearing masks and following safety protocols to ensure they do not get infected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-than-80-drivers-don-t-follow-safety-guidelines-say-thane-highway-police/story-jlNQGPYevFSsN9tcHeOFEN.html
30-10-2020||City||Two-wheelers account for majority of accidents in Raigad district||With bike accidents constituting more than 50 per cent of the total vehicular accidents recorded in Raigad district last year, police have started a campaign for bikers riding triple seat or riding without helmet in the district.In the first week of the campaign, the Raigad Police have registered cases against 2,200 bikers. The campaign also aims at encouraging both the rider and pillion to wear helmets.In 2019, 991 road crashes were reported in Raigad, killing 221 persons while 613 sustained grievous injuries, as per the Maharashtra highway traffic police.Among the crashes reported, bikers alone accounted for 50 per cent of the vehicles involved followed by 21 per cent of light motor vehicles like cars, taxis and vans.Another highlight of the study conducted by the highway traffic police showed that out of all the bikers involved in such crashes, not wearing helmets while riding resulted in 19 per cent of the deaths and 43 per cent of the bikers were grievously injured.Ashok Dudhe, Raigad police superintendent, said, “Since Raigad district is a rural area, many people are either uneducated or unaware about road safety. We noticed that bikers are nonchalant with the use of helmets. So, our first step to curb this was to appeal to the citizens to follow the traffic rules and learn the importance of helmets. This will be followed by implementation of the rules.”The Raigad district has four important major routes including the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, Mumbai-Goa Highway, Pali-Khopoli Road and Alibag-Pen Road. Several spots along the Mumbai-Pune Expressway and the Mumbai-Goa Highway are accident-prone.With road construction work going on at several stretches along the highways including Pali-Khopoli Road, police said they are urging motorists to be extra cautious on roads and culverts, especially bikers, who are more at risk.Police have set up check posts at 28 locations across the district to catch violators. While the traffic department of the Raigad police has only close to 100 personnel, the department is conducting checks with the help of local police stations when required.Wear helmets, ride safely (SUBHEAD)Within a week of launching the road safety campaign, the traffic branch of the Raigad police registered over 2,200 cases against bikers riding without helmets and those riding triple seats in the district.Suresh Yamgar, spokesperson for Raigad district police said the campaign was needed after it was noticed an increase in bikers riding without helmets. “Families have lost their loved ones in tragic crashes. We hope the campaign will instil a sense of civic awareness among the bikers and help reduce fatal crashes,” said Yamgar. Welcoming the campaign, Ranjit Gadgil, programme director at Parisar, an organisation that has worked for the cause of road safety in Maharashtra, called it a very important step in the right direction.“Looking at the data, the importance of wearing helmets cannot be ignored. After the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act increased the fine for helmetless driving, bikers will get into the habit of wearing safety gear. For the pillion riders, especially women and elders, there is extreme reluctance on their part when asked to wear a helmet. In the light of a crash, while the rider may be alerted, the pillion rider is most often taken by surprise and becomes a victim,” added Gadgil.Police claimed that there have been some results in just about a week and those riding triples have considerably reduced. Police said they will eventually carry out sustained campaigns for other offences like honking, speeding, etc.“While we are on a war footing to take this campaign forward, our aim remains only to get people to grow serious about how important it is to follow road safety rules for their own well-being. Our aim is not only to show a record number of cases but each interaction with a violator is such that they do not repeat the offence,” said Ravindra Shinde, inspector (traffic), Raigad police.Officials said they were conducting more checks and issuing challans since the start of the year, more so during the lockdown period.Last year, till September, the Raigad police had collected ₹1.46 Cr from 57,825 offences. This year, the police collected ₹3.5 Cr from 1.41 lakh offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-wheelers-account-for-majority-of-accidents-in-raigad-district/story-B4ryKu1Xe4ISCfmpN4geeI.html
30-10-2020||City||Baroda bypoll: History-sheeter Ramesh Lohar accompanies BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt during campaign||The BJP candidate for the November 3 Baroda bypoll, Yogeshwar Dutt, was accompanied by history-sheeter Ramesh Lohar during campaigning at Mirzapur Kheri village, nearly 15km from sub-district headquarters Gohana on Wednesday evening.Lohar, the notorious gangster with a history of criminal cases against him, had boarded an open jeep with Dutt, wrestler-turned BJP leader Babita Phogat and six others while canvassing.Lohar and former minister of state for cooperatives Manish Grover were booked by the Shivaji Nagar police station in Rohtak for alleged booth capturing at a polling station during the 2019 general elections. Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad had also written a letter to the chief election commissioner seeking appropriate action against the duo for allegedly intimidating the voters in Rohtak.The police had recovered 15 rounds of 0.32 bore, wooden sticks and registration number plates of vehicles from Lohar’s SUV during checking outside the booth after which he was arrested.Yogeshwar Dutt said he has no idea when Lohar boarded his jeep and denied any links with him. “This can be a conspiracy of the Congress to send that man to board my open jeep to tarnish my image,” he added.Cong accuses BJP of ‘shielding criminals’Accusing the ruling BJP of ‘shielding criminals’, Congress MLA from Rohtak BB Batra said the notorious criminal Ramesh Lohar was seen with former minister Manish Grover and other senior leaders earlier too. “Lohar’s presence with Yogeshwar Dutt has once again proved that he has strong links with BJP leaders. He was arrested for booth capturing last year. Is the BJP trying to attempt the same bid during the Baroda bypoll? It is not the first time that Lohar has shared the stage with BJP leaders. The saffron party has been protecting him,” Batra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/baroda-bypoll-history-sheeter-ramesh-lohar-accompanies-bjp-nominee-yogeshwar-dutt-during-campaign/story-ZhRVHM5Su75psrff0fe8oK.html
30-10-2020||City||Day after V-C’s suspension, DU sets up fact-finding team to probe power tussle||New Delhi: A day after President Ram Nath Kovind suspended Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, the executive council (EC) -- the highest decision making body of the institution -- on Thursday constituted a fact-finding committee to look into last week’s developments that plunged the university into an unprecedented crisis. EC member Rajesh Jha said, “The order issued by the education ministry on Wednesday was tabled today. A fact-finding committee was constituted over the developments on this matter following October 21. Geeta Bhatt will be issued a memo and the administration will decide action on that basis. In the meantime, PC Jha will not be given any administrative responsibility.” On October 22, V-C Tyagi had approved Bhatt and Jha’s appointments as interim pro-vice chancellor and interim registrar following a high-stakes tussle between two rival groups -- one led by pro vice-chancellor PC Joshi and another backed by Tyagi -- appointing their nominees as the new registrar simultaneously. Last week, the education ministry intervened and backed Registrar Vikas Gupta, who was appointed by PC Joshi in the last executive council meeting held on October 21. As per university norms, the EC has the power to appoint registrar, librarian, and principals among other posts. In the past one week, Gupta issued two memorandums to PC Jha – on October 24 and 27 – asking him to explain why he was issuing various notifications and “claiming to be Registrar (Acting)” which led “to an impression of confusion in the University to its stakeholders and society at large.” According to discussions in the EC on Thursday, Jha responded to these memos on Wednesday saying he was issued the necessary appointment letters obeying V-C’s instructions. “I was under the impression that as per DU acts, statutes and ordinances, I have to obey instructions given to me verbally or written by the vice-chancellor. Therefore, I replied to all letters communicated at the appropriate time and issued various notifications. I understand that there were contradictory communications amongst the academic community which led to some scale of confusion,” Jha wrote in his response. Despite repeated requests, Jha and Bhatt did not comment on the matter on Thursday. The university has also been witnessing a flurry of appointments, transfers, and removals with the crisis unfolding since last week. On Thursday too, the university administration withdrew the appointment of chairperson and member of the governing body at Dyal Singh College. Sisodia reacts Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, reacted to the developments in DU on Thursday and said that the Centre reacted too late. He pointed out to the education ministry order which also cited that there had been a delay in formation of governing bodies in the university – a claim often put forward by the Delhi government. “There was a problem in functioning of DU, including mismanagement in Delhi government-funded colleges. I have been raising this for two years. It’s too late for central government to react and the delay shows that they are unable to handle prestigious institutions like DU,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-v-c-s-suspension-du-sets-up-fact-finding-team-to-probe-power-tussle/story-TgSNNFOhcr5eXIqLZxZeBO.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Kasturba Hospital doctors call off stir, paramedics to continue pen-down strike||New Delhi: A day after resident doctors of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital called off their strike after pending salaries were released, their colleagues at Kasturba Hospital withdrew their fortnight-long agitation on Thursday. The paramedic staff of Kasturba Hospital, however, announced a “three-hour pen-down strike” every day from Thursday until their salary backlog of four months is cleared.Resident doctors of both hospitals had been protesting against non-payment of their salaries for the last three months.Yogesh Kumar, a representative of Kasturba Hospital Paramedical Staff union, said the corporation’s move to selectively release salaries of doctors and other health workers was “dividing” in nature. The corporation had on Tuesday released salaries of doctors till September 2020. Salaries of nursing staff were released till July 2020 and that of other health workers only till June.“They cleared our salaries only till June 2020 while salaries of higher paid doctors were released up to September 2020. Why this division? Don’t we need money to survive? Salaries of four months remain pending and so we have decided to observe a three-hour long pen down strike everyday till our dues are cleared,” Kumar said.Meanwhile, Dr Sunil Kumar, president of the Kasturba Hospital Resident Doctors’ Association, said the doctors decided to call off the strike after salaries till September were cleared on Wednesday.Kumar said the pending salaries of paramedical and nursing staff of the hospital should be cleared soon.“Our demand of a permanent solution to this problem is yet to be fulfilled. The civic authorities should make some arrangements so that no municipal employee, including paramedic and nursing staff, should suffer due to pending salaries. It’s hard for them too to work without money,” Kumar said.Doctors of Kasturba Hospital had begun their strike on October 14 and those from Hindu Rao from October 5. The situation had come to such a pass that Covid patients had to be shifted from Hindu Rao hospital, which was a designated Covid facility, to Delhi government hospitals .North mayor Jai Prakash said, “We are making efforts to make the salaries of all our employees up to date. Efforts are being made to release the salaries of the remaining categories in a phased manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kasturba-hospital-docs-call-off-stir-paramedics-to-continue-pen-down-strike/story-heiepoLQHikLnynv8SKT0H.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Water supply in south, east and north-east Delhi to be hit: DJB||Water supply in parts of south, east and north-east Delhi are likely to face temporary disruption from Friday, a senior official in the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) said.Later, DJB vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said, “Due to an abnormal increase in pollutants (ammonia levels) in Yamuna raw water discharged by Haryana, production at Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi (Vihar) water treatment plants will be adversely impacted. As a result, water supply will be affected in parts of east, north-east and south Delhi. It is advised to store and use water judiciously. Adequate number of water tankers are being deployed. We are working relentlessly, in collaboration with Haryana, to restore normal supply.”Officials in DJB said that the temporary disruption in supply is likely to happen on Friday but it is likely to be sorted out to a large extent over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/water-supply-in-south-east-and-north-east-delhi-to-be-hit-djb/story-3iSpXulnsKxfkgJQt4jF4J.html
30-10-2020||City||Two sarpanches suspended over failure to check farm fires in Karnal||Two sarpanches have been suspended for their failure to check stubble burning in their respective villages in Karnal district, officials said.As per the directions issued by deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav, the sarpanches of Gonder and Ramba villages have been placed under suspension. The cases of stubble burning in both the villages are higher as compared to last year. Out of 872 active fire locations till Wednesday evening, 535 locations have been traced by district agriculture department.The DC said 95 FIRs were registered and a fine of Rs 9.85 lakh has been imposed on 392 farmers for burning stubble. He said 45 villages in the district are under the red zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-sarpanches-suspended-over-failure-to-check-farm-fires-in-karnal/story-FbDtLCNcdbGN0SlaoE123L.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Court ends defamation case after Kapil Mishra’s apology to Satyendar Jain||A Delhi court has closed a criminal defamation case against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra after he tendered an unconditional apology to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and health minister Satyendar Jain, who had filed the complaint over Mishra’s remarks against him and chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in 2017.The case was closed on Wednesday after Mishra agreed to tender an unconditional apology before additional chief metropolitan Magistrate, Vishal Pahuja. In a press conference held in 2017, Mishra, who was then a cabinet minister in the AAP government, had accused Jain of handing over a bribe of Rs 2 crore to Arvind Kejriwal. “It is submitted by the accused (Mishra) that he is ready to make a statement before the court, tendering an unconditional apology. Complainant (Jain) submitted that in case the accused gives his statement before the court, he shall withdraw the present complaint,” the court recorded. After recording the statements of Mishra and Jain, the court disposed of the defamation complaint as withdrawn. If convicted, the offence of defamation entails a maximum punishment of two years.Reacting to the development, Jain said Mishra’s statements were “baseless and politically motivated” in nature and it had caused him “distress”. “Kapil Mishra had said objectionable things against me but he could never provide any proof. That is why I had filed a defamation case against him. It caused me distress. I hope Kapil Mishra does not repeat such things after the unconditional apology. His allegations were baseless and politically motivated,” Jain said in a press conference on Thursday.AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said, “Kapil Mishra has exposed how he was taking orders from the BJP. He should immediately make the apology public through his social media handles as he has assured the court. If he doesn’t, he should be sent to jail.”Mishra had then claimed Jain “settled a land deal worth Rs 50 crore of Kejriwal’s relative”. On social media, Mishra went on to state that Jain would go to jail in a few days. He was removed from the cabinet and party membership.In August 2019, Mishra, who was an MLA from Karawal Nagar constituency (representing the AAP), was disqualified from the Assembly. In the same year, he officially joined the BJP and unsuccessfully contested the Delhi assembly election with a BJP ticket from the Model Town constituency in February 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/court-ends-defamation-case-after-kapil-mishra-s-apology-to-jain/story-4CyK2t875LpbbIFQd339xO.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends Covid-19 lockdown till Nov 30; places of worship, cinema halls, swimming pools to remain shut||The Maharashtra government issued orders extending the Covid-19 induced lockdown for another month, till midnight of November 30, with no further relaxations annou-nced on Thursday. The state is yet to reopen places of worship, swimming pools, cinema halls and theatres, and allow social, political, sports, entertainment, religious, academic and cultural functions. State officials, however, said the government will widen scope of Mission Begin Again — a staggered plan to unlock activities — in the coming month. The government has already on Wednesday written to Western Railway and Central Railway to let all commuters use Mumbai’s local train services. Thursday’s order, signed by Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, said what’s already allowed and open will continue to stay that way. Earlier this month, the state let restaurants and bars open at 50% capacity, all women were given permission to travel on suburban trains during non-peak hours, and gymnasiums were allowed to operate. “We have reopened most activities… But we have to keep in mind what has happened in France and the United States (US), where there is a second wave. Both countries are recording 50,000-100,000 cases daily. We are not saying such a wave will come to India and Maharashtra, but we have to remain alert,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope, adding that the government’s primary concern is that another wave of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra could burden the poor health infrastructure in the state. Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 5,902 fresh infections, taking the state’s tally to 1,666,668, with 127,603 active cases.Thursday is the 12th consecutive day when the state reported below 10,000 fresh cases. Maharashtra also reported 156 fatalities on Thursday, pushing up the toll to 43,710. The case fatality rate of the state stands at 2.62%. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 1,120 new cases, taking the city’s tally to 255,360. It also reported 33 fatalities, taking its toll up to 10,229. Mumbai has 19,082 active cases.Tope said the government does intend to reopen other activities, but with caution. “Some activities are still not allowed like places of worship, political functions and local trains for general public. Everyone in the government wants to open these activities, but there is concern that if we get a high number of cases then our health infrastructure will be burdened. There is a huge difference between our country and European nations and America, therefore we must tread cautiously,” he said.Meanwhile, the positivity rate in the state in the past two weeks has dipped against what it was in the second fortnight of September. Between September 15 and 30, Maharashtra’s positivity rate was 20.97%, while it has dropped to 11.24% between October 15 and October 29. Which effectively means, for every 100 samples tested, 11 people test positive. For three consecutive days, the state’s positivity rate has been under 10% as of Thursday. So far, Maharashtra has tested 8,837,133 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 18.86%. In the past 24 hours, 68,254 samples were tested across the state.Senior health department officials said the slowdown in spread of infection is a good sign, but further relaxations coupled with people’s movement during the festive season could reverse the trend. “The next two incubation cycles will be crucial. If the rate of infection remains around the current percentage then we woukld have successfully dealt with the pandemic. People will have to remain cautious; self-discipline in sanitation and wearing masks is needed,” said an official, on condition of anonymity.Maharashtra also reported 7,883 recoveries on Thursday, taking the tally of recovered patients to 1,494,809. The recovery rate of the state stands at 89.69%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-nov-30-places-of-worship-cinema-halls-swimming-pools-to-remain-shut/story-7mbrQbZBIa52iYya2kLApK.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia writes to mayors, asks them to ‘rise above petty politics’||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday wrote to the three mayors of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)- ruled municipal corporations (MCDs), urging them to “rise above petty politics” and focus on the “real issue” of corruption and financial mismanagement within the civic bodies, while also asking them to demand Rs 12,000 crore from the Central government as an ex-gratia amount. In his letters, which has been seen by HT, Sisodia said not only has the Delhi government paid all dues to the MCDs as per the Fifth Delhi Finance Commission, but it has also paid over and above this amount, resulting in a huge outstanding loan. “Based on the latest records, MCDs have outstanding loans from the Delhi government to the tune of Rs 6,008 crore. They have arrears to the tune of Rs 2,596 crore that they owe tot the Delhi Jal Board. Hence, in all, they owe over Rs 8,600 crore to the Delhi government,” the government said in a statement later. Sisodia said that the MCD’s own internal audit reports have indicated complete financial mismanagement of the three corporations. “In the internal audit report of 2016-17, North municipal corporation’s chief municipal auditor found Rs 3,299 crore worth of financial irregularities. Additionally, the audit reports pointed that South corporation has Rs 1,177 crore outstanding arrears of property tax, but there is no attempt to recover this amount – we all know what that means,” read Sisodia’s letter. Asking the mayors of the south, east and north corporations to demand the “unpaid amount” of Rs 12,000 crore from the Central government, which he termed as a “right of the people of Delhi”, Sisodia also said, “The facts clearly show how the financial mess in the three MCDs is of its own making and a result of the endemic corruption that has now become synonymous with the three corporations.”. Reacting to the allegations, Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “The deputy chief minister’s move to send letters to mayors of the corporations shows the frustration of the Delhi government as they know that they have to pay dues of Rs 13,000 crore to the three civic bodies. According to recommendations of the 3rd, 4th and 5th Delhi finance commission, the state has to pay Rs 6000 crore to the north corporation alone. Instead of showing frustration and writing letters, the deputy CM and the government machinery should focus on clearing our dues so that this financial problem can be solved.”East corporation mayor Nirmal Jain too hit out at the government. “This is an effort to divert attention from the issue that the Delhi government has to pay dues to the east civic body. As per 4th and 5th Delhi Finance Commission, we have to get Rs 2,985 crore from the state government. Not only this but the Delhi government has to pay us Rs 1,200 crore in first two quarters of the financial year, but so far we have got only Rs 301 crore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sisodia-writes-to-mayors-asks-them-to-rise-above-petty-politics/story-j0G2ehAYJAguX3s2fVrwRN.html
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Air quality in four Haryana cities worsens to ‘severe’ amid spurt in farm fires||As farm fire incidents continued to be reported from across Haryana, the air quality index (AQI) of Jind, Charkhi Dadri, Bahadurgarh and Dharuhera cities on Thursday deteriorated to the “severe” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). By 4:00pm, the AQI of 10 other cities—Yamunanagar, Rohtak, Panipat, Manesar, Kaithal, Hisar, Gurugram, Fatehabad, Faridabad, and Balllabgarh—had moved into “very poor” zone. The air quality of eight more cities—Ambala, Bhiwani, Kurukshetra, Narnaul, Palwal, Sirsa and Sonepat—was recorded as “poor”. The AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, and 101 to 200 moderate, but the AQI enters ‘poor’ zone when it is between 201 to 300. The AQI is categorised ‘very poor’ between 301-400 mark and it crosses over to ‘severe’ zone at 401. Haryana had detected 4,211 active farm fire locations until October 30, 2019, prompting the BJP-JJP coalition government to take a slew of steps to stop stubble burning and contain air pollution in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR). However, during the ongoing paddy harvesting season that began on September 25, the number of active fire locations have already increased in comparison to the same period last year with 4,837 farm fires (626 more than last year) detected till October 28. About a dozen-odd Haryana districts are in the NCR and the pollution control board authorities attribute air pollution in the NCR in October-November to multiple factors, including construction, demolition and stubble burning. Karnal leads in stubble burningHaryana produces nearly 68 lakh metric tonne (LMT) paddy, including more than 25 LMT basmati, sown on about 32 lakh acre land. As stubble burning is being blamed for pushing air quality index level in Delhi-NCR to critical levels, the Haryana government has been issuing challans and imposing fine on farmers for burning crop residue. Listing out eight different steps taken to reduce farm fires, Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan in his October 15 affidavit had assured the Supreme Court that the state government has been taking all necessary steps required to curb stubble burning and to prevent environmental pollution. As per the latest data of Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC), 114 new Active Fire Locations were detected in past 24 hours. Karnal leads the tally with the highest 872 farm fires in the district. As per the HARSAC data, between September 25 and October 10, there were 941 active fire locations in the state. This number rose to 2,075 in next 10 days, beginning October 11. And from October 21 to October 28, there were 1821 fresh stubble burning incidences in the state. After Karnal, Kaithal has the second highest number of farm fires (861), Kurukshetra (756), Ambala (643), Fatehabad (452), Hisar (133), Jind (317), Palwal (77), Sirsa (179) and Yamunanagar (355).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/air-quality-in-four-haryana-cities-worsens-to-severe-amid-spurt-in-farm-fires/story-PovhJzFUt5egVudxABR1CI.html
30-10-2020||Delhi||Health minister Jain puts spike on better tracing, but numbers don’t really add up||As Delhi set a new record for the highest single-day infections for the third day in a row pushing the outbreak in the city to worse levels yet, health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday attributed the surge in cases to the festive season, and a “change” in the administration’s contact tracing strategy that was helping identify more patients.Cases in Delhi have been soaring to unprecedented highs over the past week. For the third day in a row, the Capital set a new daily case record with 5,739 new Covid cases taking the city’s tally to 375,753, including 338,378 recoveries and 6,423 deaths. What is alarming is that the positivity rate has risen from 5.3% on October 8 to 9.55% on Thursday, indicating that the Capital is not testing adequately. This rise appears too sharp to be attributed to better contact tracing, experts said.An expert committee headed by NITI Ayog member (health) VK Paul has warned that the number of cases in Delhi could go up to 15,000 a day during the winter months. But the Delhi health minister refuted the figure, and said cases would not rise to that level. Jain also insisted that Delhi was “well-prepared” to tackle a winter surge. “We have changed our strategy by strengthening our contact tracing system now. We are seeing a surge in daily Covid-19 cases not only because more people are coming out owing to the festivities, but also because of this change in strategy,” Jain said. Jain added that until last week, the government used to test contacts of people who tested positive for Covid-19 only if they exhibited symptoms. “Now directions have been issued to test every person who came in close contact with the Covid-19 positive case, even if they are not showing symptoms. This is why the positivity rate is increasing. So, now we are trying to test 5-7 contacts per Covid case to break the cycle of infection,” he said. Even at this rate, however, Delhi’s contact tracing target would be half of what Central experts say is ideal. At the Union ministry’s health briefing on Tuesday, Dr VK Paul said that “contact tracing can only be considered successful if at least 10 contacts” of every positive case are traced and tested by the local governments.Though cases in Delhi are increasing in what appears to be the third wave of infections, a senior government official ruled out the possibility of re-imposing any form of restrictions that were put in place during the lockdown. Many European nations, such as Germany and France, which are seeing a second wave of cases, have all announced restrictions over the past week, especially keeping in mind the festive season.RT-PCR tests scaled up The number of cases in the city started increasing in October as the government scaled up reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, known as the gold standard. On Wednesday, over 17,000 RT-PCR tests were conducted in the city for the first time.On Thursday, one in every 10 samples tested (9.55%) positive, and the average positivity rate rose more than two percentage points in the past two weeks. The positivity rate should drop to 5% or below for two weeks if a region’s testing programme is adequate and is keeping the outbreak in control, according to the World Health Organization.HT reported on Monday that the data showed the tests need to be scaled up now irrespective of the daily volume since the positivity rate was well over the acceptable 5%-7% level, and rising.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the true impact of the festive season, which started with the Navratras on October 22, is likely to be seen from mid-November.“It is from mid-November that the daily cases may see a further uptick because and the trend is likely to continue till December because Diwali is on November 14 and it takes around 1-2 weeks for the symptoms to show. Contact tracing and containment zones should be the focus in such a scenario. Wherever contact tracing is not possible, the areas should be turned into mini containment zones so that there are no spreaders of the infection,” said Kant. The Delhi health minister, meanwhile, also said that there would only be more clarity next week on whether cases had entered a third wave. “It is a bit early to say that Delhi is experiencing the third wave. We must wait for another week in order to definitively say that. But it is also possible that we’re already in that phase or are headed towards it,” he said. Delhi saw its first peak in mid June, which was followed by another spike in the number of cases around September 17, and cases have been rising at a fast clip again over the past two weeks again. While Jain said the city administration is “well-prepared” for the coming days, senior health department officials said the number of hospital beds, especially intensive care unit (ICU) beds, will be increased on a “need basis”. Jain said that more than 10,000 beds were vacant in the city hospitals for Covid patients. “If 5,600 persons are testing positive in a day, it does not mean that all would need a hospital bed. Going by previous data, only around 10% of the daily cases need a hospital bed. Sometimes it is even less. In any case, the Delhi government is preparing for all scenarios,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/health-minister-jain-puts-spike-on-better-tracing-but-numbers-don-t-really-add-up/story-vWSZqmy1qB8N7aFTKHynAM.html
30-10-2020||Education||Mumbai university TYBcom semester exams results 2020 declared||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Thursday declared results of third-year Bachelor in Commerce (TYBCom) semester six batch, the exams for which were conducted online across MU affiliated colleges earlier this month. BCom constitutes one of the largest chunk of students in the university every year.As per information shared by the university, of the 64,747 students registered for the exam, 64,182 appeared for the exam. “Total of 49,293 students who appeared for the exam have passed,” said a statement released by MU on Thursday. It further stated that 3,957 students had passed the third-year Bachelor in Mass Media (TYBMM) exams. Around 4,940 students had registered for TYBMM, 4,909 students managed to appear for the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-declares-tybcom-semester-exams-results/story-GxkxQsO1ts93ZRyxaOQBFL.html
30-10-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet authorises CM Uddhav Thackeray to recommend 12 names for nomination on Council by Governor||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday cleared a proposal authorising chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray to send 12 names to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for the legislative council. The CM is likely to send the recommendations to the Governor by Monday. The term of 12 legislators nominated to the Upper house from the governor’s quota had expired in June. The positions have been vacant since then as the state had not made any recommendations to the Governor. The Governor nominates 12 people as members of the legislative council (MLCs) for a tenure of six years. The appointments are made by the Governor on the state Cabinet’s recommendation.“The proposal of appointing 12 MLCs by the Governor was discussed in the state Cabinet today. We have decided to authorise the CM to send respective names to Raj Bhavan. The official recommendation will be made soon,” state textiles minister Aslam Shaikh told reporters after the cabinet meeting on Thursday. Each of the three ruling parties — Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress — will nominate four people and send their names to the CM. State Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat has submitted the nominees’ names to the CM in a sealed envelope, said party insiders. A senior Congress leader, requesting anonymity, said those appointed are from districts like Konkan, Nashik and Beed, where no Congress legislators were elected in the last assembly elections.NCP submitted the names of its four candidates to the CM on Thursday evening. Shiv Sena is yet to finalise the names for the vacant MLC seats.As per Article 171 (5) of the Constitution, those nominated to the Upper house “shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely — literature, science, art, co-operative movement and social service.” However, over the years, political nominees have been appointed to these seats, which led to apprehensions that the appointment may lead to another tussle between the Governor and Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government.Possible nominees:The candidates likely from NCP are Eknath Khadse, Raju Shetti, Anand Shinde, Yashpal Bhinge. From Shiv Sena, Sunil Shinde, Sachin Ahir, Aadesh Bandekar, Milind Narvekar and Urmila Matondkar are the contenders for the position while from Congress, their names are Sachin Sawant, Muzaffar Hussain, Rajni Patil, Anirudha Wankar, Satyajeet Tambe and Arif Naseem Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-authorises-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-recommend-12-names-for-nomination-on-council-by-governor/story-Au6mB8IIY3JIdPHHUEqhIK.html
30-10-2020||City||Six more deaths in Himachal due to Covid||With six more deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday, death toll in Himachal Pradesh has crossed the 300 mark The total number of deaths in Himachal stand at 301.So far, Shimla has recorded 65 deaths due to the contagion which is the highest in any district of HP. Kangra ranks second with 63 deaths.Also, 327 new coronavirus were been reported in state and the total Covid-19 tally rose to 21,476. Of these, 2,768 cases are active. Meanwhile, 199 patients have also recovered, taking the total recoveries to 18,378.Of the new cases, 73 were reported in Mandi, 60 in Shimla, 55 in Kullu, 42 in Lahaul-Spiti, 34 in Kangra, 14 in Bilaspur, 13 in Chamba, 11 in Solan, eight in Hamirpur, seven in Sirmaur, six in Una and four in Kinnaur district.With 3,595 cases, Solan remains the worst-hit district till date, followed by 2,999 cases in Kangra, 2,922 in Mandi, 2,427 in Shimla, 2,252 in Sirmaur, 1,525 in Una, 1,445 in Kullu, 1,259 in Bilaspur, 1,218 in Hamirpur, 1,128 in Chamba, 373 in Lahaul-Spiti, and 334 in Kinnaur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-deaths-in-himachal-due-to-covid/story-9yDtRwBAg0gUfFAuLwCZEL.html
30-10-2020||Pune||Light at end of tunnel for Undri road||A 10-km stretch of a state highway that passes through Undri, Handewadi and Mantarwadi in east Pune is dotted with numerous potholes for the past six months. The stretch from Undri chowk to Khadi Machine chowk is also pothole-riddenThe PWD had undertaken the conversion of the entire highway into a cement-concrete-based road, but this stretch has remained neglected for the past three years. Villagers have now petitioned the district collector over the issue. Local gram panchayat members have demanded strict action against the public works department (PWD) and the road contractor for deficiency in service.District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We will hold a meeting on the issue and ensure that instructions are issued for the earliest completion. If there are problems like land acquisition or funds, the administration will do its level best to resolve the issue.” Kiran Nagawade, a Pisoli resident, said, “The incomplete road repair work is pending for the last three years and no steps are being taken by the authorities to carry out the repairs. A number of fatal accidents have taken place. We have demanded strict action against the officials for negligence in their duties.”“The matter was taken up by MP Supriya Sule (NCP) with the authorities, but still the concerned department is callous in its approach,” claimed Sanjay Ghule, a resident of Mantarwadi.Sameer Shaikh, a resident of Mantarwadi, said, “The road between Mantarwadi and Khadi Machine chowk is filled with huge potholes. Even cars get stuck in these craters. We have knocked the doors of each and every department, but the work does not begin.”PWD officials when contacted refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/collector-deshmukh-will-call-meet-to-act-on-undri-handewadi-mantarwadi-pothole-ridden-roads/story-K7WUSqwpg0wNK3ptOJQ2VL.html
30-10-2020||Pune||Gang of five relatives arrested; police recover 18 stolen laptops||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have recovered 18 stolen laptops and other valuables from a gang that has over 60 cases against them collectively in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Mumbai.The arrested gang members were identified as Ganesh Manik Pawar; Baban Kashinath Chavan (39), a resident of Solapur; Basu Jagdish Chavan (45), a resident of Hadapsar; Rajesh Prakash Chavan (35), a resident of Mumbai; and Maruti Mani Pawar (40) a resident of Solapur, according to the police.“These are all family members and relatives of each other,” said senior police inspector Mohan Shinde, in-charge of Unit 4 of the crime branch of Pimpri-Chinchwad policeThey were arrested in a case of a laptop theft registered in Hinjewadi on October 6. The arrests were made by a team led by assistant police inspector Ambrish Deshmukh, based on information received by havaldar Vasudev Munde and Adinath Ombase, according to a police statement.Among the recovered valuables, seven are Dell laptops, five are HP, four are Lenovo, while two are Apple Macs. Along with the laptops, three wifi dongles, one Canon camera lens, seven empty laptop bags and two motorcycles were recovered, according to the police. The total recovery is worth Rs 12,77,620.“With this recovery, we have solved 13 cases – six of laptop theft, one of cash theft, and few others. Two are still on the run and more cases will be detected soon. Of the recovered laptops, the owners of 12 are yet to be found,” said senior PI Shinde.Besides the case in Pimpri-Chinchwad in which he was arrested, Pawar has a record of 24 cases in Mumbai from where he was externed in December 2019. After externment, he moved to Goa and has allegedly confessed to have committed similar crimes there as well, according to a statement issued by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Among the others, Basu Chavan has 14 cases, while Maruti Chavan has 14 and Tajesh Pawar has nine previous cases.Two people who helped the men sell the stolen laptops were also arrested. The sellers were identified as Amol Sahebrao Gund, and Suleman Yakub Tamboli, both residents of Solapur.The first arrest, Pawar, was made from Ravale, Navi Mumbai on October 23. He led the police to the Chavans - one in Solapur and one in Hadapsar.Upon their interrogation, Chavan from Mumbai and Pawar from Solapur were arrested.The two men from Mumbai who sold the laptops further first bought the electronics from these men at a cheaper price.The five men are believed to have broken into 25-30 cars in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad to steal valuables like laptops, cameras, dongles, and cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-of-five-relatives-arrested-18-stolen-laptops-recovered/story-2xOOZk4l9xN9Y1Qc3LMnxK.html
30-10-2020||Pune||Sangli search leads to key evidence finds, claims NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), Delhi, conducted searches in four locations in two states, Maharashtra and Assam. In Maharashtra, the searches were conducted in Sangli and in Assam, the search was conducted in Guwahati, according to a statement issued by NIA.The searches are related to a gold seizure worth Rs 42.89 crore made at a New Delhi railway station on August 28 by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI). “During the searches, incriminating documents and electronic devices containing details of suspicious transactions, as well as of persons involved in the instant crime, who also have links abroad, including Myanmar and Nepal, were seized,” read a part of the statement issued by the agency on Thursday.The gold, found to be weighing 83.62kg, was in the possession of eight people who were carrying fake Aadhaar cards, according to earlier reports.The eight were identified as Ravikiran Gaikwad, Pawan Kumar Gaikwad, Yogesh Hanmant Rupnar, Abhijeet Babar, Saddam Patel, Avdhut Arun Vibhuti, Sachin Appaso Hasabe, and Dilip Laxman Patil, according to NIA. They had alighted the Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani Express when they were intercepted at New Delhi railway station by DRI.On September 16, the NIA took over the investigation and registered a case in which Section 16 of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) was invoked.The activities of these men were terrorist in nature and were “threatening the economic security and damaging the monetary stability of India,” according to the allegations made by NIA in its case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/multi-crore-delhi-gold-seizure-nia-claims-incriminating-evidence-found-in-sangli-search-op/story-ST6Xp8qexOBB4sK6voTsMP.html
30-10-2020||Pune||No water supply in Pune on Nov 2: PMC||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has announced that there will be no water supply to the city on Monday, November 2. Water will be available at low pressure on Tuesday, November 3.Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of PMC’s water department issued the press statement on Thursday, which stated: “PMC needs to take on urgent infrastructure and electric-related repair works, which would require a whole day. The works are planned at all the water treatment plants. As water treatment plants will be closed, the civic body will not be able to supply water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-water-supply-on-nov-2-pmc/story-AOADaa9FCBqPOAcKJdyBHN.html
30-10-2020||World||US early voting breaks records amid Facebook’s warnings of post-poll unrest||As early voting in the US broke records, Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg has warned of possible civil unrest when ballots are counted, calling it “a test” for the social network.“I’m worried that with our nation so divided and election results potentially taking days or weeks to be finalised, there is a risk of civil unrest across the country,” Zuckerberg said on Thursday during a call on the company’s quarterly earnings. He went on to list steps taken to prevent poll misinformation.Confusion early this week over political ads at Facebook marred the onset of what was supposed to be a cooling-off period ahead of the US presidential election on November 3.In the Facebook’s library of paid posts, which is viewable by the public, for President Donald Trump’s campaign, what appeared to be a victory ad is already visible.Trump and his Democratic challenger Biden will campaign in Wisconsin and Minnesota, both battleground states. Biden will also be in Iowa, which he is hoping to flip, while Trump will visit Michigan, which he won in 2016. Biden’s running mate Kamala Harris was in Texas, which on Thursday created a record for early-voting turnout, surpassing the total for 2016 with still a day left of early voting. More than 9 million Texans have voted, which is only 35% of registered voters, but more than the state’s total turnout of 8.9mn in 2016. The Texas Tribune expects the turnout to go past 60% of registered voters at the end of election day and early voting, a first since the early 1990s.Other states have reported high early voting turnouts too. North Carolina, for instance, had reported more than 4mn votes by Thursday evening, which is 53% of all registered voters. Countrywide, more than 84 mn Americans have already cast their ballots, which is 35% of the 240 eligible voters in all.Democrats and pollsters believe Texas is a close fight now, and there are calls for Biden to invest more there in the final days.Harris, meanwhile, appears to be the target of more misinformation online than any other white man who has run for vice-president, including Mike Pence, the incumbent, according to a medial intelligence firm, as first reported by AP.(With inputs from Agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-early-voting-breaks-records-amid-facebook-s-warnings-of-post-poll-unrest/story-nPLlQEAgtzJ3oReJr9zADM.html
30-10-2020||World||Thousands stage anti-France protests in Bangladesh, Pakistan||Muslims in South Asia vented their fury at France on Friday and torched an effigy of President Emmanuel Macron over his recent remarks on Islam, with tens of thousands flooding the streets.Smaller anti-France protests also took place in the Middle East after Macron’s defence of the right to publish controversial cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed -- a position that has sparked anger across the Muslim world.France has been on edge since the beheading this month of a teacher in a Paris suburb for showing pupils the cartoons, repeatedly published by satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, in a class on free speech.On Thursday a 21-year-old Tunisian jihadist suspect allegedly brutally killed three people at a church in the southern French city of Nice, further raising tensions across France.Huge crowds took to the streets of Dhaka to condemn the French leader after Friday prayers -- the Bangladeshi capital’s second anti-France protest in five days. “We are all soldiers of Prophet Mohammed,” the crowd chanted as demonstrators called for a boycott of French goods and some burned an effigy of Macron.Police said 12,000 people took part in the Dhaka rally, though independent observers and organisers claimed more than 40,000 marched in the city. Smaller crowds gathered outside hundreds of mosques elsewhere in the capital and around the country.“France is insulting the world’s two billion Muslims. President Macron must apologise for his crimes,” said Gazi Ataur Rahman, a senior leader of Islami Andolan Bangladesh, one of the political parties which called the protests.Around 10,000 people marched through Karachi, Pakistan’s biggest city, after Friday prayers in what was organised as a procession to mark the Prophet’s birthday but which was charged with anti-France anger.Another rally in Pakistan’s capital grew rowdy, with stones thrown at police and tear gas fired to control the crowds.Around 2,000 protesters in Islamabad marched towards the French embassy, pushing aside shipping containers that had been placed to block their path. The crowed shouted “expel the French dog” and “behead the blasphemous” but were prevented from reaching the embassy by further guarded barricades.- ‘How dare they?’ -“How dare they disrespect our prophet? As a Muslim I am ready to sacrifice my head for the prophet’s honour,” said Rasheed Akbar, a 34 year-old trader who joined the crowd. Small protests were also held in neighbouring Afghanistan, with thousands in the western city of Herat shouting “Death to France! Death to Macron!”.In the Lebanese capital Beirut, around 200 people protested against Macron at a rally organised by an Islamic group, and some young men clashed with police.“France is in crisis because of Macron,” read a sign held up by a protester. Another said “Islam is dear” to us.In Jerusalem, prominent Palestinian cleric Ekrima Sabri, the sheikh of Al-Aqsa Mosque, read a statement addressed to Macron during his Friday sermon saying: “We tell the enemies of Islam... the light of Allah will cover up your words”.Palestinians rallied in Hebron, in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, against Macron and clashed with Israeli forces, witnesses said.Macron’s comments have prompted denunciations from several Muslim countries.Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan has accused the French president of attacking the Muslim faith and urged Muslim countries to work together to counter what he called growing Islamophobia in Europe.Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s office vowed to take “legal and diplomatic action” over another Charlie Hebdo cartoon, which depicted Erdogan looking up a woman’s skirt while drinking beer in his underpants. Turkey’s NTV broadcaster said Ankara had summoned a senior diplomat from the French embassy.Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called Macron’s defence of cartoons depeciting the prophet a “stupid act” and an “insult” to those who voted for him. More than 40,000 took part in an anti-France demonstration in Dhaka earlier this week, and the country’s embassy there has been given extra security.In India, where the Hindu nationalist government has strongly backed Macron, leaders of the country’s minority Muslim community have called for a boycott of French goods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-stage-anti-france-protests-in-bangladesh-pakistan/story-ipXqhs5jQVKwL5LjeRwItI.html
30-10-2020||World||European Union urges quick WHO reform, asks for more transparency in pandemics||The World Health Organization (WHO) should be quickly overhauled, get more powers to handle pandemics and expose its member states’ shortfalls in health emergencies, European Union(EU) officials said on Friday.The comments were made at a video conference of EU health ministers that endorsed an EU document on the reform of the UN agency which for the first time outlines a series of sweeping changes needed to boost WHO’s powers and resources, as exclusively reported by Reuters in September. The moves followed criticisms that China and other countries did not share information on the Covid-19 pandemic in a timely fashion at its onset. “The current pandemic challenges us very acutely, but it is very important that the (WHO) reform debate is held in parallel,” German Health Minister Jens Spahn told a news conference.He did not say when the reform process should begin, but stressed that as a result of the overhaul the WHO should become faster in its reaction to health crises, while its member states should share more information during emergencies.“We greatly appreciate the EU’s strong leadership in global health and its steadfast support for WHO, including support for strengthening the organization,”WHO said, declining to comment specifically on the EU document.“It is extremely important we move ahead with this reform,” EU Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides told the same news conference.After months of international pressure, an independent panel was set up in September to review the global handling of the pandemic. The process to reform WHO would begin after that, officials had said. The EU draft document, which will represent their position at a WHO assembly in mid-November, urges the UN agency to make public more quickly how and whether its member states respect their obligations on sharing information on health crises.The United States has accused WHO of being too close to China in the first phase of the pandemic, when critics say Beijing was slow in sharing crucial information on the new coronavirus which first appeared in the city of Wuhan.WHO has repeatedly dismissed these accusations.“Transparency on who complies with the rules is fundamental,” Kyriakides told ministers at the video conference, according to her speaking notes.The draft document also says WHO countries should allow independent epidemiological assessments on-site in high risk zones during health crises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-union-urges-quick-who-reform-asks-for-more-transparency-in-pandemics/story-ibsWqjqwYR0YkjGTXQxNmO.html
30-10-2020||World||Panama Canal is clogged with ships, and the pandemic is making it worse||Ships carrying cargoes around the world are waiting for days to pass through the Panama Canal, as pandemic hit staffing caused congestion at the key pinch point.Long waiting times are affecting shipments of liquefied natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas from the US Gulf Coast to Asia, according to people with direct knowledge of the situation.The waiting time, which for vessels with unbooked slots is as long as between 10 and 15 days, have contributed to a rally in the cost of chartering an LNG tanker on the spot market and added to disruptions affecting the supply of super-chilled fuel, the same sources said.The Panama Canal is a crucial waterway for cargoes from the US, the fastest growing Liquefied Natural Gas(LNG) supplier, to reach markets in Asia, the biggest consumer. Delays coupled with soaring charter rates may affect economics of supplies from the US into Asia and force cargo owners to choose alternative routes.The delays stem from traffic congestion as well as the Covid-19 pandemic reducing resource capacity, the people, who asked not to be identified said.The Panama Canal Authority denied that even vessels with booked slots are experiencing delays, saying waiting time has increased only for vessels that arrive without a reservation.“Due to a combination of seasonal fog, higher-than-average arrivals, and added Covid-19 safety procedures, the Panama Canal has seen an extended waiting time for vessels that arrive at the waterway without a reservation in recent days,” the Panama Canal Authority said in an emailed statement.“Vessels that book transits for a particular date continue to have transit certainty for that date. This has been true for over 99 per cent of transits historically and remains true despite the pandemic,” the authority said.In the Liquefied petroleum gas(LPG) market, logistical delays suffered by Asia-bound tankers prompted a spike in regional prices as buyers sought alternative supplies, two traders who asked not to be identified said. The disruption to flows coincided with seasonal demand from Northeast Asian buyers in South Korea, Japan and China during the year-end winter period.Delays for LPG loadings from the US to Asia have occurred for the past few weeks, with waiting time for non-booking slots of as much as eight days.The Flex Aurora liquefied natural gas carrier waited for nine days to pass through the canal for a passage that typically takes less than a day. The tanker approached Panama Canal on October 15 and entered it northbound October 24. The vessel is now loading at Cheniere Energy Inc.’s Corpus Christi plant in Texas, according to ship-tracking data on Bloomberg.Shipping rates for spot LNG vessels are already surging with reduced availability of spare vessels as delays mean tankers are on journeys for longer.With coronavirus cases surging across the country, the Panamanian Ministry of Health imposed lockdowns and restrictions, limiting the number of workers at the canal, FACTS Global Energy Group(FGE) said in a note. There are also more stringent checks and additional procedures for transiting vessels to curb the spread of the disease.“With these developments coinciding with an uptick in seasonal demand for canal transits, it could take some time before delays start to ease,” the note said.The Canal has adjusted its operations to raise daily transits from 32 to 37 on average, according to the statement. Transits are up from 30 in July, and 28 in June and May, when traffic was down because of the pandemic.“The Panama Canal anticipates this is a short term situation. As these numbers demonstrate, the waterway has the capacity to meet demand and willingness to find ways to accommodate vessels when needed,”the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/panama-canal-is-clogged-with-ships-and-the-pandemic-is-making-it-worse/story-eVUHMVqnaPNE620LfNlL7H.html
30-10-2020||World||14 dead, over 400 injured as major earthquake hits Turkey, Greece||Rescuers dug through heavy blocks of concrete with their bare hands on Friday in a desperate search for survivors from a powerful earthquake that levelled buildings across Greece and Turkey, killing at least 14 people.The quake caused a mini-tsunami on the Aegean island of Samos and a sea surge that turned streets into rushing rivers in one town on Turkey’s west coast.The US Geological Survey said the 7.0 magnitude quake was registered 14 kilometres (almost nine miles) off the Greek town of Karlovasi on Samos. Much of the damage in Turkey occurred in and around the Aegean resort city of Izmir, which has three million residents and is filled with high-rise apartment blocks.- Hospital patients on the street - Images from the popular vacation destination showed collapsed buildings and dazed survivors trying to make their way through rubbled piled high on the streets.“Oh my God!” one passerby shouted near a collapsed building in one image that went viral in Turkey.In another, a crowd let out a relieved cheer and broke out in applause as one woman was pulled out alive in tears.Izmir’s mayor Tunc Soyer told CNN Turk that 20 buildings had collapsed, with officials saying they were focusing their rescue efforts on 17 of them.Turkey’s disaster agency reported the death of 12 people, and said more than 400 were injured, while in Greece two teenagers died on their way home from school on Samos when a wall collapsed.The scenes of devastation suggested the toll could rise.One Izmir hospital rolled out some of its patients -- still strapped into their beds and hooked up to drips -- out on the street as a precaution.Ali Erbas, who heads the religious affairs directorate, said mosques would open their doors to host those left homeless by the disaster.- ‘Remain calm’ -Images on social media showed water rushing through the streets of one of the towns near Izmir from an apparent sea surge.Thick white plumes smoke rose from various parts of the city itself, where buildings had collapsed.Aerial footage on Turkey’s NTV television showed entire city blocks turned to rubble.Rescuers, helped by residents and sniffer dogs, used chainsaws as they tried to force their way through the rubble of a seven-floor building that had collapsed.At one site, Agriculture Minister Bekir Pakdemirl managed to establish mobile phone contact with a girl buried under the debris.“We ask you to remain calm,” he told her in televised footage. “We will try to lift the concrete bloc and reach you.”NTV television said up to six people were trapped at the site, including the girl’s cousin.- ‘Earthquake diplomacy’ -On the Greek island of Samos, near the quake’s epicentre, people rushed out into the streets in panic.“It was chaos,” said deputy mayor Giorgos Dionysiou. “We have never experienced anything like this.”The Greek civil protection agency told Samos residents in a text message to “stay out in the open and away from buildings”.Greece and Turkey are both situated in one of the world’s most active earthquake zones.The two uneasy neighbours also suffer from historically poor relations despite both being members of the NATO military alliance.But the quake saw a spurt of what pundits immediately termed “earthquake diplomacy”, after Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis placed a rare call to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to offer his condolences and support.“Whatever our differences, these are times when our people need to stand together,” Mitsotakis said on Twitter.Erdogan aide Fahrettin Altun tweeted that the disaster “reminds us once again how close we are despite our differences over policy”.France, which has feuded with Turkey over a range of regional disputes and has come under attack from Erdogan for its campaign against radical Islam, also offered its support, as did the EU and NATO.Some of the world’s strongest earthquakes have been registered along a fault line that runs across Turkey to Greece.In 1999, a 7.4 magnitude earthquake struck Turkey’s northwest, killing more than 17,000 people, including 1,000 in Istanbul.Another quake in 2011 in the southeastern province of Van resulted in more than 600 deaths.In Greece, the last deadly quake killed two people on the island of Kos, near Samos, in July 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twelve-dead-over-400-injured-in-turkey-quake-disaster-agency/story-yp9jnIogYr7ZJYJ9ZC8hDP.html
30-10-2020||World||US surgeon general battles rising Covid-19 vaccine skepticism||A coronavirus vaccine may be available as soon as the end of the year, but that will “mean nothing if people don’t trust it,” says Jerome Adams, US Surgeon General, a job known as the nation’s doctor.Many people don’t, and time is running short to convince them otherwise.Adams, a key member of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, said he spends his days, nights, and weekends racing to boost vaccine confidence. It is a daunting challenge, given that overcoming the pandemic hinges on vaccine use and the administration he works for has at times undermined confidence that a shot will be safe and effective.The question now is whether Adams and others can reverse the public’s reluctance, especially among Black Americans, to accept government assurances.“I just want to say to people out there of this, that I’m at the table fighting for you, and specifically bringing up issues of equity, both as a Black man, and as someone who has championed these issues throughout my career,” he said in an interview.Though low confidence in immunizations has been a pressing issue in the US for years, Adams said, politics now has roiled the medical landscape and fuelled new doubts. An inoculation will only be effective if a large majority of Americans get it, including Black people, who have higher infection and mortality rates.“There’s no chapter in the pandemic playbook for a presidential election,” Adams said. “That’s made it very difficult for anyone to have a true conversation about health without some of these other agendas and areas of mistrust seeping in.”President Donald Trump has urged US regulators to expedite approval of Covid-19 vaccines and treatments, while accusing the Food and Drug Administration(FDA) of slowing development to harm his re-election chances. The president has repeatedly said a vaccine would be approved by Election Day on November 3, though that timeline has proven untenable.Many Black Americans and others hard hit by the virus are unmoved by Trump administration entreaties to get the vaccine as soon as it’s available. The leading Black doctors group, the National Medical Association, said it would review vaccine data and make recommendations to physicians and patients.Angela Riley, a Black pharmacist and a city councilwoman in Binghamton, New York, said there’s a disconnect in the Trump administration’s messaging to Black Americans.“You have not prioritized me and my well-being overall, in terms of housing, in terms of arrest, in terms of social justice,” Riley said. “You’ve consistently tweeted racist remarks, you’ve talked about how the virus isn’t real, yet you want me to go first?” Adams has tried to shift the discussion about the vaccine to the science and the rigors of the approval process, not the politics. He said he has elevated concerns of doctors, faith leaders, and others to Vice President Mike Pence, head of the virus task force, and Adams’s political patron: While serving as Indiana governor, Pence appointed Adams as the state’s health commissioner.“This isn’t about Donald Trump or Joe Biden,” Adams said. “This is about knowing there is a process in place and holding people accountable for the process.” There is little sign that Adams’s approach is working. Only half of US adults say they would “definitely” or “probably” get a vaccine to prevent Covid-19 if it were available, according to a September poll from Pew Research Center. That’s down from 72 per cent in May. Mistrust is more pervasive among Black adults, with only 32 per cent saying they’d likely get a Covid-19 vaccine, down from 54 per cent in May.Vaccine skepticism among racial and ethnic minorities is rooted in historical medical malpractice and exploitation, such as the infamous experiment in Tuskegee, Alabama, where Black men with syphilis were denied treatment without their knowledge over four decades. A previous Surgeon General is considered an architect of the notorious experiment. Adams said he carries the weight of that history in the role he now occupies.These past wrongs are compounded by the shortcomings of today’s health-care system. One concern has been a lack of diversity in early-stage Covid-19 vaccine clinical trials. Later trials better reflect the racial and ethnic makeup of the US after drug companies made extensive efforts to recruit volunteers in communities of colour.Still, overcoming deeply rooted reluctance is difficult when there’s lack of trust in the messenger. Adams’s critics say he’s been an ineffective communicator for an administration that has been faulted for tone-deaf handling of racial issues. Some of his attempts to appeal directly to Black Americans on virus issues have drawn rebukes from lawmakers. And Adams’s senior role in the administration closely ties him to the hurried effort to release a Covid-19 vaccine.But Evelyn Lewis, a family physician in Newnan, Georgia who has worked in the drug industry, lauds Adams for walking the tightrope.‘In that administration, if you disagree, you’ll get thrown under the bus, and then run over by it,” said Lewis, who knows Adams professionally. “His ability to navigate that environment is critical to his ability to represent the community.’Just because Adams has a seat at the table doesn’t mean Lewis trusts the Trump administration or the health agencies it oversees. She remains concerned that the FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC) have been compromised by the White House’s political agenda.That leaves Lewis wrestling with one of the most difficult questions of her medical career: Should she advocate for people of color to line up and get inoculated should a shot become available?“That’s a gut-wrenching question for a person like myself, who is a physician, who is an African-American,” Lewis said. “I’m still to-be-determined on my position. I want to see the data.”Lisa Fitzpatrick, a CDC trained epidemiologist, is among those trying to allay those doubts by volunteering for a clinical trial of a Covid vaccine.“Being a Black physician, I needed to put my money where my mouth is,” said Fitzpatrick, now a professor at the George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences. “This has to be a community driven effort by people who are trusted.”And while Adams said he doesn’t believe U.S. government officials, including himself, have yet earned the confidence of Black Americans, he’ll continue to work through those who are trusted. The stakes are high as the pandemic rages on.“We need to help America understand,’’ he said, “that you cannot have social justice if you don’t have health equity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-surgeon-general-battles-rising-covid-19-vaccine-skepticism/story-cqTzBJ24yzCmYaCSX11IwN.html
30-10-2020||World||Why an abortion law ruling trigged mass protests in Poland||Poland is a largely conservative country compared to much of Europe, a place where churches fill up on Sundays and Roman Catholicism is deeply interwoven with the national identity.So why has a court ruling restricting abortion sparked more than a week of angry protests across the central European nation of 38 million?Hundreds of thousands have been pouring into the streets for days, defying the risk of contagion amid a spike in Covid-19 infections that have been hitting new records each day, reaching nearly 22,000 on Friday.With a mass march scheduled for Friday evening in Warsaw, here is a look at some of the key issues.TOP COURT RULESThe immediate trigger of the protests was an Oct. 22 decision by the constitutional court that had been asked to rule on a provision of a 27-year-old law which allows abortions in cases of severe fetal deformity, including Down syndrome. The latter is one of the main reasons cited for the roughly 1,000 legal terminations performed in Poland each year.Lawmakers with the ruling Law and Justice party were among those who sought the court’s review. They say they want to ensure fetuses with Down syndrome are allowed to be born.POLAND IN THE BIGGER PICTUREKlementyna Suchanow, one of the main organizers with the initiative Women’s Strike, the key force behind the protests, said Poland is just one element in a global struggle where democracies face a challenge from fundamentalist and authoritarian forces.Whatever happens now in Poland will be crucial for democracy worldwide, says Suchanow, the author of “This is War: Women, Fundamentalists, and the new Middle Ages,” a book on international ultra-conservative groups that want to ban all abortions.The groups say they are fighting to preserve traditional families, and also fight same-sex marriage.The slogan “This is War” has been repeated often on banners carried at the protests in Poland.COMPROMISE BROKENPoland already had one of Europe’s most restrictive laws, hammered out in 1993 between political and Catholic church leaders. It allowed abortions only in the cases of fetal defects, risk to the woman’s health and incest or rape.It was born from difficult negotiations after the fall of communism, when the Soviet bloc countries had liberal abortion laws. The church, long repressed by the communist regime, sought a full ban in line with its view that all life must be protected from the moment of conception.Aleksander Kwasniewski, a former left-wing president, said this week: “It seems to me that in 1993, it was the only possible compromise.”However, neither side has ever been satisfied with the 1993 law.Earlier attempts by the conservative ruling party to replace it with a blanket ban on abortions were met with enormous street protests in 2016 and 2017, and shelved.POLITICAL CALCULATIONSThe government appears to have calculated that it could change the law with less of a backlash by getting a court under its political control to do the job — during the pandemic.If so, the plan has backfired.The ruling Law and Justice party won a second term in 2019 and President Andrzej Duda, a party ally, was re-elected this summer. With three years to go before the next elections, it seemed the right time to push through an unpopular move that is widely understood as a reward to the church and ultraconservative groups for their political support.While a large majority of Poles disapprove of the court ruling, some of the protesters’ methods have also met with disapproval, including vulgar language, vandalizing churches and disrupting Masses.“If they continue that way, they will lose support,” said Marcin Zaborowski, a political analyst and author with Visegrad Insight, a policy journal focused on Central Europe.THE COURT’S AUTHORITYThe Constitutional Tribunal, which ruled to restrict abortion, is itself the product of a separate controversy: the ruling party’s takeover of the courts, an issue at the heart of a 5-year standoff with the European Union.Of 15 judges on the court, 14 were picked by Law and Justice for nine-year terms, three of them chosen in a manner that violates Polish law.This has led some legal scholars to declare that the court itself is illegitimate and that the abortion ruling has no legal validity. Many critics now refer to the court as “Julia Przylebska’s tribunal,” a reference to the court president who is a Law and Justice party loyalist.“This is an ineffective ruling from the constitutional court. It has no legal consequences,” said Michal Wawrykiewicz, a lawyer with Free Courts, an initiative fighting for rule of law.Wawrykiewicz said the ruling is likely to unleash legal chaos because the government will treat it as legally binding but many doctors will not. If doctors are sued for performing abortions of damaged fetuses, they will be sued in lower courts, where judges have maintained a large degree of independence and can be expected to rule in their favor. Ultimately the issue will need to be resolved by the EU’s Court of Justice.A YOUTH REVOLTWhile traditionally conservative, Poland has also been undergoing massive social changes under the influence of EU membership, which has led many Poles to travel and study abroad, and of popular culture influences such as Netflix.The protests of the past week have been dominated by young people, who believe that the abortion ruling infringes on their liberties.Dominika Stankiewicz, a 26-year-old who was handing out protest stickers and posters in Warsaw’s Mokotow district on Thursday, said abortion is the only issue that has ever brought her to the streets to protests.“This is too much right now,” she said.WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?With society in upheaval, people are discussing ways out.President Andrzej Duda on Friday proposed a bill that would allow abortions in cases where the fetus is so deformed that it could not survive after birth, but ban them for Down syndrome.Women’s rights activists and opposition politicians immediately condemned that idea.Protest organizers are now pushing for the government to resign and a liberal abortion law to be passed — though neither seem like realistic prospects now.Some people are saying that the matter should be decided in a referendum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-an-abortion-law-ruling-trigged-mass-protests-in-poland/story-hCAY38OyI2gHylstyStjDP.html
30-10-2020||World||UK accelerates reviews of Pfizer and Astra-Oxford Covid-19 vaccines||The UK’s drug regulator has started accelerated reviews of Covid-19 vaccines under development from Pfizer Inc. and AstraZeneca Plc, as Britain gets ready to approve the first successful shot as quickly as possible.The U.K. Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency started a so-called rolling review of the Pfizer vaccine in recent weeks, according to a person with knowledge of the situation who didn’t want to be identified because the procedure hasn’t been announced publicly. The agency is also conducting an expedited review of Astra’s vaccine, which the company is co-developing with the University of Oxford, a spokesman for Astra confirmed.Astra shares erased losses, trading 0.2% higher in London. Pfizer rose 0.5% in premarket trading in New York.Rolling reviews allow regulators to see clinical data in real time and have discussions with companies about ongoing trials and manufacturing processes so that approvals can be granted more quickly. The approach is designed to speed up access to drugs and vaccines when there is a public health need.The move supports the U.K.’s plans to potentially move ahead of the European Union on clearing a vaccine. While the U.K. is still subject to the approval process of the European Medicines Agency until the end of the Brexit transition process this year, the government has said that if there was a compelling case to move more quickly than the EMA, it would look at granting a temporary authorization for an unlicensed vaccine.Pfizer declined to comment. A spokeswoman for the MHRA said the agency couldn’t comment on rolling reviews due to commercial confidentiality.Pfizer and Astra are among a vanguard of vaccine developers that could have shots cleared for use this year. The U.S. company, which is co-developing its vaccine with Germany’s BioNTech SE, expects to release initial late-stage trial data next month and may apply for an emergency-use authorization in the U.S. shortly after.Pfizer said this week that it hadn’t yet reached a key milestone that will help researchers know how effective the shot is. Astra and Oxford are also targeting publication of advanced-stage trial data this year.Moderna Inc., another frontrunner in the vaccine race, also said this week it had started an expedited review of its shot in the U.K. Rolling reviews of the Pfizer and Astra jabs in Europe were announced by the EMA earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-accelerates-reviews-of-pfizer-and-astra-oxford-covid-19-vaccines/story-0YkJ0f7YCltFgHmWyPZhIK.html
30-10-2020||World||Second study testing a Covid-19 antibody drug has a setback||For the second time, a study testing an experimental antibody drug for Covid-19 has been paused to investigate a possible safety issue in hospitalized patients.Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. said Friday that independent monitors had recommended placing on hold enrollment of the most severely ill patients -- those who need intense oxygen treatment or breathing machines -- because of a potential safety problem and unfavorable balance of risks and benefits.The study can continue to test the two-antibody drug combo in hospitalized patients who need little or no extra oxygen, the monitors said. Other studies in mild or moderately ill people also are continuing.Antibodies are proteins the body makes when an infection occurs; they attach to a virus and help it be eliminated. But it can take several weeks for the most effective ones to form. The experimental drugs aim to help immediately, by supplying concentrated versions of one or two antibodies that worked best against the coronavirus in lab and animal tests.Earlier this month, a different group of monitors recommended pausing enrollment in a US National Institutes of Health study testing an Eli Lilly antibody drug to investigate a possible safety issue in hospitalized patients. On Monday, the NIH said no safety problem had been verified, but they stopped the study because the drug didn’t seem to work in that situation.“These kinds of results are informing us about the timing of the benefit,” said Dr. Myron Cohen, a University of North Carolina virologist who advises the government on Covid-19 treatments.Tests in animals suggest that antibody drugs work best when given early in infection to lower the amount of virus, he said. Once someone is very sick, the drugs may not help, but it’s too soon to know if that’s the case, he said.Doctors already know that timing can matter when it comes to Covid-19 treatments. Studies suggest that dexamethasone and other steroids can lower the risk of death when given to very sick patients to tamp down an over-active immune system, but they may be harmful for those who are only mildly ill.Lilly and Regeneron have asked the Food and Drug Administration to allow emergency use of their experimental antibody drugs for mild and moderately ill patients who don’t need hospitalization.Regeneron said it would share Friday’s advice from independent monitors with the FDA and leaders of a separate study in the United Kingdom testing its drug in hospitalized patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/second-study-testing-a-covid-19-antibody-drug-has-a-setback/story-FSB9xANH3WFxzepGKjs1jP.html
30-10-2020||World||US may need France-like lockdown to beat Covid-19||The coronavirus pandemic isn’t finished with us yet. A spike in infections in recent weeks has sent new cases to records in a number of places around the world including the US, which already weathered two waves of outbreaks this year, and the weather is only starting to turn cold.Europeans have started taking draconian action again, despite the potential to drag their economies. France has introduced a new lockdown which is only slightly less harsh than the one it imposed in the spring. Germany has opted for lockdown-lite. So what is the US going to do?Hospitalizations, which had been on the decline, are now rising again, with some health systems feeling the strain. In Wisconsin, a field hospital was opened on the state’s fairgrounds to accommodate patients, while capacity in El Paso, Texas, is so overtaxed that a county judge imposed stay-at-home orders. Elsewhere, though, and as a whole, hospitalizations are nowhere near where they were during the previous big outbreaks. As a result, there is a risk that the administration, governors and the public misinterpret the severity of this latest wave or downplay the danger beyond a few hotspots. This would be a mistake, and a good look at the data shows why. During the first wave – which was centered around the New York area from March 3 to June 11 – case counts led hospitalizations by about a week. That gap stretched to about two weeks during the second “Sun Belt” wave from June 11 to September 14, and has now grown to an even longer three weeks in the current third wave. It also appears that the ratio of people in the hospital to the number of positive cases has fallen dramatically in the second and third wave. Here is where the risk of complacency rises.There are several ways to explain this evolution. First, it is very likely that the number of infections in the first wave were significantly undercounted. This was not only driven by the lack of access to routine tests and facilities at first, but also, many never got checked out to begin with.Second, the latest wave is driven by younger individuals. While there is risk of severe Covid-19 and “long Covid” in this group, they have a much lower rate of hospitalizations. But they can certainly still spread the disease. Given the incubation period for the virus and the fact that many younger people are likely to be asymptomatic, we would expect many of them to pass on the infection to older members of their families without realizing it. In time, as more elderly people become sick, you’d expect to see an increase in hospitalizations.Another key difference from prior waves is our increased knowledge of Covid-19 and how to treat it. This has made us more stringent in deciding who gets hospitalized. During the first wave, clinicians had no idea what they were dealing with and outpatient settings didn’t know how to handle patients with moderate to severe illness. So the hospitalization rate was much higher. This time around, people who are being hospitalized are likely to have much more severe cases of the disease, which means a bigger strain on Intensive Care Units(ICU). The good news is that mortality rates are likely to be lower this time around as we already have better treatments and clinical management has evolved significantly. But hospitals may still be just as burdened, raising the prospect of delays in elective procedures and other care.This latest Covid-19 wave isn’t taking the same course as the prior ones, but it looks likely to end up with the same result or worse: an acute health crisis in hospitals. How can the US avoid this? Proper mitigation tactics – masking, social distancing, hand-washing should be standard operating procedure. But it may take more than that.In the coming winter months, people will tend to gather more indoors, where the virus has a very a good chance of being transmitted, while their immune systems will become less capable of fighting invading pathogens. A vaccine won’t be ready for broad deployment until well into 2021, assuming current clinical trials of experimental vaccine technologies work. States and local governments will likely need to put curbs on people mixing. Given the experience in Europe, lockdowns, or something very close to that, may be the only option.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-may-need-france-like-lockdown-to-beat-covid-19/story-ehSJXjZwxdaCgDInjsBikM.html
30-10-2020||World||Brexit sparks a battle over Chinese bikes as UK ends EU levies||British bike manufacturers are warning they face competition from a wave of cheap Chinese imports after Brexit as the UK abandons European Union(EU) anti-dumping rules.Brompton Bicycle Ltd. and Frog Bikes Ltd. are among firms saying they risk being undercut when the Brexit transition period ends on December 31 and tariffs of up to 48.5 per cent levied by the EU on bikes imported from China stops applying. The EU introduced the levy because large state subsidies were giving the country’s producers an unfair advantage.“We’ve got coronavirus, we’ve got Brexit, we need as a nation to be supporting industries that have potential to grow,” said William Butler-Adams, managing director of Brompton, the maker of the eponymous folding bike favored by London commuters. “There’s this fantastic opportunity in cycling. You would have thought the government would support it and nurture that industry.”The plight of the bike makers is a sign of the upheaval industries will face as the UK government defines its own trade policy outside the EU. While opening the economy to more imports may benefit consumers, domestic producers risk being caught in a pincer between greater competition from overseas and less access to the EU market.“We have been consulting with British bicycle producers and recognize the challenges that the industry faces,” the Department for International Trade said in a statement. “However, British consumers will bear the brunt of higher prices if anti-dumping measures were retained or carried across from the EU.”Rule ReviewThe UK is assessing each of the EU’s anti-dumping rules on a case-by-case basis. If British producers account for no more than 1 per cent of the domestic market, the government will drop the anti-dumping tariff.Frog Bikes, which specializes in making bikes for children and employs about 80 people, said it submitted evidence to the government in July showing that domestic producers make up more than 3 per cent of the UK market, according to Shelley Lawson, the company’s co-founder.She said her company’s recent efforts to contact the Trade Remedies Authority, the government agency responsible, have gone without reply, meaning she doesn’t know the basis for the decision or how it could be appealed.A Department for International Trade spokeswoman couldn’t immediately comment on the ruling.“It’s a substantial threat to us,” said Lawson, whose firm generates about 10 million pounds ($13 million) in sales annually. “It’s not good for the cycling consumer at all,” she said.Frog Bikes, which generates 50 per cent of its sales in the EU, said it fears being hit both by cheaper imports from China and potential tariffs on trade with the EU. Even with a trade deal, their customers in the bloc will find it harder to source their bikes because of extra customs formalities, Lawson said.“The UK market is going to become even more important to us,” she said. “We’re doubly concerned we’re going to be much less competitive within our home market as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brexit-sparks-a-battle-over-chinese-bikes-as-uk-ends-eu-levies/story-q5fLxeaDZvgSTwI8kH6CEP.html
30-10-2020||World||4 dead, 120 injured in Turkey after major earthquake||Four people died and 120 people were injured in an earthquake that struck the Aegean coast of Turkey, the country’s disaster management authority said on Friday.One of those who was killed had drowned, the authority said.The strong earthquake was felt in both Greece and Turkey. A strong earthquake struck the Aegean Sea on Friday and was felt in both Greece and Turkey, where some buildings collapsed in the coastal province of Izmir and a government minister said people were trapped in rubble. People crowded onto the streets in Izmir city, witnesses said, after the quake struck with a magnitude of up to 7.0. The tremor could be felt as far away as in Istanbul and on Greek islands, where officials said some people were panicking although there were no immediate reports of injuries.There were various reports of damage to property, with Turkish Interior Minister Suleyman Soylu saying six buildings had collapsed in two districts of the coastal city of Izmir.Urbanisation Minister Murat Kurum put the number of collapsed buildings in the area at five, and added that some people were stuck under the rubble. Izmir mayor Tunc Soyer said nearly 20 buildings had collapsed in the province.In a tweet, Soylu said there were no reports of casualties from six other provinces where the earthquake was felt but added there were small cracks in some buildings.Ilke Cide, a doctoral student who was in Izmir’s Guzelbahce region during the earthquake, said he went inland after waters rose after the earthquake.“I am very used to earthquakes... so I didn’t take it very seriously at first but this time it was really scary,” he said, adding the earthquake had lasted for at least 25-30 seconds.Also read | 6.6 magnitude earthquake in Aegean Sea shakes Turkey, GreeceCrisscrossed by major fault lines, Turkey is among the most earthquake-prone countries in the world. More than 17,000 people were killed in August 1999 when a 7.6 magnitude quake struck Izmit, a city southeast of Istanbul. In 2011, a quake in the eastern city of Van killed more than 500.Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency (AFAD) said its teams had been sent to the region of Friday’s quake.Residents of the Greek island of Samos, which has a population of about 45,000, were urged to stay away from coastal areas, Eftyhmios Lekkas, head of Greece’s organisation for anti-seismic planning, told Greece’s Skai TV.“It was a very big earthquake, it’s difficult to have a bigger one,” said Lekkas.High tidal wave warnings were in place in Samos.“We have never experienced anything like it,” said George Dionysiou, the local vice-mayor. “People are panicking.” A Greek police spokesman said there was damage to some old buildings on the island, with no immediate reports of injuries. AFAD put the magnitude of the earthquake at 6.6, while the U.S. Geological Survey said it was 7.0. It struck at around 1150 GMT and was felt along Turkey’s Aegean coast and the northwestern Marmara region, media said.The epicentre was some 17 km (11 miles) off the coast of the Izmir province, at a depth of 16 km, AFAD said. The U.S. Geological Survey said the depth was 10 km and that the epicentre was 33.5 km off Turkey’s coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/death-toll-several-injured-in-turkey-after-major-earthquake/story-IQBssDINCpGrR1y7DjTUOO.html
30-10-2020||World||What is WHO’s Vaccine Insurance Scheme? All you need to know||The World Health Organisation is setting up a fund which will compensate people in poor nations in case they suffer any side-effect from Covid-19 vaccines, which are still under trial. Does this mean that such a possibility can’t be ruled out? Here is everything you need to know in this regard.1. It is unlikely that a vaccine which will be approved for use might lead to some serious side-effects. But in the past, similar things happened which slowed down inoculations against Swine flu.2. In dozens of low-income countries, H1N1 inoculations were slowed down as there was no clear liability, Reuters reported.3. Also, this will help in alleviate fear among people about the vaccine which, if developed by December, will make a record of being developed in just a year.4. This fund will be in tune with COVAX vaccine facility, which has been set up by the World Health Organisation and GAVI, a global vaccine allowance. COVAX will facilitate distribution of at least 2 billion effective shots among the member nations.5. The insurance scheme will be applicable for 92 low-income countries, mostly in Africa and South-East Asia.6. If anything goes wrong after the administration of a vaccine, the government of those countries under the scheme will not have to face any cost. But the vaccine has to be distributed by COVAX.7. The criteria to avail of this scheme has not been made clear as several middle-income countries such as South Africa, Lebanon, Iran will not be offered this scheme, Reuters reported.8. If something happens to an individual after a vaccine shot has been administered, COVAX will pay compensation to the victim.9. This will discourage the victim for approaching the court as that could stall the entire inoculation programme.10. COVAX said vaccine makers were reluctant to provide vaccines for distribution in countries that did not offer them a liability shield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-who-s-vaccine-insurance-scheme-all-you-need-to-know/story-plvL41Mp5pZOEJg9eSMgFJ.html
30-10-2020||World||Tens of thousands protest in Bangladesh over French cartoons||Tens of thousands of Muslims marched in Bangladesh’s capital on Friday to protest the French president’s support of secular laws allowing caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad, burning effigies of him and calling for a boycott of French products.Protests were also reported across the country after Friday’s weekly Muslim prayers.In Dhaka, tens of thousands of people from more than a dozen Islamist parties and groups poured into the streets near the Baitul Mokarram national mosque demanding that Bangladesh sever relations with France. Some carried banners reading “Say no to Islamphobia” and “Boycott French products.”Barbed-wire fences were installed near the mosque as hundreds of police in riot gear cordoned off the processions.The protesters carried effigies of President Emmanuel Macron and then burned them.“I ask the government to remove the French Embassy from this country immediately. Otherwise, in the face of the movement, no one favoring France will be able to stay in power,” Abu Taher Jihadi al Kashemi, a leader of the marches, told the protesters.France is an important aid provider and trading partner for Bangladesh.Protests began in the Muslim-majority country earlier this week, with pressure growing on Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to officially denounce France. Hasina, who has yet to officially comment, follows a policy of balanced diplomatic ties with Muslim and Western nations.The Islamist parties support the introduction of Islamic Shariah law in Bangladesh, which is governed by a legal system largely based on British common law.Muslim-majority countries across the world have been outraged by Macron’s refusal to condemn the publication or display of caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad. In Islam, any depiction of the prophet is prohibited. The issue has come to light again in recent days following the gruesome beheading near Paris of a French teacher who showed caricatures of the prophet in class. An 18-year-old Chechen refugee who carried out the attack was later shot dead by police.The teacher, Samuel Paty, has been heralded as a symbol of France’s staunch secular ideals and its rejection of religious intrusion in public spheres. Macron and members of his government have vowed to continue supporting such caricatures as protected under freedom of expression.A series of attacks that French authorities have attributed to Muslim extremism has followed. On Thursday, a knife-wielding Tunisian man carrying a copy of the Quran killed three people at a church in the Mediterranean city of Nice.Muslim politicians and religious scholars have condemned such caricatures as a form of hate speech and view them as sacrilegious and insulting to Islam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tens-of-thousands-protest-in-bangladesh-over-french-cartoons/story-4OCNf05HPpjQXZgNE3WiAN.html
30-10-2020||World||Over 3 million cases of coronavirus reported in Mideast||The number of reported coronavirus cases has gone over 3 million in the Middle East, an Associated Press count showed Friday, with the true number likely even higher.Across the Mideast, there have been over 75,000 deaths attributed to the virus by health authorities, the AP count relying on reported figures by individual countries shows.There have been 2.5 million recoveries from the virus causing the Covid-19 illness.In the Mideast, the hardest-hit nation remains Iran, which served as the initial epicenter of the virus in the region. In Iran alone, authorities say there have been over 600,000 confirmed coronavirus cases, with some 477,000 recoveries and 34,000 deaths. Yet even those numbers are believed to be low, Iranian officials say.In some war-torn nations, it remains difficult to know the scope of the pandemic as well. In Yemen for instance, it’s believed that the vast majority of the country’s cases have gone undiagnosed and untreated, and health workers have said only those who are near death are usually brought to hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-3-million-cases-of-coronavirus-reported-in-mideast/story-znYfw2ejeER5rwGwP2fmCJ.html
30-10-2020||World||Scientists find Madagascar chameleon last seen 100 years ago||Talk about good camouflage! Scientists say they have found an elusive chameleon species that was last spotted in Madagascar 100 years ago. Researchers from Madagascar and Germany said Friday that they discovered several living specimens of Voeltzkow’s chameleon during an expedition to the northwest of the African island nation.In a report published in the journal Salamandra, the team led by scientists from the Bavarian Natural History Collections ZSM said genetic analysis determined that the species is closely related to Labord’s chameleon.Researchers believe that both reptiles only live during the rainy season — hatching from eggs, growing rapidly, sparring with rivals, mating and then dying during a few short months.“These animals are basically the mayflies among vertebrae,” said Frank Glaw, curator for reptiles and amphibians at the ZSM.Researchers said the female of the species, which had never previously been documented, displayed particularly colorful patterns during pregnancy, when encountering males and when stressed.The scientist say that Voeltzkow’s chameleon’s habitat is under threat from deforestation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-find-madagascar-chameleon-last-seen-100-years-ago/story-ocxzvrJ3DJM50lQISjFE9N.html
30-10-2020||World||Strong Aegean Sea earthquake topples buildings in Turkey||A strong earthquake in the Aegean Sea has shaken Turkey and Greece. Several buildings were wrecked in Turkey’s western Izmir province, according to officials, but there was no immediate information on casualties.Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency said Friday’s earthquake was centered in the Aegean at a depth of 16,5 kilometers (10.3 miles) and registered at a 6.6 magnitude. The emergency authority said it sent search and rescue teams to Izmir.The European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre said the quake had a preliminary magnitude of 6.9, with an epicenter 13 kilometers (8 miles) north northeast of the Greek island of Samos.The United States Geological Survey put the magnitude at 7.0.Turkish media showed wreckage of a multiple-story building in central Izmir, with people climbing it to start rescue efforts. Turkish media showed at least one woman being helped from the rubble of a collapsed building. Smoke was filmed in several spots in central Izmir.Izmir mayor Tunc Soyer told CNN Turk that about 20 buildings collapsed. The city is the third biggest in Turkey with about 4,5 million residents. Turkey’s interior minister tweeted six buildings in Izmir were destroyed. He said there were small cracks in some buildings in six other provinces.Izmir’s governor said there was no immediate information on casualties.Turkish media said the earthquake was felt across the regions of Aegean and Marmara, including Istanbul. Istanbul’s governor said there were no reports of damage in the city.The quake was felt across the eastern Greek islands and even in the Greek capital Athens. Greek media said the residents of Samos and other islands fled their homes, while some rockfalls were reported. There were no immediate reports of injuries.Turkey and Greece reported aftershocks. The quake was also felt in Bulgaria.Greek seismologist Efthymios Lekkas told Greek state television ERT that it was still too early to say whether this was the main earthquake, although he said it was likely it was.“It is an event that is evolving,” Lekkas said, adding that some damage had been reported in parts of Samos.A tsunami warning was issued, with residents of the Samos area told to stay away from the coastline. Water rose above the dock in the main harbor of Samos and flooded the street.The regional governor of the Samos region, Yiannis Stamoulis, said no injuries had been reported on the island. Residents have also been told to stay away from buildings, as aftershocks continued to rattle the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-aegean-sea-earthquake-topples-buildings-in-turkey/story-NFWrCGdw2RwiRZKHQAbTwO.html
30-10-2020||World||6.6 magnitude earthquake in Aegean Sea shakes Turkey, Greece||A strong earthquake in the Aegean Sea has shaken Turkey and Greece.Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency said Friday’s earthquake was centered in the Aegean at a depth of 16,5 kilometers (10.3 miles) and registered at a 6.6 magnitude.The European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre said the quake had a preliminary magnitude of 6.9, with an epicenter 13 kilometers north northeast of the Greek island of Samos.The United States Geological Survey put the magnitude was 7.0.Turkish broadcasters showed a wrecked building is western Izmir province. The governor said there was no immediate information on casualties and damage.Turkish media said the earthquake was felt across the regions of Aegean and Marmara, where Istanbul is located. Istanbul’s governor said there were no reports of damage.The quake was felt across the eastern Greek islands and even in the Greek capita,l Athens. Greek media said the residents of Samos and other islands fled their homes, while some rockfalls were reported. There were no immediate reports of injuries.Both countries reported aftershocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/6-6-magnitude-earthquake-in-aegean-sea-shakes-turkey-greece/story-lJWBk0cFyUtvVXgwN1FTdJ.html
30-10-2020||World||France on alert as official warns of more militant attacks after Nice church killings||France’s interior minister said on Thursday more militant attacks on its soil were likely as the country was engaged in a war against Islamist ideology following the second deadly knife attack in its cities in two weeks.Minister Gerald Damarnin was speaking a day after an assailant shouting “Allahu Akbar” (God is Greatest) beheaded a woman and killed two other people in a church in Nice. The man was shot by police and is now in critical condition in a hospital.“We are in a war against an enemy that is both inside and outside,” Damarnin told RTL radio. “We need to understand that there have been and there will be other events such as these terrible attacks.” Thursday’s attack, on the birthday of the Prophet Mohammad, took place at a time of growing Muslim anger across the globe at France’s defence of the right to publish cartoons depicting the prophet. Protesters have denounced France in street rallies in several Muslim-majority countries. Tens of thousands of Muslims protested in Bangladesh on Friday, chanting slogans such as “Boycott French products” and carrying banners calling French President Emmanuel Macron “the world’s biggest terrorist” as they marched in the streets of the capital Dhaka.Macron has deployed thousands of soldiers to protect important sites such as places of worship and schools, and the country’s security alert is at its highest level.France’s chief anti-terrorism prosecutor said the man suspected of carrying out the Nice attack was a Tunisian born in 1999. Who had arrived in Europe on Sept. 20 in Lampedusa, the Italian island off Tunisia that is a main landing point for migrants from Africa.A Tunisian security source and a French police source named the suspect as Brahim Aouissaoui.A judicial source said on Friday that a 47-year-old man had been taken into custody on Thursday evening on suspicion of having been in contact with the perpetrator of the attack. The Nice attack occurred just under two weeks after Samuel Paty, a school teacher in a Paris suburb, was beheaded by an 18-year-old Chechen who was apparently incensed by the teacher showing a cartoon of Prophet Mohammad in class.Speaking outside the church in Nice on Thursday, Macron said France had been attacked “over our values, for our taste for freedom, for the ability on our soil to have freedom of belief, and I say it with great clarity again today: We will not give any ground.” Prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard said the suspected attacker had entered the city by train early on Thursday morning and made his way to the church, where he stabbed and killed the 55-year-old sexton and beheaded a 60-year-old woman.He also stabbed a 44-year-old woman, who fled to a nearby cafe where she raised the alarm before dying, Ricard said. Police then arrived and confronted the attacker, who was still shouting “Allahu Akbar”, and shot and wounded him. Tunisia said the man was not listed by police there as a suspected militant and authorities have begun their own investigation.France, with Europe’s largest Muslim community, has suffered a string of Islamist militant attacks in recent years, including bombings and shootings in 2015 in Paris that killed 130 people and a 2016 attack in Nice in which a militant drove a truck through a seafront crowd celebrating Bastille Day, killing 86.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-on-alert-as-official-warns-of-more-militant-attacks-after-nice-church-killings/story-mtkiKYjhJwNiKPADZqADUO.html
30-10-2020||World||Facebook using experience from polls in India to stop abuse ahead of US elections||Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has said steps taken by the social media giant have helped protect the integrity of more than 200 different elections around the world, including in India, and have also played an important role in stopping abuse ahead of US elections. Noting that next week will certainly be a “test” for Facebook, Zuckerberg said the company will continue “fighting to protect the integrity of the democratic process”. “These are all changes we’ve made in the last four years -- and they’ve helped us protect the integrity of more than 200 different elections around the world, including in the EU, India, and Indonesia. And they’ve been important for stopping abuse ahead of next week’s vote in the US,” Zuckerberg said during the company’s earnings call and outlined some of the steps that have been taken. He added that the company has focused on issues like voter suppression, and has worked closely with experts in the space, including civil rights leaders.Facebook’s security teams were looking for traditional threats like hacking four years ago, but what it ended up seeing was something new -- coordinated interference campaigns, using fake accounts to spread misinformation and discord. “Since then, we’ve built the most advanced systems in the world to find and remove these threats, and it shows in the numbers. In the years since, we’ve taken down more than 100 networks, including from Russia, Iran, and China – and we block millions of potentially abusive accounts every day,” Zuckerberg said. Zuckerberg explained that the company has taken steps to make ads transparent and anyone who wants to run a political or social issue ad has to go through its authorisation process first. Between March and September, the company reportedly rejected ads 2.2 million times before they could run for trying to target the US without authorisation. For political and social issue ads, Facebook allows users to see who paid for the ad and what audience the ad reached, to make political advertising on the platform more transparent. “Our policies prohibit misrepresentations of when and how to vote and content meant to intimidate people into not showing up to polling places, like claiming ICE will be there. And we recently expanded these policies to include implicit misrepresentations, like for example, claims that you’ll get Covid by voting in person,” he said. From March through mid-October, Facebook removed more than 1,35,000 pieces of content in the US for breaking these rules, he added. “Election integrity is and will be an ongoing challenge.I also know that our work doesn’t stop after November 3. So, we will keep anticipating new threats evolving our approach, and fighting to protect the integrity of the democratic process and the right of people to make their voices heard around the world,” Zuckerberg remarked.Facebook saw its total revenue grow 22 per cent to USD 21.4 billion in the September quarter, while its net income was at USD 7.8 billion.Its daily active users (DAUs) base stood at 1.82 billion on average, while monthly active users (MAUs) base was at 2.74 billion as of September 30, 2020.Zuckerberg also talked about interoperability between Facebook’s family of apps (WhatsApp and Instagram) that allows users to send messages between the apps.“We started rolling out interoperability between Messenger and Instagram Messaging, and that’s live in a lot of countries around the world now, including in the US.The big benefit, the way that I think about this is that in a lot of countries around the world, there is a primary messaging app that most people use,” he said. He added that the messaging experience in the US is very fragmented compared to what one would experience in India, China, Brazil, or countries in Europe. “So, our goal is to make it so that people could just choose one of our apps that they prefer using the most for messaging and can reach all the people who they want to reach across all of our different apps from whichever of the apps is their favourite. And of course, they can continue using multiple if they want,” he said. Facebook has over 300 million users in India, while its group company, WhatsApp has more than 400 million users in the country. Earlier this year, Facebook had inked a deal to buy 9.99 per cent stake in Mukesh Ambani-led Jio Platforms for Rs 43,574 crore. The companies are also leveraging WhatsApp for delivering goods from local neighbourhood Kirana stores through JioMart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-using-experience-from-polls-in-india-to-stop-abuse-ahead-of-us-elections/story-Uyr4dA2MuulccuzJO9dYSI.html
30-10-2020||World||Anti-France sentiments rise in Muslim world, thousands protest French cartoons||Thousands of Muslims in Pakistan poured out of prayer services to join anti-France protests on Friday, as the French president’s vow to protect the right to caricature the Prophet Muhammad continues to roil the Muslim world.An estimated 2,000 worshippers celebrating the Mawlid, the birthday of the Prophet Muhammad, took to the streets in the eastern city of Lahore. Crowds led by Islamic parties chanted anti-France slogans, raised banners and clogged major roads en route to a Sufi shrine. Dozens of people furiously stomped on French flags and cried for the boycott of French products. In Multan, a city in Pakistan’s eastern Punjab province, thousands burned an effigy of French President Emmanuel Macron and demanded that Pakistan sever ties with France.More gatherings were planned for later Friday in Pakistan, including the capital, Islamabad, where police were out in force to prevent possible demonstrations outside the French Embassy. The atmosphere was tense as police positioned shipping containers to block the roads.Other protests, largely organized by Islamists, are expected across the region, including in Lebanon and the Gaza Strip.Also Read | Kremlin, after French attacks, says wrong to kill but wrong to insult religion tooIn Afghanistan, members of the Islamist party Hezb-i-Islami set the French flag ablaze. Its leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, warned Macron that if he doesn’t “control the situation, we are going to a third world war and Europe will be responsible.”The protests come amid rising tensions between France and Muslim-majority nations, which flared up earlier this month when a young Muslim beheaded a French schoolteacher who had shown caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad in class.Those images, republished by the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo to mark the opening of the trial for the deadly 2015 attack against the publication, have stirred the ire of Muslims across the world who consider depictions of the prophet blasphemous.A series of attacks that French authorities have attributed to Muslim extremism ensued. On Thursday, a knife-wielding Tunisian man carrying a copy of the Quran killed three people at a church in the Mediterranean city of Nice. That same day, a Saudi man stabbed and lightly wounded a security guard at the French consulate in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, prompting France to urge its citizens there to be on “high alert.”Also Read | France raises its alert level to maximum after Nice attackOver the past week, protests and calls to boycott French products have spread rapidly from Bangladesh to Pakistan to Kuwait. Social media has been pulsing with anti-France hashtags. Muslim leaders, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in particular, have loudly criticized France for what they see as the government’s provocative and anti-Muslim stance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anti-france-sentiments-rise-in-muslim-world-thousands-protest-french-cartoons/story-fDbP0y2sraL3EJ9h2iY2JI.html
30-10-2020||World||Sheep diplomacy amid pandemic: Mongolia sends China sheep via land bubble||It is not quite the secure air bubble arrangements that governments worldwide are struggling to put in place for safe international travel in a pandemic, but China and Mongolia have implemented something similar over land – for 30000 sheep.Herds of 4000 of the promised 30000 sheep – from Mongolia to China – arrived in a northern China town earlier this month after being tested, quarantined, and travelling over a designated land route in disinfected trucks.In late February, Mongolian President Khaltmaa Battulga became the second foreign leader to visit China – after Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen – and promised to donate 30000 sheep as a mark of support and solidarity to Beijing’s fight against Covid-19 outbreak, which was raging in China then.The gift of the lamb is considered to be a sign of deep friendship in Mongolia.As promised, and despite a delay, over a dozen trucks loaded with 4000 sheep from Mongolia arrived in the China-Mongolia border city of Erenhot, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (IMAR) a week ago.The sheep, as per the arrangement between Mongolia’s food and agriculture ministry and China’s ministry of commerce, had to be first tested thoroughly in Mongolia and kept quarantined from other herds.The process in Mongolia started on September 18.“After the live sheep were quarantined in the immunization zone for 30 days, the Chinese pre-inspection veterinarian and technicians carried out inspection and quarantine on the live sheep,” the People’s Daily online said in a report.Subsequently, the massive trucks in which the animals would be transported had to be disinfected and separated as well.So, were the drivers and staff deployed to accompany the sheep – tested for Covid-19 and quarantined.A handover ceremony for the first batch was held simultaneously in Zamyn-Uud in Mongolia and Erenhot in China on October 22.Then the remaining half of the secure bubble for the sheep kicked in.“The sheep entered the country at Erenhot Port in North China’s IMAR where they will undergo quarantine and inspection and will be slaughtered and stored within 14 days before they are transferred to Hubei province (in central China where the Covid-19 pandemic was first reported),” the state-run China Daily said in a report.“Once they arrive at the isolation point, the immigration policemen in protective clothing have unloaded the sheep and inspected the vehicle body again to complete the closed loop,” the PD report said.The rest of the sheep are expected to arrive in China by the middle of November as part of – how Chinese state media described it -- reflecting “…the deep friendship of the Mongolian people towards the Chinese people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sheep-diplomacy-amid-pandemic-mongolia-sends-sheep-via-land-bubble/story-jBDGx6XN2F5qtLA4HPMe2H.html
30-10-2020||World||Xi Jinping rolls out vision for China in 2035, sparks buzz about his future role||The four-day plenary of the Chinese Communist Party signed off on President Xi Jinping’s plan to put innovation at the heart of China’s modernisation drive to develop the country into a powerhouse riding on the strength of domestic spending and tech self-reliance. But it was the party’s unusual decision to outline its vision for 2035 that has renewed buzz around President Xi’s plans for himself.President Xi has never spoken about his plans but dropped enough hints over the last few years that he does not intend to walk away after completing his two terms that end in 2022. One of them was the decision to scrap a constitutional bar introduced by Deng Xiaoping in 1982 that prevented China’s president from serving more than two terms. That move had sparked off speculation that 67-year-old Xi Jinping could end up becoming China’s President-for-life.The 67-year-old Chinese President has already emerged as the communist party’s most powerful leader after its founder Mao Zedong, holding the posts of party General Secretary, head of the military besides the Presidency.Also Read: China draws up a peace plan on Ladakh. India sees right through itIn October 2017, Xi was only the second Chinese leader after Mao to have had an eponymous ideology included in the party’s charter while in office. President Xi firmly established his stamp of authority at that party plenary when he got the party leadership to end the system of collective leadership, a safeguard introduced by Deng Xiaoping to protect Chinese people from an autocratic regime similar to Mao Zedong’s years in power.This year, he had the Xi Jinping Research Center for Diplomatic Thought opened that elevated his philosophy on par with Mao.Also Read: With Xi Jinping Centre On Diplomatic Thought, Chinese President is the new MaoThe 2017 plenary meeting that surrendered the leadership’s powers to Xi Jinping had been preceded by another purge of rivals in the party and the army, mostly by filing corruption cases against them. According to one analysis, commander-in-chief had purged 73 general-rank officers by 2016 and elevated officers loyal to him.The CCP’s closed-door plenum consisting of about 204 full central committee members and 172 alternate members is held annually to review the policies of the party and the government. Previous plenums – the party’s name for these key meetings – have been used to signal personal moves, indicating leadership succession plans. But, there were none in the 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) in its fifth plenary session’s document, which included a longer-term focus to 2035 by which time Xi would be 82, the same age as Mao Zedong when he died in 1976.China watchers link Beijing’s aggressive moves in the South China Sea, Hong Kong, Taiwan and at the Indian borders to Xi Jinping’s superpower ambitions vis-a-vis the United States that come across in his signature projects such as the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), upgrading Chinese cities into smart cities through 5G and artificial intelligence, and pulling more countries into the ambit of the Chinese financial system.Also Read: Prez Xi Jinping pushes limits, not just with neighbours but at home too | AnalysisThe success of this strategy was on display this week when the United States secretary of state Mike Pompeo attempted to turn Sri Lanka into a partner in its alliance against the Chinese. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa is reported to have told the US team about the island’s reluctance to take sides, particularly in light of the billions of dollars that Beijing had poured into the island for years.China watchers said the distinct possibility that President Xi Jinping could remain in power would be a key factor that countries would take into account when dealing with Beijing. “This is not a democracy where there is a possibility that the leadership can change after a certain period,” one of them said.Like in the US where Donald Trump faces a challenge from Joe Biden, who is expected to be less unpredictable if he reaches the White House. Most observers believe that Biden was unlikely to be as shrill as Trump on China but it is going to be difficult for any US president to adopt a very different approach given President Xi’s ambitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/xi-jinping-rolls-out-vision-for-china-in-2035-sparks-buzz-about-his-future-role/story-UyHA2M7JkTUQxEaeBUwt7N.html
30-10-2020||World||China preaches the material over the spiritual in Tibet||Dzekyid, a 54-year-old barley farmer, presents himself as a role model for his neighbours and for the success of China’s efforts to tie economic development to social control in Tibet.Dzekyid’s well-built house in Jangdam village has a hall filled with Buddhist scriptures and Thangka paintings, and a row of prayer wheels for his religious 76-year-old father, Tenzin, to spin twice a day. As a member of China’s ruling Communist Party, Dzekyid is an atheist.“This house is possible because of good government policies. My heart is wholly with the party, not even one bit with religion,” said Dzekyid, whose family was showcased to a group of reporters on a government-organised tour of Tibet, an area where access to foreign journalists is normally barred.Government officials in both Beijing and Tibet vetted the reporters from media organisations who were invited to join the trip. On the closely supervised tour, there was little opportunity to interact with ordinary Tibetans without government officials in attendance.China is pushing to transform the mindsets and values of Tibetans to bring them into the country’s modern mainstream, which includes urging the region’s devout Buddhists to focus less on religion and more on material prosperity.“Tibet has some bad old habits, mainly due to the negative influence of religion that emphasises the afterlife and weakens the urge to pursue happiness in the current life,” said Che Dhala, chairman of the Tibet Autonomous Region.On the trip to Tibet, officials showcased poverty-relief programmes that include relocation of families to better homes, schooling, vocational training, and business development efforts such as a climate-controlled mushroom farm. The efforts are part of China’s push to eradicate rural poverty nationwide by the end of this year.Officials also described efforts to “manage the minds” of Tibetans, who for centuries lived in a deeply religious society with a belief in reincarnation and a devotion to their spiritual leader.The head of Caiqutang village, Dekyi Paldron, described how poor households who receive free new government housing “should not” set up a family room for worshipping Buddha, a common feature in traditional Tibetan houses, because they “shouldn’t be two-faced” after benefiting from the atheist Communist Party.“If space is taken up by the Buddha room, the boy and girl may have to squeeze into one bedroom - this is not ideal for the healthy development of either child,” another official told the visiting journalists.China seized Tibet after troops entered the region in 1950, in what Beijing calls a “peaceful liberation.” In 1959, spiritual leader the Dalai Lama fled China after a failed uprising, and the long-impoverished region has been one of the most politically sensitive and restricted parts of China.PRAY LESS, WORK MORERecipients of poverty relief are told to curb their spending on religion and to instead invest in increasing their earning power and in their children.At a vocational school in Nyingchi, a signboard stated that the school uses ideological and political education to fight against “separatism”, denounce the Dalai Lama and to prevent religion from making people “passive”.“Ten years ago, villagers competed among themselves to see who donates more to temples. Now they compete to see whose son or daughter has a stable government job, or who owns a car,” Karma Tenpa, deputy propaganda minister for the Tibet Autonomous Region, told Reuters.Pictures of the Dalai Lama, once commonly displayed in Tibetans’ houses, are banned, but framed posters of President Xi Jinping were visible inside all the homes the journalists were shown. Propaganda slogans urging allegiance to China and the Communist Party are conspicuous along roadsides and billboards in Tibet.Also Read | Trump administration’s new appointment to scrutinise China’s human rights violations in TibetCritics say China’s efforts linking poverty eradication to an embrace of a secular life and the Communist Party infringe on human rights.“The Chinese government’s efforts to force Tibetans to change their way of life to the one the government approves is a violation of their fundamental human rights, including their freedoms of thought and religion,” Maya Wang of Human Rights Watch told Reuters.A recent Reuters report based on official documents described how growing numbers of rural Tibetans were being pushed into recently built training centres, where they are trained to be factory workers in a programme that some critics have called coercive - a characterisation China rejects.“At first we have to go around explaining to the nomads and herders why they should go for skills training to earn higher wages. Now that they see the benefit of doing so, they come to us automatically,” Lin Bei, a poverty alleviation official, told Reuters.FAME OR SHAMEFamilies who practise good hygiene or have other desirable attributes receive credits for goods such as washing powder or towels, Lin said. The best are listed as “Five Star Families” on the village notice board.Those deemed to show undesirable behaviour are named and shamed.“If someone has been lazy, drunk alcohol, hung out at the teahouse or played games instead of taking care of his family, we will call him out at the village meeting,” said Lin, who is a member of China’s ethnic Han majority.Dzekyid, who like many Tibetans uses only one name, encourages his neighbours to support the party and its programmes. His house was built with a government grant of nearly $20,000.“Praying to the gods and Buddha can’t get me this,” he told Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-preaches-the-material-over-the-spiritual-in-tibet/story-nJMfgkRM8GfOQo7x8pNh8O.html
30-10-2020||World||Thanksgiving feast or famine? Turkey industry left to guess||For the turkey industry, this Thanksgiving is a guessing game.Millions of Americans are expected to have scaled-down celebrations amid the pandemic, heeding official warnings against travel and large indoor gatherings. That leaves anxious turkey farmers and grocers scrambling to predict what people will want on their holiday tables.Kroger — the nation’s largest grocery chain — said its research shows 43% of shoppers plan to celebrate Thanksgiving only with those in their immediate household. It has purchased more turkeys than usual — in all sizes — but it’s also predicting an increase in demand for alternatives, including ham, pork roast and seafood. Kroger also expects to see more demand for plant-based meats, like a vegan roast stuffed with mushrooms and squash.Walmart says it will still carry plenty of whole turkeys, but it will also have 30% more turkey breasts in its stores to accommodate shoppers who don’t want to cook a whole bird.It’s not always easy to pivot. Angela Wilson, the owner of Avedano’s Holly Park Market in San Francisco, ordered turkeys last year for this Thanksgiving. She can’t cancel the order, so they’re still coming in.But Wilson said this Thanksgiving might be busier than in the past, since customers who usually go out of town will be staying home. She’s also stocking up on smaller birds like quail and game hen.Some farmers are making tweaks based on what they think customers will be looking for. Dede Boies raises heritage breed turkeys at Root Down Farm in Pescadero, California. The turkeys she sells for Thanksgiving were born in May, so she has spent months thinking about how the coronavirus might impact the holidays.Boies decided to harvest some turkeys early this year. It’s a gamble, because the birds gain a lot of fat and flavor in their final few weeks, but she figures customers will want smaller birds. She’s also offering more chickens and ducks.“We’ve invested so much time and energy and love into these birds, and the whole point is that they go and they are celebrated with people for these great meals. We’re just really hoping that still happens,” Boies said.Butterball — which typically sells 30% of America’s 40 million Thanksgiving turkeys — said it’s expecting more gatherings, but it’s not convinced people will want smaller turkeys. Its research shows that 75% of consumers plan to serve the same size turkey or a larger turkey than they did last year.Butterball says about half its turkeys will be in the 10-16 lb. range and half will be in the 16-24 lb. range, the same as usual. Anyone looking for a specific size should plan to shop early, said Rebecca Welch, senior brand manager for seasonal at Butterball.“Don’t be afraid to go big,” she said. “It’s just as easy to cook a large turkey as it is a smaller one, and it means more leftovers.”Nancy Johnson Horn of Queens, New York, usually shares a big turkey with her in-laws, her parents and her own family of five. But Horn, who writes The Mama Maven blog, said that gathering won’t happen this year because her kids are attending school in-person and she is worried about spreading the virus.“As much as it hurts me, I will have to cook myself this year,” she said. She’s not sure what will be on the menu. She’s only cooked a whole turkey once in her life and she’s never made mashed potatoes.This Thanksgiving comes at an already tenuous time for the $4.3 billion U.S. turkey industry. Thanks to better technology for carving breast meat, per capita consumption of turkey nearly doubled over the 1980s, peaking at 14.4 pounds per person in 1996, according to Mark Jordan, executive director of LEAP Market Analytics in Jonesboro, Arkansas.But interest in turkey has been steadily falling, thanks in part to price increases five years ago when flocks were hit by bird flu. Annual consumption is now around 12 pounds, Jordan said.Turkey sales have even been falling at Thanksgiving as consumers explore alternatives, according to Nielsen data. Last November, Americans spent $643 million on turkey, down 3.5% from the previous year. They spent $1.9 billion on beef, which was up 4%. And they spent $12 million — or more than double the prior year — on alternatives like plant-based meat.Jordan thinks the uncertainty about Thanksgiving demand will hurt groceries hardest. If they discount turkeys, they can sell them but it will hurt profits. If they keep prices high and consumers pass, they’ll be stuck with a lot of turkeys.“I don’t see many ways that they win this holiday season,” Jordan said.The uncertainty may well see a repeat at Christmas — both in the U.S. and beyond.Christmas turkeys are a staple in Britain, where turkey farmers are also bracing for slimmed-down festivities after the government told people not to meet in groups of more than six.Richard Calcott raises 2,000 Christmas turkeys each year at Calcott Turkeys in Tamworth, England. He bought his turkey chicks — known as poults — in February and March, and it was too late to switch to a smaller breed when pandemic restrictions took hold.He has tweaked their diets to reduce the weight of each turkey by around 2.2 pounds by the time they’re ready for market. Still, Calcott said he continues to get some orders for larger birds.“It’s been a very difficult year for a lot of people this year,” he said. “Christmas will be a good time to get families back together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thanksgiving-feast-or-famine-turkey-industry-left-to-guess/story-d0sDW9Rk8EPKPlje0ZA3zI.html
30-10-2020||World||US Elections 2020: Did Trump manage to overhaul economic relationship with China?||President Donald Trump ran for office pledging to rewrite the US economic relationship with China, which he blamed for hollowing out America’s manufacturing base and impoverishing its workers. His four years in the White House have shown limited impact on the metrics he laid out.American companies cite much the same concerns -- and the same growth objectives -- with regard to China today as they did when Trump took office. The unprecedented trade war he launched, breaking Republican free-trade orthodoxy along the way, ended up costing American factory jobs, not creating them, economists say. The state support for Chinese enterprises that Trump pledged to confront remains intact.Trump’s term has, however, had a notable impact on American attitudes toward China. In time, that could prove the dynamic that affects economic ties in ways the current president has struggled to achieve. And it underscores that Washington’s China policy is forever changed, regardless of who wins the Nov 3 election.Also Read | What Joe Biden has said on major US flashpoints with ChinaThe following is a look at the metrics Trump laid out for overhauling the economic relationship with China, and how they’ve panned out during his administration.End the OutsourcingTrump pledged to reclaim millions of American jobs and revive American manufacturing, in a 2016 campaign document titled “Reforming the US-China Trade Relationship to Make America Great Again.”After years of escalating tensions spanning billions of dollars in tariffs and retaliatory duties, American companies are as committed as ever to their China operations, and few have plans to leave -- while virtually none aim to come back to US shores.A US-China Business Council member survey taken in May and June showed 87% of respondents had no plans to shift production out of China. Only 4% said they’re planning to move operations to the US, largely due to lagging consumer demand in China, while 11% said they’re shifting production to alternatives like Thailand and Mexico.As for factory jobs, gains there flatlined after Trump started imposing tariffs on China in 2018. While there was a small bump in employment for some companies thanks to the administration’s protectionist moves, that was “more than offset by larger drags from the effects of rising input costs and retaliatory tariffs,” a study by Federal Reserve staff showed.No More IP TheftOn the 2016 campaign trail, Trump proclaimed that under his presidency, “we will adopt a zero tolerance policy on intellectual property theft and forced technology transfer.”The reality on the ground shows little has changed. About the same share of American companies operating in China reported in 2020 that their businesses were hindered by IP infringements as before Trump took office, according to a survey by the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai taken in June and July.The US-China Business Council survey separately showed 13% of its members reported that they were asked to transfer technology in 2020, versus 5% in 2019. While China made commitments on this front in the Trump administration’s phase one trade deal in January, as well as in the adoption of a new foreign investment law, “it is unclear how this will reasonably be enforced,” the business group said.The US Trade Representative’s office defended the phase one agreement’s provisions and enforceability. USTR also said the agency regularly resolves complaints from US companies with its Chinese counterparts.Also Read | Where the United States takes on China | HT EditorialStop the SubsidizingA key element of Trump’s anti-China program was forcing Beijing to abandon its system of what he termed unfair help for its companies. From export subsidies to below-market lending rates, the playing field was uneven for businesses trying to compete with Chinese rivals, in Trump’s analysis.This wasn’t addressed in the phase one agreement. Officials have said it will be part of phase two, but it’s not clear if or when that will proceed. Meantime, Beijing has doubled down on supporting indigenous innovation, announcing a fund to back its semiconductor industry.The US-China Business Council survey earlier this year showed the vast majority of members continue to report that both state-owned and private enterprises in China are getting subsidies or other benefits from the government.USTR says getting China to change is a work in progress, and that negotiations will continue.“To say that China hasn’t stopped all of its non-market behavior is obvious, but it is also obvious that this President and this Administration have done more to successfully challenge that behaviour than any Administration ever has,” the office said in response to a request for comment. “The President is more than willing to act if China does not keep up its end of the deal.”Shrink the DeficitTrump the candidate called for “eliminating America’s chronic trade deficit,” in a 2016 campaign document that listed China, Canada, Germany, Japan and South Korea as the main culprits. Reducing the gap was described as Trump’s “primary goal.”Monthly deficits with China have averaged slightly bigger since Trump took office than during Barack Obama’s second term in the White House -- $30.3 billion compared with $28.7 billion. The gap widened considerably in the run-up to the application of tariffs, then narrowed in 2019 before climbing again during the Covid-19 crisis this year.Meantime, countries including Vietnam have seen their surpluses with the U.S. expand as some supply chains diverted away from China to avert the tariff hikes.Currency ManipulationTrump said he’d label China a currency manipulator on day one of his administration, and frequently accused the country of artificially setting its exchange rate to give its exporters an unfair advantage. His campaign cited estimates that the yuan was 15% to 40% undervalued.With Election Day 2020 looming, the yuan is practically the same level against the dollar it was when Trump won in 2016.In the end, it took the Trump administration until August 2019, at the height of the trade war, to declare China a manipulator. Currency analysts noted that Chinese authorities had actually restrained gains in the yuan earlier on in Trump’s term, and most viewed Beijing as stopping short of an active depreciation strategy during the trade war.Tech WarWhile not an initial focus for Trump, his administration over time made the containment of China’s swelling advanced-technology sector a key objective. It imposed export restrictions on American companies supplying mobile tech giants Huawei Technologies Co. and ZTE Corp., among others. It also moved to restrict Chinese-owned social-media platforms TikTok and WeChat in the US, though those measures have been put on hold thanks to court injunctions.Also Read | Trump blocks TikTok, WeChat operations in US from SundayMore than once, Trump has reversed himself, offering a reprieve to ZTE after what he said was a personal appeal from Chinese President Xi Jinping. Huawei meantime has been able to shield itself from some of Trump’s blows by stockpiling crucial chips.Changing SentimentThough it was never a declared objective, the Trump administration, populated with China hawks including US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Peter Navarro, has had unparalleled success with tarnishing China’s image in the US Trump has also for months been blaming China for the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.It might have taken a toll, with criticism of China even becoming a rare issue uniting Democrats and Republicans in Washington. The proportion of Americans viewing China unfavourably has soared almost 20 percentage points since Trump took office, according to the Pew Research Center. Some 73% of Americans had a negative evaluation of the country in a survey Pew published this month.“We’re all China hawks now,” Navarro regularly proclaims. And that may be the most durable change Trump achieved on China policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-2020-did-trump-manage-to-overhaul-economic-relationship-with-china/story-BWisTTW1kviDF7OTUXfyGK.html
30-10-2020||World||Church attack in Nice: What we know so far||A knife attacker killed three people, cutting the throat of at least one woman, inside a church in Nice on the French Riviera on Thursday.The brutal killings come only two weeks after a French teacher was decapitated outside his school north of Paris by an Islamist extremist -- the teacher had shown his pupils cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed during a lesson on freedom of speech.Here is what we know so far:What happened? At 8:29 am French time (0729 GMT) a man with a knife began attacking people praying inside the Basilica of Notre-Dame in the heart of the Mediterranean city.The attacker had a copy of the Koran and three knives with him, France’s anti-terror prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard told a news conference.In a near half-hour frenzy, the assailant used a 30 centimetre (12 inch) knife to cut the throat of a 60-year-old woman, who died inside the church.The body of a man, a 55-year-old church employee, was found nearby inside the basilica -- his throat had also been slit.Another woman, a 44-year-old who had fled the church to a nearby restaurant, died shortly afterwards from multiple knife wounds.The killer was shot and wounded by police who arrived quickly at the scene.Videos seen by AFP show he was hit at least six times.Even as he was being arrested the man continued to shout “Allahu Akbar” (God is greatest), before he was rushed to the city’s Pasteur hospital.Who is the suspect?The 21-year-old Tunisian suspect only arrived in France earlier this month after coming to Europe on a migrant boat via the Italian island of Lampedusa at the end of September, an official source told AFP.The suspected knifeman called himself “Brahim” when he was arrested and later claimed to be Brahim Aouissaoui, the source added. Who were the victims?The dead man was a 45-year-old father of two girls who served as the basilica’s sacristan, looking after the church, according to Canon Philippe Asso, its most senior cleric.The killer’s first victim was a 60-year-old woman, who he tried to behead, and the other woman who died was a mother in her 40s.“Tell my children I love them,” she managed to say before her death, according to French cable channel BFM TV.The Brazilian government later said she was a Brazilian citizen, though it did not confirm whether she also had French nationality.Is it a terror attack?The French authorities are treating it as a terror attack, with the anti-terrorist prosecutor immediately opening an inquiry into “murder and attempted murder linked to a terrorist enterprise”. President Emmanuel Macron called it an “Islamist terrorist attack”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/church-attack-in-nice-what-we-know-so-far/story-R68osiu3WecKwvQk3X37aO.html
30-10-2020||World||Eating out, grocery shopping more dangerous than air travel during Covid-19: Study||A person who eats at restaurants and steps out for shopping for grocery is at a greater risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than someone who travels in an airplane, according to a report by Harvard researchers.Also Read: India registers 48,648 new Covid-19 cases, slightly lower than ThursdayScientists at Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health published a study named ‘Aviation Public Health Initiative’ this week, in which they claimed that the rate of transmission of Covid-19 in passengers could drastically be reduced if they are encouraged to follow preventive measures.Guidelines to curb the spread of the virus mandate frequent washing of hands with soap, wearing masks at all times, ensuring constant ventilation and airflow in the aircraft and airport and regularly cleaning and sanitizing planes.If followed, the approach “reduces the risk of SARS-CoV-2 transmission onboard aircraft below that of other routine activities during the pandemic, such as grocery shopping or eating out,” the study said.Also Read: Fewer international flyers between Oct-Mar than projections of 10-15 mn: CAPAEducation and awareness also play a significant role in controlling the spread of coronavirus, the study added. “Airlines and airports are campaigning to inform the public about actions they can take to reduce disease transmission on their journey. This includes public health safety information while booking, at check-in, boarding, and on the aircraft. Cabin crew receive training to identify and isolate potentially infected individuals should a case appear on board an aircraft,” it said.This study has come as global coronavirus disease cases have gone over the 45 million mark. According to the website worldometer, as many as 1,187,029 deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported worldwide. In India, the death toll stands at 121,090 while the infection tally soared to 8,088,851 on Friday, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eating-out-grocery-shopping-more-dangerous-than-air-travel-during-covid-19-study/story-gWQRsMypywBht4P6aLWRfP.html
30-10-2020||World||China focuses on building its own core tech as US curbs supply||China said it needs to build its own core technology because it can’t rely on buying it from elsewhere, as the Communist Party laid out plans for greater economic self-sufficiency.Outlining details of its new five-year economic plan that elevates self-reliance in technology and innovation, senior party officials said Friday the nation would accelerate development of the kind of technology needed to spur the next stage of economic development. Key to that are bold measures to cut reliance on foreign know-how, although that doesn’t mean China will cut itself off from the world.Also Read: China condemns US media control, calls it ‘political oppression’“To achieve technological advancement, China increasingly needs the world, and the world increasingly needs China,” Wang Zhigang, science and technology minister, told a briefing in Beijing Friday. The nation planned to “improve our ability to make innovations independently and do our own things well because we cannot ask for or buy the core technologies from elsewhere.”At the same time, “we hope to learn from advanced international experience, and will share more Chinese technological outcomes with the world,” he said.Tech stocks were some of Friday’s best-performers. Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., the country’s largest chipmaker, surged as much as 8% in Hong Kong in its biggest intraday gain in about two weeks. On mainland bourses, Gigadevice Semiconductor Beijing Inc. climbed its 10% limit, becoming the biggest gainer on the CSI 300 index as of early afternoon.Decoupling ThreatBeijing’s drive for tech self-sufficiency is gaining urgency as the US seeks to contain the rise of its geopolitical rival. The US has pressured allies to shun equipment from Huawei Technologies Co., barred dozens of China’s largest tech companies from buying American parts, and even slapped bans on ByteDance Ltd.’s TikTok and Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s WeChat.Also Read: India dealing with worst border crisis with China with ‘firmness and maturity’:Harsh ShringlaHowever, officials talked down prospects of a decoupling between the world’s two largest economies and said China’s door would remain open for foreign competition.“Complete decoupling is not realistic. And it is not good for China, the United States and the whole world,” a Communist Party Central Committee official Han Wenxiu said at the briefing. “The truth is very few would really want to see the two countries decouple. Most would want our two countries to cooperate and work together.”Growth TargetThe Central Committee released initial details of the five-year plan Thursday, stressing the need for sustainable growth and also pledging to develop a robust domestic market. Officials didn’t specify the pace of growth they would seek over the period, but said the National Development and Reform Commission would work on guidelines to be submitted to country’s parliament in March.“Based on the general direction and strategy determined in the proposal, we will put forward corresponding numeric targets and specific indicators after careful estimate and calculation, so as to promote the reasonable economic growth and the steady improvement of its quality,” Ning Jizhe, vice chairman of NDRC, said at the briefing Friday.Wang, the technology minister, said it was a strategic choice to elevate the role of innovation and make technological self-reliance a strategic pillar of national development in the plan. Han separately stated there are “three priorities of paramount importance. They are: reform, opening up and innovation.”Central to that endeavor is self-reliance in chips, the building blocks for innovations from artificial intelligence to fifth-generation networking and autonomous vehicles.The government now intends to confer the same priority on semiconductor development that it accorded to building its atomic capability, people with knowledge of the matter have said. That’s said to include broad support for so-called third-generation semiconductors -- a nascent field in which no nation yet claims dominance -- for the period through 2025.But it will take years for local companies to match foreign counterparts in both basic manufacturing and design expertise, while there’s no ready answer to the dominance of Japanese and American names in chip-making equipment.China imports more than $300 billion worth of integrated circuits each year and its semiconductor developers rely on US-made chip design tools and patents, as well as critical manufacturing technologies from US allies. Deteriorating ties between Beijing and Washington have made it increasingly difficult for Chinese companies to source components and chip-making technologies from overseas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-focuses-on-building-its-own-core-tech-as-us-curbs-supply/story-Npw72DuV8QImroZYZSCuMJ.html
30-10-2020||World||Mike Pompeo wraps up ‘anti-China’ tour of Asia in Vietnam||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo wrapped up a five-nation, anti-China tour of Asia in Vietnam on Friday with a call for regional unity to counter Beijing’s growing assertiveness, as the fierce American presidential election race entered its final stretch.With just four days left in the campaign in which China has been a central theme, Pompeo visited Hanoi ostensibly to celebrate 25 years of US-Vietnam relations. But, as he has at his previous stops in India, Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia, Pompeo’s main aim was to shore up support for pushing back on China.“We have enormous respect for the Vietnamese people and your country’s sovereignty,” Pompeo told Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc.In brief comments heard by reporters, neither man mentioned China by name, but Pompeo’s use of the word “sovereignty” has become code for referring to opposition to Chinese encroachment, particularly in Asia.Also Read | Mike Pompeo’s attack on China signals a shift in India’s approach“We look forward to continuing to work together to build on our relationship and to make the region — throughout Southeast Asia, Asia and the Indo-Pacific — safe and peaceful and prosperous,” Pompeo said.Phuc said he seeks “sincere cooperation” between both sides in support of a peaceful regionThe Trump administration has made confronting China, its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, human rights record and aggressiveness towards its smaller neighbours one of its main foreign policy priorities. Those issues, particularly the Chinese origin of the virus, have been highlighted by President Donald Trump as he seeks to beat back a stiff re-election challenge from former Vice President Joe Biden in the Nov 3 polls.Trump has sought to paint Biden as weak on China and beholden to it, repeatedly raising questions about alleged connections between Biden’s son, Hunter, and Chinese businesses.Amid concerns about the spread of Covid-19, Vietnam was a late addition to Pompeo’s itinerary and has numerous fears about Chinese policies in the region. Those range from Beijing’s territorial and maritime claims in the South China Sea to its development activities along the Mekong River, which runs through much of mainland Southeast Asia and is a regional lifeline.In a statement released ahead of Pompeo’s arrival in Vietnam, the State Department attacked China for reneging on cooperation pledges with other Mekong countries and for aggressively pursuing suspect claims in the South China Sea.China’s “malign and destabilizing actions in the Mekong region, including manipulation of Mekong River water flows, negatively affect millions of people who depend on the river for their livelihoods,” it said.“The United States stands with our Indo-Pacific allies and partners in protecting their sovereign rights to offshore resources in the South China Sea, consistent with their rights and obligations under international law,” it said. It noted that earlier this year, Pompeo had rejected outright nearly all of Beijing’s sweeping maritime claims in the South China Sea, including those involving Vietnam.“The United States rejects (China’s) maritime claims to the waters surrounding Vanguard Bank off Vietnam’s coast,” the statement said. “We will oppose any efforts aimed at undermining the rules-based maritime order in the South China Sea or elsewhere.”China’s moves to assert its claims in the South China Sea, through which a third of global shipping passes, have drawn rebuke from the United States and become a flashpoint for a region in which Southeast Asian neighbours Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan all have rival claims.China has ignored an arbitration ruling won by the Philippines that invalidated most of Beijing’s claims, and built military outposts on seven man-made islands.Pompeo arrived in Vietnam from Indonesia, where he praised Indonesian leadership in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations for pushing back on what he called China’s “unlawful” South China Sea claims and denounced Beijing for its treatment of religious minorities, calling it “the gravest threat to the future of religious freedom.”Pompeo had travelled to Indonesia from the Maldives, Sri Lanka and India on stops where he steadily ratcheted up the pressure on Beijing, which has rejected US concerns and accused him and others in the Trump administration of fanning the flames of a new Cold War.In the Maldives, Pompeo announced the United States would for the first time open an embassy in the Indian Ocean archipelago, a move that reflects growing US concern about increasing Chinese influence and what he called “its lawless and threatening behaviour” in the Indo-Pacific region.Just hours earlier in Sri Lanka, Pompeo had accused China of being a ”predator” in smaller countries by exploiting them with loans and development projects intended to benefit the Chinese more than the intended recipients.At his first stop of the tour in India, Pompeo and Defense Secretary Mark Esper had stepped up the administration’s anti-China message by playing on Indian suspicions about the Chinese to shore up a regional front against Beijing in the Indo-Pacific.Just hours before the meetings in New Delhi began, the Trump administration notified Congress of plans for a $2.37 billion sale of Harpoon missile systems to Taiwan — the second major arms sale in two weeks to the democratic island that Beijing regards as a renegade province. China angrily reacted by announcing sanctions on US defense contractors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mike-pompeo-wraps-up-anti-china-tour-of-asia-in-vietnam/story-fb5eJLsB7t3DspGZmFLK3I.html
30-10-2020||World||Several rare Punjab-Sikh artefacts auctioned in London||A 19th century large panoramic water-colour view of the Golden Temple and jewellery once owned by Maharani Jindan Kaur are among several Indian artefacts sold in auction for hundreds of thousands of pounds in London this week.The water-colour painting is attributed to English painter Cyril Wiseman Herbert (1847-1882). According to auctioneer Bonhams, the painting is believed to be the largest depiction of the Golden Temple in water-colour ever to have come on the market. It was sold for £75,063 (the estimate was £60,000-80,000).Jindan Kaur’s jewellery, comprising a gem-set gold forehead pendant (chand-tikka), gem-set gold mirrored roundel and a pearl-mounted gold pendant – inherited by her grand-daughter Princess Bamba Sutherland – were sold for £62,563 (the estimate £60,000-80,000).Bonhams said that the jewellery in the sale was “almost certainly” from the casket of jewels handed back to her by British authorities when she agreed to live in London with her son, Duleep Singh, with whom she was reunited in colonial Calcutta in 1861.The only surviving widow of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, Jindan Kaur (1817-1863) led spirited resistance to the encroachment of the British into the Punjab, but was eventually forced to surrender. More than 600 pieces of her jewellery from the treasury of Lahore were confiscated, and she was imprisoned before escaping to Nepal in 1848.Oliver White, head of Bonhams’ Islamic and Indian Art, said: “These are wonderful jewels in their own right, made more special still by their rich and fascinating history – the circular stoned gold and mirrored brooch was, according to Princess Bamba, formerly part of Maharajah Duleep Singh’s horse harness. They represent a remarkable link back to one of the richest treasuries in the world.”Another major sale was a portrait of Viscount Hardinge of Lahore, former governor-general of India, accompanied by his two sons and his aide-de-camp Colonel Wood, on the battlefield after the victory at Ferozeshah during the first Anglo-Sikh war by Sir Francis Grant (1803-78). It was sold for £50,063 (the estimate was £40,000-60,000).Other artefacts sold include: A copy of the first French edition of Alexander Burnes’ account of his journey through Sikh territories and to Bokhara, titled ‘Voyages de L’embouchure de l’Indus a Lahor, Caboul, Balkh et a Boukhara et retour par la Perse’; eight prints depicting incidents from the Anglo-Sikh Wars; a pencil sketch of the Golden Temple; a painting of Raja Anirudh Singh, son of Sansar Chand of Kangra, dressed in Sikh attire, seated holding a flower at a balcony window, circa 1815-20; and a collection of photographs from the collection of Major Arthur Wallace Dunlop (1866-1937), 23rd Sikh Pioneers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/several-rare-punjab-sikh-artefacts-auctioned-in-london/story-PID1cEBQKZmYNHAJ3tQHaL.html
30-10-2020||World||Instagram pauses ‘recent’ search listings on US site to stop fake election news||Facebook Inc’s Instagram said on Thursday it was making changes to its image sharing platform for US users to prevent the spread of misinformation around the November 3 presidential election.“We’re doing this to reduce the real-time spread of potentially harmful content that could pop up around the election,” the statement added. Instagram’s “Recent” tab arranges hashtags in chronological order and amplifies content. Researchers have cautioned that automated amplification can lead to the rapid spread of misinformation on the platform. The development comes as social media companies face increasing pressure to combat election-related misinformation and prepare for the possibility of violence or poll place intimidation around the November 3 vote.Earlier this month, Twitter Inc said it will remove tweets calling for people to interfere with the US election process or implementation of election results, including through violence. Twitter has recently announced several temporary steps to slow amplification of content: for example, from October 20 to at least the end of the US election week, global users pressing “retweet” will be directed first to the “quote tweet” button to encourage people to add their own commentary.Twitter said it will also stop surfacing trending topics without added context. Its decision to hit the brakes on automated recommendations contrasts with the approach at Facebook, which has previously boosted promotion of its groups product. Separately on Thursday, Facebook acknowledged that a technical error in its systems caused a number of ads from the Republican and Democratic parties to be improperly paused.It was the result of a policy change Facebook announced last month to block new political ads in the week prior to the elections. Facebook said it has made updates to enable the affected ads to run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/instagram-pauses-recent-search-listings-on-us-site-to-stop-fake-election-news/story-MYoQfA2UUkaS6I1qmbCsDO.html
30-10-2020||World||‘China is angry’: Taiwan anxiety rises as sabre-rattling grows||The tank traps on the beaches of Kinmen Island are a stark reminder that Taiwan lives under the constant threat of a Chinese invasion -- and fears of a conflict breaking out are now at their highest in decades.Democratic Taiwan has learned to live with the warnings of Beijing’s authoritarian leaders that they are ready and willing to seize a place it views as part of its territory.But that background static has reached hard-to-ignore levels recently with China’s jets now crossing into Taiwan’s defence zone at an unprecedented rate and the People’s Liberation Army releasing propaganda simulating an invasion of the island -- and even an attack on US bases in Guam.Also Read: China’s resurrection of 1959 LAC claim may be first step. India preps for falloutNot since the mid-1990s, when China fired missiles into the Taiwan Strait during a moment of heightened tension, has the sabre-rattling been so loud. Sitting under a pavilion at National Quemoy University on Kinmen, a Taiwan-ruled island just off the Chinese mainland, freshman Wang Jui-sheng says he feels more than a little unsettled.“China is angry at Taiwan and acting all the more brutish,” he told AFP.“I’m worried about the chance of military conflicts between the two sides, possibly even in the near future.”Kinmen (population 140,000) lies just two miles (3.2km) from the mainland and was left in the hands of the Nationalist forces at the end of the Chinese civil war in 1949 that formed modern-day China and Taiwan.If Beijing’s troops ever cross the Taiwan Strait, they would almost certainly have to take Kinmen first. And if war does break out, it could easily rope in the United States -- pitting two nuclear-armed militaries against each other. Flashpoint Ian Easton, author of a book about what war could look like, says the world is ignoring the spiralling tensions in the Taiwan Strait at its peril. “This is the most dangerous, the most unstable, and the most consequential flashpoint on the planet,” the senior director at the Project 2049 Institute, a think-tank that specialises in China-Taiwan affairs, told AFP.Historically Beijing has used carrots and sticks to seek what it sees as the unification of China, melding honeyed promises of shared prosperity with warnings of annihilation for Taiwan’s 23 million inhabitants.But in recent years the carrot has all but disappeared. Four years ago Taiwan voted for President Tsai Ing-wen, who views the island as a sovereign state and not part of “one China”.China cut off official communication and piled on economic, military and diplomatic pressure, with the aim of prompting voters to place a more Beijing-friendly politician in office next time. It didn’t work. Tsai won a second term by a landslide in January and polls show a growing number of voters now view themselves as Taiwanese, not Chinese.‘Prepare for war’The failure to win Taiwanese hearts -- exacerbated by Beijing’s crackdowns in Hong Kong and Xinjiang -- may explain why President Xi Jinping has adopted the most bellicose stance towards Taiwan since the Mao Zedong era.Also Read: India trashes ‘1959 LAC’ claimXi, who did away with presidential term limits two years ago, has made no secret of his goals. He has described Taiwan’s takeover as an “inevitable requirement for the great rejuvenation of the Chinese people” -- a project he aims to complete by 2049, the centennial of communist China’s founding. During a trip earlier this month to a PLA base, he told troops to “prepare for war”.Captain James Fanell, former director of naval intelligence for the US Pacific fleet, believes China will move on Taiwan in some form in the next 10 years. “The reality is China’s always had a plan and they’re on a timeline,” he told AFP from the Geneva Centre for Security Policy which he joined after his retirement in 2015. “We’re in the decade of concern right now.”During his career, Fanell watched China transform from a brown-water force confined to its coast into a globally capable navy equipped with better hypersonic missiles and far more ships than the US.“For every one ship we produce, they produce five times as many,” Fanell said.He added that what makes Beijing’s designs on Taiwan so dangerous now, compared with previous moments of tension, is that China may now have enough military might to take the island -- although any invasion would be hugely costly.Will US stand by Taiwan?Whether the US will come to Taiwan’s aid in the event of an attack is still not clear. Unlike Japan, South Korea and the Philippines, Taiwan is not a treaty ally.But Washington is bound by Congress to sell Taiwan weapons to defend itself, and says it opposes any forceful change of the island’s status.The policy -- dubbed “strategic ambiguity” -- was designed to ward off an invasion without directly confronting China.But there is growing bipartisan discussion in the US over whether a switch to strategic clarity is now needed given China’s more assertive approach.“If Taiwan was conquered and occupied by the PRC (China), America’s alliance system in Asia would be devastated,” said Easton.The administration of US President Donald Trump has certainly embraced Taiwan as it clashed with Beijing on a host of issues.Trump has been much more willing than his recent predecessors to sell major weapon systems to Taiwan’s out-gunned forces.Over the last three years, the US has agreed to deals worth at least $15 billion, including new generation F16 fighter jets and moveable missile platforms. Whether Trump’s challenger, Joe Biden, will take a similar stance on Taiwan if he wins next week’s election is unclear.As the great powers jostle, those living in Kinmen desperately hope such weapons will never be needed. “I don’t want to see a war break out as both sides would suffer,” said Tsai Yan-mei, a Chinese mainlander who married a Taiwanese man and lives in Kinmen.“I hope to live a stable life,” she added. “I enjoy the democracy and freedom in Taiwan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-is-angry-taiwan-anxiety-rises-as-sabre-rattling-grows/story-vWqNwZlY8poHZhfytfuTSN.html
30-10-2020||World||US elections: Swing states, Samosa Caucus, electoral college and other things you should know||The Process An estimated 240 million Americans in 50 states and across three time zones (which will determine staggered starting and closing time for polling) are eligible to vote either in person or through mail in 2020 to elect their president for the next four year. Polling closes on November 3.What’s an electoral college and how are electors selected?US Constitution mandates the president to be elected by an electoral college, which now comprises 538 members, selected by states. Each state’s share is determined by the number of members in the House of Representatives and Senate. Presidential candidates nominate electors for each state, who are then expected to go with whichever candidates wins the popular vote in the state in a winner-takes-all system. Only Maine and Nebraska allocate their electors among winners of congressional districts and the popular vote.A candidate needs 270, the halfway mark, plus 2, to win.What is a Caucus?It is a meeting of members of political parties to register their support for candidates competing for the party’s nomination through discussions and multiple rounds of headcount. It’s how some states decide their nominees for president — of both Republican and Democratic parties. Iowa, which kicks off the presidential election cycle, is the most prominent state with this system. The alternative is a primary, which is a straightforward vote in the traditional sense.Does popular vote count?Yes and, then, No.The presidential candidate who wins the popular vote in the state picks up all the state’s electors in a winner-takes-all system — except in Maine and Nebraska. And the candidate with the maximum number electors — 270 or more — wins the White House. Winning the popular vote alone nationally is not enough — Hillary Clinton won the popular vote by 3 million in 2016, but Donald Trump won the electoral college and the presidency.Why are people voting early? Early voting in the shape of absentee voting goes all the way back to the American Civil War when soldiers deployed in battlefield were allowed to mail in their ballots. Many states now allow early voting, especially after the 2000 “hanging chad” debacle. This year, all states are allowing early voting, in-person and through mail, in view of the ongoing Covid1-19 pandemic and mitigation efforts in place to stop the spread of the virus.More than a third of all eligible voters have already cast their ballots this time, in a record early voting turnout.Differences between the American and Indian voting processesIndians vote on a date announced by the Central Election Commission to elect representatives — Members of Parliament, Lok Sabha — who in turn elect the prime minister. In the US, Americans vote on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November — a statutorily fixed date — to elect the president directly, but with a twist called the electoral college. Also, elections in India are administered and regulated by the EC, but in the US, they are held by state governments in their respective jurisdictions. The Federal Election Commission only administers and regulates campaign finance laws.Cost of the electionThe 2020 elections to the White House and House of Representatives are expected to cost an estimated $14 billion, a record. But these are moneys spent by candidates, parties and outside bodies and do not include expenses incurred by state governments on polling, security and election-related issues and material. Joe Biden could become the first presidential nominee to raise $1 billion, or more.Other elections that will also take place on November 3Americans will also vote on November 3 to elect 435 members of the House of Representatives, 33 members of the Senate (a third of the 100 seats of the upper chamber are up for election every election cycle), 11 state governors (and two of US Territories), and members of 86 state legislative chambers (lower and upper chambers).When to expect results?In most election years, results become known within hours of the close of polling, as projections based on early counting trends and exit polling. But it may take longer this time because of the sheer volumes of mailed-in ballots. Some states begin counting their mail-in ballot before Election Day, others start on that day and still others wait till close of polling.Samosa Caucus: Will it grow or shrink?There are five Indian Americans in US Congress now; they call themselves the “Samosa Caucus”. Four in the House — Ami Bera, Ro Khanna, Raja Krishnamoorthi and Pramila Jayapal; and one in the Senate — Kamala Harris. All the House members are seeking re-election and Harris is running for vice-president. Among others seeking their first term are Sri Preston Kulkarni from Texas and Hiral Tipirneni from Arizona for the House and Sara Gideon for the Senate from Maine.The swing states that could decide the electionsMichigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania decided the 2016 White House race, giving Trump the presidency. They remain the key battleground states that will decide the 2020 race. Trump won them narrowly and has to take them again to win, if he also holds on to the states he won back in 2016. He is currently trailing Biden in all three, and by margins that have remained steady over a period of time.Florida, North Carolina, Arizona, Minnesota, Nevada and Ohio could also play critical roles. Trump won all six in 2016, but is trailing Biden in the first three narrowly, by wide margins in the next two and is barely ahead in the last.And then there are Georgia and Texas, solidly Republican states that have not voted for Democrats in presidential elections in decades. But Democrats and pollsters believe they are in play this time. Biden addressed two rallies in Georgia this week, a bold move for final days of campaigning, and has sent his running mate Kamala Harris to Texas amid growing calls from Democrats for star campaigners including former President Barack Obama to tip the state Blue.Main issues in the presidential electionEconomy, terrorism and national security, the response to the coronavirus, healthcare (health insurance) and education emerged as the top five issues in a poll of registered voters by Gallup earlier in October, just weeks before the close of polling.Economy was also the top issue in a Pew poll back in August, followed by healthcare, Supreme Court appointments, the coronavirus outbreak and violent crime.Economy is usually the top issue in US presidential elections but it has assumed even greater importance this cycle because of the devastating impact of Covid-19, with widespread and continuing closure and downsizing of businesses and millions of lay-offs.Biden has made the Trump administration’s response to the epidemic, which has killed more than 228,000 Americans and infected nearly 9 million, the nucleus of his case against granting the president a second term and giving him a chance instead to lead the country. He has accused the president of not doing enough to combat the virus, underplaying the gravity of the illness, peddling dubious cures and therapeutics and hosting “super-spreader” events.Trump, on the other hand, has sought to shift the focus away from the pandemic by raising law-and-order concerns stemming from anti-racism protests, has touted unverified allegations of corruption against Biden and questioned his mental acuity and physical wellbeing, with dubious claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-elections-swing-states-samosa-caucus-electoral-college-and-other-things-you-should-know/story-F7DVdHrfibEY3bDhxeGkgI.html
30-10-2020||World||White House advisers warn of ‘unrelenting’ Covid-19 spread, ‘whole lot of pain’||The White House coronavirus task force has warned that much of the country is in the grips of an “unrelenting” rise in Covid-19 cases, urging tough countermeasures, while at least nine states on Thursday reported record daily increases in new infections.The hardest-hit regions in the West and Midwest encompass a number of battleground states expected to play a pivotal role in Tuesday’s U.S. presidential election contest between Republican incumbent Donald Trump and his Democratic challenger, Joe Biden.“We are on a very difficult trajectory. We’re going in the wrong direction,” said Dr. Anthony Fauci, a leading task force member and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, said coronavirus cases were on the rise in 47 states, and patients were overwhelming hospitals across the country. “If things do not change, if they continue on the course we’re on, there’s gonna be a whole lot of pain in this country with regard to additional cases and hospitalizations, and deaths,” Fauci said in a CNBC interview on Wednesday night. The White House coronavirus task force has warned states in the middle and western parts of the country that aggressive measures will be necessary to curb the virus’ spread, according to weekly state reports seen by CNN.“We continue to see unrelenting, broad community spread in the Midwest, Upper Midwest and West. This will require aggressive mitigation to control both the silent, asymptomatic spread and symptomatic spread,” one state’s report said.The ominous assessment was echoed on Thursday by Dr. Ashish Jha, Brown University’s dean of public health, who told Reuters, “things are very, very bad in the United States right now.”“We are having some of the largest breakouts that we’ve had during the entire pandemic,” he said, adding that the initial waves of infections last spring were more localized. “And nine, 10 months into this pandemic, we are still largely not quite prepared.”At least nine states - Indiana, Ohio, Maine, Minnesota, Illinois, North Dakota, North Carolina, Michigan and Oregon - reported record one-day increases in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, according to a Reuters tally. Indiana also reported a record number of hospitalizations, which are soaring across the country, a metric independent of how much testing is being done.As of Thursday, there were 45,457 Covid-19 patients in U.S. hospitals, the highest number since Aug. 14. Nearly 228,000 people have died of the respiratory virus in the United States since the outbreak began - the world’s highest national toll - and 8.6 million U.S. infections have been documented to date.VIRUS ‘RAGING’Ohio Governor Mike DeWine announced the creation of “COVID Defense Teams” of community leaders to focus on measures for slowing the spread.“The virus is raging throughout the state, and there is no place to hide,” DeWine told a news conference as he urged residents to become more diligent in wearing masks, social distancing and hand-washing. Health experts believe the virus is surging because of more private social gatherings, colder temperatures driving people indoors, and Americans’ letting their guard down due to fatigue with Covid-19 restrictions.Russell Vinik, chief medical officer at University of Utah Health Plans, said the virus was spreading in his state predominantly through small social gatherings.As cases soar across Utah, Vinik said there was a dire need for specialized medical professionals to handle the surge. “We have adequate PPE (personal protective equipment), our big issue is the humans, the people you need,” he said in an interview. “It’s not about hospital beds. It’s about trained, specialized providers to take care of those patients.”As the pandemic threatens to stretch into winter, with a vaccine still months away, Vinik said hospitals would likely become more strained. Fauci indicated that the first doses of a coronavirus vaccine might become available to some high-risk Americans in late December or early January, if all goes well.Brown’s public health dean said doctors have gotten better at treating Covid-19, which he said helps explain why death rates have improved somewhat, “but we’re still starting to see a lot of hospitals starting to get filled up.”Trump on the campaign trail has repeatedly downplayed the virus, claiming for weeks that the country is “rounding the turn,” even as new cases and hospitalizations soar.At a rally in Arizona on Thursday, the president again argued against taking stricter measures against the resurgent virus. Biden and fellow Democrats in Congress have excoriated Trump for his handling of the health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-advisers-warn-of-unrelenting-covid-19-spread-whole-lot-of-pain/story-CV3DD90E8YbCqlSqpO9wJP.html
30-10-2020||World||Grocery store workers at heightened risk of symptomless Covid-19 infections: Study||Grocery store employees are likely to be at heightened risk of Covid-19 infection, with those in customer-facing roles 5 times as likely to test positive as their colleagues in other positions, suggests the first study of its kind.The findings of the study were published in the journal Occupational & Environmental Medicine.What’s more, among those testing positive, three out of four had no symptoms, suggesting these key workers could be an important reservoir of infection, say the researchers.Published research focusing on essential/key workers has largely focused on healthcare workers. To try and plug this knowledge gap and find out how Covid-19 has affected the health and wellbeing of other key workers, the researchers studied 104 employees of one grocery store in Boston, Massachusetts.Each employee was tested for SARS-CoV-2, the virus responsible for Covid-19 infection, in May this year as part of a mandatory testing policy across Boston.But before doing so, they completed detailed questionnaires on their lifestyle; medical history; employment history; working patterns and role at the store; commuting to and from work; and the protective measures they were able to take against infection at work.They were also asked to provide information on Covid-19, including any symptoms and exposure to anyone with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 over the past 14 days. Information on mental health was gleaned from two validated questionnaires for depression and anxiety: PHQ-9 and GAD-7.One in five (21 out of 104) workers tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, indicating a prevalence of 20% at that point in time. This was significantly higher than the prevalence of the infection in the local community at the time: 0.9-1.3%.Three out of four of those testing positive (76%) had no symptoms. And of those testing positive, most (91%) had a customer-facing role compared with 59% of those testing negative.Workers in customer-facing roles were five times more likely to test positive than their colleagues in other types of role, after accounting for potentially influential factors, such as the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 where they lived. Those in supervisory roles were six times more likely to do so.Ninety-nine employees filled in the mental health questionnaires: 24 workers reported at least mild anxiety. Only half (46%) of them said they were able to practice social distancing consistently at work, whereas most (76%) of those who weren’t anxious were able to do so.Eight employees were deemed to be mildly depressed from their questionnaire answers. They were less likely to practice social distancing consistently at work and more likely to travel to and from work on public transport or shared rides compared with those who weren’t depressed.Those able to commute on foot, by bike or in their own car were 90% less likely to report depressive symptoms.This is a small observational study of workers in one store in one city at one point in time, which relied on subjective reports, and as such, can’t establish cause, caution the researchers.Nevertheless, they say: “This is the first study to demonstrate the significant asymptomatic infection rate, exposure risks, and associated psychological distress of grocery retail essential workers during the pandemic.”And they point out: “Once essential workers are infected with SARS-CoV-2, they may become a significant transmission source for the community they serve.”They believe their findings support: “the policy recommendations that employers and government officials should take actions on implementing preventive strategies and administrative arrangements, such as methods to reduce interpersonal contact, repeat and routine SARS-CoV-2 employee testing, to ensure the health and safety of essential workers.”And they add: “Our significant mental health finding calls for action in providing comprehensive employee assistance services to help essential workers cope with the psychological distress during the Covid-19 pandemic.”(ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/grocery-store-workers-at-heightened-risk-of-symptomless-covid-19-infections-study/story-dqNEhDREvfAxqtecU6oa2J.html
30-10-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine update: Brazil expects vaccine by June 2021, Russia temporarily pauses trials||A worldwide hunt for a vaccine for the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease is underway, even as the global tally due to the infection has risen to more than 45 million, including 1.1 million deaths. While the caseload of the United States, the worst-hit country, is hurtling towards ten million, that of India, the second worst-hit country, has crossed eight million.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the latest update for a coronavirus vaccine, Brazil has said it expects a vaccine approved and ready for use by June 2021 and Russia has temporarily paused vaccinating new volunteers in its trials.Here are the latest updates over the global search for a Covid-19 vaccine:1. Brazil is likely to have a vaccine, approved and ready for use, by June 2021, Antonio Barra Torres, the head of the country’s health regulator, Anvisa, has said. Torres said while Anvisa has not decided on the minimum efficacy required to approve a vaccine, in the past, the regulator has approved vaccines with less than 50% effectiveness. Brazil has the third-highest number of cases globally.Read: What you need to know today about Covid-19 today(2.) Russia, which claims to have developed the world’s first registered Covid-19 vaccine--the Sputnik V--has temporarily paused vaccinating new volunteers in its vaccine trial due to high demand for doses amid a shortage. Some clinics in the Russian capital of Moscow said they had run out specifically of the first component of the two-dose jab (the second component is injected 21 days after the first). However, the director of the institute developing the vaccine said the decision was “due to a new focus on giving those already vaccinated a second dose.”Read: India trials for Russia’s ‘Sputnik-V’ vaccine could start in next few weeks(3.) American biotechnology firm Moderna Inc said on Thursday it is on track to report early data from a late-stage trial of its Covid-19 vaccine, next month. The company is conducting trials on 30,000 persons adding that in November, an independent data monitoring committee is expected to conduct an interim review of its trials. Moderna is developing a vaccine called mRNA and says it expects to produce 20 million doses by 2021-end.(4.) EU leaders on Thursday agreed to ‘fairly distribute’ among member countries, a vaccine against the disease, as and when one becomes available. “We very much agreed, it was repeated around the video conference table, to guarantee a fair distribution between member states,” Charles Michel, the president of the European Council, said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-update-brazil-expects-vaccine-by-june-2021-russia-temporarily-pauses-trials/story-DTGt4mTnQha3ekELv3bTnI.html
30-10-2020||World||Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine trial slows as demand for doses soar amid shortage||Russia has temporarily paused the vaccination of new volunteers in its Covid-19 vaccine trial, staff at eight of 25 trial clinics said, with some citing high demand and a shortage of doses.However, the vaccine’s developer said the uptake of new participants had only slowed.At eight of the 25 Moscow clinics hosting the trial and inoculating volunteers, staff told Reuters the vaccination of new participants was temporarily on hold, and several said they had used up the doses allocated to their clinics, referencing a large influx of volunteers.At three of the Moscow clinics running the trial, staff said they had run out specifically of the first component of the two-dose jab. The second component is injected 21 days after the first.“Vaccination is temporarily suspended. We are only injecting the second component,” a staff member at Moscow Clinic #109 told Reuters, adding the first component ran out around a week ago.The director of the Gamaleya Institute, which developed and is manufacturing the vaccine, said the decision to slow the uptake of new volunteers was due to a new focus on giving those already vaccinated a second dose, the RIA news agency reported.“Everything is on track. It’s simply that the gap between (the number of people inoculated with) the first and second dose is quite significant,” Alexander Gintsburg was cited by RIA as saying. He said the total number of daily inoculations had not changed, the Interfax news agency reported.‘COLOSSAL DEMAND’Gintsburg said 20,000 volunteers had received the first shot so far and 9,000 the second. The need to now reduce the number of people receiving the first component was due to the capacity of the clinics hosting the trial.“It’s related to the fact that there’s colossal demand for the vaccine and they are not producing enough to keep up,” said a representative of Crocus Medical, the contract research organisation helping oversee the trial in Moscow together with Russia’s health ministry. The person did not give his name.According to provisional information, vaccinations will restart by around Nov 10, he said. A re-start of first dose vaccinations around this time was also mentioned at two of the eight clinics contacted by Reuters.“Try again next week!” prospective volunteers were told at a vaccination trial centre in Moscow’s Chertanovo district, a Reuters reporter heard staff announce on Tuesday.Crocus Medical’s director Alexei Butylin denied that the trial had been paused. “The trial continues, and there are enough supplies of vaccine.”Russian officials and vaccine developers have previously flagged challenges in ramping up output of the vaccine, known as Sputnik V, and initial estimates of 30 million doses to be produced by year-end were revised down earlier this month by the industry minister to just over 2 million doses.Earlier on Thursday, President Vladimir Putin said Russia was facing challenges scaling up production of the vaccine due to problems with equipment availability, but hoped to start mass vaccinations by the end of the year.Alexei Kuznetsov, aide to Russia’s health minister, said the human trial of the vaccine was continuing. “The target of 40,000 vaccinated volunteers will be met,” he said.The Gamaleya Institute is gradually joining forces with private Russian pharmaceutical firms, which are gearing up to mass produce the shot at their plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-s-covid-19-vaccine-trial-slows-as-demand-for-doses-soar-amid-shortage/story-nHTbY4MXTdGHwPOsvHmfLI.html
30-10-2020||World||Britain resists Covid-19 lockdown as Europe counts cost||Europe began counting the cost of sweeping restrictions on social life imposed to contain a surge in coronavirus infections while Britain continued to hold out against following Germany and France in ordering a second lockdown.As the pandemic raced ahead across the continent, Europe has moved back to being an epicentre of the global pandemic, facing the prospect of a prolonged economic slump alongside a public health crisis which has so far seen more than 44 million infections and 1.1 million deaths worldwide.Also Read: Covid-19: What you need to know today“The total number of confirmed cases has moved from 7 to 9 million in just 14 days, and, today, Europe exceeded the 10-million-case milestone,” Hans Kluge, regional director for Europe at the World Health Organization (WHO), told an emergency meeting of European health ministers on Thursday.Deaths from Covid-19 rose by 32% across the region last week, he said.But modeling shows that systematic wearing of masks - at a rate of 95% - may save up to 266,000 lives by Feb. 1 across WHO’s 53 European member states, Kluge said.France and Germany have imposed controls almost as strict as the lockdowns of the first phase of the crisis in March and April, shutting bars and restaurants and restricting movement, while allowing schools and most businesses to remain open.But Britain, the country with the largest number of coronavirus deaths in Europe, said it would stick with a system of local lockdowns despite a new study which showed cases in England doubling every nine days.“The judgement of the government today is that a blanket national lockdown is not appropriate, would do more harm than good,” Housing Minister Robert Jenrick told Times Radio.Germany has set aside some 10 billion euros ($11.82 billion) to help small businesses hit by the new measures but Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said the country was not experiencing an industrial collapse as it did in the initial phase of the pandemic.Also Read: EU leaders seek common ground on Covid-19 tests as virus spreads“(The economy) is so strong that we can avoid sliding into a long period of recession,” he said. He added output would not return to pre-pandemic levels until at least 2022, however.Separately, Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau said the drop in gross domestic product (GDP) expected at the end of the year should be less severe than in first half of the year after the initial lockdown.Financial markets steadied somewhat on Thursday following a brutal selloff a day before as the latest restrictions snuffed out faint signs of recovery seen over the summer and pointed to further economic pain at the end of the year.The European Central Bank, which has been propping up the economy through its 1.35 trillion euro ($1.60 trillion) Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme, said it was ready to offer additional support.Governments have been desperate to avoid a repeat of the spring lockdowns but have been forced to move by the speed of new infections and a steadily increasing mortality rate across the continent as winter approaches.Even the well-equipped health systems of countries like France, Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland have been pushed close to their limits by the exponential surge in cases recorded this month.On Thursday, Sweden, which alone among European countries never imposed a lockdown, reported its third record increase in cases in a matter of days.“We’re beginning to approach the ceiling for what the healthcare system can handle,” Chief Epidemiologist Anders Tegnell told a news conference, calling for a joint effort to curb the spread of the virus.‘WINTER WILL BE HARD’German Chancellor Angela Merkel said her government had moved quickly to prevent intensive care facilities being overwhelmed and called for a joint effort to face the crisis.“We are in a dramatic situation at the start of the cold season. It affects us all, without exception,” Merkel told the Bundestag lower house of parliament, adding new restrictions to reduce social contact were “necessary and proportionate”.Also Read: UK rejects ‘Britain First’ trade policy, taking swipes at US and EUWarning of difficult months ahead, she said: “The winter will be hard.”While Paris and Berlin hope month-long lockdowns will be enough to slow the spread of the disease, there was little certainty about whether they would be enough for a return to even near-normality.“We want to do everything so that French people can be with their families and their friends for the festivities at the end of the year,” French Health Minister Olivier Veran said. “Will it be the same? Possibly not.”While the latest restrictions have put a spotlight on Europe, the United States has also seen a surge in new coronavirus cases in the run-up to next week’s presidential election, with more than 80,000 new cases and 1,000 deaths reported on Wednesday.“We are on a very difficult trajectory. We’re going in the wrong direction,” said Dr. Anthony Fauci, task force member and director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.By contrast, many Asian countries have begun to relax controls as the disease has been brought under control, with Singapore announcing it would ease restrictions for visitors from mainland China and the Australian state of Victoria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-resists-covid-19-lockdown-as-europe-counts-cost/story-Q20xij5OL2Z8zAs4juYlEK.html
30-10-2020||World||Brazil will have a Covid-19 vaccine by June 2021, says regulator||Brazil expects to have a vaccine against Covid-19 approved and ready for use in a national inoculation program by June, the head of the country’s health regulator Anvisa, Antonio Barra Torres, said on Thursday.With the world’s worst outbreak of coronavirus after the United States and India, Brazil has become a key testing ground and has approved late stage clinical trials for four vaccines that are under development.Torres told Reuters that Anvisa has not decided on the minimum efficacy to require but he said the agency has approved vaccines in the past with less than 50% effectiveness.Health authorities in Europe are debating whether to accept a so-called efficacy rate of less than 50% to be able to deliver a vaccine sooner, the Wall Street Journal reported this week.Sandra Gallina, Director General for Health and Food Safety at the European Commission told EU lawmakers in a hearing that the article was speculation, but then added that it’s not rare to have vaccines that only work with 50% efficacy.Last week, Brazil’s right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro disavowed a decision by his health minister to buy 46 million doses of a vaccine from China’s Sinovac Biotech called CoronaVac, saying “We will not buy a Chinese vaccine.”But Torres said Anvisa could register more than one of the four candidates now being tested in Brazil - from Oxford University/AstraZeneca, China’s Sinovac Biotech, Pfizer Inc in partnership with BioNTech and Johnson & Johnson’s pharmaceutical subsidiary Janssen - irrespective of their country of origin.“The origin of the vaccine has no bearing for us, there is no prejudice,” he said.Two days after Bolsonaro’s comments, Anvisa authorized Sao Paulo’s Butantan Institute to import 6 million doses of CoronaVac and on Wednesday further authorized the biomedical center to import the raw ingredients to make another 40 million doses in Brazil.Russia has agreed to supply its Sputnik V vaccine to the Brazilian states of Parana and Bahia, but it must first be tested and approved by Anvisa. Torres said that, to date, the agency had received no data or request for approval of Sputnik V trial protocols.Torres said the Butantan Institute and the federal FioCruz biomedical center in Rio de Janeiro have the capacity to produce millions of doses of vaccines for Brazil and probably for other Latin American nations.Anvisa is in talks with some Latin American countries about them accepting its registration of vaccines that will be made in Brazil, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-will-have-a-covid-19-vaccine-by-june-2021-says-regulator/story-yrYA9d7lGPTsqH2SkOcGcP.html
30-10-2020||World||Citing ‘civil unrest’, Walmart removes guns on display at US stores||Walmart says it has removed ammunition and firearms from displays at its US stores, citing “civil unrest” in some areas.The nation’s largest retailer, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, sells firearms in about half of its 4,700 stores.“We have seen some isolated civil unrest and as we have done on several occasions over the last few years, we have moved our firearms and ammunition off the sales floor as a precaution for the safety of our associates and customers,” Walmart said in a statement emailed to The Associated Press on Thursday.The discounter said the items remain available for purchase by customers.The move comes after several days of protests, widespread vandalism and an overnight curfew in Philadelphia before Election Day after police fatally shot a Black man with a history of mental health problems.Walmart made a a similar move in the wake of the police killing of George Floyd that set off sometimes violent demonstrations against police brutality and injustice against African Americans.Last year, Walmart stopped selling handgun and short-barrel rifle ammunition while requesting that customers not openly carry firearms in its stores, even where state laws allow it. The company also ended the sale of handguns in Alaska, the only state where the discounter sold them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/walmart-removes-guns-ammunition-on-display-at-us-stores/story-0g2U2HfueWAscLtfKJ9NBL.html
30-10-2020||World||In battleground Florida, Donald Trump and Joe Biden offer contrasting messages on Covid-19||President Donald Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden rallied supporters on Thursday in the closely fought state of Florida, highlighting their contrasting approaches to the resurgent coronavirus pandemic as the clock ticks down to Election Day. Opinion polls show Biden with a significant edge nationally, but with a tighter lead in the battleground states that play a decisive role in the final result. A Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Wednesday showed Trump had essentially moved into a tie with Biden in Florida, with 49% saying they would vote for Biden and 47% for the president.With its 29 electoral votes, the state is a major prize in Tuesday’s election. Trump’s victory in Florida in 2016 was vital to his surprise election win.Thousands of people, many of them without masks, crowded together at an outdoor event in Tampa on Thursday to hear Trump mock his opponent, the former vice president.“Could you imagine losing to this guy? Could you imagine?” Trump said, adding he was confident of winning a second term.Hours later, Biden arrived in the same city to hold a “drive-in” rally, where attendees remained in or near their cars to avoid the possible spread of the virus, his second such event of the day in Florida. Supporters at the event wore masks, as required by Biden’s campaign, although they did not always maintain social distancing.Biden criticized Trump for holding what he termed a “super-spreader event” and attacked the president’s repeated assertion that the country had moved past the worst days of the pandemic, despite rising cases nationwide.“Donald Trump has waved the white flag, abandoned our families and surrendered to this virus,” Biden said. “But the American people never give up; we never give in.”SHADOW OF THE PANDEMIC The pandemic that has upended life across the United States, killed more than 227,000 people and caused millions of job losses, is roaring back.Trump has repeatedly dismissed the threat of the pandemic, saying this week his opponents and the news media would stop paying attention to it right after the election, even as leaders in Europe scramble to contain a second wave and public health experts predict a grim winter in the United States.Officials in Gastonia, North Carolina, warned people who attended an Oct. 21 Trump rally there that two people who took part tested positive for Covid-19.Trump’s own White House coronavirus task force is warning of a persistent and broad spread of COVID-19 in the western half of the United States, including in a number of states that will play an important role in the election.The Republican president hailed figures released on Thursday that showed the U.S. economy grew at an unrivaled annualized pace of 33% in the third quarter because of a huge federal pandemic relief program.“So glad this great GDP number came out before November 3rd,” Trump wrote in a tweet. It is doubtful, however, whether economic data this close to Election Day can influence the outcome. Biden can point out that U.S. output remains below its level in the fourth quarter of 2019, before the pandemic hit.Following his own bout with Covid-19, the president has had a hectic campaign schedule, holding as many as three rallies a day in different states, while Biden has taken a more measured tack, spending two days this week close to his home base of Delaware. A planned Trump rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina, for Thursday night was postponed because of a wind advisory stemming from Hurricane Zeta, Trump’s campaign said. The president plans to return to the Midwest on Friday, campaigning in Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. In all, he plans to visit 10 states in the last days of the campaign and will host 11 rallies in the final 48 hours, a campaign official said.Biden’s own Tampa speech was cut short by a sudden downpour. He is expected to travel to Wisconsin, Minnesota and Iowa on Friday.EARLY VOTING DELUGE More than 80 million Americans have already cast ballots in the presidential election, according to a tally on Thursday from the U.S. Elections Project at the University of Florida, setting the stage for the highest participation rate in over a century.That surge includes more than 51 million ballots cast by mail, a long-standing practice of American elections that is surging in popularity because of the pandemic. State officials and experts have warned that it may take days or even weeks to tally them as some states have rules that forbid counting early votes before Election Day.Florida is home to large Latino populations, with Cuban Americans in the south of Florida traditionally tending to favor Republicans, while newer communities of Puerto Ricans in central Florida lean toward the Democrats.Biden’s campaign tried on Thursday to dampen concerns among Democrats that Biden is not reaching Latino voters nationally as well as former President Barack Obama used to.“We are 100% on track to match or exceed the Obama Latino vote numbers in 2012,” Matt Barreto, co-founder of the polling and research firm Latino Decisions, said on a media conference call organized by the Biden campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-battleground-florida-donald-trump-and-joe-biden-offer-contrasting-messages-on-covid-19/story-yxN70wppy0b3dSi0eQJNyL.html
30-10-2020||World||US tops 90,000 coronavirus cases in 24 hours for first time||The United States notched a record number of new coronavirus cases on Thursday, topping the grim milestone of more than 90,000 diagnoses in 24 hours, according to a tally from Johns Hopkins University. The country, which has seen a resurgence of its Covid-19 outbreak since mid-October, saw 91,295 new cases in the 24 hours up to 8:30 pm Thursday (0030 GMT Friday), according to a real-time count by the Baltimore-based school. The US has tallied 8.94 million cases of the novel coronavirus since the beginning of the pandemic, the most of any country in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-tops-90-000-coronavirus-cases-in-24-hours-for-first-time/story-hkRWE91QPkS6fnnHziVuXN.html
30-10-2020||World||Donald Trump fights headwinds as he and Joe Biden battle over Florida||Pressing against stiff headwinds from the pandemic, President Donald Trump steered toward what he hoped was safer political ground with the U.S. economy Thursday, as Democratic rival Joe Biden kept up his assault on Trump’s handling of the coronavirus.Campaigning hours apart in Florida, a state all but essential to the Republican’s pathway to another term, both candidates urged supporters to get to polling places in person, even as a tropical storm interrupted early voting in the Southeast.The shift to focusing on in-person voting next Tuesday — or sooner, where possible — comes as more than 80 million Americans have already cast their ballots, absentee or by mail. While the Election Day vote traditionally favors Republicans and early votes tend toward Democrats, the pandemic, which has killed more than 227,000 people in the United States, has injected new uncertainty.“You hold the power. If Florida goes blue, it’s over,” Biden told supporters Thursday.Trump on Thursday was celebrating a new federal estimate that the economy grew at a stunning 33.1% annual rate in the July-September quarter — by far the largest quarterly gain on record — making up ground from its epic plunge in the spring, when the eruption of the coronavirus closed businesses and threw tens of millions out of work.“So glad this great GDP number came out before November 3rd,” Trump tweeted, predicting a dire reversal if Biden is elected.But economists warned that the economy is already weakening again and facing renewed threats as confirmed viral cases surge, hiring has slowed and federal stimulus help has mostly run out.Biden said, “The recovery is slowing if not stalling, and the recovery that is happening is helping those at the top but leaving tens of millions of working families and small businesses behind.”The Democrat is framing his closing arguments to voters on what he describes as responsible management of the Covid-19 pandemic. Trump, instead, is arguing that Biden would undo the economic gains of his administration with stricter, virus-targeting public health controls — though those are largely what scientists are calling for.“The people are tired. They can’t do it anymore,” Trump said of lockdowns.Trump and Biden both visited the western end of the Florida’s Interstate 4 corridor, an area known for rapid residential growth, sprawling suburbs and its status as an ever-changing, hard-fought battleground during presidential elections.The president had been scheduled to hit another sunbelt battleground state, North Carolina, on Thursday evening but canceled his event in Fayetteville as Tropical Storm Zeta brought wind gusts reaching 50 mph to the area.On Friday, Trump is to visit three upper Midwest states, and he will hold a trio of rallies on Saturday in Pennsylvania before launching on a whirlwind tour of battlegrounds including Florida, Michigan, Georgia and Pennsylvania in the closing 48 hours of the race.Biden, meanwhile, heads later in the week to three more states Trump won in 2016: Iowa, Wisconsin and then Michigan, where he’ll hold a joint Saturday rally with former President Barack Obama. Biden’s campaign also announced he will visit Minnesota Friday, hours before Trump holds a rally in one of the few Clinton-voting states Trump is hoping to pick up this year.The pandemic’s consequences were escalating, with deaths climbing in 39 states and an average of 805 people dying daily nationwide — up from 714 two weeks ago. The sharp rise sent shockwaves through financial markets, causing the Dow Jones Industrial Average to drop 900-plus points on Wednesday.Trump, who frequently lauds rising markets, failed to mention the decline. Stock prices recovered somewhat on Thursday.Trump is betting on the GOP’s vast field and data operations, and efforts known as “poll flushing” — monitoring precinct lists for who has and has not yet voted — to provide a late boost on Election Day. The Republican National Committee, which has more than 3,000 field staff and claims more than 2.5 million volunteers, will use that information to reach out to Trump supporters to ensure they get to the polls.Nowhere may those efforts be more important than in Florida. Without the battleground state’s 29 electoral votes, Trump’s path to victory is exceptionally difficult.On Thursday, Trump was introduced in Tampa by first lady Melania Trump, who praised her husband’s presidency, saying “under Donald’s leadership, we have blocked out the noise and focused on you, the American people.”Trump is banking on local news coverage of his visit to overcome a substantial advertising deficit stemming from a late cash crunch. Biden and his allies are outspending Trump and his backers by more than 3-to-1 in Florida — about $23 million to about $7 million — in the final push to Election Day, according to data from ad tracking firm Kantar/CMAG.Biden, meanwhile, is pouring tens of millions of dollars into a torrent of online advertising that will deliver his closing message of the presidential campaign, highlighting his promise to govern for all Americans while blasting Trump’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic.“I will work as hard for those who don’t support me as those who do,” Biden says in one of the digital ads, which will take over the masthead of YouTube.com on Thursday. “That’s the job of a president — the duty to care for everyone.”How much exactly Biden will spend is unclear. His campaign says it is putting a “mid-eight figure” dollar amount behind over 100 different ads, which means they could be spending as little as $25 million — but potentially much more.The ads will run on social media platforms including Instagram and Facebook, streaming services such as Hulu and music applications like Pandora.The Republican National Committee, meanwhile, launched its closing message to voters Thursday, not mentioning Trump, in an apparent aim to help GOP candidates up and down the ballot with a focus on traditional Republican messages around lowering taxes and health care.In both Hillsborough County, which includes Tampa, and the adjacent Pinellas County, Democrats are crushing vote-by-mail. As of Wednesday morning, 53,000 more Democrats than Republicans had voted by mail in Hillsborough. In Pinellas, the largest of the four counties in the state to switch from Obama to Trump in 2016, that number was just shy of 30,000.Republicans in both counties have a slight edge in the state’s in-person early voting, which began last Saturday as Trump himself voted in Palm Beach County downstate.Because of concerns about submission deadlines, Postal Service backlogs and the potential for drawn-out legal challenges, Democrats are pressing their backers who have yet to return ballots to head to the polls in person.The aftereffects of Hurricane Zeta were holding back voters at a number of polling places in northern Florida and northern Georgia that lost power. In Douglas County, in Atlanta’s western suburbs, all six polling locations were without power, as were county offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-fights-headwinds-as-he-and-joe-biden-battle-over-florida/story-wqeTlx6Bk0MLIMOR3v6DSO.html
30-10-2020||World||Apple temporarily closes 17 out of 20 French stores amid fresh Covid-19 lockdown measures||Apple Inc will temporarily close 17 out of 20 stores in France starting Oct. 30, as the country goes into a fresh one-month lockdown amid resurgence of coronavirus cases, the company’s website showed.Apple’s Opéra store in Paris, Les Quatre Temps store in Puteaux and Rosny 2 store in Rosny-Sous-Bois, will remain open, the company’s website showed.The company’s 15 stores in Germany will remain open, according to its website.Apple did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/apple-temporarily-closes-17-out-of-20-french-stores-amid-fresh-covid-19-lockdown-measures/story-Eo8Jr31uEkfDiZzdSzQCGN.html
30-10-2020||World||After 20 years, no equality for women in peace talks: UN||The head of the U.N. agency promoting gender equality told the 20th anniversary commemoration of a resolution demanding equal participation for women in peace negotiations that its implementation has failed, declaring Thursday that women still remain “systematically excluded” from talks to end conflicts where men make decisions affecting their lives.Despite some good initiatives, UN Women’s Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka told the Security Council that in peace negotiations from 1992 to 2019 only 13 percent of negotiators, 6 percent of mediators, and 6 percent of signatories to peace agreements were women.Also Read: 25 years after UN women’s meeting, equality remains distantShe said negotiations elevated and empowered “the actors that have fueled the violence,” instead of empowering women and others who are peace-builders — and women were either confined to “informal processes or relegated to the role of spectators.”Germany’s Foreign Office Minister of State Michelle Muntefering called the U.N. resolution adopted on Oct. 31, 2000 “a little revolution” because a united Security Council made clear for the first time that women’s equal participation “is required to maintain world peace and security.” It also affirmed that gender equality is also about security and conflict prevention, and that sexual and gender-based violence in war is a crime that must be punished and abolished, she said.But Muntefering said: “20 years and nine hard-won Security Council resolutions later... women are still excluded from peace processes, their rights and interests continue to be ignored when building post-conflict societies.”She was blunt in pointing at who Is responsible: “As a global community, we have not lived up to our commitment.”Too often, the German minister said, sexual and gender-based violence in conflicts remains unpunished and “even worse, in the past years we have seen a global push-back on women’s rights.” And she expressed doubt that the principles in the resolution on women, peace and security adopted in 2000 would be approved today.“Let me be clear,” Muntefering said. “We have a joint responsibility to implement what we have agreed upon, And that is: without watering down any of the commitments we have signed up to.”Last year, the Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution urging all countries to implement the provisions of all previous resolutions on women, peace and security “by ensuring and promoting the full, equal and meaningful participation of women in all stages of peace processes.”This year, Russia which currently holds the council presidency, has called a vote on a draft resolution which some diplomats say weakens the previous resolutions, especially on issues of human rights and the participation of civil society organizations which have been key in promoting gender equality and participation.The diplomats spoke on condition of anonymity because email voting is taking place. The result is expected to be announced on Friday afternoon and it’s unclear whether Russia will get the minimum nine “yes” votes required for adoption.U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres reiterated to the council that “gender equality is first and foremost a question of power, and wherever we look, power structures are dominated by men,” starting at the top where women lead only 7 percent of countries.Also Read: Indian outfit wins UN award for efforts to combat climate change amid Covid-19He said women remain largely excluded from delegations to peace talks and negotiations and said “we face serious obstacles” if they are not fairly represented, for example, “in the rooms where the future of Afghanistan is being discussed between the Taliban and the government, or in Mali, as it embarks on a political transition.”Afghan women’s rights advocate Zarqa Yaftali, who spoke on behalf of non-governmental organizations that work to put women at peace tables, said “the presence of four women on the government’s negotiation team is a positive development, but it is not enough.” The Taliban, who ruled Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001 and refused to allow women to go to school, work outside the home or leave their house without a male escorts, do not have any women in their delegation.Yaftali urged the international community to insist that the parties, especially the Taliban, don’t “restrict women’s human rights, civil liberties or citizenship in any way.”“We are not the only ones demanding action,” Yaftali said, pointing to women caught in conflicts from Yemen and Syria to Congo and Sudan who see Afghanistan as “the true test” of the Security Council’s commitment to equality in peace negotiations, and “an indication of what they too can expect” in similar challenges in their own countries.Actress and playwright Danai Gurira, a UN Women goodwill ambassador, retold the stories of women affected by conflicts in Yemen, Syria, Libya, Somalia and South Sudan who previously addressed the council, saying she didn’t want members to forget their words about working for peace and pleas for women to be at top tables.Gurira, who was born in Iowa but grew up in Zimbabwe and has appeared in the “Black Panther” and “Avenger” movies, said one thing all those women have in common is their insistence that “equality between men and women in decision-making is the only way we will build peace.”“Male-dominated rooms in the 21st century should be embarrassing to us all,” Gurira told the council. “And just like (the women) keep showing up for peace, it is your turn to show up for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-20-years-no-equality-for-women-in-peace-talks-un/story-KTCezYOgowcWuqracHVwcN.html
30-10-2020||World||US GDP grows 33.1% in third quarter of 2020||The US economy grew by 33.1 per cent in the third-quarter of this year, indicating a revival of the economy from affects of the coronavirus pandemic. President Donald Trump, who is seeking re-election for a second four-year term, has welcomed the latest GDP estimates released by the US Department of Commerce on Thursday. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased at an annual rate of 33.1 per cent in the third quarter of 2020, according to the “advance” estimate released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the second quarter, real GDP decreased 31.4 per cent, an official release from the Department of Commerce read. Soon after the report was made public, Trump tweeted: “GDP number just announced. Biggest and Best in the History of our Country, and not even close. Next year will be FANTASTIC!!!” “However, Sleepy Joe Biden and his proposed record setting tax increase, would kill it all. So glad this great GDP number came out before November 3rd,” he said. Democratic presidential nominee and former vice president Joe Biden said the report underlined three truths about the present economy. “We are in a deep hole and President Trump’s failure to act has meant that Q3 growth wasn’t nearly enough to get us out; the recovery is slowing if not stalling; and the recovery that is happening is helping those at the top, but leaving tens of millions of working families and small businesses behind,” he said. “And with no plan to convene Congress to get a deal done to get economic relief to those who badly need it and his White House admitting they have given up on trying to get the virus under control, President Trump still has no plan to get our country through this crisis and move us forward,” Biden said. The Trump Campaign said the latest GDP report has proven the success of Trump’s America-first policies. “Joe Biden spent 47 years in Washington shipping factory jobs overseas and selling out to China. President Trump has defended American jobs and brought economic success back to our country,” the campaign said. “America’s hardworking men and women form the backbone of this country and, with President Trump, they will always have an ally in the White House. The Trump Campaign’s new advertisement “Backbone” highlights President Trump’s economic record of promises made, promises kept and will air on network cable and local broadcast across the country,” it said. The Department of Commerce said the increase in third quarter GDP reflected continued efforts to reopen businesses and resume activities that were postponed or restricted due to Covid-19. “The full economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be quantified in the GDP estimate for the third quarter of 2020 because the impacts are generally embedded in source data and cannot be separately identified,” it said. According to the Department of Commerce, the increase in real GDP reflected increases in personal consumption expenditures (PCE), private inventory investment, exports, nonresidential fixed investment, and residential fixed investment that were partly offset by decreases in federal government spending (reflecting fewer fees paid to administer the paycheck protection programme loans) and state and local government spending. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased. Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said that the GDP report provides some good news and some bad news. “The good news is that the assistance provided in the CARES Act, secured by Senate Democrats, accounts for a large percentage of the GDP growth in the third quarter, helped stabilise our economy and has begun to propel our nation’s recovery,” he said. The CARES Act provides fast and direct economic assistance for American workers and families, small businesses, and preserves jobs for American industries. “The bad news is, President Trump and Senate Republicans have stymied what could have been a much more robust recovery by allowing much of the assistance in the CARES Act to expire and by refusing to provide additional support to millions of American families. Had Republicans joined us in supporting a second robust and bold relief package, the second half of 2020’s recovery would be much stronger than it is anticipated to be,” Schumer added. “Everyday Americans are still hurting and even with third quarter GDP growth as reported today, we’ve lost USD 600 billion of economic output and our economy will still be down more than 3.5 per cent from where we were at the end of 2019,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-gdp-grows-33-1-in-third-quarter-of-2020/story-12Z0qzq7QLN7NO88NvkXZK.html
30-10-2020||World||China confirms details of new tech improved PLA living conditions at border||China has made high-tech arrangements for People’s Liberation Army (PLA) frontline soldiers posted at high altitudes to promote the troops’ preparation for war, the defence ministry said on Thursday.Defence ministry spokesperson Colonel Wu Qian shared details about the new logistical arrangements for PLA border troops without naming India but the message is clear as it comes in the backdrop of the months-long border conflict with India in eastern Ladakh.The details shared by the military officer also indicated that the Communist Party of China (CPC)-headed government is looking at a long haul in border areas.Wu was responding to a question at the monthly but restricted defence ministry briefing on Chinese media reports, which said that the PLA was using high-tech means to improve the training and living conditions of officers and men deployed for frontier defence at high altitudes.“Recently, the Logistics Support Department of the Central Military Commission (China’s highest military body headed by President Xi Jinping) and other relevant departments have innovated and applied high-tech means to improve the training and living conditions of officers and men in the plateau and alpine climate,” Wu said.Wu added that for soldiers’ accommodation, a new type of self-powered heat preserving shelter has been distributed among the troops, which can be built by officers and men and is self-sufficient in energy.“In areas with an outdoor temperature of -40 degrees centigrade and an altitude of over 5,000 metres, the indoor temperature can be guaranteed to be higher than 15 degrees centigrade,” Wu said.“Moreover, the newly-developed outfits (for soldiers), such as new individual sleeping bags, down training coats and cold-proof boots, are characterised by cold prevention and heat retention, portability and higher comfortableness, which have been specifically designed for alpine cold areas,” the military spokesperson said.Wu added that the new thermal insulation devices for food storage and new-type outdoor instant foods for alpine cold areas are under trial.“In addition, a batch of new-type insulated vegetable cellars with moisture-proof, anti-freeze, and fresh-keeping functions have been built and put into use. The UAVs are also being used to deliver fresh fruits and vegetables to duty posts to overcome the inconvenience in materials replenishment,” Wu added.“The logistic support capabilities are directly connected with the combat effectiveness. The application of high-tech means will facilitate the construction of logistic support capacity and promote the troops’ war preparation work,” Wu said.Separately, the PLA’s official website reported that its frontline troops have been equipped with a number of new-type border patrol outfits recently.“The upgrading of outfits reflects the improvement of the PLA’s comprehensive and precise logistics support capabilities,” the report said.The new outfits comprise 15 categories including cold-proof hood, cold-proof training clothes, lightweight cold-proof training coat, quick-dry underwear, fleece underwear, down coat and pants, down vest, cold-proof gloves, cold-proof socks, training cap, anti-glare glasses, camouflage windbreaker, training underwear, leg wrappings and multi-function insulated water bottle.“Through matching varieties, this series of outfits could provide solutions to the real combat needs under different environment conditions, from alpine cold areas on plateau, to high humidity and high temperature areas, or to areas with large temperature difference spans,” the PLA website report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-confirms-details-of-new-tech-improved-pla-living-conditions-at-border/story-LV3QH1oSt6lHoavduNUvwO.html
30-10-2020||World||Record-breaking early voting in US election tops 80 million||More than 80 million Americans have cast ballots in the US presidential election, according to a tally on Thursday from the US Elections Project at the University of Florida, setting the stage for the highest participation rate in over a century.The record-breaking pace, more than 58% of total 2016 turnout, reflects intense interest in the vote, in which incumbent Donald Trump, a Republican, is up against Democratic nominee Joe Biden, a former vice president.Huge numbers of people have voted by mail or at early in-person polling sites amid concerns the coronavirus could spread at busy Election Day voting places.Trump trails Biden in national opinion polls as most voters say they disapprove of the Trump administration’s handling of Covid-19, which has killed more than 227,000 people in the United States, with case numbers once again breaking daily records as Election Day nears on Tuesday.Democrats hold a significant advantage in early voting due to their embrace of mail balloting, which Republicans have historically cast in large numbers but have shunned amid repeated and unfounded attacks by Trump, who says the system is prone to widespread fraud.Experts have predicted turnout will easily surpass the 138 million who voted in the 2016 presidential election that Trump won. Only 47 million votes came before Election Day in 2016.In 20 states that report party registration data, 18.2 million registered Democrats have already voted, compared with 11.5 million Republicans and 8.8 million with no party affiliation. The data does not show for whom the votes were cast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/update-1-record-breaking-early-voting-in-u-s-election-tops-80-million/story-75JMmDQPHSTpVaODgdty0H.html
30-10-2020||World||Muslims have right to kill French: Malaysia’s former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad||Amid outpouring of solidarity for France in the wake of the Nice attack, Malaysia’s former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad has defended Muslims’ “right to kill millions of French people”.His blog post on Thursday, titled Respect Others, did not mention the Nice attack, but started with reference to the killing of Samuel Paty, the French teacher who was recently beheaded by an 18-year-old Chechen radical. “Muslims have a right to be angry and to kill millions of French people for the massacres of the past. But by and large the Muslims have not applied the ‘eye for an eye’ law. Muslims don’t. The French shouldn’t. Instead the French should teach their people to respect other people’s feelings.” He accused French President Emmanuel Macron of not being civilised and “primitive”. “It is not in keeping with the teachings of Islam. But irrespective of the religion professed, angry people kill. The French in the course of their history has killed millions of people. Many were Muslims,” he wrote.“Since you have blamed all Muslims and the Muslims’ religion for what was done by one angry person, the Muslims have a right to punish the French,” he said, addressing Macron. “The boycott cannot compensate the wrongs committed by the French all these years,” he added, referring to the call in some Muslim countries to boycott French products. Pope Francis prayed for the victims of Thursday’s attack in Nice, as the Vatican said terrorism and violence can never be accepted. “Today’s attack has sown death in a place of love and consolation. The Pope is aware of the situation and is close to the mourning Catholic community,” Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said. Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany stood with France. “I am deeply shaken by the brutal murders in the church in Nice. My thoughts are with the relatives of those murdered and injured. Germany stands with France at this difficult time.”Russian President Vladimir Putin extended his condolences to Macron and families of the victims. He called the attack “a cynical and a cruel crime inside a church” and said “the notions of human morals are absolutely alien to terrorists”. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte condemned the “vile attack” , saying it “will not shake the common front defending the values of freedom and peace.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/muslims-have-right-to-kill-french-malaysia-s-former-prime-minister-mahathir-mohamad/story-9ooO3miSWhPum6pHVlViVO.html
30-10-2020||World||First US Covid-19 vaccines could ship late December or early January: Anthony Fauci||If all goes well, the first doses of a safe and effective coronavirus vaccine will likely become available to some high-risk Americans in late December or early January, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious diseases expert, said on Thursday.Based on current projections from vaccine front-runners Moderna Inc and Pfizer Inc, Americans will likely know “sometime in December whether or not we have a safe and effective vaccine,” Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said in a live chat on Twitter and Facebook.“The first interim look (at trial results) should be, we hope, within the next few weeks,” he said.Both companies started the final stage of clinical testing in late July with tens of thousands of people taking part in each trial.Moderna earlier on Thursday said it was on track to deliver interim data from its large, late-stage trial next month.Pfizer, which was expected to announce interim data in October, is now unlikely to release data before November, probably after the Nov 3. US presidential election.The data will then need to be reviewed by the US Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which will make recommendations on who gets the first doses if the trials prove successful.Practically speaking, Fauci said, the first vaccine doses would likely be deployed to individuals deemed most in need “by the end of December or the beginning of January.”Fauci’s comments were part of a conversation with Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, who took questions from listeners.Even with an effective vaccine to protect against the virus, Fauci said it will take time to get back to something approaching normal as vaccine-induced immunity builds both nationally and globally. He said life will likely not get back to normal “until the end of 2021 at least.”In the interim, Collins urged Americans to be prepared to continue wearing masks and maintain social distancing.“I know Americans are tired of these measures. Tired of wearing masks. Tired of not being able to congregate together,” Collins said. “But we’ve got a long road yet to go.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-us-covid-19-vaccines-could-ship-late-december-or-early-january-anthony-fauci/story-1468AiHalpKKjnBv7ATdhN.html
30-10-2020||World||‘Hateful terror attack’:World leaders condemn deadly stabbings in France||World leaders condemned fatal stabbings Thursday in the French city of Nice that France called an Islamist terrorist attack.Condemnation came from US President Donald Trump, UN chief Antonio Guterres, as well as European, Arab and Israeli leaders.“Our hearts are with the people of France. America stands with our oldest Ally in this fight,” Trump tweeted. “These Radical Islamic terrorist attacks must stop immediately. No country, France or otherwise can long put up with it!”One of the first to condemn was Turkey, embroiled in a row with France for its permitting publication of cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed that have triggered a wave of attacks against French people.“We strongly condemn the attack committed today inside the Notre-Dame church in Nice,” a Turkish foreign ministry statement said.It expressed solidarity with France, and offered condolences to relatives of the three people killed in the attack.‘Hateful terror attack’“We strongly condemn the attack committed today inside the Notre-Dame church in Nice,” a Turkish foreign ministry statement said.It expressed solidarity with France, and offered condolences to relatives of the three people killed in the attack.Elsewhere in the Middle East, Arab and Islamic leaders drew a clear distinction between their religion and violent acts that claimed to defend it.Al Azhar university’s grand mufti Ahmed al-Tayeb denounced the murders as a “hateful terror act”.“There is nothing that justifies these heinous terror acts which are contrary to Islam’s teachings,” Tayeb said.Egypt’s foreign ministry said it “stands as a government and people with... France in combatting this hateful incident”.Qatar voiced strong condemnation and reiterated its rejection of violence and terrorism, especially against places of worship and regardless of the motivesThe foreign ministry also expressed condolences to the victim’s families.Lebanese prime minister designate Saad Hariri voiced his “strongest condemnation and disapproval of the heinous criminal attack,” and urged Muslims “to reject this criminal act that has nothing to do with Islam or the Prophet”.EU solidarity European Union leaders quickly expressed solidarity with France, and pledged to confront “those that seek to incite and spread hatred”. “I condemn the odious and brutal attack that has just taken place in Nice and I am with France with all my heart,” European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen tweeted.“We will remain united and determined in the face of barbarity and fanaticism.”German Chancellor Angela Merkel was “deeply shaken by the brutal murders” and said “my thoughts are with the relatives of those murdered and injured. Germany stands with France at this difficult time.”‘Vile attack’ Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte condemned a “cowardly attack” and said: “Our convictions are stronger than fanaticism, hatred and terror. We embrace the families of the victims and our French brothers. We are united!”Spanish counterpart Pedro Sanchez added: “We continue to defend freedom, our democratic values, peace and the security of our citizens.”Harder tone from Hungary A harder tone came from Hungary, where populist Prime Minister Viktor Orban wrote that the attack showed clearly “that our culture, our way of life and our European values are in the cross hairs of extremist terrorism.“We are ready to join forces in order to protect traditional European values and the traditional European way of life,” Orban added.Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, who previously governed with far-right ministers, called the murders in Nice “a despicable Islamist terror attack.“France has our full solidarity. We will defend our values and European ‘way of life’ with all our might against Islamists and political Islam,” Kurz said. India, UK ‘stand with France’ Indian premier Narendra Modi strongly condemned the “heinous attack in Nice” and added that his country also “stands with France in the fight against terrorism.”British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was “appalled” at the “barbaric attack at the Notre-Dame Basilica,” he tweeted in English and French. “Our thoughts are with the victims and their families, and the UK stands steadfastly with France against terror and intolerance.”‘Sowing death’Pope Francis prayed for the victims as the Vatican said that “terrorism and violence can never be accepted.“Today’s attack has sown death in a place of love and consolation,” Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said.The pontiff urged people in France, a multi-cultural society, to “unite to combat evil with good”.During talks with the Italian foreign minister, Israeli President Reuven Rivlin warned: “The attempt to foment war between religious is inconceivable.“There is no war between Christianity and Islam, or between Judaism and Islam and we must be sure that no one is allowed to make that happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hateful-terror-attack-world-leaders-condemn-deadly-stabbings-in-france/story-5i03UqvA4JLGvcMrpV5i2I.html
30-10-2020||World||Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot was released out of panic||A Pakistani politician and the country’s military on Thursday tried to control damage caused by his remarks in parliament that Indian Air Force Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman had been released last year by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government after it panicked.PML-N leader and former speaker of Pakistan’s parliament Sardar Ayaz Sadiq set a cat among the pigeons on Wednesday when he alleged that Abhinandan was released after a meeting of its leaders during which the foreign minister’s “legs were shaking”.He said the decision to release Abhinandan had already been taken ahead of the meeting by the Pakistan PM with top political leaders.“One thing is clear: Abhinandan did not come to Pakistan to distribute sweets; he had attacked Pakistan,” Sadiq said and questioned Khan’s motives behind delaying a meeting between top leadership to discuss the pilot’s fate. Also Watch | Pakistan minister brags about role Imran govt’s role in Pulwama attack“The prime minister, through foreign minister [Shah Mahmood Qureshi], had said that Abhinandan should be handed over to India immediately,” Sadiq said, adding “Was he taking dictation from [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi?” Sadiq alleged that the meeting was an eyewash and that Imran Khan had panicked. On Thursday, Sadiq tried damage control, saying the Indian media had distorted his comments from the floor of the National Assembly where he had said that the Pakistan government took the decision to release the Indian Air Force (IAF) wing commander under pressure.But the damage had been done. In response to Sadiq’s earlier statement, minister for science Fawad Chaudhry said Ayaz Sadiq had “lied confidently” over the Abhinandan incident.The Pakistan Army has also waded into the controversy. In a hurriedly called press conference on Thursday, director general of Inter-Services Public Relations Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar said the decision to release Abhinandan was “the mature response of a responsible state.”“Yesterday such a statement was given in which attempts were made to twist the facts [regarding Abhinandan’s release],” Gen Babar said.In the backdrop of these events, Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar said his briefing would be on a “single-point agenda” — to set the record straight on the entire episode.He said that after the Pulwama terror attack, India “violated all international principles and attacked Pakistan” on February 26.“They not only faced defeat but humiliation all over the world,” he claimed.He said that in response, on February 27, the Pakistan Army, sought to “teach the enemy a lesson”.Babar said that the enemy was in such a panicked state that it shot down its own helicopter.“I wish to set the history straight once more. Pakistan first demonstrated it capability and resolve. The decision was then made keeping all war options in mind and from a position of strength,” Maj Gen Iftikhar Babar said.In his remarks at the National Assembly on Wednesday, Sadig had said: “I remember Shah Mahmood Qureshi was in that meeting which the prime minister refused to attend and the chief of army staff joined us – his [Qureshi’s] legs were shaking and there was sweat on his brow.” “And Shah Mahmood Qureshi told us, ‘For God’s sake let this man [Abhinandan] go back because at 9pm on that night, India will carry out an attack on Pakistan’,” he said, speaking in Urdu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-military-on-damage-control-after-mp-says-iaf-pilot-was-released-out-of-panic/story-yV9k9wUprFnH44uxKn5gHO.html
30-10-2020||India||Situation along Assam-Mizoram border continues to be tense||Guwahati: The situation along the Assam-Mizoram border remained on edge on Friday as residents on the Assam side continued to block the national highway connecting Mizoram for the third straight day.The movement of vehicles remained paralysed on NH 306, were residents of Lailapur in Assam’s Cachar district have set up a blockade since Wednesday. The residents are demanding an end to alleged encroachment into Assam’s territory by Mizoram state security personnel.The Mizoram side, on the other hand, claims the area comes under its jurisdiction. It’s security personnel have started construction activity in the region, and Assam has responded by setting up fresh border posts. The border row between Assam and Mizoram began in 1987, when the latter became a separate state. Assam’s forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya on Friday visited areas along the border and assured residents that the state government was taking steps to resolve the dispute. The minister went to a newly set up border outpost (BoP) in Singua, and said two more such BoPs would soon be set up in Tulartal and Baghewala. “Residents on the Assam side of the border are agitated and scared. A school along the border was recently destroyed by miscreants from Mizoram, and their troops have entered our territory. People are blocking the highway till Mizoram troops withdraw,” Suklabaidya said. “The Mizoram side earlier assured us that they will withdraw their personnel from Assam territory, but that hasn’t happened. Instead they have started construction on the occupied areas. We are planning to turn the Lailapur check post into a full-fledged police station,” he added. On Thursday, Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana maintained that the state will not withdraw its security personnel from the border areas till normalcy returns. He told reporters that Mizoram accepts the boundary notified under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR), 1873, as the actual boundary between both states, and therefore the security personnel were on Mizoram territory.“People on either side of the border should live in harmony as the present crisis is not a communal issue but a border standoff which entirely rests on the governments of the two neighbouring states,” Lalchamliana was quoted by PTI as saying. Earlier this month, people on both sides of the border were injured in clashes after some miscreants, allegedly from Mizoram, burnt huts in Lailapur, leading to locals on the Assam side blocking the highway in protest. On October 21, senior officials from both states met in Silchar to resolve the issue, and the vehicular movement started briefly before blockades resurfaced this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/situation-along-assam-mizoram-border-continues-to-be-tense/story-kkmF8HBWxc2NVsq6Dk7QGP.html
30-10-2020||India||Congress leader and riots accused ex-Bengaluru mayor absconding: Police||A former mayor of Bengaluru city Sampath Raj, who is also a key accused in the riots which happened on August 11 this year, is ‘absconding’, according to the city police. Raj , also a Congress leader, is a sitting corporator in the outgoing Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).The riots were allegedly caused after the estranged nephew of a Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy responded to a social media post with another objectionable one, leading to burning down of two police stations, in DJ Halli and KG Halli, the house of the MLA and nearly 60 vehicles in the subsequent bedlam.According to police, Sampath Raj had got himself admitted to a private hospital, saying he had Covid-19. Police had issued a notice to the Baptist hospital on October 7, asking that they be notified before the former Mayor was discharged. However when police went to meet Raj at the hospital on Thursday night, he had been discharged without them being informed. His home in Cox Town is also said to be locked.Police have issued a notice to the hospital, seeking an explanation why they discharged the former Mayor in spite of their specific request that they be informed before doing so. “Fearing arrest since September 14, Raj has been in and out of hospital claiming medical grounds at least four times,” a senior police officer who did not want to be identified told HT. The team of doctors who treated Raj is also being questioned.In the preliminary 50 page charge sheet submitted in the Bengaluru riots case, the central crime branch has named Sampath Raj, along with another Congress corporator Zakir, as key instigator. The cops in the charge sheet say that the riots were caused due to intra-party political enmity between the MLA and the corporators.Nearly 378 people have been arrested for indulging in violence which led to the death of three people. “Our information is that he may be headed to Kerala and thus we have spread a dragnet to detain him,” the officer quoted above said. Raj has also been officially issued another notice to appear before the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-and-riots-accused-ex-bengaluru-mayor-absconding-police/story-GFuR2Bf0KVXRE6gBivMeXJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Youth of this country should not shy away from politics: Manish Sisodia||The youth of the country should not shy away from politics and actively engage in governance, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told students during a ‘masterclass on entrepreneurship in governance’.In his address to students of Ashoka University in Haryana’s Sonepat, he also said it is important for students to understand that for a successful policy, the ‘public bind’ is essential.“If you want to be a part of the change, we should not shy away from joining politics. The youth of the country can impact policies and get involved in governance.The government needs skilled and knowledgeable professionals,” he said.  “It is important for students to understand that for a successful policy, the ‘public bind’ is essential. During the Right to Information Act movement, lawmakers, and policy makers involved us. I wasn’t in politics then but we mobilised enough people, and stakeholders to create a policy pressure group on the government. When the government heard us, it was a positive sign for the policy,” he added.Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, emphasised that there are many ways in which young professionals can get involved with policy making. On being asked by one of the students about how to replicate a movement as powerful as the anti-corruption movement in India for other causes, especially pollution, he said, “The first job is to make the public understands the issue and create awareness.The information is there, but we fail in driving a collective public sentiment. Is your dream (as a policy maker or change maker) the same as the dream of your people?”  “That’s the job of a leader, and basis for any powerful movement. Mobilise people through local interventions so they feel for the cause on a daily basis, he said. Sisodia also asked them to use the skills of education to work at grass-roots levels, that is where the real changes happen.“You don’t have to necessarily stand in elections, but by simply becoming a member, or even a party worker, you can engage in various departments where work on research, analysis, and policy drafts is being done regularly,” he remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youth-of-this-country-should-not-shy-away-from-politics-manish-sisodia/story-gGK6MENE4bakTuGPJhKwxO.html
30-10-2020||India||2 cops injured in Maoist attack in Jharkhand’s Lohardaga||Two Jharkhand police personnel were on Friday injured in a grenade attack triggered by suspected Maoists in Lohardaga district. Following this, an encounter erupted between security forces and the Maoists.The incident occurred at around 12 noon at Peshrar block under Sereingdag police station area.The two injured cops - Upendra Singh, 52, of district police and Anjani Kumar Pandey, 45, of special auxiliary police (SAP) - were airlifted and shifted to Ranchi’s Medica hospital for treatment.While Singh received bullet injury on his right thigh, Pandey got injured by grenade splinters.DGP MV Rao visited Medica hospital in the evening to meet the injured personnel.“The incident occurred when Maoists attacked a police patrolling party through grenades. The forces also retaliated. While one jawan received bullet injury, another got injured by splinters. They are out of danger. After rescuing and evacuating our forces, we have launched a search operation in the entire area,” said IG (operation) Saket Singh.Maoist sub-zonal commander Ravindra Ganjhu, who carries an award of Rs 15 lakh on his head, and his team were reported to have sprung a surprise attack by triggering grenade blast when security forces were returning from patrolling.They also opened fire to attack the forces. In the encounter that ensued, two Maoists reportedly received injuries.Following the incident, police lodged FIR against Ganjhu and 49 others with the Sereingdag police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-cops-injured-in-maoist-attack-in-jharkhand-s-lohardaga/story-MS7fds1PnMgURbjE0PSQnM.html
30-10-2020||India||Working with India to find solutions to Covid pandemic: Finland envoy||Finland and other European Union (EU) states believe disputes such as the India-China border standoff should be settled through negotiations as the world grapples with the widespread impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Finland’s ambassador Ritva Koukku-Ronde has said. The pandemic also offers an opportunity to India and EU states to work together to make changes to ensure cleaner growth and to move towards a green economy, which is a priority for Finland as it prepares to become a carbon neutral country by 2035, she said in an interview. “We are following carefully what is happening around the world and we are concerned [by] some of the issues. When it is a conflict or a dispute, we always want that there is a possibility for negotiations, the possibility to sit down and have a dialogue and it’s much better to have this sort of dialogue than let conflicts escalate more,” she said in response to a question on Finland’s perspective on global security and situations such as the India-China standoff. Like other EU states, Finland believes in “conflict prevention”, which is “a smart thing to do because it’s much, much cheaper to invest in the early stage than to solve the situation afterwards”, said Koukku-Ronde, one of Finland’s most senior diplomats who has also served as the envoy to the US and Germany. The pandemic has “shown very strongly that we need strong multilateral cooperation and rules-based order”, but the crisis is also an opportunity to make changes to address issues such as climate change, she said. “We shouldn’t be blind to other major concerns such as climate change, and this is a great opportunity to build future growth in a clean manner,” she said, adding India and the EU have a plan of action till 2025 with emphasis on the green economy. Finland is looking toward close cooperation with India to find healthcare solutions to the pandemic. “We are globally together in this struggle to find solutions as soon as possible,” Koukku-Ronde said, noting there is considerable interest in vaccine projects pursued by India. She also referred to specific areas of healthcare cooperation, including import of generic medicines from India and collaboration based on Finland’s biobank technology, which collects biological samples and data with the donor’s consent for future research and product development. Biobank technology can be combined with India’s big data for possible healthcare solutions, she added. Covid-19-related restrictions have suspended flights between the two countries and Finland is working to slowly open up its immigration services, particularly for students and skilled professionals, from November, Koukku-Ronde said. “Finland trusts in the free movement of people, goods and services, and we are very dependent on exports and international trade. This is hitting us very hard,” she said. Finland is currently home to 1,000 Indian students and two programmes – Talent Boost and Future is Made in Finland – are aimed at attracting more students and professionals, she said. Koukku-Ronde said her country is also keen on cooperation in new areas such as 5G and 6G, clean technology and bio-solutions. In this field, she said, Finnish companies have technology to use crop stubble to make materials to replace plastics that can help tackle the annual problem of stubble burning. In Assam, two Finnish companies have formed a joint venture Numaligarh Refinery Limited to produce ethanol from bamboo to reduce the fossil fuel footprint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-with-india-to-find-solutions-to-covid-pandemic-finland-envoy/story-aNVhGibm53TYZf71E5LW3M.html
30-10-2020||India||Kevadia a must visit, tweets PM Modi, shares photos||After inaugurating various development projects in Kevadia in Gujarat’s Narmada district, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday shared a number of photos from the project sites that he visited during the day. “Inaugurated various development works in Kevadia, including facilities for jetty and boating. A great view of the ‘Statue of Unity’ is among the biggest attractions of a boat ride here,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Inaugurated various development works in Kevadia, including facilities for jetty and boating. A great view of the ‘Statue of Unity’ is among the biggest attractions of a boat ride here. pic.twitter.com/Nmqm2OqegiEkta Cruise Service will offer a 40-minute ride from Shrestha Bharat Bhavan to Statue of Unity. One boat can ferry 200 passengers at a time. Kevadia is all set to turn into a birdwatcher’s delight. Inaugurated a state-of-the-art aviary, which is a must visit! pic.twitter.com/17ZL3lON2dSharing his pictures at the state-of-the-art aviary, the Prime Minister tweeted, “Kevadia is all set to turn into a birdwatcher’s delight. Inaugurated a state-of-the-art aviary, which is a must visit!”  Kevadia offers a unique Jungle Safari, which takes you through the faunal diversity of India. I had the opportunity to visit the Jungle Safari area earlier this evening. Sharing some pictures. pic.twitter.com/gcyQ0je8XcSardar Patel Zoological Park and Geodesic Aviary Dome in Kevadia is home to more than 1,100 birds and animals and five lakh plants. The zoological park has two aviaries — one for domestic birds and the other for exotic birds. “Kevadia offers a unique Jungle Safari, which takes you through the faunal diversity of India. I had the opportunity to visit the Jungle Safari area earlier this evening. Sharing some pictures,” PM Modi wrote on Twitter.Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister inaugurate the Children Nutrition Park, Ekta Mall, Aarogya Van etc.On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will pay tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in his 145th birth anniversary. A seaplane service between the Statue of Unity site at Kevadiya Colony and the Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad will also be launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kevadia-a-must-visit-tweets-pm-modi-shares-photos/story-RhN4UdjQaCX4RAbWZ6O2XM.html
30-10-2020||India||Delhi public buses will run with full seating capacity, SOP to be issued in 1-2 days||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has approved the Delhi government’s proposal to allow buses to run with full seating capacity, a senior government official said Friday.The buses are currently running with 20 passengers in view of the outbreak of coronavirus. The development comes amid Delhi witnessing a resurgence in Covid-19 cases in last few days. As per the Delhi government’s latest Health bulletin, a total of 5,891 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Baijal, who is the chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), has also approved resuming inter-state bus service and the process to plan a standard operating procedure (SOP) for it is on and the service is likely to restart from next week, the official said. The inter-state bus service was stopped after a nationwide lockdown was imposed in March, resulting in shutting down of all four inter-state bus terminals in the city.Baijal has approved the proposal of the Transport department for allowing passengers to the full seating capacity of DTC and Cluster buses, the officer said, adding that the SOP for it will be issued in next one-two days. The issue of raising the number of passengers in DTC and Cluster buses was raised in a DDMA meeting on October 23. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot had sought permission for full seating without any passenger standing on buses.The number of DTC and Cluster buses seat up to 40-45 passengers.Bus stops in the city witnessed long queues as a result of the reduced capacity of passengers allowed in the buses. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri in a statement thanked Baijal for approving the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-public-buses-will-run-with-full-seating-capacity-sop-to-be-issued-in-1-2-days/story-zlhmDLqBoyIgo7FTkwSl7K.html
30-10-2020||India||Pak minister’s admission revealed truth of Pulwama attack, silenced govt critics: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh Friday said that a Pakistani ministers admission of his countrys involvement in the 2019 Pulwama attack has revealed the truth on the matter and silenced those who had questioned the NDA governments intent on the issue. His statement came at an election rally here a day after senior Pakistani minister Fawad Chaudhry sensationally admitted that his country was responsible for the Pulwama terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir that killed 40 CRPF personnel and brought the two countries to the brink of a war. “A Pakistani minister has revealed the truth in the Pulwama attack by giving a statement in the National Assembly. Pakistan has accepted that they were behind the Pulwama attack. Until now, they had been saying they were not involved in it,” he said. Forty Central Reserve Police Force personnel were killed on February 14, 2019, when a jeep laden with explosives had hit a convoy of vehicles carrying security personnel on the Jammu- Srinagar highway at Lethpora in Pulwama. Singh said, “Congress leaders had questioned our intent then. But now that a Pakistani minister has given a statement in the National Assembly that Pakistan was involved in the Pulwama attack, they are silent,” he said. He said Opposition leaders were indirectly empowering Pakistan. “Whenever we work for the countrys security with all our strength, the Congress and other opposition leaders raise questions,” he said. The senior BJP leader said when former prime minister Indira Gandhi had divided Pakistan into two, BJP stalwart late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had praised her in Parliament. “But, the Congress today has only one work left: doubting and raising questions over the governments achievements. On the issue of the countrys territorial integrity, we should rise above political lines and work together, he added. Singh said the opposition keeps saying that China has “grabbed” India’s land, but if “we reveal the achievements of our Army, you all will jump out of joy”. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said in a recent political rally that China had captured “1200 km” of Indian land. Singh said 20 Indian soldiers made the supreme sacrifice in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh in clashes with Chinese troops to protect the country. Moving on to other issues, he said the country would have been in a much better position if the promises made by leaders in Independent India would have been fulfilled even partially. “But we walk the talk,” he said, and listed the abrogation of Article 370, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, providing gas connection to households as major government achievements. He said it’s Prime Minister Narendra Modis resolve to provide tap water in every house and it is being done expeditiously. Praising Chief Minister Nitish Kumars works and achievements, Singh said there is absolutely no stain on the JD(U) chief over his works during the 15 years of his rule. He said “we dont hold ‘Tel Piyawan, Danda Bhanjan’ rallies, we hold rallies for development”. Singhs reference to ‘Tel Piyawan, Danda Bhanjan’ (dipping lathis in oil and wielding them to assert power) was a throwback to an RJD rally in 2003, two years before the party was ousted from power in Bihar. “We dont open charwaha schools (schools for those grazing their cattle) now, we want to make their children IAS officers, IPS officers, doctors and engineers,” he said, ridiculing RJD chief Lalu Prasads pet project of Charwaha Vidyalaya. “The lantern (RJDs polls symbol) era has ended, and the LED era has ushered in,” he wryly said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-minister-s-admission-revealed-truth-of-pulwama-attack-silenced-govt-critics-rajnath-singh/story-7ptkjFQG5LCnv3Ib9xZnFO.html
30-10-2020||India||Sharad Pawar holds hour-long meeting with Uddhav Thackeray||NCP president Sharad Pawar called on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray here on Friday, sources said.The meeting that lasted for about an hour took place at the chief minister’s official bungalow ‘Varsha’ in south Mumbai, they said.The meeting took place days after Pawar said that he would discuss with the chief minister the issues of soaring onion prices and flood relief package from the Centre.It comes a day after the Maharashtra cabinet discussed the proposal of recommending to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari the names of 12 candidates for their nomination to the state Legislative Council from his quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-holds-hour-long-meeting-with-uddhav-thackeray/story-luN2W9lPAA32WvxRcLVG6M.html
30-10-2020||India||Men roaming around in half pants is distasteful, says Muzaffarnagar khap leader||Influential khap panchayat leader Naresh Tikait has said men have been advised to not roam around in half pants as only imposing such restrictions on women is not a solution. “Elders have decided to not allow men going about market places and daily public life in half pants as it is distasteful,” Naresh Tikait, khap panchayat leader, Muzaffarnagar said, as quoted by news agency ANI. This is, however, not an order. “It is a piece of advice,” he was quoted saying. In 2014, the khap panchayat banned women from wearing jeans and using mobile phones and the internet. Tikait at that time also blamed jeans for “spoiling the society and the environment”.Claiming the move as a success as 80 per cent women abided by the diktat, Tikait reportedly said now is the time to “reform” the men of society, as imposing diktats on women alone won’t help. Tikait, who is also the president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, had stirred another controversy in 2014 after he said the Supreme Court should not get entangled in deciding who should marry whom. “The marriage of our children is our sole business. We invest more than Rs 30-40 lakh on their education, upbringing, but when it comes to marriage, they run away and live with girls of same gotra under police protection,” Tikait had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/men-roaming-around-in-half-pants-is-distasteful-says-muzaffarnagar-khap-leader/story-TYkuekgD36njo7Y8TEBO6N.html
30-10-2020||India||Assam-Mizoram border row intensifies, highway blocked for 3rd day||The situation along the Assam-Mizoram border continued to remain tense on Friday and blockade of the national highway to Mizoram by residents on the Assam side persisted for the third day. While Assam maintains that miscreants from Mizoram have encroached parts of its territory and indulged in violence, the Mizoram side claims the areas belong to them. Mizoram security personnel present in large numbers on the disputed border areas have started construction activity and Assam has responded by setting up new border outposts. Movement of vehicles on the NH 306, which has been blocked by residents of Lailapur in Assam’s Cachar district since Wednesday seeking withdrawal of the neighbouring state’s security personnel from Assam territory, continued to remain paralysed. On Friday, Assam’s forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya visited the border areas and interacted with residents. He assured that the government is taking steps to resolve the border dispute soon. The minister visited the newly set up border out post (BoP) at Singua and assured residents that two more BoPs would soon be set up at Tulartal and Baghewala areas. “Residents on the Assam side of the border are agitated and scared. A school along the border was recently destroyed by miscreants from Mizoram and their troops have entered our territory. People are blocking the highway till Mizoram troops withdraw,” Suklabaidya told HT. “The Mizoram side had earlier assured them they will withdraw their personnel from Assam territory, but that hasn’t happened. Instead they have started construction on the occupied areas. We are planning to turn the Lailapur check post into a full-fledged police station,” he added. Senior police officials in Assam’s Cachar district maintained that the situation was tense but under control. “We are keeping a close watch on events. The blockade by the public continues as Mizoram troops are still present in Assam territory. Security personnel from Mizoram are constructing barracks and bunkers in the occupied area,” said Cachar superintendent of police BL Meena. Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana on Thursday maintained that the state will not withdraw its security personnel from the border areas with Assam till normalcy returns. Speaking to reporters after visiting the border areas he stated that Mizoram accepts the boundary notified under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR), 1873 as the actual boundary between both states and hence the troops are within Mizoram and not in Assam territory. “People on either side of the border should live in harmony as the present crisis is not a communal issue but a border standoff which entirely rests on the governments of the two neighbouring states,” PTI quoted Lalchamliana. Earlier this month, several people on both sides of the border between two states were injured in clashes after some miscreants from Mizoram allegedly burnt down some huts at Lailapur. Locals on the Assam side had blocked the highway in protest against the incident. On October 21, senior officials of both states had a meeting in Assam’s Silchar where they had agreed to restore normalcy in the border areas. Mizoram had assured it would call back its troops which had entered Assam side. Following this, trucks had started plying between both states. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km boundary. There have been skirmishes on both sides earlier as well as both sides claiming portions of land along the boundary as theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-border-row-intensifies-highway-blocked-for-3rd-day/story-XCc6lFMsQlj7zjdfv4zvUP.html
30-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Quad set to kick off Malabar drills in Bay of Bengal, China to keep watch and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesQuad set to kick off Malabar drills in Bay of Bengal, China to keep watchThe navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia are set to kick off the first phase of the Malabar exercise in the Bay of Bengal next week, officials familiar with the development said on Friday, announcing the line-up of major warships and aircraft that will take part in the drills that are expected to be closely tracked by China. Read More‘Boost to Indian Air Force’: Rudram missile to be inducted by 2022, say top officialsIndia’s first anti-radiation missile ‘Rudram’ will be ready for induction into service by 2022 and will boost the Indian Air Force’s capabilities to knock out enemy radars and surveillance systems, top officials familiar with the developments said on Friday. The indigenous missile was tested for the first time in the anti-radiation mode from a Sukhoi-30 fighter jet on October 9 against a target on Wheeler Island. Read MoreDelhi breaks record with 5,891 Covid-19 infections in highest single-day spike everWith 5,891 Covid-19 news infections, the national Capital on Friday recorded highest single-day spike for third time in a row. Delhi also reported 47 fatalities due to coronavirus, taking the city’s death toll to 6,470. Read MoreWhat is WHO’s Vaccine Insurance Scheme? All you need to knowThe World Health Organisation is setting up a fund which will compensate people in poor nations in case they suffer any side-effect from Covid-19 vaccines, which are still under trial. Does this mean that such a possibility can’t be ruled out? Here is everything you need to know in this regard. Read More‘Only installed wife on CM’s chair’: Nitish attacks Lalu on women welfareIn a sharp attack on jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said the only step that Lalu took for the welfare of women of the state during his regime was to install his wife on the chair when he went to jail. Read MoreIPL 2020: ‘He’s a tornado who blows away the opposition,’ Aakash Chopra reveals how Rajasthan Royals can stop destructive Kings XI Punjab batsmanNo one has produced quite the contrasting campaign in the Indian Premier League 2020 than Kings XI Punjab. From losing six matches in a row, the 2014 finalists have staged a remarkable campaign winning their next five games, and in the process, kept their hopes for a place in the playoffs alive. Read MoreMirzapur 2 scene featuring Surender Mohan Pathak’s book to get edited after controversy: ‘Our sincerest apologies’Excel Entertainment has made amends to a scene in their web series, Mirzapur 2 after writer Surender Mohan Pathak claimed that his work, Dhabba, has been misrepresented in it. The scene also had a voiceover that was unrelated to the book and it has hurt the sentiments of the writer. Read MoreWatch: Anti-ship missile fired by INS Kora hits target with precise accuracy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-quad-set-to-kick-off-malabar-drills-in-bay-of-bengal-china-to-keep-watch-and-all-the-latest-news/story-gcrH5UQoBuQqPgeUnho55O.html
30-10-2020||India||Rs 1.27 lakh crore tax refunds issued to 3.9 million taxpayers, says govt||The income-tax (IT) department has credited about Rs 1.27 lakh crore in the current financial year through automated mode in the bank accounts of taxpayers to provide money in hands of individuals and businesses at this time of crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said.“This has been done to ensure that businesses get liquidity in this difficult time,” he said in a statement.Quick disbursal of large sums is possible as refund payment is now done through a fully automated system of the I-T department. “This is a quick refunds payment system which is fully automated and completely transparent. The income tax department has created a DBT (direct benefit transfer) like architecture to execute quick refunds transfer directly into the bank account of the assessee in a seamless manner and at a larger scale,” the finance Secretary said.The I-T department has been able to issue refunds worth Rs 1,26,909 crore to more than 39.14 lakh taxpayers, he said. “Out of which Rs. 34,532 crore were issued as refunds to individual taxpayers in about 37.22 lakh cases while Rs 92,376 crore were issued as refunds to 1,92,409 in corporate tax cases,” he said.“We are monitoring the progress of the quick refunds system weekly and release refunds data in the public domain. This helps us build trust between the taxpayers and the I-T department besides facilitating liquidity to the taxpayers,” he said.A government official requesting anonymity said that the department launched a special drive after the government decided on April 8 to issue all the pending income-tax refunds up to Rs 5 lakh immediately in order to provide relief to the businesses and individuals. “The department implemented the April 8 decision of the government to issue refunds in order to help taxpayers in a Covid-19 pandemic situation in letter and spirit,” the official said.“Unlike what used to happen some years ago, in these refund cases, no taxpayer had to approach the department to request for release of refund. They got refunds directly into their bank accounts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-1-27-lakh-crore-tax-refunds-issued-to-3-9-million-taxpayers-says-govt/story-HGAb6pHosuL9A6SO4T4kTK.html
30-10-2020||India||Delhi breaks record with 5,891 Covid-19 infections in highest single-day spike ever||With 5,891 news Covid-19 infections, the national Capital on Friday recorded highest single-day spike for third day in a row. Delhi also reported 47 fatalities due to coronavirus, taking the city’s death toll to 6,470.Delhi on Wednesday had crossed the 5,000 mark as it reported 5,673 virus cases in a span of 24 hours. On Thursday, the Capital saw yet another spike in cases as it recorded 5,739 coronavirus infections.The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city climbed to 3,81,644 on Friday ,with 3,42,811 total recoveries. According to the health bulletin released on Friday, Delhi currently has 32,363 active cases of coronavirus.On Thursday, as many as 59,641 tests for detection of coronavirus were conducted in the city.Delhi has been witnessing a surge in virus cases since June and has been recording over 4,000 cases every day for last few months. As the national Capital continues to record jumps in virus cases, Health Minister Satyendra Jain earlier on Friday reminded the importance of face masks, urging people to consider it as a vaccine against Covid-19 until there’s a potential one.“People should consider face masks as a vaccine till there is one. The spread of the virus can be stopped to a large extent if everyone wears a mask,” Jain told PTI.The minister also said that a mask has more benefits than a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-breaks-record-with-5-891-covid-19-infections-in-highest-single-day-spike-ever/story-qveb4CiRmgcwbojxLcqRXK.html
30-10-2020||India||Quad set to kick off Malabar drills in Bay of Bengal, China to keep watch||The navies of India, United States, Japan and Australia are set to kick off the first phase of the Malabar exercise in the Bay of Bengal next week, officials familiar with the development said on Friday, announcing the line-up of major warships and aircraft that will take part in the drills that are expected to be closely tracked by China.The opening phase of the multi-nation naval drills will be staged off Visakhapatnam from November 3 to 6. The drills come at a time of increased Chinese belligerence in the Indo-Pacific region and the border row with India in the Ladakh theatre. “Phase-1 of MALABAR 20 will witness participation of Indian Navy units with USN Ship USS John S McCain (a guided-missile destroyer), RAN Ship HMAS Ballarat (long range frigate) with integral MH-60 helicopter, and JMSDF Ship JS Onami (destroyer) with an integral SH-60 helicopter,” said an official.Indian and US aircraft carriers will not feature in the first phase and are likely to be deployed in the second phase of the exercise in the Arabian Sea in mid-November. Led by Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan, Flag Officer Commanding, Eastern Fleet, the Indian participation in the first phase of the drills will include destroyer INS Ranvijay, frigate INS Shivalik, off-shore patrol vessel INS Sukanya, fleet support ship INS Shakti and submarine INS Sindhuraj, official quoted above said. “In addition, advanced jet trainer Hawk, long-range maritime patrol aircraft P-8I, Dornier maritime patrol aircraft, and helicopters will also be participating in the exercise,” the official added.China has been wary of the Quadrilateral security dialogue, or Quad, that was revived in late 2017 by India, the US, Australia and Japan, and these suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level last year. The first phase would witness complex and advanced naval exercises including surface, anti-submarine and anti-air warfare operations, cross-deck flying and weapon firing exercises, officials said. “The exercise, being conducted as a ‘non-contact, at sea only’ in view of COVID-19 pandemic, will showcase the high-levels of synergy and coordination between the friendly navies, which is based on their shared values and commitment to an open, inclusive Indo-Pacific and a rules-based international order,” said the official. The decision to invite Australia was announced by the government on October 19. “As India seeks to increase cooperation with other countries in the maritime security domain and in the light of increased defence cooperation with Australia, Malabar 2020 will see the participation of the Australian Navy,” the defence ministry announced in a statement.The exercise comes after the Quad Foreign Ministers meeting in Tokyo on October 6 and follows the India-US 2+2 dialogue on October 26-27. The last time Australia got invited as a non-permanent partner by India for Malabar was in 2007, prompting Beijing to issue a demarche to India, US, Japan and Australia seeking details of the exercise in the context of Quad initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-set-to-kick-off-malabar-drills-in-bay-of-bengal-china-to-keep-watch/story-JjYwqTLzRcmyV0o9SKJpjK.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Only installed wife on CM’s chair’: Nitish attacks Lalu on women welfare||In a sharp attack on jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said the only step that Lalu took for the welfare of women of the state during his regime was to install his wife on the chair when he went to jail. Without taking Lalu’s name, the CM said, “They are talking today, but how was the condition of women earlier? They were ignored, nobody paid attention to their issues.” He was addressing an election rally at Parbatta, which will vote in the second phase on November 3.Click here for complete coverage of Bihar election “When he was sent to jail, he installed his wife (Rabri Devi) on the chair, but did nothing for the welfare of the women otherwise,” he said. Rabri Devi was made the chief minister of the state in 1997 when Lalu Prasad Yadav was arrested in the multi-crore fodder scam cases.  “If Bihar has progressed today, the biggest reason is women’s participation. Promoting women is our commitment,” the JD(U) chief said. Talking about economic empowerment of women, he said his government started the Bihar Rural Livelihoods Project (BRLP), locally known as JEEViKA, by taking loan from the World Bank and the initiative has expanded today.A few days ago, Nitish Kumar hurled another personal attack on Lalu on the same issue of women empowerment as he said people who produce seven to eight kids can’t be entrusted with the responsibility of Bihar. “They don’t have any faith on daughters. They had 7-8 daughters before they had a son. What kind of Bihar they want to make?” Nitish Kumar had said, without naming Lalu. प्याज का भाव 100 रूपये किलो हो गया है। तेल का भाव शतक लगाने वाला है, बेरोजगारी दर अर्धशतक के पास पहुंच चुका है।बढ़ा रही महंगाई, छीन रही रोजगारये जुमलों की डबल इंजन सरकारक्या ख़ाक बनाएगी आत्म-निर्भर बिहार?On Friday, Lalu Prasad Yadav tweeted mocking D(U)-NDA’s promise of self-reliant Bihar. “Onions are priced at Rs 100 per kg. Oil prices are soaring, unemployment is increasing. How this ‘double-engine’, ‘jumla’ government will make self-reliant Bihar.”Lalu Prasad was granted bail in one of the fodder scam cases by the Jharkhand high court. The other case is to be taken up on November 9. If he gets bail, he will walk free on November 10, on the day the results of the three-phase Bihar elections will be announced.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-installed-wife-on-cm-s-chair-nitish-attacks-lalu-on-women-welfare/story-XugDORsJYmhRrpfNTghwmK.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Boost to Indian Air Force’: Rudram missile to be inducted by 2022, say top officials||India’s first anti-radiation missile ‘Rudram’ will be ready for induction into service by 2022 and will boost the Indian Air Force’s capabilities to knock out enemy radars and surveillance systems, top officials familiar with the developments said on Friday.The indigenous missile, being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the IAF, was tested for the first time in the anti-radiation mode from a Sukhoi-30 fighter jet on October 9 against a target on Wheeler Island off the Odisha coast.“We plan to carry out six to seven more tests before declaring the weapon ready for induction by 2022. The missile’s passive homing head can detect, classify and engage targets over a wide band of frequencies as programmed,” the officials said. The missile will help the air force take out enemy air defence systems from large stand-off ranges. “With this, the country has established indigenous capability to develop long-range air-launched anti-radiation missiles for neutralising enemy radars, communication sites and other RF emitting targets,” the defence ministry announced on October 9 when the missile’s maiden test was conducted.While the Rudram is likely to be tested again from a Su-30 jet by the year-end, India is also developing a new air-launched missile capable of knocking out enemy tanks from a stand-off distance of more than 10 kilometres and a crucial test of the weapon will be conducted in two months, as reported by Hindustan Times on October 22. The indigenous missile - named stand-off anti-tank missile (SANT) -- is expected to be mated to the IAF’s Russian-origin Mi-35 attack helicopters to arm them with the capability to destroy enemy armour from an improved stand-off range. The existing Russian-origin Shturm missile on the Mi-35 can target tanks at a range of 5 kilometres. The SANT, also being developed by the DRDO, will be launched from a Mi-35 helicopter gunship for the first time in December in what is being seen as a developmental milestone. Also read: Xi Jinping rolls out vision for China in 2035, sparks buzz about his future roleThe SANT missile was successfully tested from a ground launcher on October 19 off the coast of Odisha - the 13th test-firing of a missile by India in less than two months amid the border stand-off with China and deadlocked talks to reduce tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). The DRDO is also planning to test the ‘Nirbhay’ sub-sonic cruise missile again after a failed test on October 12 when the weapon was tested with an indigenous engine for the first time.“We are looking at increasing the indigenous content in the missile. Development trials of the missile with the Russian engine were completed last year. A high-powered panel is examining what went wrong with the October 12 launch. We will fix the snag and test the missile again soon,” the officials said. The key tests recently conducted by India include the supersonic missile-assisted release of torpedo (SMART) to target submarines at long ranges and a new version of the nuclear-capable hypersonic Shaurya missile with a range of 750 kilometres. India is also developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence. In early September, the DRDO carried out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time from a launch facility off the Odisha coast. Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-manoeuvring hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept. India could develop hypersonic cruise missiles powered by air-breathing scramjet engines in about four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boost-to-indian-air-force-rudram-missile-to-be-inducted-by-2022-say-top-officials/story-wYBpDIwHjzR8HnYpuQtFBL.html
30-10-2020||India||Delhi public buses to run with full seating capacity||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has approved the Delhi government’s proposal to allow buses to run with full seating capacity even as Covid-19 cases are witnessing a surge in the city.The buses are currently running with 20 passengers in view of the outbreak of coronavirus. Baijal, who is the chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), has also approved resuming inter-state bus services and the process to plan a standard operating procedure for it is on and the service is likely to restart from next week, a senior government officer said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage The issue of raising the number of passengers in DTC and Cluster buses was raised in a DDMA meeting on October 23. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot had sought permission for full seating without any passenger standing on buses.The number of DTC and Cluster buses seat up to 40-45 passengers.Bus stops in the city witnessed long queues as a result of reduced capacity of passengers allowed in the buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-public-buses-to-run-with-full-seating-capacity/story-4KqIKIrifh4lEWNsF1eoTJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Truck with 25 tonnes of onion missing for a month, police launch manhunt||A wholesale vegetable dealer in Kochi has filed a complaint with the city police after his truck laden with onions - which are selling at over Rs 80 in most parts of the country - went missing. In his complaint, Mohammad Siyad said he procured 25 tonne onion from Ahmednagar in Maharashtra and sent a truck to fetch it. He said usually it takes a week to reach the destination but there was no trace of it even after a month. “When I called up the farmers’ co-operative society I was told it was sent on September 25. The truck driver’s phone was switched off. I suspect some foul play. Price was quite high at that time and currently it will be priced around Rs 50 lakh,” said Siyad. He said later the co-operative society sent a picture of the loading and other details. During investigation, police found that the driver hailing from Aluva in Ernakulam was involved in some other cases, including spare parts theft. They suspect that load must have been sold in the black market and he might have pocketed a good amount. Since the driver was not using his mobile, it was difficult to trace him, said police, adding they sought help from their counterparts in the neighbouring states. “We have started our investigation,” said a senior police officer of Ernakulam. He said the transport firm has also filed a complaint. To check prices, Kerala had imported onions through the National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation last week. Two weeks back, one kg onion was priced at Rs 90-100 in the state but now it is between Rs 60 and 70. The government is planning to sell it for Rs 45 a kg through a public distribution system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truck-with-25-tonnes-of-onion-missing-for-a-month-police-launch-manhunt/story-pHCSPP0rgT5DTuNlUwfPAI.html
30-10-2020||India||Indian Navy successfully test fires missile as part of military drill in Bay of Bengal||The Indian Navy on Friday successfully test fired its anti-ship missile (AshM) in the Bay of Bengal from its Guided Missile Corvette INS Kora and hit the target at max range with “precise accuracy”. “Target ship severely damaged and in flames,” the Navy said in a tweet, adding, “Anti-ship missile fired by Indian Navy’s Guided Missile Corvette INS Kora hits the target at max range with precise accuracy in Bay of Bengal.” #AShM fired by #IndianNavy's Guided Missile Corvette #INSKora hits the target at max range with precise accuracy in #BayofBengal.Target ship severely damaged & in flames.#IndianNavy #MissionDeployed & #CombatReady.#StrikeFirst #StrikeHard #StrikeSure#हरकामदेशकेनाम pic.twitter.com/EJwlAcN781Last week, the Navy had released a video showing the anti-ship missile launched by its Missile Corvette INS Prabal hitting a ship and sinking it with “deadly accuracy”.The missile was launched as part of a mega drill involving aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya , aircraft and a number of warships, attack helicopters and other assets of the Navy. “AShM launched by Indian Navy Missile Corvette INS Prabal, homes on with deadly accuracy at max range, sinking target ship,” Spokesperson of the Indian Navy had tweeted alongside videos and pictures from the drill.In the last few weeks, the Indian Navy has carried out a number of joint maritime exercises.Last month, the Navy held a three-day drill with Japanese counterpart, and also a two-day exercise with the Australian Navy in the Indian Ocean Region, where the countries participated in drills as such helicopter operations, anti-aircraft exercise and different types of naval activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-successfully-test-fires-missile-as-part-of-military-drill-in-bay-of-bengal/story-CFNMK20X4wddm31dPUWExH.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Mumbai police best after Scotland Yard’: Court asks woman to cooperate||The Bombay high court has directed Sunaina Holey, a resident of Navi Mumbai, who has been booked by the Mumbai and Palghar police for making offensive remarks on social media against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state minister and his son Aaditya in July to appear before the Cyber Cell of Mumbai police at Bandra Kurla Complex on November 2.The Navi Mumbai resident has approached the high court to quash the FIRs against her. Earlier, the court had directed a Nagpur resident Sameet Thakkar booked under similar charges to cooperate with the investigation and appear before the cyber cell at the BKC as well. A division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik, while hearing the application of Holey to quash the three FIRs registered against her, was informed by assistant public prosecutor JP Yagnik, appearing for the state government and police, that three FIRs were registered against Holey after several persons - including Rohan Chavan, a member of Yuva Sena - lodged complaints against her for the offensive remarks.Holey was booked under sections 505 (Punishment for statements conducting public mischief) and 153 (A) (Punishment for promoting enmity between different religious groups) of the Indian Penal Code and other provisions of the IT Act.Yagnik further submitted that though Holey had been issued notices under section 41-A of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), she had not appeared before the concerned investigating officer of BKC Cyber Police station in Mumbai and hence sought directions of the court to make her do so at the earliest. Advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud, appearing for Holey, said his client was unwell and hence could not appear on the earlier occasion but was willing to report to the BKC Cyber Cell on November 2. The court accepted the same and asked her to be present at 11 am. Earlier in September, Holey had moved the court seeking protection in the form of an application for pre arrest bail. The court had however refused to grant her protection after the police had assured the court that Holey would not be arrested if she was willing to cooperate and report to Azad Maidan and Tulinj police station, respectively. After she failed to report to the said police stations, the investigators sought her presence at the BKC Cyber Cell. After hearing the submissions and accepting the assurance of Holey, the court observed, “Job of police officers is difficult during these times. Sometimes they have more than 12-hour shifts. Then they have to do bandobast for morchas and processions. With all these odds, the Mumbai police is considered as one of the best in the world after Scotland Yard.” In light of this, the bench observed that Holey was expected to extend cooperation and her lawyer agreed to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-best-after-scotland-yard-court-asks-woman-to-cooperate/story-fQPnmSJFBMhDe7DFyMunTI.html
30-10-2020||India||Plea in Supreme Court seeks removal of party symbols on EVMs with name, educational qualification||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Election Commission(EC) to remove symbols from ballot and Electronic Voting Machines(EVM) and replace it with ‘name, age, educational qualification and photograph’ of candidates.The plea filed by Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay has also sought directions to declare that use of party symbol on EVM is illegal, unconstitutional, and violative of the Constitution.The plea, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, said the best solution to weed corruption and criminalisation in politics is to replace political party symbols on ballot and EVM with name, age, educational qualification, and photograph of the candidates.It said that ballot and EVM without political party symbol have many benefits as it will help electors to vote and support intelligent, diligent, and honest candidates.“Ballot and EVM without political party symbol will control dictatorship of political party bosses in ticket distribution and forced them to give ticket to those who religiously work for people’s welfare,” the plea said.Referring to a study done by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), a non-governmental organisation working in electoral reforms, the plea said that out of 539 MPs, 233 (43 per cent) MPs have declared criminal cases against themselves.  “Out of 542 winners analysed after 2014 election, 185 (34 per cent) had declared criminal cases against themselves and out of 543 winners analysed after 2009 Lok Sabha election, 162 (30 per cent) had declared criminal cases against themselves. “There is an increase of 44 per cent in the number of Lok Sabha MPs with declared criminal cases against themselves since 2009, and the root cause of this bizarre situation is the use of political party symbol on ballot paper and EVM,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-removal-of-party-symbols-on-evms-with-name-educational-qualification/story-qhjN2MTv6tTTEtbDOvm9gN.html
30-10-2020||India||Victim’s family satisfied with govt’s action, says Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar in Ballabhgarh murder case||The trial against the murder accused in Ballabhgarh case will be held in a fast track court to ensure strict punishment, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar assured on Friday, adding that the victim’s family is satisfied with the government’s action.“Victim’s family is satisfied with Haryana government’s action. Culprits were nabbed within 2 hours of the incident and later one who helped them was also arrested.The fast track court would be established in this case for giving strict punishment to the culprits” CM Khattar said, as quoted by ANI.A 21-year-old B.Com final year student was shot dead outside her college in Faridabad’s Ballabhgarh by a man who allegedly had been chasing her to marry him, according to police.The incident took place on Monday when the victim had gone to her college to appear for an exam. According to police, the main accused, who knew the victim, tried to forcefully pull the woman inside his car in a possible attempt to abduct and then shot her. The woman was rushed to a hospital but succumbed to her injuries.The police have arrested two men in the murder case -- Tausif, the main accused, and Rehan.A three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been formed to probe the murder case. The team on Wednesday met the woman’s family in Ballabhgarh, according to a report in PTI.Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday had said that the police have been informed to submit the charge sheet before the first track court at the earliest.“Nikita murder case trial will be held in a fast track court so that the matter can be heard on a daily basis and the guilty is punished soon. The Faridabad police have been instructed to submit the charge sheet in the case before the court at the earliest,” Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victim-s-family-satisfied-with-govt-s-action-says-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-in-ballabhgarh-murder-case/story-mBOuEcYn3XzGHoVl1AWHWM.html
30-10-2020||India||Election Commission revokes Congress’ Kamal Nath’s star campaigner status for multiple model code violations||The Election Commission on Friday revoked senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s star campaigner status for multiple model code violations.The Commission has slammed Nath for using the word ‘item’ for a woman candidate and said that the usage of the word for a woman constitutes violation of the advisory issued by the commission. The Commission has further expressed its displeasure and said that despite being a leader of a political party, Nath is repeatedly violating the provisions of Model Code of Conduct and breaching the ethical and dignified behaviour.The EC had pulled up Nath to not use words such as “item” to address a woman during campaigning for the bye-elections while the Model Code of Conduct is in effect. Addressing an election meeting on Sunday for the November 3 bypoll in Gwalior’s Dabra town, where the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded Imarti Devi, Nath had said the Congress candidate (Suresh Raje) was a “simple person” unlike his opponent who was an “item”. Taking another complaint in consideration, where the Congress leader has spoken against current state chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and referred to him as “mafia” and milawatkhor”, the Commission has said that its report confirms violation of model code of conduct.If any campaign is done by Nath from now onwards, the entire expenditure will be borne by the candidate in whose constituency the campaign is being undertaken, the Election Commission ruled in its order. The order further read that the Model Code of Conduct has evolved over several decades with the consensus of all the political parties to maintain level playing field as well as ethical and dignified behaviour during the campaigning before the elections. Nath’s remark had triggered outrage, with BJP leaders, led by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, staging protests against the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-revokes-congress-kamal-nath-s-star-campaigner-status-for-multiple-model-code-violations/story-7qJ54h9DsFoLSr2yv99FrO.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Who got achche din,’ Rahul Gandhi takes swipe at PM Modi’s VVIP planes, raises China issue||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday raised the issue of India-China border standoff and questioned ‘achche din’ comparing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s VVIP planes and the condition of Indian soldiers living in sub-zero conditions. Sharing a news report which later the Press Information Bureau claimed fake, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The jawans of the country are fighting PLA soldiers in extreme weather conditions from normal tents. They are unafraid. But the Prime Minister of the country flies around in an aeroplane that costs Rs 8,400 crore and he is scared to even take the name of China. Who go achche din?” देश के जवान भयंकर सर्दी में साधारण टेंट में गुज़ारा करते हुए भी चीन के आक्रमण का डटकर मुक़ाबला करते हैं।जबकि देश के PM 8400 करोड़ के हवाई जहाज़ में घूमते हैं और चीन का नाम तक लेने से डरते हैं।किसे मिले अच्छे दिन? pic.twitter.com/mTn6wLafjmA few days ago, VVIP aircraft Air India One to be used for President, Vice President and Prime Minister arrived at Delhi international airport from the US. These special flights are equipped with advanced communication system, allowing mid-air audio and video communication. Reports said the total cost of purchase and retrofitting the two planes has been estimated to be around Rs 8,400 crore. Juxtaposing this with the situation of the LAC soldiers — their tents are reportedly not suitable for sub-zero conditions, Rahul Gandhi mocked at ‘achche din’, a promise given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Over 50,000 India troops are likely to remain stationed through the winter months this year as the India-China standoff is going on.  .@the_hindu citing a claim, has published that Chinese troops have further transgressed into Indian territory and occupied positions in Finger 2 and 3 of the north bank of #PangongTso Lake.#PIBFactCheck: It is a #Fake news. @adgpi has refuted this statement. pic.twitter.com/PvNjUQRCt4Defence minister Rajnath Singh in the Lok Sabha had promised suitable habitat and clothing. I can assure you that the morale and motivation of our armed forces is very high…They are being provisioned with suitable clothing, habitat and the required defence wherewithal,” he said. From specialised winter clothing to rations and arctic tents to portable heaters, military planes and helicopters have been flying to Ladakh almost daily with their cargo holds filled with crucial supplies and gear that soldiers would require to slug it out in the inhospitable mountain terrain, officials said in September. However, former BJP MP of Ladakh, Thupstan Chhewang, said the soldiers have not been provided with new tents, the report quoted by Rahul Gandhi said. The report also said Chinese troops have “further transgressed into Indian territory and occupied positions in Finger 2 and 3 of north bank of Pangong Tso Lake. “It is a fake news. Army’s additional directorate general of public information has refuted this statement,” PIB face Check claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-got-acche-din-rahul-gandhi-takes-swipe-at-pm-modi-s-vvip-chopper-raises-china-issue/story-NP5OyRPE2C6wlHU48Hpr3L.html
30-10-2020||India||Centre asks states to form committees for smooth Covid-19 vaccination drive||The Centre has asked states to constitute committees for coordination and overseeing Covid-19 vaccination drive while ensuring minimal disruptions in other routine healthcare services, and stressed early tracking of social media to dispel rumours which could impact the community acceptance of coronavirus inoculation. Stating that Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included “sequentially starting from health care workers”, the Health Ministry has sought constitution of committees at state and district levels which will review preparatory activities in terms of cold chain preparedness, operational planning, strategies for state-specific challenges in terms of geographical terrain and hard-to-reach areas, etc.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage In a letter to states and union territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan has suggested setting up of a state steering committee (SSC) chaired by the chief secretary, a state task force (STF) led by additional Chief Secretary or principal secretary (health), and a district task force (DTF) to be headed by the district magistrate. An annexure attached with the letter outlines the terms of references for the committees according to which the SSC will ensure active involvement of all departments concerned and devise innovative strategies for improving community engagement (‘Jan Bhagidaari’) for improved coverage of Covid-19 vaccine once it is available. “Ensure early tracking of social media and other platforms for possible misinformation and rumours around Covid-19 vaccine that could impact the community acceptance for the vaccine,” it said. The SSC will also have to institute a reward/recognition mechanism for achievement of best performing district/block/urban ward, etc. “The Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included sequentially starting from HCWs. Therefore, it is important to create strong advisory and coordination mechanism at state and district level to guide the process of Covid-19 vaccine introduction while ensuring minimal disruption of other routine health care services including immunisation,” the letter issued on October 26 stated. The activities to be conducted by the STF includes providing guidance, including funding and operational guidelines, fixing timelines for districts to plan and implement Covid-19 vaccine introduction whenever a vaccine is made available and identifying vaccinators across government and private sectors so as to minimise disruption of routine immunisation services. Activities also include planning and mapping of vaccination sessions where HCWs will be vaccinated during the 1st phase and mapping human resources across departments that could be deployed for vaccination sessions for verification of beneficiaries, crowd management and overall coordination at the session site and The STF will also track districts for adherence to timelines for overall implementation of vaccine introduction.  The DTF will monitor progress of database of beneficiaries on Covid-19 vaccination, ensure training of all concerned HR on Covid-19 vaccination Beneficiary Management system (CVBMS), monitor progress on key activities such as microplanning, communication planning, cold chain and vaccine logistics planning. Accountability to be fixed for each activity at all levels. The DTF will develop a robust communication planning at all levels to “address rumour mongering as well as vaccine eagerness”, track blocks and urban areas for adherence to timelines for various activities required for introduction of Covid-19 vaccine, besides ensuring timely disbursal of funds at all levels and sharing feedback at state level for review. The terms of references mention that SSC should meet at least once a month, STF once a fortnight, and DTF once a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-form-committees-for-smooth-covid-19-vaccination-drive/story-peUquweTLOsEW0EhpeD0kK.html
30-10-2020||India||Eye on 2022 assembly polls, Uttarakhand BJP focuses on strengthening party’s grassroots||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is focusing on booth-level training and orientation programme for its grassroots-level workers in Uttarakhand in a bid to prepare them for the next assembly elections slated to be held in the hill state in 2022.The party seeks to have an edge over its rival and as and when the poll bugle is blown. Bansidhar Bhagat, president of the BJP’s Uttarakhand unit, is on a whirlwind tour of all the 13 districts in both Garhwal and Kumaon divisions.He is not only addressing the party office-bearers, but also meeting the supporters separately. Also read | BJP preps for Uttarakhand polls, asks ministers to spend time in their areasSpecial training is being given to all the divisional block office-bearers, youth wing, panchayat and civic body representatives by senior members of the organisation in the state.The training programme for 20,000 BJP workers is being carried out in two phases. The first phase, which is being carried out at the divisional block level, has started from October 28 and will continue till November 12. The second phase will be held from November 6 to 12. The programme includes making the workers aware of the BJP’s history, the party’s achievements, its governance model both in states and at the Centre and also apprising them of the several schemes launched by it such as Ujjwala, Jan Dhan, their intended beneficiaries and other development initiatives. Bhagat spoke at a divisional orientation camp at Haridwar on Friday and stressed on the need to make the workers aware about the BJP’s history, which traces its origin to the Bharatiya Jana Sangh that was established in 1951. The BJP was formed on April 6, 1980. “In all the 252 divisional blocks of the state, our party is holding training camps for a month. The exercise is receiving an overwhelming response and the results can be seen in the near future. Interaction and regular training of the party workers are imperative. We want our party office- bearers, cabinet ministers and legislators to have first-hand knowledge of our cadres’ viewpoints. Our target is to ensure maximum workers undergo training and they become aware about the party’s policies, achievements and social welfare schemes. They will also be made aware of the poor governance by governments of opposition parties,” Bhagat said. Jay Pal Chauhan, BJP’s Haridwar president, said over 2,000 party workers are undergoing training in the district alone. The main opposition, the Congress, was quick to find faults with the BJP’s divisional-level training programme and alleged that “all is not well with the government and party workers”. Dhirendra Pratap, vice-president of the Congress’s Uttarakhand unit, alleged that the BJP government has failed to live up to the voters’ expectations because of a growing rift among Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, his cabinet colleagues and the party’s lawmakers. “The BJP knows it is an uphill task to retain power in 2022 assembly polls. It is trying to gloss over the differences among its leaders and also its poor governance, which got exposed following the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Training modules for its workers will not come to the party’s rescue. The ongoing Bihar assembly polls are a perfect example of a purported BJP wave, which was created through a carefully orchestrated media narrative, is on the wane,” Pratap alleged.Hema Bhandari, the state spokesperson for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), alleged that Uttarakhand high court (HC) took suo motu (on its own) cognisance of the corruption charges against CM Rawat and state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat. Besides, there is growing dissidence among ex-Congress legislators, who had joined the BJP in 2017 following a revolt. These incidents have exposed the BJP, which is reportedly known as the party with a difference, she further alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-2022-assembly-polls-uttarakhand-bjp-focuses-on-strengthening-party-s-grassroots/story-yHmgf2t5AfgfJ5qrWMq08K.html
30-10-2020||India||Avoid politics over Mumbai local trains: Maharashtra’s Deshmukh to Railways||The Railway administration should cooperate with the Maharashtra government on providing suburban train services to people without bringing any politics into it, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Friday.Speaking to reporters here, Deshmukh said the government has suggested certain time slots where general commuters can board these trains.The Maharashtra government had on Wednesday proposed to the Railways that the general public be allowed to travel on Mumbai local trains, which are currently available only for essential services employees and a select group of people in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.The Railway authorities appeared lukewarm to the proposal and on Thursday said only a little over 25 per cent of the normal number of commuters can be carried while following social distancing.In the pre--19 era, 80 lakh people travelled daily by Mumbai suburban local trains, called the “lifeline” of the metropolis. The Maharashtra government has given (the Railways) timings (when one can be allowed to use train services). The railway administration should cooperate with the Maharashtra government accordingly, Deshmukh said.People will not face inconvenience if the Railways cooperates well. Hence, the Railway administration should cooperate with the government without bringing any politics into this, he added.The government had proposed to the Railway authorities that the general public be allowed to travel by Mumbai local trains during non-peak hours.At present, only certain categories of persons, including essential services staff and women, can travel by local trains due to the coronavirus threat.In a letter to the Railways, the state government had suggested that any person holding a valid ticket be allowed to board local trains till 7.30 in the morning, between 11 am to 4 pm and between 8 pm till the end of the day.The time between 8 am to 10:30 am and 5 pm to 7.30 pm should be reserved for essential services staff having valid QR coded identity cards, and there should be ladies special trains every hour, the government had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-politics-over-mumbai-local-trains-maharashtra-s-deshmukh-to-railways/story-r9PiV5k6P4Zw6OuUACH6CK.html
30-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai Police remove posters slamming Emmanuel Macron and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Anti-France protests in Mumbai: Police remove posters slamming Emmanuel MacronA day after India expressed solidarity with France after a teacher was beheaded and French President Emanuel Macron was subjected to personal attacks, posters slamming Macron for defending the rights to publish cartoons of the Prophet surfaced in Mumbai and Bhopal on Thursday. Read moreXi Jinping rolls out vision for China in 2035, sparks buzz about his future rolePresident Xi Jinping had laid the foundation for an extended stint when he rolled back a constitutional restriction that barred the Chinese president for serving more than 2 terms. President Xi’s second term ends in 2022. Read moreLashkar-e-Taiba behind killing of 3 BJP leaders in Kashmir’s Kulgam, says senior police officialTerrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) is behind the killing of the three leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam, a senior police official said on Friday and added that such killings were being executed at Pakistan’s behest. A vehicle has also been seized, news agency PTI cited police officials as saying.Read more‘Conversion just for marriage’s sake not acceptable’: Allahabad High Court dismisses couple’s pleaAllahabad High Court has dismissed a writ petition filed by a married couple seeking police protection, according to a Live Law report. The high court noted the woman was a Muslim and converted to Hinduism just a month before she got married. Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi said it clearly reveals that the conversion took place only for the purpose of the marriage. Read moreEating out, grocery shopping more dangerous than air travel during Covid-19: StudyA person who eats at restaurants and steps out for shopping for grocery is at a greater risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) than someone who travels in an airplane, according to a report by Harvard researchers. Scientists at Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health published a study, in which they claimed that the rate of transmission of Covid-19 in passengers could drastically be reduced if they are encouraged to follow preventive measures. Read moreCentre may offer production-linked incentives to auto sector: Niti AayogThe Centre is likely to come up with a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for automobile sector among others. Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said, the decision has been taken in an attempt to boost domestic manufacturing. Read moreIPL 2020: ‘He came, He conquered,’ Mumbai Indians posts cheeky tweet on Suryakumar Yadav’s exchange with Virat KohliSuryakumar Yadav has become the talk of the town in the cricketing circles in recent days. Team India’s squad for the tour of Australia was announced a few days back and his name was excluded from the list. Several fans and critics did not like the fact that Yadav wasn’t able to break through into the Indian T20 team despite impressive performances in the Indian Premier League. Read moreFatima Sana Shaikh says she was molested at the age of 3: ‘It’s a battle we fight on everyday basis’Fatima Sana Shaikh says she has faced rejection multiple times in her career. In a recent interview, she spoke about how she was not considered worthy of becoming a film heroine because she didn’t look like Deepika Padukone or Aishwarya Rai.Fatima, who made her film debut with Aamir Khan’s Dangal, earned critical acclaim for her role in the film. It also went on the become the most successful Hindi film ever made. Read moreWatch: PM Modi inaugurates ‘Arogya Van’ in Gujarat, takes tour in golf cart||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-police-remove-posters-slamming-emmanuel-macron-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Q4JzWVOywXjVJLtivLgL7M.html
30-10-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh bypoll: EC advises Vijayvargiya against using “objectionable terms”||The Election Commission (EC) on Friday advised Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kailash Vijayvargiya against using contentious terms during electioneering as they violate the model code of conduct for elections.The election watchdog had earlier sent him a notice for calling Congress leaders Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh traitors and “chunnu-munnu” during electioneering for the November 3 bypolls to 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh.“ ... the Commission, hereby advises Kailash Vijayvargiya that while making public utterances he should not use any such word or statement during the period of Model Code of Conduct,” the EC said in an order.The EC earlier on Monday also advised Nath against using words like “item”. On 21 October, the EC sent him a notice after he called BJP’s Imarti Devi “an item” and triggered outrage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-bypoll-ec-advises-vijayvargiya-against-using-contentious-terms/story-Bcr5ios53BLfovOk5aaRJO.html
30-10-2020||India||10 CRPF jawans injured as truck overturns in Jharkhand||Ten CRPF personnel were injured, some of them critically, when a truck carrying them overturned after losing control while trying to save some bovine animals in Jharkhand’s Giridih district on Friday, police said.The incident took place in Madhuban police station area when around 25 jawans of the Central Reserve Police Force’s 154th Battalion were being transported from Madhuban to Nimiaghat, a police officer said.Some cattle suddenly came in front of the CRPF truck and the driver tried to manoeuvre to save them, following which the vehicle overturned, the officer said.The injured jawans have been admitted to a local hospital and it is being discussed whether to airlift the two-three personnel who are in critical condition, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-crpf-jawans-injured-as-truck-overturns-in-jharkhand/story-rdf4Wgkktxh5azcybbNn9I.html
30-10-2020||India||Maharashtra not highest in new Covid-19 cases, Kerala is, reveals 7-day data||For the past seven days, Maharashtra has not been reporting the highest number of daily cases in the country, with Kerala overtaking the state. And this is not a stray incident of a sudden spike in the number of daily cases. Health ministry data reveals this has become a trend in the last seven days between October 24 and October 30. This is the first time that such a trend has been established as Maharashtra remain the worst-affected state in the country for the past few months — as far as the number of daily cases are concerned.After Onam which was held from September last week to October first week, the Covid-19 situation in Kerala started worsening. It was mostly a tie between Kerala and Maharashtra over the highest number of daily reported cases. But now Kerala has officially ousted Maharashtra and is witnessing the highest number of single-day infections.Here is a date-wise analysis:On October 23, Maharashtra reported 7,579 new cases and Kerala was just a little behind with 7,482 cases. From October 24 ( dates are according to health ministry data), the positions interchanged.October 24Kerala: 8,11Maharashtra: 7,347October 25Kerala: 8,253Maharashtra: 6,417October 26Kerala: 6,843Maharashtra: 6,059October 27Kerala: 4.287West Bengal: 4.121Maharashtra: 3,645October 28Kerala: 5.457Maharashtra: 5,363October 29Kerala: 8,790Maharashtra: 6,738October 30Kerala: 7,020Maharashtra: 5,902The number of daily infections point to the severity of the spread of the infection as it shows that the infection is not being contained. This number also contributes to the active number of cases. Active number of infections refer to the number of people who are presently infected while the total tally includes the number of recovered cases and death toll as well. So at a time when India’s active number of cases has seen a sharp fall, Kerala is on the reverse.The active caseload of coronavirus infection in the country dropped below 6 lakh for the first time in nearly three months and comprises only 7.35 per cent of the total cases, the Union Health Ministry said today, asserting India has achieved a significant milestone in its fight against COVID-19.There are 5,94,386 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country as on date. The active caseload was 5.95 lakh on August 6.The Centre had earlier blamed the Kerala government for the crisis it is facing today. “Kerala is paying the price of its negligence during Onam,” Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said earlier. Apart from Onam, several political protests have rocked the state, flouting social distancing rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-not-highest-in-new-covid-19-cases-kerala-is-reveals-7-day-data/story-ZP2kVnUaUEoNn8FlcHcVXO.html
30-10-2020||India||Bengal boy beaten to death as parents support us, says BJP; cops call it suicide||A 15-year-old boy’s family has alleged that he was beaten to death inside a police station in Birbhum district in south Bengal on Thursday night. The police, however, said that the boy died by suicide.Since Friday morning, irate villagers clashed with police and blocked the National Highway by placing burnt tyres on road. The protesters also hurled projectiles, like bricks, at the police personnel when they went to disperse the crowd. The police had to resort to lathi charge. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has called a 12-hour-bandh in Mallarpur on Saturday, alleging that the boy was beaten to death because his parents were BJP supporters. “A 15-year-old boy died inside the police station. He was arrested following all norms and brought to the police station on Thursday. At night he went to the toilet and killed himself. We have ordered a magisterial probe and a post-mortem by a three-member medical panel following guidelines laid down by the National Human Rights Commission,” said Shyam Singh, superintendent of police of Birbhum district. The victim’s parents and villagers, however, alleged that the boy was picked up at least three days ago and was never produced in the court. “He was arrested for stealing a neighbour’s mobile phone at least three days ago. When I went to the police station, they told me that my son would be released soon. But now he has been beaten to death. He was not produced in court nor sent to any home,” said the victim’s father. Even though initially the protest was started by local villagers, BJP workers joined the protest.“How can a minor kill himself in the police station when everything, such as a towel and even the sacred thread, is taken away in police lockup? He was treated like this because his family members were BJP supporters,” said Dilip Ghosh, president of West Bengal BJP unit.BJP workers are likely to bring out rallies in Mallarpur and even gherao the police station, where the boy was found dead, on Saturday. “I am going to Mallarpur. We will gherao the police station and observe a 12-hour bandh. If necessary, we will go for a statewide bandh. His parents have been picked up by the police too and we don’t know where they are. We want a murder case to be initiated against the officer-in-charge. Why was he kept in the police station for three days? We will see the end of it,” said Saumitra Khan, BJP MP and president of the party’s youth wing in West Bengal.The ruling Trinamool Congress has denied the allegations, saying that BJP is politicising the issue. “They (BJP) play politics with every death. We all want a proper investigation and the truth to come out. But the BJP just wants to raise allegations against the TMC and the state administration,” said Avijit Singha, vice president of TMC in Birbhum district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-alleges-boy-beaten-to-death-in-custody-died-by-suicide-say-cops/story-VBqra70ydcGLhFNNlFwsVN.html
30-10-2020||India||Lashkar-e-Taiba behind killing of 3 BJP leaders in Kashmir’s Kulgam, says senior police official||Terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) is behind the killing of the three leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam, a senior police official said on Friday and added that such killings were being executed at Pakistan’s behest. A vehicle has also been seized, news agency PTI cited police officials as saying.Three workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) youth wing -- Fida Hussain, Umer Hajam and Umer Rashid Beigh -- were shot dead by unidentified terrorists in the YK Pora area of Kulgam district in south Kashmir late on Thursday. The alleged shadow group of LeT, The Resistance Front (TRF), has claimed responsibility for the killings.WATCH: BJP workers killed in Kulgam: LeT behind attack, says police; PM Modi condemns “Three militants came in a local car belonging to a local militant identified as Altaf. Fida (Hussain) was with his two colleagues in a car and the militants fired indiscriminately on them from close range. They received grave injuries and succumbed on the way to the hospital,” Vijay Kumar, the inspector general of police, was quoted as saying by PTI.He added that names of local terrorists of LeT have also surfaced during the probe. “The names of LeT terrorists-- a local terrorist from Dooru, Nisar Khanday; and Abbas from Khudwani who was previously associated with HM (Hizbul Mujahideen) and is now with LeT and also claims to be from TRF -- are cropping up. The involvement of these two is there, but there may be a FT (foreign terrorist) involved as well (in the attack),” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lashkar-e-taiba-behind-killing-of-3-bjp-leaders-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-says-senior-police-official/story-PdiWUxjtglJ7szN2JS01fM.html
30-10-2020||India||Ensure only green crackers are manufactured, sold: Delhi minister Gopal Rai to DMs||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Friday said that the city government has directed all district magistrates and the Delhi Police to ensure that only “green” firecrackers are manufactured, stored and sold in the national capital through licensed traders.People can burst firecrackers between 8:00 pm and 10 pm only on festivals like Diwali and Gurpurab, he said.On Christmas eve and New Year’s eve, it would be from 11:55 pm till 12:30 am only.“Only licensed traders can sell firecrackers compliant with PESO prescribed standards. No e-commerce websites can accept any online orders,” an order issued by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said.The Delhi government has asked all district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to comply with the directions and submit a daily action taken report to the DPCC, Rai said.In 2018, the Supreme Court had banned the use of polluting firecrackers and allowed the sale of “green” firecrackers in a bid to control air pollution.‘Green crackers’ are not as polluting as the conventional types of firecrackers and they contain at least 30 per cent less particulate matter such as Sulphur Dioxide and Nitrogen Oxide.The CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute was tasked with the job of developing ‘green crackers’. But only a few varieties were available in the market last year due to licencing requirements.The minister had earlier said that the government will launch an anti-cracker campaign from November 3. Under it, 11 special squads of the DPCC and city police will inspect firecracker manufacturing units to ensure that there is no old stock left.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-only-green-crackers-are-manufactured-sold-delhi-minister-gopal-rai-to-dms/story-LPIMGsUwnsrvi7CB0EBFIL.html
30-10-2020||India||Farooq Abdullah not being allowed to leave house a ‘new low’ in curtailment of rights in J-K: Gupkar alliance||The Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Friday said National Conference president Farooq Abdullah allegedly not being allowed to leave his house to visit Hazratbal shrine here is a “new low in curtailment of fundamental rights” of the people of Jammu and Kashmir.In a statement, PAGD spokesperson Sajad Lone condemned the state administration for putting a blockade outside the resident of Abdullah and demanded that it be removed.No official from the administration was available for comment on the issue.Abdullah is also the president of the recently floated PAGD – an alliance of seven mainstream political parties in Jammu and Kashmir seeking restoration of the erstwhile state’s special status as it existed on 4 August last year.Earlier in the day, the National Conference (NC) claimed in a tweet that the administration had blocked Abdullah’s residence and stopped him from offering prayers at Dargah Hazratbal on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi.Lone said, “Abdullah was slated to go to Hazratbal in order to participate in the religious congregation on account of Eid-Milad-Un-Nabi, however (he) was barred from leaving his house.” “We strongly condemn the actions of the state administration which are tantamount to interference in the religious rights of Dr Farooq Abdullah. This marks a new low in the curtailment of fundamental rights of the people of J-K. We demand that the blockade be removed so that Dr Farooq Sahib is able to perform his religious duties,” he said.The PAGD also “unequivocally and unambiguously” condemned the killings of three BJP workers by militants in Kulgam district of south Kashmir on Thursday.“Political differences cannot justify use of violence. Violence has always and will crowd out sanity. We will always fight aggression in all its forms irrespective of the source of aggression,” Lone said.The three BJP workers -- Fida Hussain, Umer Hajam and Umer Rashid Beigh -- were shot dead by militants in Kulgam’s Y K Pora area.The Resistance Front (TRF), believed to be a shadow group of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, has claimed responsibility for the killings. PTI SSB MIJ DIV DIV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farooq-abdullah-not-being-allowed-to-leave-house-a-new-low-in-curtailment-of-rights-in-j-k-gupkar-alliance/story-nHrHgcmYU5UkdL77ioK4bN.html
30-10-2020||India||US court asks ISRO’s Antrix to pay USD 1.2 billion compensation to Bengaluru start-up||A US court has asked Antrix Corporation, the commercial arm of Indian Space Research Organisation, to pay compensation of USD 1.2 billion to a Bengaluru-based startup, Devas Multimedia, for cancelling a satellite deal in 2005. As per the agreement in January 2005, Antrix agreed to build, launch and operate two satellites and to make available 70 MHz of S-band spectrum to Devas, which the latter planned to use to offer hybrid satellite and terrestrial communication services throughout India. The agreement was terminated by Antrix in February 2011. Over the next several years, Devas approached various legal avenues in India. This included the Supreme Court, which directed for a tribunal. In his order dated October 27, Judge Thomas S Zilly, US District Judge, Western District of Washington, Seattle, ruled that Antrix Corporation pay a compensation of USD 562.5 million to Devas Multimedia Corporation and the related interest rate amounting to a total of USD 1.2 billion. In its lawsuit filed in the US District Court, Western District of Washington in September 2018, Devas Multimedia said three separate international tribunals and nine different arbitrators have found the termination of the Devas-Antrix agreement to have been wrongful, with one of the tribunals describing it as “conduct ‘which shocks, or at least surprises, a sense of juridical propriety,’” and another finding it to be “a clear breach of simple good faith” by India. Antrix, in November 2018, had sought the dismissal of the lawsuit citing jurisdictional issues. The court, however, asserted that it had jurisdiction over the issue, but stayed the matter for one year and asked the two to file a joint status report by April 15, 2020. On July 16, 2020, both Devas and Antrix filed the instant motion, a Joint Status Report in which they disputed whether the court should lift or extend the stay, and, if the latter, whether Antrix be required to post security. Devas, according to submissions, has argued that the US court has jurisdiction over these cases, as Antrix engages in business in this district and across the United States. Antrix and Spaceflight Industries, which is headquartered in Seattle have an agreement to provide satellite launch services using India’s PSLV rocket. Antrix and RBC Signals LLC, which is headquartered in Redmond, Washington have a worldwide agreement to provide space communications services to satellite operators. Antrix in 2018 launched a satellite for Redmond, a Washington-based Planetary Resources. Antrix agreed in 2015 to launch two satellites for Colorado-based PlanetiQ. Antrix is contracted with DigitalGlobe, which has headquarters in Colorado and other locations in Florida, Virginia and Washington to procure certain satellite data, which is then distributed by the Indian Space Research Organisation’s National Remote Sensing Centre. Devas said that after the initial signing of the agreement, the two companies performed in good faith for five years. Among other things, in May 2009, Dr Appanna Bhaskarnaryana, the Director of the Satellite Communications Programme Office of ISRO, spent four to five weeks in the US with Devas personnel meeting with Hughes Networks, Sirius XM SkyTerra, Qualcomm and ICO North America to understand the technologies used by, and operation of, hybrid satellite-terrestrial operators providing telecommunications services. Devas subsequently conducted experimental trials in India (attended by Antrix officials, including the company’s then chairman), Chengdu and Beijing in China, and Stuttgart in Germany, which successfully demonstrated the hybrid satellite-terrestrial systems and end-user terminals that Devas had developed in conjunction with a global network of leading technology players such as Alcatel Lucent, it said. On February 25, 2011, Antrix issued a termination notice to Devas, which among other things stated that the policy decision was of the central government, acting in its sovereign capacity is the event of force majeure, which was an occurrence on February 23, 2011. “The scope and duration of the said decision cannot be anticipated. It is likely to be indefinite. It is not possible for Antrix to take any effective step to resume the obligations under the agreement,” Antrix said. Devas disputed Antrix’s repudiation of the agreement and sought to conduct discussions among senior management as contemplated by that agreement. In June 2011, Devas commenced arbitration proceedings under the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. Antrix initially refused to participate in the arbitration and obtained an injunction from the Indian Supreme Court enjoining the arbitration. After one year, the Supreme Court lifted the injunction, allowing the arbitration to proceed. Thereafter, Antrix participated fully in the arbitration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-court-asks-isro-s-antrix-to-pay-usd-1-2-billion-compensation-to-bengaluru-start-up/story-DTuv9j8e2h2dx0Z9TmhKJL.html
30-10-2020||India||Delhi’s air quality may improve significantly in next 2 days: Ministry of Earth Sciences||A significant improvement is likely in the national capital’s air quality over the next two days, a central government air quality monitoring agency said on Friday.The Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, said that the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM 2.5 pollution was 19 per cent on Friday.Also Read | Delhi air quality stays severe for most parts of day, settles at very poorIt was 36 per cent on Thursday, the maximum so far this season, 18 per cent on Wednesday, 23 per cent on Tuesday, 16 per cent on Monday, 19 per cent on Sunday and nine per cent on Saturday.The number of farm fires in neighbouring states dropped from 2,912 on Wednesday – the highest so far this season – to 1,143 on Thursday.Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) has improved marginally as predicted and remains in the high end of the very poor category, it said. The wind speed is expected to pick up and the improved ventilation is likely to influence air quality positively, SAFAR said.A significant improvement is predicted by November 1 and the air quality is likely to slip back into the “poor” category, it said.Delhi’s air quality entered the “severe” category for a brief period on Thursday, for the first time since January, as calm winds and low temperature allowed accumulation of pollutants amid a spike in farm fires.  On Friday morning, Delhi’s air quality was recorded in the “very poor” category.The city recorded an AQI of 381 at noon. The 24-hour average AQI was 395 on Thursday. It was 297 on Wednesday, 312 on Tuesday, 353 on Monday, and 349 on Sunday.Also Read | Centre brings new law to tackle NCR air crisisSeveral monitoring stations, including at Shadipur (417), Patparganj (406), Bawana (447) and Mundka (427), recorded air quality in the “severe” category.An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’,201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-air-quality-may-improve-significantly-in-next-2-days-ministry-of-earth-sciences/story-7b4pp5aY1RdZ2a0HlaF06L.html
30-10-2020||India||People of Drass have ‘endorsed’ Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration’s agenda: Omar Abdullah||The people of Drass in Ladakh have “endorsed” the agenda of the Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah said on Friday.The delegation, led by Omar Abdullah, is now in Kargil to begin consultations with the people “on the road ahead” for Jammu and Kashmir.Seven mainstream parties of Jammu and Kashmir, including the NC and the PDP, have formed the PAGD for restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir.On August 5 last year, the Centre had abrogated the special status of the erstwhile state and bifurcated it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. “Warmly received by the people of Drass, who in one voice endorsed the agenda of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration,” Omar Abdullah, a former chief minister, tweeted.“People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration is heading to Kargil to hold consultations with the people to chart out the road ahead,” he said on Twitter.Commenting on the Ladakh visit of the PAGD delegation, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said it was high time someone reached out to the people of Kargil as they “too have grave apprehensions” about the future.  NC’s Farooq Abdullah is the PAGD’s chairman and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti its vice-chairperson “Glad to see all of you at Kargil to engage with the people. High time someone reached out to them since they too have grave apprehensions about the future,” Mehbooba, also a former chief minister tweeted. The members of the delegation, which is visiting Ladakh, comprise of NC leader Nasir Aslam Wani, PDP leaders Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura and Waheed Para, and Awami National Conference leader Muzaffar Shah. This is the first visit of leaders of mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir to Ladakh after the August 5 last year decision of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-of-drass-have-endorsed-peoples-alliance-for-gupkar-declaration-s-agenda-omar-abdullah/story-RiUAToI33IFavgFaADJDcI.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Conversion just for marriage’s sake not acceptable’: Allahabad High Court dismisses couple’s plea||Allahabad High Court has dismissed a writ petition filed by a married couple seeking police protection, according to a Live Law report. The high court noted the woman was a Muslim and converted to Hinduism just a month before she got married, according to Live Law.Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi said it clearly reveals that the conversion took place only for the purpose of the marriage. Justice Tripathi referred to a 2014 judgement in which the same court had observed that conversion just for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable. The court then dismissed the writ petition, saying that it is not inclined to interfere in the matter under Article 226 of Constitution of India. In the 2014 judgement, the Allahabad High Court had dismissed a batch of writ petitions were filed seeking protection by a couple as they had tied the knot after the woman converted from Hinduism to Islam and then performed the nikah. “Whether conversion of the religion of a Hindu girl at the instance of a Muslim boy, without any knowledge of Islam or faith and belief in Islam and merely for the purpose of Marriage (Nikah) is valid?” the court had said about the case then, according to Live Law.“A conversion of religion by an individual to Islam can be said to be bonafide if he/she is major and of sound mind and embraces Islam by his/her own free will and because of his/her faith and belief in the oneness of God (Allah) and prophetic character of Mohamed,” the court had observed while answering the question in negative and reiterating the Supreme Court’s stand in the case of Lily Thomas vs Union of India.“If a conversion is not inspired by religion feeling and undergone for its own sake, but is resorted merely with the object of creating a ground for some claim of right or as a device adopted for the purpose to avoid marriage or to achieve an object without faith and belief in the unity of God (Allah) and Mohamed to be his prophet, the conversion shall not be bonafide. In case of a religious conversion there should be a change of heart and honest conviction in the tenets of the new religion in lieu of tenets of the original religion,” it had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conversion-just-for-marriage-s-sake-not-acceptable-allahabad-high-court-dismisses-couple-s-plea/story-j9BOvXhRrQnvK9CjcXSPXM.html
30-10-2020||India||Returning from marriage ceremony, 8 die after van falls off hill in Andhra Pradesh||Eight people, part of a marriage party, including two women and two children, were killed when a van in which they were travelling fell off a ghat road of a hill in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district. The accident took place in the early hours of Friday at around 3.30 am when the marriage party was returning from the temple of Lord Venkateshwara located on Tantikonda hill of Gokavaram block, the police said.“Preliminary investigations revealed that the brakes of the van had failed as a result of which the driver lost control over the steering and was unable to negotiate the steep curve. The vehicle plunged off the road and fell on the steps-route of the hill meant for pilgrims trekking the hill,” the police said.While six people died on the spot, two succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Rajahmundry. Six of the deceased were identified as, Kambhala Bhanu of Gokavaram village, Simhadri Prasad of Thakurpalem village, Ella Lakshmi and Ella Divyasri of Diwan Cheruvu village, Chaganti Mohini of Gadarada village and Pachakuri Narasimha of Gangapalem village.The police said about 22 people had been visited Lord Venkateshwara Swamy temple on Tantikonda hill on Thursday evening for the marriage ceremony of their kin. While the bride hailed from Velugubanda village of Rajanagaram block, the groom was from Thagurpalem village of Gokavaram block.“After the marriage, 17 people of the marriage party began returning in the van early in the morning when the accident took place. The other injured are being treated at the Rajahmundry hospital. Investigation is on,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/returning-from-marriage-ceremony-8-die-after-van-falls-off-hill-in-andhra-pradesh/story-o4t0KC3fPxE4CqzF56WZBI.html
30-10-2020||India||Hold FB, Twitter, WhatsApp directly responsible for spreading hate, fake news: Plea in SC||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to make laws to regulate social media platforms and to hold Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, Instagram directly responsible for spreading hate speeches and fake news.The public interest litigation (PIL), filed by advocate Vineet Jindal through advocate Raj Kishor Choudhary earlier this week, sought directions to the Centre to frame laws for criminal prosecution of persons involved in spreading hate and fake news through social media.It requested the top court to direct the Central government to establish a mechanism for automatic removal of hate speeches and fake news within a short timeframe so that the counter production of such hate speeches or fake news can be minimised.The PIL further prayed that the government is directed to appoint an expert investigating officer in each case registered for spreading hate and fake news through social media platforms.“A registered account is sufficient to start a channel, which provides a platform of uploading videos in the social media such as Twitter, YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, etc, which means anyone can float anything in the social media, there is no restriction or censor for their contents and there are no regulations at all by the government,” the plea said.The petitioner said that the plea was filed in wake of two tweets by the name of one Armin Navabi from his Twitter handle @ArminNavabi against Hindu goddess and using derogatory terms.The petition submitted that freedom of speech and expression is broadly understood as the notion that every person has the natural right to freely express themselves through any media and frontier without outside interference, such as censorship and without fear of reprisal, such as threats and persecutions.“However, Freedom of expression is a complex right, this is because freedom of expression is not absolute and carries with it special duties and responsibilities, therefore, it may be subject to certain restrictions provided by law,” the plea said.“Social media’s reach is much wider than that of the traditional media. Freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1) of the Constitution goes hand-in-hand with reasonable restrictions that may be imposed under Article 19(2),” it added.The plea contended that it would be beneficial for India to look at the regulation standards implemented by different countries in order to introduce guidelines, which form a balance between freedom of speech and accountability of social media platforms.“India has seen plenty of communal violence in the past, but in today’s time of social media, these aggressions are not just restricted to the regional or local population, the entire country is taken along. The fog of rumours, innuendo, and hate that act as kindling in a local communal clash immediately spread across India through social media,” the plea said.It said there had been a few horrific communal riots and social media has been playing a harmful role in inciting communal violence in India and time has come to check its misuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-facebook-twitter-whatsapp-directly-responsible-for-spreading-hate-fake-news-plea-in-supreme-court/story-2HF2a2bNDWgNcvbNirC43K.html
30-10-2020||India||Deadline for report on ST status for 6 Assam communities ends today. Here’s what you need to know||A Group of Ministers formed by Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal in January 2019 has set October 30 as the deadline for the submission of its final report on the Scheduled Tribe (ST) status of the six communities in the northeastern state. The six Assam communities that are ST status are Chutiya, Koch-Rajbongshi, Matak, Moran, Tai-Ahom and ‘Tea Tribe’, some of which are reserved as the Other Backward Classes (OBC).The Group of Ministers had been tasked by the central government to counsel on the rights and privileges of the new STs after the introduction of the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill in Parliament. Assam is mainly divided into two categories, STs (Plains) and STs (Hills) and 16 Scheduled Caste (SC) communities. There are 14 Plains STs and 15 Hills STs as of February 2019. The six communities seeking reservation mostly belong to the Plains.The ST status to the six non-tribal communities is a raging issue in Assam since the tribal communities do not see them as indigenous, especially the Koch-Rajbongshi and Tai-Ahom who were the rulers of eastern and north-eastern India once. Not only that, the tribal communities also claim that Ahoms came from Thailand 800 years ago and are not the aborigines, thereby it disregards the United Nations specification of only aborigines to be categorised as indigenous.Also Read | Assam groups promised ST status say implement it first, as existing tribes threaten agitationThe Coordination Committee of the Tribal Organisations of Assam opposes the expansion of ST list on the lines that their inclusion will impact the tribes presently on the list as well as their rights. It has asked the government to take a different approach to fulfil the demands of the six groups seeking to be reserved as ST in the state.The new status will grant property and other constitutional rights to the six communities which the indigenous in Assam are opposed to due to the fear of greater marginalization of the ‘real tribes’ post their inclusion in the ST category.The state finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who heads the Group of Ministers, had earlier this month met both the sections contesting on this issue, including the groups who are opposing the ST status to these six communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deadline-for-report-on-st-status-for-6-assam-communities-ends-today-here-s-what-you-need-to-know/story-75VysEnVHeAcHsKHvWaziL.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Consider face masks like Covid-19 vaccine,’ says Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday encouraged people to wear masks and said everyone should consider them as a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With the festive season approaching and the number of coronavirus disease cases in the national capital soaring this week, he urged Delhiites to take all steps necessary to bring down the infections and deaths.Also Read: Eating out, grocery shopping more dangerous than air travel during Covid-19: StudyBenefits of wearing a face mask were at par, if not better than, those of a lockdown, he said. “When we had imposed the lockdown, cases did not go down. If 100 per cent of people wear masks, Covid-19 infection can be controlled to a certain extent. Benefits of wearing masks are just as many as those of a lockdown, if not more. Until there is a vaccine, masks should be considered as vaccines,” he told news agency ANI. Amid concerns of rising air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), he said that wearing masks would also help protect people from air pollution. The central government on Thursday set up a new umbrella agency to fight air pollution in the region, scrapping the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA). In another attempt to address these concerns, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched the Green Delhi mobile app, which enables users to register complaints about violation of anti-pollution norms, in the Capital.Also Read: Green Delhi mobile app to be launched today: All you need to knowJain also commented on the availability of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. “Around 35 per cent of our beds are currently occupied. We wanted to increase the number of beds but the High Court did not allow it. We have asked for 80 per cent of beds in private hospitals to be reserved for Covid-19 patients. That matter is being discussed in court,” he said.Active Covid-19 cases in the country stood at 594,386 on Friday while the infection tally soared to 8,088,851,  according to the Union health ministry dashboard. Meanwhile, as many as 3,75,753, cases, including 30,952 active cases and 6,423 deaths, have been recorded in Delhi.(with ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-face-masks-like-covid-19-vaccine-says-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain/story-1XTu0o6hWGrZU3ls4Oc4AK.html
30-10-2020||India||Anti-France protests in Mumbai: Police remove posters slamming Emmanuel Macron||A day after India expressed solidarity with France after a teacher was beheaded and French President Emanuel Macron was subjected to personal attacks, posters slamming Macron for defending the rights to publish cartoons of the Prophet surfaced in Mumbai and Bhopal on Thursday. By Friday afternoon, Mumbai Police removed the posters from Mohammad Ali road. Videos of people walking, cars driving on the posters have been doing the rounds on social media. Reports said the Raza Academy, a Muslim organisation, was behind the protest. This is happened in Mumbai India 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/gE7037Yl91 Bhindi Bazar, Mumbai. They have put French President's pic on Road and walking over it. The Hate is Universal, the Ideology remain same wherever it is France or Syria or Mumbai or Azamgarh.#Radical_Islamic_Terror #IStandWithFrance pic.twitter.com/yDbiH3l89FIssuing an official statement condemning the killing of a French teacher and personal attacks on Macron, the ministry of external affairs said, “We strongly deplore the personal attacks in unacceptable language on President Emmanuel Macron in violation of the most basic standards of international discourse.”“We also condemn the brutal terrorist attack that took the life of a French teacher in a gruesome manner that has shocked the world. There is no justification for terrorism for any reason or under any circumstance,” it said. On Thursday, a woman was beheaded and two other people were killed in a suspected terrorist act in Nice. In a separate incident, a gun-wielding man was shot dead by police in French city Avignon.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the attacks and asserted India’s support to France in the fight against terrorism. “I strongly condemn the recent terrorist attacks in France, including today’s heinous attack in Nice inside a church. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and the people of France. India stands with France in the fight against terrorism,” PM Modi tweeted on Thursday.On October 16, Samuel Paty, a French teacher, was beheaded for allegedly showing cartoon of the Prophet in his class. Taking part in the mourning ceremony, Macron said France will not give up cartoons which led to a divide among world leaders as Pakistan, Turkey have strongly denounced Macron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anti-france-protests-in-mumbai-police-remove-posters-slamming-emmanuel-macron-pasted-on-street/story-XsJWBFbZf1CIEcNX8exAdM.html
30-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: NC alleges Farooq Abdullah not allowed to leave home for prayers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farooq Abdullah prevented from leaving residence to offer prayers: National ConferenceFormer Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah has been prevented from offering prayers at Srinagar’s revered Hazratbal mosque, where a big gathering is expected for the congregational Friday noon prayers on the occasion of the Prophet Muhammad’s birth celebrations, his party said. Read moreCongress, others must apologise: Javadekar after Pakistan minister’s Pulwama attack commentsUnion minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday trained his guns on the Congress party, a day after Pakistan minister Fawad Chaudhry admitted his country’s role in the Pulwama attack last year. Read moreMaharashtra plans app, colour coding to control crowd in local trainsThe Maharashtra government, which plans to throw open suburban trains in Mumbai and adjoining densely populated Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) for all commuters soon amid the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19 ) outbreak, is looking at the use of technology to prevent overcrowding in trains. Read moreSangakkara has advice for Dhoni to get back in form ahead of IPL 2021Former Sri Lanka captain Kumar Sangakkara, who is commentating in the IPL, feels this could just be one of those years for Dhoni when things didn’t go right. Read moreTelangana to announce electric vehicle policy today: All you need to knowTelangana is all set to announce its electric vehicle policy today. After Delhi and Gujarat, Telangana will become only the third state in India to have a comprehensive policy for electric vehicles. Read moreKaali Khuhi movie review: Shabana Azmi’s talents are wasted on deathly dull Netflix horror filmKaali Khuhi is a deathly dull film that doesn’t even have the decency to be bad. It’s too serious for its own good. Does it not realise that the story it’s presenting teeters on the edge of ridiculousness? Read morePM Modi on two-day Gujarat visit; pays tribute to Keshubhai PatelPrime Minister Narendra Modi paid floral tribute to former Gujarat CM Keshubhai Pat at his residence in Gandhinagar on October 30. Keshubhai Patel passed away after prolonged illness in Ahmedabad on Oct 29. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-nc-alleges-farooq-abdullah-not-allowed-to-leave-home-for-prayers-and-all-the-latest-news/story-14iGlT1sj96U4vicI6HUCJ.html
30-10-2020||India||India and US discuss UNSC agenda, agree to work closely together||India and the US have held wide ranging discussions on issues on the UN Security Council agenda and agreed to work closely given their shared values of democracy, pluralism and rule-based international order, officials here said.Earlier this year, India, along with Mexico and Ireland, was elected a non-permanent member for a two-year term starting January 1, 2021. The consultations between India and the US are reflective of the efforts on the part of the two countries to coordinate on a host of global issues that would come up before the powerful organ of the United Nations next year. “Both sides held wide ranging discussions on issues on the UN Security Council agenda and recent developments,” the Embassy of India here said in a statement on Thursday.“They agreed to work closely together given their shared values of democracy, pluralism and rule-based international order, during India’s upcoming term as non-permanent member of the UNSC during 2021-22,” it said. India has been pushing for reforms of the United Nations, including the Security Council, stating that its composition doesn’t reflect the current realities and is not representative enough. Also Read: Mike Pompeo’s attack on China signals a shift in India’s approachThe UNSC has 15 members, including five permanent members - the US, the UK, France, Russia and China. China is the only permanent member of the UNSC which is opposed to India’s inclusion into the powerful organ. Half of the 10 non-permanent members are elected every year for a two-year term. Indian delegation for the two-day consultations on Wednesday and Thursday was led by Vinay Kumar, Additional Secretary (International Organisation and Summits) in the Ministry of External Affairs.The delegation included senior officials from the Ministry of External Affairs, the Permanent Mission of India in New York and the Embassy of India in Washington, DC. The US delegation was led by Pamela D Pryor, Acting Assistant Secretary for State Department’s Bureau of International Organisation Affairs, and included other senior State Department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-us-discuss-unsc-agenda-agree-to-work-closely-together/story-oK0jYhJrYJ7pI7ccjAiu9M.html
30-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh bypoll: In Ajit Jogi’s bastion of Marwahi, a direct fight between Congress, BJP||For the first time in 20 years, no member of the Jogi family will be in the fray for polls in Chhattisgarh’s Marwahi. The Marwahi seat fell vacant following Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) chief Ajit Jogi‘s death in May. Bypolls to the seat are scheduled on November 3. The nomination papers of Ajit Jogi’s son, Amit Jogi, were rejected on October 19, making it a direct fight between Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) and ruling Congress.The nomination was rejected on the basis of a high-power committee’s report that concluded Amit Jogi is not a tribal. His wife Richa Jogi’s nomination for the seat reserved for scheduled tribes was also cancelled on the same grounds.Also read | Chhattisgarh passes amendment bill to counter Centre’s farm billsAmit Jogi, who has been camping in Marwahi, said he has not told the people who they should vote but certainly who they should not vote for. He added he is meeting people of Marwahi to protect his father’s honour. “My campaign in Marawahi is not for the vote but to tell people about the injustice that has been done to me by the Congress government. This government has insulted the memory of my father and they keep abusing my father.”He blamed chief minister Bhupesh Baghel for removing him from the contest. “But he cannot take me out of the hearts of people in Marwahi. I am sure that the people of Marwahi will protect the honour of my father.”The constituency has been the bastion of the Jogis since Chhattisgarh’s formation in 2000. Ajit Jogi successfully contested by-election from Marwahi in 2001 after he became the state’s first chief minister in 2000. He retained the seat in 2003 and 2008 before his son successfully contested from Marwahi in 2013. Ajit Jogi won the seat again in 2018 two years after he quit the Congress and formed his own party, which bagged five seats. His ally Bahujan Samaj Party won two seats.Congress leader RP Singh said after his father’s death, Amit Jogi enjoys no support in Marwahi. “Secondly, everyone in the constituency has understood that Amit has joined hands with BJP. We are winning the by-poll because BJP is nowhere.”The BJP has fielded Gambhir Singh, a surgeon, and the Congress Dr Krishan Kumar Dhruw, who has served as a medical officer in the area.BJP leader Sacchinand Upsane said they will win with a huge margin. “The Congress is spreading rumours that Amit Jogi is with us... They came third in last elections and we got more votes than Congress. They themselves are joining hands with local leaders of JCC because they know that Congress has no base in the constituency.”Pariwesh Mishra, a political commentator, said by coming out openly against Congress and by default in favour of BJP in a bipolar contest, Jogi has killed any chances of reconciliation or his return to his parent party anytime soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-bypoll-in-ajit-jogi-s-bastion-of-marwahi-a-direct-fight-between-congress-bjp/story-bpPNlPuvoIwJIXEzgHtV8L.html
30-10-2020||India||PM Modi inaugurates Sardar Patel Zoological Park in Gujarat||A day before the 145th birth anniversary of country’s first home minister Vallabhbhai Patel, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Sardar Patel Zoological Park, popularly known as Jungle Safari, in Kevadia, Narmada district on Wednesday. The park has been set up near the 182-metre Statue of Unity.After the inauguration, The Prime Minister took a tour of the zoological park. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Governor Acharya Devvrat also accompanied the PM.Earlier in the day, PM Modi inaugurated the ‘Arogya Van’ in Kevadia, which has hundreds of medicinal plants and herbs and also provides information about their usage and importance. The forest is spread over an area of about 17 acres and have five lakh plants of 380 selected species. It also comprises a lotus pond, alba garden, aroma garden, yoga and meditation garden, indoor plant section, digital information centre, souvenir shop and a cafeteria serving Ayurveda foods, among other things.PM Modi also inaugurated ‘Ekta Mall’ and ‘Children Nutrition Park’ and took a ride in ‘nutri train’ at the park.PM Modi is on a two-day visit to his home state Gujarat. During the course of the visit, he is scheduled to launch 17 projects in Gujarat.PM Modi arrived at the Ahmedabad airport today morning and began his official visit by meeting relatives of the late Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel in Gandhinagar. Patel, 92, a BJP stalwart, died on Thursday. During the meeting, PM Modi offered his condolences to the family and recalled his long association with the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. “Modiji recalled his long association with Keshubhai and asked us about his last moments,” news agency PTI quoted a family member as saying.He also offered his tributes to brothers Mahesh and Naresh Kanodia, who passed away recently.During the day, PM Modi is also scheduled to unveil the Statue of Unity website in all UN official languages and the Kevadia App at the Unity Glow Garden. The Prime Minister is also expected to meet his mother Hiraba, who lives on the outskirts of Gandhinagar city with his younger brother Pankaj Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-arogya-van-in-kevadia-gujarat/story-AGc5fJ8lltRvvzVNtXqU2H.html
30-10-2020||India||Indian Army launches indigenous mobile app ‘SAI’, will facilitate secure messaging||The Indian Army has developed and launched a secure messaging application, Secure Application for the Internet or SAI. The app supports end-to-end secure voice, text and video calling services for Android platform and was launched to prevent “leaking” of any classified information to inimical intelligence agencies, the ministry of defence said in a statement.“The model (of SAI) is similar to commercially available messaging applications like WhatsApp, Telegram, SAMVAD and GIMS and utilises end-to-end encryption messaging protocol. SAI scores over on security features with local in-house servers and coding, which can be tweaked as per requirements,” the ministry said in a release on Thursday.The indigenous messaging application has been vetted by CERT-in empanelled auditor and Army Cyber Group and the process for filing Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) hosting the infrastructure on NIC and working on iOS platform for the app is currently in progress, the ministry said. SAI will be used by the army to facilitate secure messaging within the service, it added.SAI was developed by Colonel Sai Shankar, the commanding officer of a signals unit in Rajasthan, and then upgraded to military-grade standards. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, after reviewing the working of the app, complimented Col Shankar for developing the application with “skill and ingenuity”.In July, after the Centre banned 59 apps of Chinese origin or with Chinese links from app stores in India, the defence ministry had instructed soldiers and officers of the Indian Army to delete 89 apps from their mobile devices, including news apps like Daily Hunt, dating apps like Tinder, social networking apps like Facebook, TikTok, video-conferencing apps like Zoom and gaming apps like PUBG. This was done to prevent “sensitive information” from being leaked.Popular social media apps Facebook and Instagram have also been banned. Last year, the army had instructed its soldiers and officials to stay clear of using WhatsApp for official purposes. Officers posted on sensitive posts were also asked to delete their Facebook accounts. Carrying smartphones onto bases and dockyards has been prohibited. This came after the army observed Chinese and Pakistan’s online espionage agents attempting to obtain classified information and data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-launches-indigenous-mobile-app-sai-will-facilitate-secure-messaging/story-5QRa0S55x7R8qyKQdjFFIP.html
30-10-2020||India||Congress, others must apologise: Javadekar after Pakistan minister’s Pulwama attack comments||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday trained his guns on the Congress party, a day after Pakistan minister Fawad Chaudhry admitted his country’s role in the Pulwama attack last year. Chaudhry, the science and technology minister in Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Cabinet, had said on the floor of parliament that Pakistan had entered India and beaten it on its own soil.“Pakistan has admitted its hand behind Pulwama terror attack. Now, Congress and others who talked of conspiracy theories must apologise to the country,” Javadekar, the Union information and broadcasting minister, tweeted on Friday.Chaudhry made the remarks as he responded to comments by Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) lawmaker Ayaz Sadiq. Sadiq had said that foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi was shaken at the possibility of an Indian attack to free Indian pilot Abhinandan Varthaman, who was shot down in a dogfight amid the standoff in February last year.Also read | Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot was released out of panic“The confidence with which he [Sadiq] said such things, that Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s legs were shaking because India was about to attack. Hum ne Hindustan ko ghus ke mara hai (We went inside India and hit them),” Chaudhry said, speaking in Urdu. “And our success in Pulwama, that was the success of this nation under Imran Khan’s leadership,” he added.This is the first time a Pakistan minister has admitted what India has long maintained -- that the country, directly and indirectly, encourages and supports terror groups that target India. Forty troopers of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were killed when a suicide bomber rammed an explosives-laden car into a bus, part of a convoy of security forces, in Pulwama on February 14, 2019.Also read | India designates 18 terrorists based in Pakistan under anti-terror lawCongress leader Rahul Gandhi had attacked the Centre in February this year asking a series of questions in a veiled reference to the allegations that the BJP might have benefitted from the dastardly attacks. Senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad had also alleged there was a “match-fixing” between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan which allowed the Pulwama terror attack to occur.Before this, the BJP’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra had attacked Gandhi and the Congress party. “Terrorism anywhere in the world has its roots in Pakistan. But it is irony that Rahul Gandhi and his associates from Congress party termed the Pulwama attack as a match-fixing between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Imran Khan. “This exposes that Congress and its leaders in their hatred for Modi have turned anti-India,” he had said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-others-must-apologise-javadekar-after-pakistan-minister-s-pulwama-attack-comments/story-WFGNboLe3zH5HuHRSmdKEI.html
30-10-2020||India||BJP leader blames provocations by NC, PDP for attack that killed 3 leaders||Former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta blamed the killing of three BJP leaders in Kulgam district late on Thursday evening to the provocations by the leaders of National Conference (NC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP).“We have lost three of our very dedicated leaders-- Fida Hussain Yatoo, Umer Rashid Beigh and Umer Ramzan Hajam in a dastardly terror attack. I feel the provocations by the leaders of NC and PDP, who are trying to reactivate themselves, are behind such incidents. However, we are not going to tolerate this and the killers will be paid back in the same coin.” “On Thursday a statement came from one of Imran Khan’s federal ministers, Fawad Choudhary, who claimed how Pakistan successfully carried out Pulwama attack on February 14 last year that killed 40 CRPF personnel. So, once again Pakistan’s role with its proxies in the Kashmir valley is established beyond doubt”, he added. Gupta said that the killing of three very dedicated leaders was a big loss to BJP and the nation. “There is an attempt to scuttle the voice of those who hold aloft tricolour in Kashmir Valley but it won’t deter us and the wave of nationalism won’t stop. The matter is being investigated. I stand by their families and assure them that the killers will be paid back in the same coin,” he said. Also read: ‘Sacrifices won’t go in vain’ - JP Nadda condoles BJP workers’ killings in J-K’s KulgamJammu and Kashmir BJP chief Ravinder Raina said, “Gupkar gang’s provocations are responsible for such incidents. They are conspiring against the nation and they repeatedly mention Pakistan and China in their statements. They are inciting the people in Kashmir. They should not play with fire because doing so strengthens anti-national forces and creates confusion among the people. They are to vitiate the atmosphere”. Raina also said that terrorists and their sympathises were perturbed by grand Accession Day celebrations in Kashmir for the first time on October 26. “These leaders had taken part in the celebrations. The perpetrators will pay heavily for their sins,” he added. Raina has left for the Kulgam to attend funeral of the three slain BJP functionaries. Thursday evening’s attack is seen as part of targeted attacks on mainstream politicians in Jammu and Kashmir over the last few weeks and months. Suspected terrorists have already killed BJP leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and their father and Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita. Other politicians have been warned as well.In July, the BJP youth wing’s president in Baramulla, Marouf Bhat, quit politics after he found himself on the radar of terrorists. Bhat had told HT that he was ready to sacrifice his life, not his children. “I have been twice attacked in the past but nothing has been done so far,” he said. “They (militants) are not only targeting us but our families also. We have not been given any security and accommodation in a secured place. Now, our families are at risk,” he said after quitting in July.Bhat refused to comment on the latest round of killings on Thursday. “I have resigned from the BJP and I am living a normal life,” he said.A social activist from Handwara, Mubeena Bano, who quit in July, was the third BJP leader from north Kashmir to resign from the party in the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-blames-provocations-by-nc-pdp-for-attack-that-killed-3-leaders/story-YsLSvHI6xdQF5FI10AvsaN.html
30-10-2020||India||NDRF trains first lot of stray dogs as search, rescue specialists||Blaze and Tiger are the latest trainee members of the National Disaster Response Force’s (NDRF) dog squad which helps personnel carry out search-and-rescue operations. Contrary to the conventional norm, Blaze and Tiger are neither German Shepherds nor Labradors, but “desi” stray breed, which the NDRF’s eighth battalion has inducted as a novel experiment.The battalion has four such strays, which were adopted from its Govindpuram campus in Ghaziabad. Blaze and Tiger are 17 months old, while the other two are puppies, who were born about 50 days ago. NDRF officials said the initiative is a call to action of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “vocal for local” concept. “We have started this new experiment. So far, we were involved in training German Shepherds and Labradors as part of the dog-squad’s search-and-rescue operation. Training strays is a bit difficult, when it comes to consistency. But they are doing well,” said PK Tiwary, commandant of the eighth NDRF battalion at Govindpuram in Ghaziabad. “The strays have an edge, as they are acclimatised and require less care than the other breeds we have,” he added. At present, the battalion has 20 well-trained dogs and Blaze and Tiger are likely to join them after they successfully undergo training. “Blaze and Tiger have completed 40 weeks of training. Soon, they will team up with German Shepherds and Labradors for the search-and-rescue operations. This will be the toughest part of the training exercise, as the ‘desis’ are not friendly to the other breeds that we have,” said Sandeep Kumar, who is handling the training of the first lot of strays at the NDRF. Blaze and Tiger have separate facilities such as kennel, training area and handlers from the German Shepherds and Labradors until they become friends with the rest of the pack. All dogs in the battalion undergo training daily in the morning, including physical exercises, obstacles courses and search-and-rescue operations. “The strays are very agile and, at times, it becomes difficult to make them concentrate. But over a period of time, they have become attuned to the commands. The other breeds are more obedient, sincere and can be handled easily even by other handlers. On the contrary, the strays mostly like to take commands from their own handler,” Kumar said. The dogs are an integral part of the NDRF and a dog-squad always accompanies teams, whenever they go for search and rescue missions. The dogs with NDRF are well trained and are also familiar with public places in a bid to perform their duties in crowded places and urban landscapes. The handlers at the battalion said that the “desi” dogs have more physical stamina and are less susceptible to ailments. “We are pulling out all stops to train Blaze and Tiger, who are puny and less bulky than other breeds that we have. They are likely to prove more successful in search-and-rescue missions. Team work is the key to their success, which will be the most crucial phase of the training that starts soon,” Kumar added.The dogs from the battalion have proved their mettle during the 2011 tsunami rescue operations in Japan, 2015 earthquake in Nepal and have even served in several missions across the country. They have also taken part in local search-and-rescue operations such as the Akash Nagar building collapse in Ghaziabad and Shaberi building collapse incident at Greater Noida in Gautam Buddha Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-trains-first-lot-of-stray-dogs-as-search-rescue-specialists/story-JGo8HBRX3roDcN3LAqZauL.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Sacrifices won’t go in vain’: JP Nadda condoles BJP workers’ killings in J-K’s Kulgam||BJP president JP Nadda on Fridy condemned the killing of three workers of his party’s youth wing in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday, saying their sacrifice will not go in vain. Fida Hussain Itoo, the district general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), Umer Rashid Beigh, a district executive member of the unit, and Umer Hajam, another member of the body, were shot dead by suspected terrorists in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police said. The attack took place at YK Pora in Kulgam on Thursday evening, they had said.“Terrorists killed three leaders, including district BJP Yuva Morcha general secretary Fida Hussain, in a cowardly attack in Kulgam in Jammu and Kashmir. The death of such patriots is a big loss for the country. The whole society is with the suffering families. These sacrifices will not go in vain. Condolences to the families,” JP Nadda said in a tweet in Hindi.Also read | 180 terrorists, 55 security force personnel killed this year in J&K: DGPThe three men were rushed to the Qazigund hospital with bullet injuries after being shot at by unidentified gunmen. Doctors at the hospital declared them dead on arrival. Officials said a case has been filed and an investigation has begun.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Jammu and Kashmir unit had also “strongly condemned this barbaric terror attack” on Thursday and said that “those who are responsible for this will not be spared”. On Friday, former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta attributed the killings to the provocations by the leaders of National Conference (NC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).Also read | BJP seeks security after killing of 3 workers in Kulgam“We have lost three of our very dedicated leaders-- Fida Hussain Yatoo, Umer Rashid Beigh and Umer Ramzan Hajam in a dastardly terror attack. I feel the provocations by the leaders of NC and PDP, who are trying to reactivate themselves, are behind such incidents. However, we are not going to tolerate this and the killers will be paid back in the same coin,” Gupta said.Gupta said that the killing of three very dedicated leaders was a big loss to BJP and the nation. “There is an attempt to scuttle the voice of those who hold aloft the tricolour in the Kashmir Valley but it won’t deter us and the wave of nationalism won’t stop. The matter is being investigated,” he said. JK BJP chief Ravinder Raina also echoed Gupta’s allegations. “Gupkar gang’s provocations are responsible for such incidents. They are conspiring against the nation and they repeatedly mention Pakistan and China in their statements. They are inciting the people in Kashmir. They should not play with fire because doing so strengthens anti-national forces and creates confusion among the people. They are to vitiate the atmosphere,” Raina said.Raina also said that terrorists and their sympathisers were perturbed by grand Accession Day celebrations in Kashmir for the first time on October 26. “These leaders had taken part in the celebrations. The perpetrators will pay heavily for their sins,” he added.Before this BJP leader Sheikh Waseem Bari, his brother and their father as well as Congress sarpanch Ajay Pandita were killed in Kashmir in July. BJYM president from Baramulla, Marouf Bhat, had resigned from the party followed by the resignation of a social activist from Handwara, Mubeena Bano. She was the third leader of the BJP from north Kashmir who had resigned from the party that month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sacrifices-won-t-go-in-vain-jp-nadda-condoles-bjp-workers-killings-in-j-k-s-kulgam/story-O5mF0TlQgf2WlWKcCc0FvK.html
30-10-2020||India||J&K: BJP seeks security after killing of 3 workers in Kulgam||Following the killing of three of its men in a terror attack, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Jammu & Kashmir has demanded security for its leaders and party workers.Unidentified gunmen had killed Fida Hussain Itoo (BJYM district general secretary, Kulgam), Umer Rashid Beigh (BJYM district executive member, Kulgam), and Umer Hajam in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday. The men, travelling in a car late in the evening, were without security and sustained bullet injuries. They were taken to Qazigund hospital where they were declared brought dead.A search and cordon operation in the area did not yield any result. Now, BJP leadership has reiterated its demand for security for its leadership and workers in Kashmir. Condemning the killings, former legislator and vice president of the party, Sofi Yusuf, said, “Despite our seeking security, they (workers) didn’t have any...but this will not deter us.”He said the party has apprised the police top brass with the issue. “We have raised our concerns,” he said. Meanwhile, several BJP leaders are travelling to south Kashmir for the funeral of the three workers.Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the killings and tweeted, “I condemn the killing of 3 of our young Karyakartas. They were bright youngsters doing excellent work in J&K. My thoughts are with their families in this time of grief. May their souls rest in peace.” PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti tweeted, “Saddened to hear about the killing of three BJP workers in Kulgam. Condolences to their families. At the end of the day, its people of J&K who pay with their lives because of GOI’s ill thought out policies.” Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said the perpetrators of violence are the enemies of humanity and such cowardly acts cannot be justified. “Law shall take its course and the guilty shall be dealt with sternly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-bjp-seeks-security-after-killing-of-3-workers-in-kulgam/story-Lj28N4ce3YfR24JsXxe4zJ.html
30-10-2020||India||India registers 48,648 new Covid-19 cases, slightly lower than Thursday||India reported 48,648 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 563 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the country’s tally to 8,088,851, according to the Union health ministry’s data on Friday morning. The number of new cases was less than Thursday morning’s 603,687 but there were 46 more fatalities on Friday, which have raised the death toll to 121,090.Active cases of the coronavirus disease stand at 594,386, down from 603,687 on Thursday morning, as of 8am on Friday, the health ministry’s dashboard showed. The health ministry has stressed that the declining trend of the active cases of Covid-19 is supported by a rising number of recovered cases in the country. The number of recovered cases is at 7,373,375 and the gap between recovered and active cases has crossed 6,778,989. The national recovery rate is at 91.15% now.Also read | Grocery store workers at heightened risk of symptomless Covid-19 infections: StudyData showed on Thursday morning that 56,480 Covid-19 patients had recovered and discharged and the ministry said that 79% of them were observed to be concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra had contributed the maximum with more than 8,000 single-day recoveries followed by Kerala with more than 7,000 recoveries.Of the 49,881 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, 79% were from 10 states and Union territories. Kerala continues to report a very high number of new cases with more than 8,000 cases followed by Maharashtra with more than 6,000 cases.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayThere were 517 fatalities on Thursday morning and of these, nearly 81% are concentrated in 10 states and Union territories. Maharashtra had reported the maximum fatalities with 91 cases.India has attributed the falling positivity rate, which is at 7.54% at present, to scaling up of its testing capacity from one in January to more than 106.5 million. The health ministry said on Thursday that with 10,75,760 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the cumulative tests have crossed 10,65,63,440. Nearly 1.1 million tests have been conducted daily on an average during the past six weeks, it has said.“India has demonstrated a consistent increase in the COVID-19 testing infrastructure since Jan 2020 resulting in an exponential increase in its testing numbers. The country’s testing capacities have been ramped up multiple times. 15 lakh tests can be done every day now,” it added. Also read | Covid-19 vaccine update: Brazil expects vaccine by June 2021, Russia temporarily pauses trials“As evidence has revealed, comprehensive and widespread testing on a sustained basis has resulted in bringing down the positivity rate. The sharp decline in the national cumulative positivity rate has demonstrated that the rate of spread of infection is being effectively contained. The cumulative positivity rate has been falling progressively and has touched 7.54% today,” it said.The global coronavirus disease tally stands at 44.9 million cases and more than 1.18 million deaths. Europe, North America and Latin America account for more than 66% of global cases and over 76% of global deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-48-648-new-covid-19-cases-slightly-lower-than-thursday/story-SXOyoJb058C1InDuCNu6MK.html
30-10-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi to visit Statue of Unity as part of Gujarat tour||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as part of a two-day visit to his home state Gujarat, will visit the Statue of Unity, the world’s tallest statue and the nation’s homage to the country’s first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, on Saturday.Modi, who was the chief minister of the western state before he became the Prime Minister of the country, has a packed itinerary for the tour that began Friday.The Prime Minister will also pay his respects to the family of Keshubhai Patel, a former chief minister of Gujarat who passed away after a prolonged illness on Thursday, in Gandhinagar on Friday morning.Also Read: Tejashwi Yadav replies to PM Modi’s ‘Yuvraj of Jungle Raj’ jibeAnother item on the Prime Minister's programme is a visit to the Arogya Van and Arogya Kutir at Kevadia. He will also visit an Ekta Mall and inaugurate a Children’s Nutrition Park.He will also lay the foundation stone of several other projects and inaugurate a Jungle Safari and Geodesic Dome Aviary in the afternoon.He will then inaugurate Dynamic Dam Lighting around 7pm.Subsequently, the website of the Statue of Unity (in all UN languages) and the Kevadia mobile app will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-visit-statue-of-unity-as-part-of-gujarat-tour/story-9gm5GZF6BoArhoPjrMmiJO.html
30-10-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi hopes for compassion, brotherhood in Milad-un-Nabi greetings and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. PM Modi hopes for compassion, brotherhood in Milad-un-Nabi greetings to nationPrime Minister Narendra Modi hoped for ‘compassion and brotherhood’ in his greetings to the nation on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. “Best wishes on Milad-un-Nabi. Hope this day furthers compassion and brotherhood all across. May everybody be healthy and happy. Eid Mubarak!,” PM Modi said in a Tweet. Read moreChina tries to negotiate sweet deal to step back in Ladakh. India won’t biteEven as New Delhi awaits Beijing’s confirmation on a date for the eighth round of military-diplomatic level dialogue on disengagement in East Ladakh, HT learns that it has rejected the conditions posed by the People’s Liberation Army for the withdrawal of Chinese troops from the Finger 4 mountainous spur on the north banks of Pangong Tso. Read moreIPL 2020: Gautam Gambhir names player who is going to ‘become one of the top-most all-rounders across formats’Chennai Super Kings had a forgettable Indian Premier League season this year. For the first time in the history of the tournament, they haven’t managed to make it to the playoffs. Currently, they are the bottom-placed team in the tournament with just 10 points out of 13 games. Read moreAnushka Sharma, expecting her first child with Virat Kohli, shares wisdom about perceptions and truth. See hereActor Anushka Sharma has some Friday wisdom to share with her fans. The actor, who is expecting her first child with husband Virat Kohli, took to Instagram and posted a thought-provoking message. Read morePUBG Mobile, PUBG Mobile Lite stop working in IndiaPUBG Mobile was banned in India earlier this year along with 117 more Chinese-linked apps. This included both PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite. Following the government order, PUBG Mobile was removed from the Google Play Store and App Store. Read moreIPL 2020: Chennai Super Kings beat KKR by 6 wicketsChennai Super Kings beat Kolkata Knight Riders by 6 wickets in the 49th Indian Premier League 2020 match at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium. KKR batted first after losing the toss. Nitish Rana’s brilliant half-century guided Kolkata Knight Riders to 172 for five in their 20 overs. Watch Here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-hopes-for-compassion-brotherhood-in-milad-un-nabi-greetings-and-all-the-latest-news/story-JyUH1s1sGhTeJrCAv0QI8M.html
30-10-2020||India||India scales up Covid-19 testing capacity; positivity rate drops||The Union health ministry on Friday said that India has “exponentially scaled” up its Covid-19 testing capacity from one in January to more than 106.5 million at present. “The very high testing has resulted in the continuously falling positivity rate. It is 7.54% presently,” the ministry added.According to the health ministry, the cumulative positivity rate of coronavirus disease has been falling progressively as testing has increased and it has touched 7.54 per cent as of October 29. At least 10 million were conducted in the last nine days and the daily positivity rate stands at 4.64 per cent.The declining trend of active Covid-19 cases is supported by a rising number of recovered cases. The total recovered cases have crossed 7.3 million. The gap between recovered cases and active cases has crossed 6.7 million, the ministry has said.India’s tally of the coronavirus disease on Thursday crossed the eight million-mark as the country logged nearly 50,000 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking its tally to 8,040,203, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The death toll rose to 120,527 with 517 fatalities in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra has contributed the maximum with more than 8,000 single day recoveries followed by Kerala with more than 7,000 recoveries. While Kerala has reported 6,260 recovered cases, Delhi has witnessed at least 4,128 recovered cases.West Bengal has reported 3,825 cured cases of the coronavirus disease, Tamil Nadu has seen 3,850 recovered cases and at least 3,609 people got discharged from hospital in Andhra Pradesh. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh has reported 2,742 recovered cases, Rajasthan has reported 2,016 cases, and Odisha with 2,015 recovered cases.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-scales-up-covid-19-testing-capacity-positivity-rate-drops/story-Yum9GzcN0bGzFFexduOgqK.html
30-10-2020||India||PM Modi hopes for compassion, brotherhood in Milad-un-Nabi greetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi hoped for ‘compassion and brotherhood’ in his greetings to the nation on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad.“Best wishes on Milad-un-Nabi. Hope this day furthers compassion and brotherhood all across. May everybody be healthy and happy. Eid Mubarak!” PM Modi said in a Tweet.President Ram Nath Kovind also extended his greetings on the occasion and urged everyone to follow the Prophet’s teachings and work for the society’s well-being. “On the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, the birthday of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH), good wishes to all fellow citizens, especially to our Muslim brothers and sisters in India and abroad. Let us follow his teachings and work for the well-being of society and peace & harmony in the country,” he tweeted.Practitioners of Islam all over the world observe Prophet Muhammad’s birthday on Milad-un-Nabi. The day is also known as Mawlid or Nabid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hopes-for-compassion-brotherhood-in-milad-un-nabi-greetings-to-nation/story-002LcpkjbmWpR4JJ3OHvEM.html
30-10-2020||India||Northwest India battles ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ air quality||Many parts of northwest India recorded “severe” and “very poor” air quality on Friday morning.The air quality of Bhiwadi, Fatehabad, Delhi, Faridabad, Greater Noida, Gurugram, Hisar, Jind and Ghaziabad was either in “severe” or “very poor” category as stubble fires peaked and meteorological conditions became adverse. On Thursday, the contribution from stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana to Delhi’s PM 2.5 load was 36%, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) under Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM). An air quality index (AQI) reading between 301 and 400 is considered “very poor” while an AQI reading between 401 and 500 is categorised as “severe”. Severe air quality can affect healthy people and seriously impact those with existing health conditions.Also Read: Air pollution: New law, new hope, old challengesThe wind direction is north-westerly, wind speed over Delhi is under 4 kmph and farm fires are at their peak now. The combination of these factors has led to the deterioration of air quality in most parts of northwest India. A very large number of farm fires—at least 3,000 in Punjab—was recorded on October 28, according to the air quality early warning system under the ministry of earthy sciences (MoES). The wind speed is likely to improve marginally on Friday. This could lead to a slight improvement in air quality, but Delhi’s AQI reading would remain in the “very poor” category according to MoES.The minimum temperature is likely to fall further across northwest India by 2-3 degrees Celsius in the next 3 or 4 days according to the Regional Meteorological Centre, Delhi. The lowest minimum temperature recorded over the northwestern plains in the past 24 hours was 10.3 degrees Celsius at Adampur IAF (Punjab). Delhi had recorded a minimum temperature of 12.5 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the lowest temperature recorded in October in 26 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/northwest-india-battles-very-poor-to-severe-air-quality/story-PJGL3LbhxqlMoRwm4KeL4O.html
30-10-2020||India||Decision to re-open Kartarpur Corridor will be as per Covid-19 protocol: MEA||Ahead of the Guru Nanak Jayanti the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday said that a decision to re-open the Kartarpur Corridor will be taken as per the coronavirus protocol.Speaking at the weekly virtual briefing, Anurag Srivastava, MEA Spokesperson, said that the Kartarpur Corridor was closed due to Covid-19 protocol and it will re-opened only after consultation with all the concerned authorities.Also Read: Yet to decide on opening Kartarpur Corridor, says India“The decision to reopen the Kartarpur Corridor will be in line with #Covid19 protocol. We are in touch with all the concerned authorities,” said Srivastava. On October 2, Pakistan government had announced the re-opening of the 4.7-kilometre-long passage that connects Dera Baba Nanak Sahib in India’s Gurdaspur and Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan’s Kartarpur. It was inaugurated last year.Also Read: India, Pakistan sign agreement to operationalise Kartarpur corridorIn the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Kartarpur Corridor was shut down by the Indian government in March.Pakistan’s government had also imposed a ban on Pakistani nationals from travelling via the Kartarpur corridor.It was reopened briefly in June to commemorate Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s death anniversary, with India rejecting Pakistan’s offer and refusing to open the corridor on its side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-to-re-open-kartarpur-corridor-will-be-as-per-covid-19-protocol-mea/story-ocRRU0GFn7BtqSov2ZVyEP.html
30-10-2020||India||6 killed as van overturns in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district||Six people, members of a wedding party, were killed after the vehicle they were travelling in overturned in Thantikonda village of East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh on early on Friday. Those injured have been shifted to a hospital, news agency ANI reported.The van was returning from a wedding and was carrying 15 people, according to ANI.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-killed-as-van-overturns-in-andhra-pradesh-s-east-godavari-district/story-ssa07DqKTk7odFUvOZT5kN.html
30-10-2020||India||China draws up a peace plan on Ladakh. India sees right through it||Even as New Delhi awaits Beijing’s confirmation on a date for the eighth round of military-diplomatic level dialogue on disengagement in East Ladakh, HT learns that it has rejected the conditions posed by the People’s Liberation Army for the withdrawal of Chinese troops from the Finger 4 mountainous spur on the north banks of Pangong Tso.According to officials familiar with the thinking in India’s national security establishment, the next round of talks will likely be held after the end of the 5th Plenary Session of the 19th CPC Central Committee meeting and the November 3 US Presidential elections. India’s defence minister Rajnath Singh on his part has made it clear that the country is ready to continue with the disengagement and de-escalation dialogue so that both armies, deployed since May 2020, can return to their barracks.According to senior military commanders familiar with the discussions between the two sides, India has found PLA’s condition that Indian Army should only patrol till Finger 3 of Pangong Tso, with the Chinese army only patrolling till Finger 5 unacceptable as this means that the contentious Finger 4 will become part of occupied Aksai Chin.Essentially, the Chinese proposal means that Finger 4 will become out of bounds for both armies even though the Indian Army used to (or at least try to) patrol till Finger 8 in the past.The Chinese perception of the line of actual control or LAC, by a 1959 line, runs through Finger 4 of the Pangong Tso lake.India has rejected this. Also Watch | Explained: How India-US BECA pact will help in LAC faceoff with ChinaThe Indian perception of LAC is that the line runs through Finger 8 of the salt water lake. To complicate matters, the PLA has built a road right up to Finger 4 from Finger 8, while the Indian side is still to connect by road to Finger 4.While Indian and Chinese troops are both at the height of 5800 metres on Finger 4, Beijing’s proposal calls for permanent vacation of the spur by the Indian Army. On May 5-6 night, the PLA, using riot gear and nail studded clubs and rods launched an assault on Finger 4, throwing an Indian Army officer into the Pangong Tso lake and overpowering contesting Indian troops.New Delhi has also rejected Beijing’s proposal that the Indian Army vacate the Rezang La -Rechin La ridge-line on the south bank of the Pangong Tso first as part of the disengagement process.India’s position, which has been conveyed to the Chinese according to the military commanders cited above is that the aggression on the LAC was initiated by Chinese troops — first on Finger 4, then in the Galwan valley and finally, in the Gogra-Hot Springs area — and that the Indian Army then retaliated in South Pangong Tso. New Delhi wants the disengagement and de-escalation to follow the same order, with the Chinese withdrawing first.The ground situation all along the 1597 km LAC in Eastern Ladakh remains the same with both Indian and Chinese armies now battling the elements. While the Indian Army is trying to keep all the high mountain passes to to both north and south of Pangong Tso open, the PLA are at an advantage (in terms of logistics and movement) due to the vast and flat Tibetan plateau on their side.The military commanders insisted that the morale of Indian troops, under the new XIV Corps commander, remains high and pointed out that this is first time in many years that Indian soldiers are patrolling right up to the limits defined by the China Study Group in 1976.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-tries-to-negotiate-sweet-deal-to-step-back-in-ladakh-india-won-t-bite/story-tk6K5kRpEDQhLpFbX6CEoM.html
30-10-2020||India||Supreme Court stays order directing surrender of 2,300 undertrials||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed an order directing more than 2,300 under trials to surrender after the Delhi high court ended the arrangement by which interim bail of prisoners was automatically extended to prevent overcrowding of prisons during the Covid-19 pandemic.A three-judge bench of Justices LN Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi stayed the October 20 order issued by a three-judge bench of the Delhi HC headed by Chief Justice DN Patel. The order came on a petition filed by National Forum on Prison Reforms argued by senior advocate Colin Gonsalves.The high court had directed 2318 under-trials involved in heinous offences to surrender in a phased manner latest by November 13. About the remaining 2,907 prisoners, whose interim bails were extended by HC’s previous orders, a high powered committee was set up on the orders of the Supreme Court for deciding their surrender on a case to case basis. The apex bench said, “There shall be stay of directions (i), (ii) and (iv) given in paragraph 7 of the impugned order dated October 20 passed by the High Court.” The stay would operate till November 26 when the bench will hear the prison authorities and Delhi government on the petition.Gonsalves told the apex court that the order of the HC will result in widespread confusion as prisoners will be forced to approach different trial courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-order-directing-surrender-of-2-300-undertrials/story-F27bKW7XUDE0JjDeSH9REP.html
30-10-2020||India||PM Modi on 2-day Gujarat trip from today, to inaugurate various projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will arrive in Gujarat on Friday morning on a two-day visit during which he is scheduled to launch a host of projects, including the seaplane service between Kevadiya and Ahmedabad, an official said on Thursday, according to news agency PTI.After his arrival at the Ahmedabad airport, PM Modi is expected to visit the grieving family of former Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel in Gandhinagar. The BJP stalwart passed away on Thursday due to prolonged illness.PM Modi will then leave for Kevadiya in Narmada district.This will be his first visit to his home state since the coronavirus outbreak.PM Modi would take a helicopter ride from the Ahmedabad airport to reach Kevadiya, according to the official. He would first inaugurate the Sardar Patel Zoological Park which is dedicated to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Later, he would inaugurate a boat service which would operate in the Narmada river between the statue and Shreshth Bharat Bhavan.The PM is expected to take a boat ride after inauguration of the service, the official said. He would then inaugurate Ekta Mall near the statue where tourists can buy handicraft items brought from all over the country.On the morning of October 31, PM Modi would first visit the Statue of Unity to pay floral tributes to Sardar Patel on his birth anniversary. On the occasion, a parade, named Ekta Diwas Parade, by Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and the Gujarat police will also be organised.After speaking at the parade ground near the statue, PM Modi would interact with civil service probationers through video conferencing, the official said.Later in the afternoon, the PM would launch the seaplane service connecting Kevadiya and Ahmedabad. He will then leave for New Delhi, said the official.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-on-2-day-gujarat-trip-from-today-to-inaugurate-various-projects/story-2Jk5qpTAvhHDPjLiahpjAI.html
30-10-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||France imposed a near-total lockdown on Wednesday, and Germany a partial one, as the countries continue to be roiled by the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. From Italy to the Czech Republic and from Belgium to Spain, much of Europe is now under some form of lockdown or curfew. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), on October 28, nearly 50% (201,588) of the daily new cases around the world (404,159) came from Europe.The second wave of Covid-19 infections in Europe has been gathering momentum for weeks now. Countries initially responded by imposing some emergency measures, but most steered clear of enforcing lockdowns, worried about the impact of more stringent restrictions on already struggling economies (and, consequently, on people). That’s changed now. The hardest lockdown is in France, which, along with Spain, is the worst hit by the second wave — only schools and essential businesses will remain open from Friday till December 1.Also Read: Future pandemics could be deadlier, warns studyThere was always an inevitability about the second wave. As countries ease restrictions on movement and activities, populations waiting to exhale do so collectively — one enormous exhalation. And everyone knows the connection between exhalations and this particular viral infection.Despite protestations to the contrary by governments in Europe, there was also always an inevitability about a second wave of lockdowns. With their health systems overwhelmed by the surge of hospitalisations, European countries needed to break the chain of infection — and the only sure way to do so is a lockdown. Technically, masks and social distancing can also break the chain, but not when faced with the all-too-human instincts to not wear masks (or wear them every other way but the right one), and to socialise.So, what should Delhi (which saw a record number of cases on Wednesday) do?The trajectory of the pandemic in Delhi shows that the Capital is now experiencing the third wave of the pandemic, although as HT’s Covid-19 data specialist Jamie Mullick insists, this is likely misleading. His argument is that Delhi’s inadequate testing through August (and some part of July), and its continued reliance on rapid antigen tests (although it has increased the number of RT-PCR tests in the past week, almost 29% of its tests were antigen tests) skews the picture (and the curve).Also Read: Elderly who live with working-age people at higher Covid-19 risk, says Lancet studyIn Dispatch 104, on July 14, I referred to this skew (which was already evident). “Delhi has definitely flattened the curve, although the peak is a little too narrow for my liking (in general, the peaks of many distributions, including infections, are more rounded and gradual),” was what I wrote then.To return to the original question: what should Delhi do?One, it should test even more aggressively, increasing the proportion of RT-PCR tests, and try to either source more accurate rapid antigen tests, or enhance the accuracy of the existing tests (a previous instalment of Dispatch suggested a simple hack -- two samples tested simultaneously, with the subject administered the RT-PCR tests if there is a discrepancy between the results of the two).Two, it needs to screen and trace as diligently as it was doing in May and June. Even visitors flying in from hot spots such as Bengaluru are not always screened at the airport, for instance.Three, it should ensure that its hospitals and hospital staff are ready to deal with the rush of patients that can be expected (and that it has enough critical care beds, oxygen, and ventilators).Four, it should convene a meeting of the state disaster management authority and consider imposing restrictions on social, cultural and religious activities; movement; and on businesses and establishments. I would recommend a complete ban on the first till December 1 (starting immediately); the re-imposition of a curfew; late opening and early closing of shops and restaurants; and a four-day week for businesses that have restarted WFO (work from office) — the other day or two days can be WFH — with a cap of 20% or 25% on staff in office.And the time to do these things is now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-jFPTzdJ7ngWuLNvDhsHvkN.html
30-10-2020||India||Pakistan minister admits Pulwama terror role||Pakistani minister Fawad Chaudhry sparked a controversy on Thursday when he admitted the country’s role in the Pulwama terror attack, bragging on the floor of parliament that it (Pakistan) had entered India and beaten it on its own soil.Chaudhry, who holds the science and technology portfolio in Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Cabinet and was formerly the country’s information minister, made the remarks in the National Assembly while responding to comments by Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) lawmaker Ayaz Sadiq, who contended foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi was shaken at the possibility of an Indian attack to free Indian pilot Abhinandan Varthaman, who was shot down in a dogfight amid the standoff in February last year.“The confidence with which he [Sadiq] said such things, that Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s legs were shaking because India was about to attack. Hum ne Hindustan ko ghus ke mara hai (We went inside India and hit them),” Chaudhry said, speaking in Urdu.“And our success in Pulwama, that was the success of this nation under Imran Khan’s leadership,” he added.This is the first time a Pakistan minister has admitted what India has long maintained -- that the country directly and indirectly encourages and supports terror groups that target India. Pakistan has disregarded evidence provided by India on the role of terror groups based there in the 26/11 Mumbai attacks and the Pathankot airbase attack, but it might be difficult for it to walk back on an admission by its own minister -- and on the floor of its own Parliament.Forty Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers were killed when a suicide bomber rammed an explosives-laden car into a bus, part of a convoy of security forces, in Pulwama on February 14, 2019. In reprisal for the attack, for which responsibility was claimed by the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist group, Indian Air Force planes bombed a JeM training in Balakot, Pakistan, 12 days later.On February 27, 2019, Pakistani said its combat jets had targeted areas near Indian military installations across the Line of Control (LoC), and this sparked an aerial engagement which resulted in the shooting down of the jet piloted by Varthaman. On March 1, 2019, Pakistan freed Varthaman.Chaudhry contended that after the Pulwama incident, the way in which Pakistan’s military and air force “went in and hit Hindustan” had left India’s media and political leadership “ashamed”.There was no immediate response to Chaudhry’s remarks from Indian officials.Union minister of state for road transport and highways, and former Indian Army chief, General VK Singh, said the Indian government had already said all leads pointed to Pakistan. “It is good that Pakistan has admitted it. I am sure our government will utilise this admittance to tell the world that Pakistan needs to be blacklisted in the FATF (Financial Action Task Force),” he told ANI.Soon after Chaudhry’s remarks were widely covered by the Indian media, he told HT over the phone from Islamabad that he had been referring to the standoff and air strikes by both sides in his remarks in Parliament.“I was referring to the post-Pulwama issues, when the Pakistan Air Force taught a lesson to the Indian side after the air strike on February 26. If some one wants to twist my remarks, there is little I can do,” Chaudhry said.During the external affairs ministry’s weekly news briefing on Thursday, spokesperson Anurag Srivastava again criticised Pakistan for failing to curb terrorism directed against India. He was responding to Islamabad’s rejection of a call by India and the US for Pakistan to take “irreversible” action against terrorists operating from its soil.“The whole world knows the truth about Pakistan’s role in supporting terrorism, no amount of denial can hide this truth. Even their own leaders have, time and again, spoken about their role with regard to terrorism. The country which provides shelter to the maximum number of UN-proscribed terrorists should not even attempt to play victim,” he said.Srivastava also dismissed Pakistan’s criticism of the latest change in land use laws in Kashmir. Noting that the Indian government has taken several measures for the socio-economic development of Jammu and Kashmir, he said the region was an integral part of India. “Therefore, these decisions relate to internal affairs of India and no country has the locus standi to comment on this,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-minister-admits-pulwama-terror-role/story-LHi3OPTA1f2noGs0tCQq9N.html
30-10-2020||India||Centre brings new law to tackle NCR air crisis||The Union government issued an ordinance and put in place a new anti-pollution agency with sweeping powers spanning five north Indian states where it will monitor and act against sources of dirty air, armed with the ability to lay down rules, set emission standards, and hand out fines of up to Rs 1 crore or send violators to prison for up to five years.The ordinance, issued by the ministry of law and justice as per its commitment to Supreme Court, sets up what will be an 18-member Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) for the National Capital Region (NCR). Its members will be drawn from Union ministries, NGOs and administrations from each of the five NCR or NCR-adjacent states: Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.“We will do everything on a war footing to curb air pollution,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the Supreme Court on Thursday, days after the government sought time from the judges to create a permanent mechanism to tackle a persistent problem.The new commission replaces all ad-hoc committees and bodies created under court orders, including the SC-appointed environment pollution control authority (Epca), which was tasked with overseeing air pollution control in NCR since 1998.Since 2015, the air in the national capital and in much of the Indo-Gangetic plains plunges into hazardous levels as a consequence of farm fires, pre-winter meteorological conditions, and festivals, when more people crowd markets, and use firecrackers.“We like to have a look at the Ordinance before passing any order. Let the petitioner also go through it and make suggestions,” chief justice SA Bobde said, adjourning the case to November 6. The hearing was related to a petition seeking the court’s intervention in farm fires in NCR and adjacent regions.Pollution levels in the air were at its worst yet this season, with the air quality index (AQI) in the Capital settling at 395 – merely six notches below what’s considered severe. This directly appeared to correlate with the number of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, which hit a new peak on Wednesday. Data from US’s National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) showed 2,633 fires in the two states.Farm fires are likely to be one of the focus areas of the new commission, which will be headed by a retired bureaucrat, include eight technical members, and three from non-governmental organisations. The commission will be a statutory authority and its 18 fulltime members will be appointed by the central government. The committee will have the powers to issue directions, entertain complaints; regulate and prohibit activities that are likely to cause or increase air pollution, lay down parameters and standards; restrict industry, activities, processes; direct the closure, or prohibit any polluting activity in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas.The new mechanism also brings in a completely new, centralised regime of pollution control with appeals against any order or direction of the Commission can be made only at the National Green Tribunal. No civil court will have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceedings against the decisions of the Commission.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and state pollution control boards will continue to function but in case of a conflict, the commission’s orders will prevail. Defying any orders or violating rules that will be laid down by the commission will be punishable with prison term of up to five years or with a fine which may extend up to ₹1 crore or with both.Members of Epca wrote to the environment minister on Thursday welcoming the decision on the new commission. “Over the past many years, we have worked to find solutions and to recommend action through our reports to government and to the honourable Supreme Court. We are grateful for the consideration given to our work and to the fact that many of our recommendations have been implemented,” said the letter by Epca’s chairperson Bhure Lal and member Sunita Narain, recounting a list of initiatives government departments had taken on the panel’s recommendations.“...The next phase of the agenda for clean air; fourth generation reforms need to be deliberated upon and implemented. That will necessitate the massive augmentation of intra-city public transport, and to move industries, power plants and other users away from polluting fuels like coal to natural gas, electricity and renewable to ensure clean combustion,” the letter added, listing out seven areas that the new commission will need to address.Legal and environmental experts, however, raised several concerns with the ordinance including a lack of consultation and possible overriding powers that the Centre may now wield.“There several concerns with this ordinance, starting with the fact that legal and regulatory changes to tackle public issues like air pollution, need a democratic conceptualisation. At the outset, it is clear that the central government has taken control over the pollution control matters in the Delhi-NCR region,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research.“This starts with the fact that the chairperson of this commission is a central government appointee. The commission will be heavily dominated by bureaucrats, to whom the legal frameworks gives various powers. The enforcement mechanism is clearly top down and so far there is no indication that it will include third party monitoring and be citizen driven enforcement,” Kohli added.During the hearing at the top court, senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for the petitioners –environment activists Aditya Dubey and Aman Banka – told the Court that the air quality in the city was worsening and the ordinance would not provide any quick-fix solutions.Singh said, “Till the next hearing, let the Justice Lokur Committee take steps to control stubble burning in order to address the problem of air pollution.” The bench replied, “We shall hear you on what steps can be taken by the Commission under the Ordinance. These steps can be considered by the Solicitor General on the next date.”Earlier this month, the Court appointed former apex court judge justice Madan Lokur as a one-man commission to conduct surveillance of stubble burning in neighbouring farmlands of Punjab, Haryana and UP. But the order appointing him was kept in abeyance after the Centre proposed bringing an Ordinance.The bench felt that stubble burning alone was not the problem ailing Delhi’s air. “Experts have told us the only cause for pollution in the city is not stubble.” In a lighter vein, the chief justice added: “For that you have to stop using your beautiful cars and ride bicycles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-brings-new-law-to-tackle-ncr-air-crisis/story-HnX3FVGighNr0oM8CrBgUL.html
30-10-2020||India||Keshubhai Patel: A BJP stalwart who rose through the political ranks||The passing of former Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel at the age of 92 marks the end of an epoch for the Bharatiya Janata Party and its previous avatar, the Jana Sangh, in the state. The party now has no surviving leader from the generation that braved early decades of political isolation and hostility. Paradoxically, despite having raised the Sangh parivar’s political arm from scratch, he played no role in the most decisive decade in the party’s ascendance. From October 2001, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi became chief minister replacing him, Patel lost all political relevance in a political culture different from the one he incubated. He eventually formed his own outfit, the Gujarat Parivartan Party in 2012 but soon proved Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s truism correct: once a pracharak, always a pracharak. He merged the outfit with BJP but personally quit active politics in 2014.In the autumn of his life, rehabilitation came in the form of the chairmanship of the prized Shri Somnath Trust, which overseers management of the Somnath Temple. His last re-appointment for another year was at an online meeting on September 20. But the honorary positions he held, are not what Patel will be remembered for. He joined the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in the mid 1940s while in his late teens. In the post-independence years, he was shifted to the Jana Sangh and held several offices. His growth was swift and by 1965, he was president of the Gujarat unit of Jana Sangh.Patel’s first shot at becoming a state legislator ended in disappointment in 1972 as he was swept away by the tidal wave in favour of Indira Gandhi. He was successful in 1975 and went on become a state minister in the Janata government under Babubhai Patel. In the 1980s, he was instrumental in securing support of the Patidar community for the BJP. Patel possessed the political astuteness to read the once-powerful community’s dissatisfaction over its loss of political clout with the emergence of the KHAM (Kshatriya-Harijan-Adivari-Muslim) combination that Madhavsinh Solanki forged for the Congress. The 1980s served as the launch-pad decade for the BJP in Gujarat. Always sympathetic to the Hindu nationalistic idea, the state acquired the moniker of Hindutva’s laboratory during these years. The Ram temple agitation in the late 1980s coincided with the BJP abandoning its desire to be the legatee of Janata Party. RSS pracharaks were once again deputed to the BJP . One of them, who stood apart, was Narendra Modi and he forged a mutually beneficial partnership with Patel at the cost of the other claimant within the party for its state leadership: Shankersinh Vaghela. Patel was initially not a popular mass leader but drew support from all communities and emerged as the leader of the anti-Congress front. It was Modi’s organisational and marketing skills that raised Keshubhai Patel’s standing and equity through the Lok Shakti Rath Yatra in 1989. This sent out two messages: One, the BJP too was a significant non-Congress political alternative in Gujarat. Two, Keshubhai Patel was the party’s mascot.Modi’s hand was evident when Patel became chief minister in March 1995. The over-centralised governance style that later evolved into the Gujarat model during Modi’s tenure as CM, however became the cause for a setback to both. After three years in wilderness, Patel returned as chief minister. From 1998 onward, he opted not to seek Modi’s advice, a decision that resulted in a fallout. Poor administration of rehabilitation measures after the 1998 cyclone in Kandla and the 2001 Republic Day earthquake proved Patel’s undoing. He never recovered from his loss of office while the man who took the baton from him, has gone from strength to strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keshubhai-patel-a-bjp-stalwart-who-rose-through-the-political-ranks/story-P7BU5mFRiw87zSA1EGtQxL.html
30-10-2020||India||JPC questions Google, Paytm over China links||The joint parliamentary panel on the Personal Data Protection Bill on Thursday asked tech giant Google and fin-tech company One 97 Communications, which runs Paytm, to explain their relationship with China, according to people familiar with the matter.  Google officials reiterated that the company walked out of China on its own, but the panel was keen to know if its products or services have any links with China since Google owns Android, the software used by many Chinese phone makers. Paytm, the people said, admitted that Chinese company Alibaba is an investor but that none of the investors has a say in the company’s running. One of the people added that Google officials were grilled about the need for regulating the company, especially on the content part of its business. According to one member of the JPC, Google maintained that India should avoid data localisation requirement as it is ill-fitted to protect privacy and security. The tech giant also claimed that the move to localise data is not in sync with open trade commitments and modern data protection standard, this person said. The JPC has given Google and Paytm time to sumbit written responses to queries on structure, tax regimes, data processing and protection, and privacy. “Our goal is to create the best possible products for users, from Search to Android to YouTube, making relevant information readily accessible around the world. Every year, we issue hundreds of improvements to our algorithms so as to ensure they surface high quality content in response to user queries,” said a Google spokesperson. “We welcome the opportunity to help policymakers understand our business and the work we do to keep the Internet open and support the calls for comprehensive, baseline privacy regulation. We believe that regulation can support a dynamic marketplace for businesses of all types and sizes. We sincerely hope this consultative process will help the Committee achieve its objective of protecting the interests of citizens and promoting innovation,” the spokesperson added. The panel has already met Twitter, Facebook, and Amazon. A second person familiar with the matter said that all these companies have been asked to share their policy on tackling deepfakes, and how they ensure the neutrality of their platforms, especially when there is conflict of interest. “These companies claim to be the intermediaries yet they are also the manufacturers, the market, the financial service providers, loaning agencies and they have the control over what will be displayed on the platforms and what gets suppressed,” the second person said. JPC chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said, “We have asked all the platforms details about the corporate structure, corporate tax, data protection and processing and how it is stored. We want to understand their style of functioning and how data and revenue mobilisation takes place.” While Twitter and Amazon stopped short of welcoming the data bill, Google welcomed the bill but expressed reservations about India’s attempt to restrict data portability and cross border sharing of data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jpc-questions-google-paytm-over-china-links/story-fJcEdDh2hyWSwvzyLVr0CJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Mayawati suspends 7 MLAs, says will back even BJP to defeat SP||Bahujan Samaj Party president Mayawati on Thursday suspended seven legislators who opposed the nomination of her candidate Ramji Gautam for election to the Rajya Sabha, and vowed that BSP MLAs would support any other dispensation, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), to ensure the defeat of the Samajwadi Party (SP) in upcoming elections to Uttar Pradesh’s upper house.At a virtual press conference in New Delhi, Mayawati said the party suspended the seven MLAs for alleged anti- party activities.The seven MLAs — Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Hakim Lal Bind, Mohammad Mujtaba Siddiqui, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel, Hargovind Bhargava and Bandana Singh —had betrayed the party for the lure of money and election tickets offered by the SP, the BSP supremo alleged.The BSP would also move an application to get the seven rebel MLAs disqualified from the legislative assembly under the anti-defection law, Mayawati said.The nomination of Gautam to the Rajya Sabha was held valid on Wednesday for the November 9 polls to 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh that are falling vacant although four rebels claimed that their signatures on the nomination form had been forged. The four had met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, sparking speculation that they may desert the BSP.“BSP MLAs would vote for the BJP or any other party candidate to ensure the defeat of the SP in the coming legislative council elections,” Mayawati said. The council elections are likely to be held in January. Mayawati said her decision to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in an alliance with the SP was wrong. “Ignoring the anti-Dalit policy of the SP, I had taken the decision to go for an alliance in haste...The BSP mobilised its cadre and resources for the victory of the alliance...”. After declaration of the 2019 Lok Sabha election results, the attitude of Akhilesh Yadav changed, Mayawati said.Calling the allegations baseless, SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “The truth is that the BSP has sided with the BJP. The SP had sincerely followed alliance ethics with BSP till it broke...As far as the BSP teaching a lesson to us (in legislative council polls), the BSP should first look at the number of MLAs they have.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-suspends-7-mlas-says-will-back-even-bjp-to-defeat-sp/story-NGdbLYCi4cw0haizXodwDO.html
30-10-2020||India||Three BJP workers killed in terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir: Police||Suspected terrorists on Thursday shot dead three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police officials said. The deceased were identified as Fida Hussain Itoo, the district general secretary of the party’s youth wing (Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha), Umer Rashid Beigh, a district executive member of the unit, and Umer Hajam, another member of the body.According to officials, the attack took place at YK Pora in Kulgam on Thursday evening. “Today (Thursday), at about 20:20 hours, Kulgam Police received information about a terror crime incident at village YK Pora, where terrorists fired upon three BJP workers. Senior police officers reached at the terror crime spot,” a police spokesperson said.The unidentified gunmen shot at the three men, who were rushed to the Qazigund hospital with bullet injuries. Doctors declared them dead on arrival.Officials said a case has been filed and probe has begun. Condemning the attack, BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur said, “All three were at the same place when they were attacked in Kulgam. This is a killing of innocent people.”A tweet from the official handle of the J&K BJP read that the party “strongly condemned this barbaric terror attack” and that “those who are responsible for this will not be spared”.National Conference leader Omar Abdullah and Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti, both former chief ministers of J&K, condemned the attack on the BJP workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-bjp-workers-killed-in-terror-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmir-police/story-lA8tKyPt4evlLIk67glJsK.html
30-10-2020||India||Assam residents block highway to Mizoram seeking withdrawal of troops||A week after officials of both states agreed to diffuse tension along the interstate boundary, the ongoing border row between Assam and Mizoram has flared up again with some Assam residents blocking the national highway to the neighbouring state on Wednesday. On Wednesday, people from Lailapur in Assam’s Cachar district blocked the NH 306, the lifeline to Mizoram, seeking withdrawal of the neighbouring state’s security personnel from Assam territory. Nearly 100 trucks on either side of the boundary have been stranded following the fresh blockade. On Thursday, Cachar district officials visited Lailapur and held talks with the residents urging them to lift the blockade and also requested truckers to start plying their vehicles. “The truckers said they were scared of going to the Mizoram side especially after the blast (at a school close to the border) which took place recently. Locals too refused to withdraw the blockade and made it clear they would not do so until a permanent solution (is found),” said a released issued by the Cachar district administration. On Wednesday, Additional DGP (Law and Order) Assam Police GP Singh had visited the border area to take stock of the situation and also interacted with police officials of Kolasib district of Mizoram to try and diffuse the situation. “We visited the school at Khulicherra where the explosion had taken place. We have decided to pursue the case under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Since the bombing may have been done by miscreants from Mizoram side, we are discussing on handing over its probe to a central agency,” Singh told journalists. Earlier this month, several people on both sides of the border between two states were injured in clashes after some miscreants from Mizoram allegedly burnt down some huts at Lailapur. Locals on the Assam side had blocked the highway in protest against the incident. On October 21, senior officials of both states had a meeting in Assam’s Silchar where they had agreed to restore normalcy in the border areas. Mizoram had assured it will call back its troops which had entered Assam side. Following this, trucks had started plying between both states. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km boundary. There have been skirmishes on both sides earlier as well as both sides claiming portions of land along the boundary as theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-residents-block-highway-to-mizoram-seeking-withdrawal-of-troops/story-JwfbsoDbmHRULzKUGH20gK.html
30-10-2020||India||Fare cap on air tickets to remain till February 24: Hardeep Singh Puri||The upper and lower limits on domestic airfares will remain in place for another three months post November 24, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday.The ministry had on May 21 placed these limits through seven bands, classified on the basis of flight duration, till August 24. Later, it was extended till November 24.Puri said if the scheduled domestic flights reach pre-Covid levels by the end of the year, he will have no hesitation in removing the fare limits at that time.“We are extending the price bands for another three months,” he said at a press conference.“Even though we are extending it by three months, if by the time we reach the end of the year, and if we find that there is a very appreciable movement in the situation and we are reaching pre-COVID levels, I would absolutely have no hesitation if my colleagues (aviation ministry officials) want us to not utilise the price band for the full three months period,” Puri added.Domestic passenger services resumed on May 25 after nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak.  The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had on May 21 announced seven bands of ticket pricing with lower and upper fare limits based on flight duration.The first such band consists of flights that are of less than 40 minutes duration.The lower and the upper fare limits for the first band is Rs 2,000 and Rs 6,000, respectively.The subsequent bands are for flights with durations of 40-60 minutes, 60-90 minutes, 90-120 minutes, 120-150 minutes, 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes.The lower and upper limits for these bands are: Rs 2,500-Rs 7,500; Rs 3,000-Rs 9,000; Rs 3,500-Rs 10,000; Rs 4,500-Rs 13,000; Rs 5,500-Rs 15,700 and Rs 6,500-Rs 18,600, respectively, the DGCA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fare-cap-on-air-tickets-to-remain-till-february-24-hardeep-singh-puri/story-R4VX7d8YeyvLNcnn1MQVIJ.html
30-10-2020||India||‘Grave law and order situation’: Bengal guv Jagdeep Dhankhar after meeting Amit Shah in Delhi||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Thursday made serious allegations about the law and order situation in the state and the role of Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers after meeting Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. “What discussion I had with the Union home minister is confidential and cannot be shared with the media. What I am telling you about West Bengal is my observation as the governor. The nation needs to know what is happening there,” Dhankhar said at a press conference at Banga Bhawan, which houses the office of the state’s resident commissioner in the capital. Asked whether he recommended imposition of President’s rule in the state during his meeting with Shah, Dhankhar kept silent. “Governor Dhankhar was with the Union Home Minster for over an hour and state of affairs and affairs of state in West Bengal were traversed,” the governor tweeted in the afternoon. “In my last communication to the chief minister I have said that we are in the penultimate state of constitutional collapse. It is time for us to survey the situation,” Dhankhar said during the press conference. “The state is sliding towards lawlessness. There is virtual anarchy,” he added. “The political killings, targeted killings and violence are a cause of great concern. The greater challenge to democracy in the state is that the police and administration, those in the premier services, the IAS and IPS, are politicised. Some of them are working as full-time political workers, as political foot soldiers, totally abandoning their roles. I have appealed to them that this is unconstitutional, illegal, violation of conduct. You cannot do this. This shall not be overlooked,” said Dhankhar. “Through my friends in the media I wish to appeal to them that in the name of rule of law, in the name of the Constitution, it is high time they started acting as public servants. Don’t act as political workers,” Dhankhar said. He said West Bengal has all the elements of a police state. “This does not work for democracy. The chairman of the human rights commission, who is a retired chief justice of the high court, has said the commission is on ventilator,” he said. Dhankhar cited some incidents, such as the recent murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manish Shukla in North 24 Parganas district. He said the crime took place even after he asked the director general of police to control political violence in the area. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) reacted by saying that Dhankhar has acted irresponsibly. “I am stunned. He can always meet the Union home minister. But what he discussed with the minister is confidential. He has acted irresponsibly. The allegations he made are baseless. Law and order situation in Bengal is quite good. There have been some stray incidents of violence. We have not witnessed genocides. By bringing allegations against IAS and IPS officers he has maligned the image of the all-India services,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy. State education minister Partha Chatterjee said, “The governor himself is politicized. He is maligning the state government. Everybody knows he is a spokesperson of the BJP.” Bengal BJP leaders claimed that the governor raised pertinent issues. “Five BJP workers have been killed during the ongoing festive season. There is enough ground to declare President’s rule in Bengal. This government has lost the right to rule,” said BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu. The Congress criticized the TMC for not complaining to the President of India against Dhankhar. “Why has the TM not gone to the President till now? Why don’t their leaders speak against him in Parliament?” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, state Congress president. “We feel that the post of the governor is redundant. No governor should play a political role,” said CPI (M) legislator Sujan Chakraborty, leader of the Left parties in the state assembly. At the press conference in Delhi, Dhankhar said, “This is the minimum I can do to vindicate the oath of office I have taken. I am not a stakeholder in politics. Who gets elected is not my concern but how the election takes place is my concern…” Dhankhar will return to Bengal on Friday and spend the entire month of November at the Raj Bhawan built by the British in Darjeeling. Although many governors have spent their vacations in the hill town, Dhankhar said his office will be fully operational and he will interact with people in north Bengal to know their problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grave-law-and-order-situation-bengal-guv-jagdeep-dhankhar-after-meeting-amit-shah-in-delhi/story-bZ1spbYtNDPq0am9reHlTL.html
30-10-2020||India||India dealing with worst border crisis with China with ‘firmness and maturity’:Harsh Shringla||India has dealt with the worst crisis on the border with China in decades with “firmness and maturity” even as it has worked with partners to create an open and inclusive architecture for the Indo-Pacific region, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. Speaking on the theme “India’s foreign policy in the post-Covid world” at the Institut Français des Relations Internationales (IFRI) in Paris, Shringla said India’s actions, as it prepares for the world order emerging amid the pandemic, were not “seeking to target or exclude any country” but to create an environment in which all countries can operate with respect for the sovereignty of others. He reiterated India’s condemnation of the recent terror attacks in France, including the one in Nice, and conveyed the solidarity of the Indian people in confronting terrorism and extremism. He also noted that one of the two recent terrorist incidents in France had its origins in Pakistan. “Despite the pandemic, we have dealt with the worst crisis in decades on our border with China and we have done so with firmness and maturity. At the same time, we have continued to ward off terrorism from across our western border,” said Shringla, who is on a three-nation tour that will also take him to Germany and the UK. India’s immediate challenges have not distracted the country from its broader strategic goals, especially in the Indo Pacific, where “we are moving purposefully at multiple levels to create an open, inclusive architecture”, he said. New Delhi has a cooperative and inclusive outlook, as laid out in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s SAGAR vision or “Security And Growth for All in the Region”, and India has steadily enhanced its diplomatic and security engagement in Southeast Asia too, he said. “With Australia, Japan and the US, there is tangible progress in realising our shared vision. We are not seeking to target or exclude any country, but create an environment that induces all countries to operate with respect for the sovereignty of others and in a manner consistent with international norms in global commons,” Shringla said against the backdrop of the military standoff with China that is set to enter its seventh month. Noting that the pandemic has led to “geopolitical repositioning primarily by China and the US”, Shringla outlined what he said were four key outcomes of the accelerated global transition and increased geopolitical competition and tension triggered by the Covid-19 crisis. These developments, he said, will shape the nature and terms of India’s engagement with major economies such as the US, China, the European Union, Japan and ASEAN. There is a need for greater global conversations on resilient supply chains, he added. The practices that New Delhi perfects at home in response to the pandemic will “inevitably become exportable abroad”, and India’s thinking “about deeper global economic engagement with the world will be influenced by both geopolitical divides and pandemic pressures,” he said. “There was already a reassessment of FTA experiences, keeping in mind the unsettling impact they have had on India’s manufacturing. The attention could now well shift to becoming part of global value chains, complemented by focused trading arrangements,” Shringla remarked. “This would be so especially as efforts towards making India an easier location for doing business gain traction. We are conscious of the need not just to improve on our own record but to become more competitive,” he added. Like-minded countries need to coordinate to emerge from the pandemic more resilient than before, he said, adding: “We cannot afford to let multilateralism be held hostage by great power competition. A multipolar world without an international order based on rule of law and collaboration will lead to uncertainty and turbulence.” Turning to terrorism, Shringla said India and France face similar non-traditional security threats in the form of radicalism and cyber-security challenges. “Both India and France have suffered. The fight today is not against specific communities or individuals but against a radical politico-religious ideology that attempts to negate the progress made by secular democracies...,” he said. “This radical ideology espouses violence and separatism, very often fanned and supported by foreign influence...It was horrifying to hear about the two recent terrorist incidents in France, one of which, as is very often the case, had its origins in our western neighbourhood – Pakistan,” Shringla said. “For the past three decades, we have experienced what unbridled radicalism can wreak – and what malevolent violent forces it can unleash. The civilised world needs to act together and act with firmness to address this threat to our cherished democratic value systems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-dealing-with-worst-border-crisis-with-china-with-firmness-and-maturity-harsh-shringla/story-z1Xpd5MxBCrAQqn0nK032H.html
30-10-2020||India||CAQM: Stronger body, but some gaps remain||The Government of India has passed an ordinance to set up a new Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas (CAQM). This will replace with immediate effect the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, or Epca, as well as other committees that have been created over the years to address the crisis. What should we make of this? Is this the answer to the pleas of National Capital Region (NCR) citizens and an end to the winter airpocalypse? CAQM’s creation is not a trivial change, and almost certainly represents a step-up from Epca. A new commission, with full-time members and dedicated staff, is likely to help address the problem of intermittent focus on air quality, provide a “consolidated and conjoint” approach, and possibly help improve capacity to address the problem. CAQM will have substantial powers and can override other agencies such as the Central Pollution Control Board, but notably also state government departments, if there is a conflict. This potentially makes it easier to harness the powers of government, to solve inter-agency coordination problems and set uniform standards and enforcement protocols. Significantly, CAQM will also have a convening role, backed by authority of a law. However, it is not clear how much further effective bureaucratic coordination alone gets us. There are several other impediments to achieving clean air, and the ordinance does little to overcome them.Perhaps the biggest limitation of CAQM is that it may replicate existing roadblocks in a new forum. Action is often stuck because those who lose from air pollution control measures are able to block change directly or through their representatives. These include industries facing more expensive fuel, farmers being asked to change cropping practices, and car owners getting restricted parking spaces. CAQM retains the stalemate of interests across sectors (like power, road transport, environment), and in the absence of clearly articulated overarching goals, introduces nothing to change this. To do so would have required CAQM to be held to benchmarks of progress in air quality. CAQM may be able to use its convening authority to bring together warring factions and hammer out a compromise on hot-button issues such as crop burning, power plant emissions, and so on. But to do so, CAQM has to see itself in that convening and deliberative role, rather than as primarily a rule setting and enforcing body. While it is not excluded, the ordinance gives few indications of the former.The ordinance also misses some key opportunities. This was the chance for the government to institutionalise an airshed-level approach to air quality, an idea that is now widely accepted. It could have provided a framework for an airshed-level approach in different parts of the country, and then perhaps have issued an NCR-specific set of rules. But an NCR-specific law signals — yet again — that the rest of the country which experiences similarly severe pollution levels is not as important as the Capital region. In addition, by continuing to rely on criminal prosecution as the primary tool of enforcement, the ordinance misses the opportunity to legally back a wider range of regulatory tools, including administrative fines that allow escalation of enforcement measures proportionate to the nature and severity of offence. The ordinance also risks underplaying the importance of evidence-based policymaking, which receives no emphasis in the ordinance.There are areas where CAQM could further confound agreement and action. Its composition is heavily dominated by central government representatives as is the selection committee. There is little indication of intent to create processes that allow for stakeholder perspectives, including from states and civil society. Indeed, passing the ordinance with no public input does not inspire confidence that CAQM will open its doors to a more fruitful conversation and action across all interests. Similarly, CAQM’s ability to override state agencies may arouse the opposition of state governments. It is hard to imagine, for example, that simply because a central commission insists on limiting stubble burning that Punjab will ignore the voices of its farmers.Much depends on how this commission will get constituted, and the rules that are issued to enable its functioning. The risk is that CAQM has been conceived as a bureaucratic hammer of enforcement, to drive the nail of air pollution regulation. But the problem is more complicated than one of enforcement alone. To address these complexities at minimum, the commission needs to convene competing interests effectively and help them develop creative solutions, hold itself accountable to ambitious but achievable targets, and seed the idea of airshed management across India. (Navroz K Dubash is Professor, Centre for Policy Research. Santosh Harish and Shibani Ghosh are Fellows, Centre for Policy Research)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caqm-stronger-body-but-some-gaps-remain/story-3ioUlV1bMNDOyHwnvPxFMI.html
30-10-2020||India||Implementation of graded action plan won’t stop, says environment secretary||India’s environment secretary RP Gupta spoke to Jayashree Nandi about the new law to tackle air pollution in the National Capital Region, and what it aims to achieve. Edited excerpts:We are already in the middle of peak pollution season. How will the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) meant to tackle air pollution be implemented now that a new law is in place?The Commission will be constituted immediately and take Grap forward. The implementation of Grap will not stop under the ordinance.The Commission is a centralised body. Do you think state governments will be happy with such a structure, and accept both your directions and penalties if contraventions arise?The Commission will direct various organisations under the state government, including pollution control boards, municipal commissions, and road and building departments. They are not meant for the state governments directly. There are powers, and action can be taken if the need arises -- but this is a collaborative and coordinated effort. Why should we think the states will not follow the Commission?Why did you have to bring in an ordinance and not wait until it’s passed in Parliament?This was urgent. Then we had to wait for Parliament. The winter period is crucial.Are you waiting for the Supreme Court’s approval or comments on the Commission?Any law or ordinance passed by government is valid until SC declares it unconstitutional. Why should we have any such apprehension?The only place where people can appeal against orders of the Commission is National Green Tribunal. Why so?The provision of appeal should be there in any law. It’s legal and justifiable.When did you start planning this ordinance?Its been one to one-and-a-half months. There was a lot of ad-hocism, and something was needed. Epca [the SC-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority] was not able to function in a comprehensive manner in coordination with states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implementation-of-graded-action-plan-won-t-stop-says-environment-secretary/story-3cbBwaNtuIheii2noHaieO.html
30-10-2020||India||Confessions made to officers in drugs cases not admissible, says SC||Confessional statements made to officers under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act will not be admissible as evidence to convict a suspect,the Supreme Court has ruled, ending the scope for misuse of the wide powers given under the Act to extract confessions or frame suspects in drug-related crimes.A three-judge bench, by a 2:1 majority, held that officers vested with the power to investigate offences under the Act are “police officers” and any confessional statement recorded by them will be barred by Section 25 of the Evidence Act. This provision of the Evidence Act states: “No confession made to a police officer, shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence.”The majority judgment by justices Rohington F Nariman and Navin Sinha held: “any confessional statement made to them (officers under Section 53 of NDPS Act) would be barred under the provisions of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, and cannot be taken into account in order to convict an accused under the NDPS Act… A statement recorded under Section 67 of the NDPS Act cannot be used as a confessional statement in the trial of an offence under the NDPS Act.” Justice Indira Banerjee, the third member of the bench, dissented with the majority and held that such a confession given under NDPS Act will be sufficient to convict a suspect.The question had fallen for consideration before the three-judge bench on a bunch of appeals referred to it by a two-judge bench in October 2013.Under Section 53 of the Act, the Centre has the power to invest any officer of the Department of Central Excise, Narcotics, Customs, Revenue Intelligence or any other department of the central government including paramilitary forces or armed forces, with the powers of an officer-in-charge of a police station for the investigation of offences under the NDPS Act.The bench said, “The severer the punishment, the greater the care to be taken” in order to preserve safeguards against misuse. Noting that the NDPS Act is a penal law with punishments for small to commercial quantities of drugs ranging from one year to 20 years and fines of Rs 10,000 to Rs 2 lakh, the bench examined the questions referred to it in the backdrop of Article 20(3), which protects a person against self-incrimination and Article 21, which includes right to life, liberty and privacy.“The interpretation of a statute like the NDPS Act must be in conformity and in tune with the spirit of the broad fundamental right not to incriminate oneself, and the right to privacy, as has been found in the recent judgments of this court,” the majority stated. The bench noted the draconian provision in the Act – Section 30 where preparation to commit an offence is made an offence and Section 31A which provides for the death penalty for subsequent offence in specific cases. Further, if an accused conducts himself well in jail, he cannot have the benefit of remission or commutation as the Probation of Offenders Act, 1958 does not apply to those above 18 years who are convicted under the Act.Although the central government argued that officers under the NDPS Act cannot be called police officers, the bench concluded that any officer who is invested with the power of investigation and who can prepare an investigation report essentially is a police officer as “when they prevent and detect crime, they are in a position to extort confessions, and thus are able to achieve their object through a shortcut method of extracting involuntary confessions,” noted the bench.The court noted an anomaly that if a case of confiscation of drugs is investigated by the police of a state and the same offence is probed by an officer under NDPS Act, it cannot be expected that one investigation enjoys safeguards of a police investigation under Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) while the other is free of them. “These anomalies are real and not imaginary, and if a statute is so read as to give rise to such anomalies, it would necessarily have to be struck down under Article 14 of the Constitution as being discriminatory and manifestly arbitrary,” concluded the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confessions-made-to-officers-in-drugs-cases-not-admissible-says-sc/story-bkSvI4RR8ru8JHaVOcb3xO.html
30-10-2020||India||Future pandemics could be deadlier, warns study||As if the year were short on bad news, and needed more, a report by leading experts says the world could experience pandemics more frequently in future, that some of these will be deadlier than the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and far too expensive to control unless there is a transformative change in the global approach to dealing with infectious diseases.The global report on biodiversity and pandemics was authored by 22 leading experts from around the world, and released on Thursday. It is the result of a workshop convened by the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) focused on the links between the degradation of nature and increasing pandemic risks.And for those thinking SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 is it, there are as many as 540,000 – 850,000 unknown viruses in nature that could infect people, warns the report. Interestingly, the report comes three days after the World Health Organisation (WHO) reported the outbreak of the Mayaro virus disease in French Guiana. With symptoms similar to dengue, this virus too is transmitted through mosquitoes. The majority (70%) of emerging diseases such as Ebola, Zika, Nipah encephalitis, and almost all known pandemics such as influenza, HIV/AIDS, Covid-19, are zoonotic diseases that are caused by microbes of animal origin. These microbes spill over due to contact among wildlife, livestock, and people, the IPBES report added.In the workshop, experts agreed that escaping the era of pandemics is possible, but that it requires a seismic shift in approach — from reaction to prevention.Also Read: First US Covid-19 vaccines could ship late Dec or early Jan, says Anthony Fauci“Covid-19 is at least the sixth global health pandemic since the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918, and although it has its origins in microbes carried by animals, like all pandemics its emergence has been entirely driven by human activities,” said the report.An estimated 1.7 million currently undiscovered viruses exist in mammals and birds, of which up to 850,000 could have the ability to infect people, the report said. “There is no great mystery about the cause of the COVID-19 pandemic – or of any modern pandemic”, said Dr Peter Daszak, president, EcoHealth Alliance and chair of the IPBES workshop, in a statement.“The same human activities that drive climate change and biodiversity loss also drive pandemic risk through their impacts on our environment. Changes in the way we use land; the expansion and intensification of agriculture; and unsustainable trade, production and consumption disrupt nature and increase contact between wildlife, livestock, pathogens and people. This is the path to pandemics.”Pandemic risk can be significantly lowered by reducing the human activities that drive the loss of biodiversity, by greater conservation of protected areas, and through measures that reduce unsustainable exploitation of high biodiversity regions. This will reduce wildlife-livestock-human contact and help prevent the spillover of new diseases, said the report.Also Read: Officials who embarrassed govt with RTI response on Aarogya Setu face actionThe report pointed out that it is costlier to control outbreaks once they emerge because of the costs of developing drugs, vaccines and implementing public health measures that could damage the world economy. It is much more cost-effective to prevent these outbreaks, it said. “It is a known thing that zoonotic viruses, in which viruses jump from animals to humans, are the next threat to humans because they will be new viruses that humans are not exposed to. Once these viruses adapt to human hosts they will start spreading. SARS-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 disease is a classic example before us. You cannot predict which virus will be more invasive that spreads faster,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head, department of microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi.Dr Mahesh Sankaran, professor, National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore, said, “India has many features that can potentially come together to create the ‘perfect storm’ for the spillover of novel diseases in the future – high biodiversity, high population densities and extensive land transformation and fragmentation that has increased the extent of the human-wildlife interface.” He said there was a critical need to integrate biodiversity and ecosystem service values into land planning and management, while also investing in restoring and protecting natural land- and waterscapes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/future-pandemics-could-be-deadlier-warns-study/story-pDUy6byrB86Obr2qDLRYFJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Global awards for Victor Banerjee||Actor Victor Banerjee won two global awards in two days for his role as a priest, Father O’Hara, in the 2019 film, Josef - Born in Grace. The first was for Best Actor at the India International Film Festival of Boston on October 27; and the second, a day later, was best supporting actor, at the Ontario International Film Festival. Josef - Born in Grace has made waves since its release in 2019. It was in the race for contention at the Oscars earlier this year. In September, it won Best Set Design at the Madrid International Film Festival; and it also won a second award at the Ontario International Film Festival this week, when Sudheer Palsane was declared Best Cinematographer. Directed by Susant Misra, Josef - Born in Grace is an adaptation of a short story titled Joseph, written by well-known Odia author Umakanta Mahapatra, father of the film producer Ashok Mahapatra. Set in the foothills of the Himalaya, the plot unfolds gradually and elegantly over 20 years, between 1960 and 1980. Father O’Hara, a missionary doctor, serves the poor at a small local hospital, adopts an orphan named Josef and raises him with the help of his caretaker Maularam (Sudarshan Juyal). O’Hara eventually sends Josef to Dehradun to finish school and take up vocational training as a cook. The young man (Subrat Dutta) returns a great cook, but an alcoholic. The three very different journeys of these three characters — Fr O’Hara, Josef and Maularam — form the heart of the film. Made in Hindi, it was shot in Uttarakhand over a month in the summer of 2018. “Even though I’m a priest in the film, it was not very difficult to develop a paternal bond with Josef, who’s like a son to my character,” said Banerjee over the phone from Mussoorie . Banerjee also showered accolades on Dutta for his performance. “I must admit and confess that it was my co-actor’s intense and studied performance as Josef that acted as my inspiration. And it was Subrat who made my performance what it is.” Banerjee’s four-decade-long stellar career fetched him three National Awards -- one for cinematography, one for directing and one as supporting actor -- a clutch of international awards and a BAFTA nomination.He worked with legendary directors throughout his career — from Satyajit Ray (Shatranj Ke Khilari, Pikoo and Ghare-Baire) in the 1970s and ’80s to Shyam Benegal (Kalyug, 1981), Roman Polanski (Bitter Moon, 1992) and David Lean (A Passage to India, 1984). His performance in Josef - Born in Grace enhances Misra’s slow-burn narrative but he directs the credit to the director. “It’s certainly not easy shooting in the hills, mainly because of the unstable weather. I was amazed at how calm he (Susant) was when he would shoot. He was always clear in his mind about what he wanted.”The film is special to him, Banerjee added, because it allowed him to draw on his own experience of being nurtured by priests. “My character is modelled on the Irish Christian brothers, I studied under for 11 years in school at St Edmunds, Shillong,” he says. “They taught me how to act, how to sing. I derived my values from them. In a way, this award is because of them, and hence it is humbly dedicated to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-awards-for-victor-banerjee/story-R302I1GcCeflSlyH5Nm6DP.html
30-10-2020||India||Congress alleges violations in Central Information Commission selection||Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, gave a dissent note earlier this month over the process of selection in the Central Information Commission (CIC), alleging that the government violated Supreme Court guidelines in the appointment process, people familiar with the matter said. Chowdhury did not object to the name of Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha on the panel, but questioned the inclusion of journalist Uday Mahurkar in the list of probable candidates for the information commissioner’s post. Sinha, 62, a former high commissioner to the United Kingdom, is slated to be the new CIC chairperson. He will succeed Bimal Jhulka who retired in August this year. Chowdhury raised objections to Mahurkar’s name, saying he had not even applied for the post, the people quoted above said. The meeting of the three-member selection committee, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, met twice this month – October 7 and 24 -- to discuss and finalise the name of the CIC chairperson and information commissioners. Union home minister Amit Shah and Chowdhury are the other two members. Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) minister Jitendra Singh was also present in the meetings. As per the Right To Information (RTI) Act, the appointment of commissioners in the CIC is made by a committee, headed by the Prime Minister, and comprising a cabinet minister and the leader of the single largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha. In states, the appointments are made by the chief minister, a cabinet minister and the leader of the opposition in the assembly. In his dissent note, according to the people quoted above, Chowdhury cited the Supreme Court guidelines in a case filed by RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj last year. He alleged that transparency was not followed in the selection process and the apex court guidelines were violated by the government by not making public the names of the shortlisted candidates and the criteria for their selection. In all, seven candidates were shortlisted for information commissioners. In its judgment, the Supreme Court had asked the search committee to make public the names of shortlisted candidates and the criteria adopted for shortlisting such people. The top court had also observed that retired bureaucrats were primarily being appointed as commissioners, and said it is difficult to fathom that only persons belonging to public service are found more competent and suitable than those belonging to other categories. “Chowdhury’s objections were not on the name of the CIC chairperson but to the non-transparent procedure adopted in the selection process in violation of the Supreme Court guidelines on the matter,” said the people quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-alleges-violations-in-cic-selection/story-Z5tBtuJyZBtE8SYCUET6hJ.html
30-10-2020||India||Covid-19 positive woman gives birth to triplets in Chhattisgarh||A 28-year-old coronavirus positive woman has given birth to triplets in a government-run hospital in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur, officials said on Thursday.The woman, who was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur, delivered three baby girls over 10 days back, they said.The babies were found Covid-19 negative in their first test and a repeat test will be conducted on them after a few days, an official said.Authorities said that this is probably the first case in the state wherein a coronavirus-infected woman has given birth to triplets.“The woman, a government employee who hails from Dhamtari district, was admitted to the AIIMS on October 18 after testing positive for the infection. On the same day, she gave birth to three baby girls through C-section surgery,” S S Sharma, public relations officer of AIIMS, Raipur said.“It was a challenging task for the doctors of the Neonatology Department to keep the newborn secure from COVID- 19 infection. The three children were initially kept in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU),” he said.Five days later, two babies were reunited with their mother with completeprecaution, while another one is still under observation of the specialists in the NICU, he said.“All three babies were found Covid-19 negative in their first test and a repeat test will be done after some days,” he added.In another case, a 33-years-old Covid-19 patient from Durg district gave birth to twin girls on October 19 in AIIMS, he said.“Both the babies are suffering from Respiratory Distress Syndrome, but they tested negative for coronavirus.They are in stable condition in NICU,” he said.Both the women are yet to recover from Covid-19 infection, he added.Dr Nitin M Nagarkar, Director of AIIMS, Raipur said, doctors in the neonatology department have proved their expertise by successfully dealing with such complex cases.“We have 20 state-of-the-art beds in NICU and another two reserved for Covid-19 positive children. Doctors in the department have done a remarkable job during the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-woman-gives-birth-to-triplets-in-chattisgarh/story-pbmzx1zUEvVPunPt5W0c0N.html
30-10-2020||Editorials||Terror returns to France | HT Editorial||The cultural fault line over the Charlie Hebdo cartoons shows no sign of healing. The French government and society have rallied against the murder of a schoolteacher for using the example in a freedom of expression class. A burst of terrorist attacks and gratuitous interv-entions from the Islamic world’s traditional trouble-makers have followed. Democracies struggle to find a balance between complete freedom of expression and the ill-effects of incendiary actions. India tends towards prioritising peace and not disturbing public sensitivities. In the developed world, especially in countries such as France and the United States, the constitutional support for freedom of the expression is unusually robust. France additionally has among the strongest firewalls between religion and State in the world. Each nation navigates these debates in the context of their history, value system and political evolution. In a democracy, those who wish to move the needle of policy have the right to form a party, write a blog or file a lawsuit. There can be no excuse for the use of violence in such a debate.There is even less excuse for foreign politicians to make provocative statements. The usual suspects — Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, Imran Khan of Pakistan and Mahathir Mohammad of Malaysia — have denounced French President Emmanuel Macron. While claiming to be defenders of Islam, it is clear they are milking the crisis for their personal gain. Mr Erdogan is seeking an opportunity to revive his dreams of pan-Islamic leadership. The weaker Mr Khan gets at home, the greater his interest in political causes overseas. And Mr Mohammad, who recently lost his prime ministership, has a record of inflammatory and false claims about other countries: this time, he has crossed all boundaries and justified mass murder. Their interventions are not just wrong, but will make life more difficult for French Muslims, and strengthen the hand of far-Right politicians.Societies that uphold freedom of expression are also the ones most likely to preserve the rights of minorities. The majority of Islamist terror attacks in France have been done by outsiders or recent immigrants, and not by its well-established Muslim population which understands the benefits of living in a secular environment. Whatever claims they make, the terrorist and the agitator are only dangerous caricatures of their beliefs and should be treated accordingly. India has done well to stand with France against extremism and violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/terror-returns-to-france/story-fgLrfWMi4QqVDxaUklEUtJ.html
30-10-2020||Editorials||Delhi is in the danger zone | HT Editorial||Delhi, on Wednesday, reported 5,673 Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day increase in cases ever recorded in the city by a large margin. On average, Delhi has reported 4,225 cases every day in the past week, which means the trajectory has now surpassed the previous peak of 4,174 reported for the week ending September 17. This rising case rate has come right at the start of the festive season and winter, which could intensify the spread. This peak has also been accompanied by a rise in the positivity rate. Nearly one in every 10 samples (9.4%) tested on Wednesday was positive, the highest since September. The seven-day average of positivity rate has increased two percentage points in the past two weeks — from 5.6% to 7.6%. A fast-rising positivity rate typically suggests that a region is testing inadequately and is, thus, letting the virus get more prevalent. The positivity rate should drop to 5% or below if a region’s testing programme is adequate and is keeping the outbreak in control, according to the World Health Organization. While Delhi government is testing at near-peak levels (over 60,000 samples were tested on Wednesday), it is clearly not enough. When Delhi improved its testing in early September, it relied heavily on rapid antigen tests to boost those numbers. Antigen tests are cheap, and give results within 15 minutes, but the downside is they can miss as many as half the infected people. Delhi, in fact, is among a handful of major states where antigen tests constitute more than two-thirds of daily tests. This heavy-handed use of antigen tests may have even suppressed a much higher positivity rate. The alternative is the gold standard RT-PCR molecular tests, which are more expensive and time-consuming, but significantly better at finding the infection. This makes the road map clear. First, Delhi must improve testing, in overall numbers as well in the share of RT-PCR tests. Not only will that narrow down on cases and bring down the positivity rate, it will also provide more credible data. Second, there is no alternative to stronger citizen compliance to social distancing norms. Delhi is one of the only regions in the country that has seen distinct waves of infections, much like the West, where governments are reinforcing curbs. Restrictions are not desirable, given the economic costs, but this hinges on citizens behaving responsibly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/delhi-is-in-the-danger-zone-ht-editorial/story-Iy6KxfC6ab7Jy6oE1sDW8L.html
