12-08-2021||I often write about Butala||The hockey star of Butala: Dilpreet Singh||After the team won bronze, defeating Germany in Tokyo, all roads lead to this village. With joy and zeal, the inquisitive are being led straight to that home, which sits in one of the narrow streets — sometimes by children or by elders — all bathed in a rare exhilaration.At Butala since the last few days, I feel so fortunate to share the moments of pride with the villagers. Right after the victory, dholis turned up on almost every street, and villagers took Dilpreet’s parents all over the village, with boxes of laddoos in hand. Bhangra and giddha became the theme of the day and many also climbed rooftops to catch the excited scenes, oscillating from one street to the other.When his selection was announced, his mother had arrived at our home with sweets, telling us with tears in her eyes that it all happened due to his father, Balvinder Singh, also a hockey coach. ‘When Aamir Khan’s movie Dangal came, everyone told us that they were reminded of my husband, referring to wrestler Mahavir Singh Phogat’s role, who was very strict with his daughters so as to help them realise their dreams,’ she shared, adding that ‘today, his father’s strict training sessions, which made me fearful, have proved so fruitful.’In fact, like this proud mother, almost everyone in the village is full of praise for both the star player and his father. I have seen his father, taking him for a jog before the crack of dawn, then training at Baba Pallaha Sports Club of the village, known for having produced several national hockey players, much before other players arrived. They would leave several hours later.Some village elders would come to suggest to the strict dad who had a brief stint in the Army, ‘Don’t stress him much, it’s enough for the day,’ but he rarely listened. Hence, the villagers nicknamed him ‘fauji’ ‘who prefers to keep his own counsel.’ There were also those, including relatives, who would discourage them from continuing hockey, saying it won’t give them anything. But they went on chasing their dream.I was thrilled when one of Dilpreet’s schoolteachers told the media, ‘I can still recall that day when at a fancy dress competition, he said he would love to become a hockey player when he grows up, and he proved it.’I am reminded of Henry David Thoreau’s words, ‘If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavours to live the life he has imagined, he will meet success in common hours.’ And, of course, credit goes to his father, whose guidance and constant push meant a lot. After all, a bird can’t fly on one wing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/the-hockey-star-of-butala-dilpreet-singh-296408
