17-08-2021||COVID-19 has adequately done the salami-slicing of our joy and happiness. If we look at the damage inflicted||Funnily, it is formally informal||‘Work from home’ (WFH) is a new type of work environment that is altering the way people work in a wide range of organisations. As a result, our work attire has undergone the most dramatic change. While what we see on the screen is a woman or a man well dressed, as the webcam displays images up to the waist only, I am sure many of them would be donning a casual pyjama or shorts underneath the nicely ironed shirt worn with a tie (reminds me of Jaspal Bhatti’s episode in ‘Ulta Pulta’).A video went viral a few days back in which the gentleman, after the end of the meeting, muted the speaker and neglected to sign off from the Zoom meeting. He was seen in red boxers underneath a shirt and doing a lot of stretching after a long and exhausting meeting. The situation lasted until one of his colleagues called up to inform that all his activities post-meeting were creating a vista for the team. The embarrassed man hurriedly dragged the laptop screen down.Another clipping shows an employee raving over the office’s ‘return to work’ mail, questions her bosses on how such a decision can be made when her eyes have just recovered from the dark circles and she has packed and preserved all her formal garments. She further rants that when the profits are soaring, why the office wants them back, that the human being is a creature of habit, and coming back to the office was not an option anymore.Another class affected by the pandemic is students who have shifted from conventional learning to e-learning. I remember that when my children had to switch their schools in the middle of the pandemic, we did not buy their school uniform for at least six months. Finally, we ended up buying it only after due insistence from teachers that children have to be dressed formally while taking even the e-learning classes. My wife and I got into an argument. After all, the video camera covers only the upper body, so the shirt and tie should suffice. However, it appears that the school officials were on the same page, as they required the pupils to attend physical education courses and do various exercises, all while having a clear view of the children and their attire, forcing us to buy their full set of uniform. I am confident that a teacher could write a book about the visuals seen throughout the months of e-learning classes.What I am confident of in such difficult times is that capturing such moments enables us to forget our sorrows and bring a smile on our faces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/funnily-it-is-formally-informal-298159
