20-08-2021||As husband and wife||In the end, there’s just two||You have all the time in the world as retired people. And there is plenty to talk and discuss. But with whom? It is just the two of you. No one else has the time to listen to your stories. People avoid old people lest they bore them with their unending stories. Your children are also not around to share your joys and sorrows. They may come for short breaks, and that too till you are not a burden on them. So, it is just the two of you who have to lead your life by yourselves. It is you two who will listen to each other, without getting bored or angry. It is just the two of you who will not mind your partner’s faults, forgetfulness or eccentricities, at this age. Because, you two are actually one — complementing one another.Today, we are just the two of us at home. The daughter and son, both are married and settled. They are loving and visit us whenever they can. But ultimately, it is just both of us. It is hard to accept losing the one whom you love so much. But as a parent, you want your child to be happy, and hence, learn to let go.We also realised that it is not being a Colonel or a General that matters so much as much as the success of your children. You feel contentment to see your children happily married and enjoying their work in their chosen disciplines. Thank God, we gave so much of our time to them, in their growing years, that they are today fully empowered, independent and responsible citizens of the country. In addition to the success and happiness of the children, what gives you support in old age is the good deeds that you have done in the past, and what good you are doing now. That is a big source of positivity.Tomorrow will be a new day. My wife will give me the morning cup of tea, and I will open the gate for her as she leaves for school. Once we are back from our respective work (for me a second innings), we will eat together, go for an evening walk and discuss issues together. Togetherness never looked so real and fulfilling as today. Sharing and caring will become even more important and sustaining in life as we grow in age.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/in-the-end-theres-just-two-299554
