21-08-2021||YEARS have gone by but I have not forgotten Chini||Rakhi bond made sweeter by Chini||One day, when I was having tea, she came with a packet of biscuits. I asked her name. Chini was an orphan, who never saw her parents. She was brought up at the orphanage run by a Christian association. She would come to meet me every day and we became close. On Raksha Bandhan, she tied a rakhi to me and gave me a chocolate. Little Chini became more than a sister to me.After six months, my assignment came to an end. I had to return to Poona. But she used to send me postcards and I would unfailingly receive her rakhi and a chocolate on Raksha Bandhan.She would often insist that I should come and spend a few days with her at Shahdol, but my work didn’t permit me. Slowly, her postcards became few and far between and when I phoned her, I heard her faint voice.I had other assignments to finish, so I couldn’t call her again. But I waited for her lovely postcards and would occasionally write back.Then a time came, I just didn’t get any postcard or letter from her. On Rakhi day, I received a courier from Father Chakranarayan, the Rector of the orphanage. I suddenly had a premonition. Chini was no more. She was suffering from an incurable type of leukaemia and had wanted to meet me.I cursed myself for not meeting her again or calling her. It was a strange bond between us. There are certain questions in life we have no answers to.Chini came like a whiff of fresh air and went abruptly. When I sit and ruminate over episodes in my life, I feel all loving relations are painfully brief and shockingly precarious. Otherwise, how can one account for that little girl’s predicament?Chini never saw her parents. But I could feel her irrepressible desire to live life to the lees. Alas, that was not to be. Rakhi is a sacred thread, not just about the attachment between a brother and sister but also about protecting the weak. It is a social bond. In Chini’s case, it could not be lived up to the fullest, cut short as her life was by the icy hands of death. I was filled with remorse.Chini, wherever you are, rest assured, I remember you all the time. Your rakhis are still with me!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/rakhi-bond-made-sweeter-by-chini-299949
