25-08-2021||This relates to the era BP (before pandemic)||As jolly as they come||Living at a stone’s throw from my house, he often dropped in at my place many an evening (before the pandemic) without notice, but wouldn’t accept even a cup of tea despite my offer. He used to enquire after my health, which had been indifferent for quite some time then, and left when he knew it was time to leave, which I believe, he could divine from my facial expressions.One day, I told him of another friend of mine who had similarities galore with him. He heard the narration with amusement.Anil Prakash Bhatnagar (name not changed), now settled in Gurugram, had been a year senior to me in the IPS. Once, at a get-together, as he waved his hand to make a point, my eyes caught sight of his palm. A luck-line running deep and long from the mount of Luna to the mount of Saturn struck me. I immediately mentioned it to him saying tongue-in-cheek: ‘Bhatnagar saheb, you have a strong luck-line; your rise would be phenomenal, irrespective of your merits!’ He took the remark sportingly and rather corroborated me: ‘Yes, I had a third division in BSc, and yet I got selected for the IPS.’Emboldened, I added: ‘You have three assets which are the key to your success and which make you what you are!’‘What do you think I am?’ he asked me with a broad grin.‘First, hugely popular with ladies,’ I flattered him. His eyes gleamed with excitement. ‘You also have the gift of the gab,’ I added. ‘And you are social and amiable.’‘Are you serious?’ he asked me with an obvious glee.‘You know I am,’ I replied.‘What about the three assets?’ he wanted to hear about them too.‘They are gol chehra, gora rang and mota chasma,’ I said with a twinkle in my eyes. He seemed mighty pleased.‘The spectacles make you look intellectual,’ I said. ‘Why say they make me look? Am I not really intellectual?’ he countered smilingly, more in zest than in anger.Avoiding any risk, I conceded the point. And the meeting ended on a pleasant note.Sometimes, I wish, I too could be as jolly, social and cheerful as Jadodhar Mattotar and Anil Prakash Bhatnagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/as-jolly-as-they-come-301618
25-08-2021||As the world comes to terms with the recent sensational seizure of Afghanistan by the Taliban||In Kabul without a visa||The adventure began on July 5, 1979. Amid political uncertainty, the Soviet Union was in the process of consolidating its hold over Afghanistan. We were returning to India after a year’s stay at Cambridge, where I had completed an academic programme. I had returned to Delhi a day earlier by a different flight. Since we were on a shoestring budget, we had decided that my wife and children would travel by the cheaper Ariana Afghan Airlines, which flew from London to Delhi via Kabul. Imagine my consternation when I realised that they were not among those who arrived at the Delhi airport! The duty staff could provide no clue to their whereabouts. Considering the turmoil in Afghanistan at that time, this was a shock. I was working in the Ministry of Home Affairs, which had sponsored my foreign training. When I flashed my official card, the airlines manager was forced to admit that some passengers had been offloaded at Kabul. He assured me that the airlines had arranged hotel rooms in Kabul for the stay of the passengers. They would reach Delhi by the next flight, which was to arrive two days later.I was helpless, fearing the worst. It was frustrating, as no form of communication with Kabul was possible. I requested the airlines to deliver a small note to my wife, seeking to reassure her in the trying situation. The note was sent by the Ariana plane returning to Kabul, as I waited in overpowering suspense.When we reunited, I learnt of their harrowing experience in Kabul. At the dingy hotel, she providentially met a fellow Indian, who was in a similar predicament. This young Sikh inspired confidence, as he escorted them through the nearby bazaar. The children were oblivious to any possible dangers in a disturbed land. On return from the brave walk through the streets, she found that her hotel room had been ransacked. The paranoid security agencies had confiscated two seemingly suspicious items from the belongings, a toy plastic gun, and the note that I had sent from Delhi. The children were disappointed, my son at losing a favourite toy, and daughter at not meeting in the city a single Kabuliwala, like the one immortalised by Rabindranath Tagore in his famous short story. But, heaven be thanked, my wife had found a friend and benefactor from Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/in-kabul-without-a-visa-301110
