30-08-2021||News||The uncertain future of India’s economic relationship with Afghanistan||The forceful capture of power in Afghanistan by the Taliban has halted all reconstruction and development works undertaken by India in the country for almost two decades. India, as a close neighbour, had been assisting the reconstruction and development efforts of the government and people of Afghanistan as part of the endeavour to bring stability to the country.The search for stability and goodwill What has India gained by its efforts in the reconstruction of Afghanistan? The intent was never economic, but instead, the stability of the region and the goodwill of Afghans. The then external affairs minister (EAM) SM Krishna in February 2010 told the Rajya Sabha: “The situation in Afghanistan is of direct concern to India, since we have an abiding interest in the stability and prosperity of that country and since we are directly impacted by developments in that region.“India does not see assistance in Afghanistan’s reconstruction as being a zero-sum game. Our assistance programme in Afghanistan has earned us goodwill among the ordinary people there...” he added.More than a decade later, a Cabinet minister, who did not wish to be named given the sensitivity of the situation in Afghanistan, said the crisis will not have a significant direct impact on the Indian economy or its industry, but instability in Afghanistan is not desirable for the economic development of the region.“Bilateral trade between the two is minuscule. But, recent developments [Talibanisation] of the neighbouring nation may certainly hamper [the] Indian government’s humanitarian aid and other ongoing developmental projects in the country,” the minister said, who did not wish to be named because of the precarious situation in the neighbouring country.According to industry and official data, India has so far completed more than 400 projects covering all 34 provinces of Afghanistan, worth billions of dollars in the reconstruction of the nation, to help the war-torn neighbour to become strong, democratic and prosperous.Also Read | In Perspective: India’s big bet on dronesEAM S Jaishankar, in March, said India’s “long-term commitment towards a peaceful, sovereign, stable and inclusive Afghanistan where the rights of all sections of the society are protected within a democratic constitutional framework”. The EAM’s comments are still relevant for India, a government official said requesting anonymity.The economic stakes According to official data, India’s trade with Afghanistan is negligible, a mere 0.19% of $686.24 billion total trade in 2020-21. Bilateral trade between the two countries was only about $800 million in 2016-17. It grew to $1.52 billion in 2019-20 only to slip to $1.33 billion in 2020-21.India’s export to Afghanistan is a minuscule 0.28% of its total exports of $291.8 billion, according to data from the commerce ministry. India exported goods worth $825.78 million in 2020-21, a year-on-year contraction of 17.22%. It imported goods worth $509.49 million in FY-21, 0.13% of India total imports of $394.43 billion that year.The top 10 commodities India exports to Afghanistan are sugar, garments, manmade yarn and fabric, pharmaceuticals, woollens, handicrafts, manufactured tobacco, fresh fruits, spices, and iron and steel products. It imports spices, fruits and nuts, lac, gum, resins, herbal products and processed fruits and vegetables.The possible impact Sanjay Aggarwal, president at PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI), said that the political and economic developments in Afghanistan would not have “major ramifications” for the Indian economy as trade between the two nations is meagre.But he added that trade between the two countries would drop significantly. “Afghanistan is a landlocked country with air route as an important medium of exports. With the restricted airspace for India in Afghanistan, the trade with Afghanistan is expected to stand still for some time,” he said.Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) director-general, Chandrajit Banerjee, said the dedicated air freight corridor service, which started on June 19, 2017, had augmented Afghan exports to India and directly benefited the Afghan farmers and small traders and exporters.Also Read | Dindori: As district gets added to India’s Maoist map, what it means for StateBut CII members remain hopeful. “Agricultural products make up 65.8% of Afghanistan’s exports. Dry fruits are among its most exported agricultural products. India is one of the biggest destinations of Afghanistan’s exports as the products are imported at concessional tariffs due to a preferential trading arrangement between India and Afghanistan... The events unfolding in Afghanistan have taken place when Afghan farmers are in the process of harvesting the dry fruits for exporting to Indian markets for the upcoming festive season. Indian importers are hopeful that trade routes would reopen in time for sourcing these products for the festive season,” he added.A spokesperson of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) terms recent developments in Afghanistan as a “grave humanitarian crisis”.“In the middle of such a crisis, it would be premature to assess the economic impact of the deteriorating geopolitical developments in Afghanistan. However, events of such a magnitude are bound to leave a deleterious impact on the economy of that country,” the spokesperson said. According to Assocham, Indian investments in Afghanistan are of a “strategic” imperative.Indian projects in Afghanistan: Salma Dam: One of India’s high-visibility hydropower and irrigation projects — the 42MW Salma Dam in Herat province — was completed against all odds and inaugurated in 2016. It is known as the Afghan-India Friendship Dam.Zaranj-Delaram highway: The other high-profile Indian project was the 218-km Zaranj-Delaram highway built by the Border Roads Organisation. Zaranj is located close to Afghanistan’s border with Iran. With Pakistan denying India overland access for trade with Afghanistan, the highway is of strategic importance to New Delhi, as it provides an alternative route into landlocked Afghanistan through Iran’s Chabahar port. Over 300 Indian engineers and workers toiled alongside Afghans to build the road. According to the ministry of external affairs, 11 Indians and 129 Afghans lost their lives during the construction. Six of the Indians were killed in terrorist attacks; five in accidents. India has also built several smaller roads.Also Read | Chhattisgarh: The inside story of the Bhupesh Baghel-TS Singh Deo battleParliament: The Afghan Parliament in Kabul was built by India at $90 million. It was opened in 2015; Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi inaugurated the building. In an expansive speech about India-Afghanistan friendship, he quoted Rumi, who was born in Balkh, Afghanistan, and the immortal Yaari hai imaan mera yaar meri zindagi from the movie Zanjeer, featuring Pran in the role of Sher Khan, the Pathan. Modi described the building as India’s tribute to democracy in Afghanistan. A block in the building is named after former PM AB Vajpayee.Stor Palace: In 2016, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and PM Modi inaugurated the restored Stor Palace in Kabul, originally built in the late 19th century. The building housed the offices of the Afghan foreign minister and the ministry until 1965. In 2009, India, Afghanistan, and the Aga Khan Development Network signed a tripartite agreement for its restoration. The Aga Khan Trust for Culture completed the project between 2013 and 2016.Power infra: Other Indian projects in Afghanistan include the rebuilding of power infrastructure such as the 220kV DC transmission line from Pul-e-Khumri, capital of Baghlan province to the north of Kabul, to beef up electricity supply to the capital. Indian contractors and workers also restored telecommunications infrastructure in many provinces.Health: India has reconstructed a children’s hospital it had helped build in Kabul in 1972 — named Indira Gandhi Institute for Child Health in 1985 — that was in a shambles after the war. “Indian Medical Missions” have held free consultation camps in several areas. Thousands who lost their limbs after stepping on mines left over from the war have been fitted with the Jaipur Foot. India also built clinics in the border provinces of Badakhshan, Balkh, Kandahar, Khost, Kunar, Nangarhar, Nimruz, Nooristan, Paktia and Paktika.Transportation: According to MEA, India gifted 400 buses and 200 minibuses for urban transportation, 105 utility vehicles for municipalities, 285 military vehicles for the Afghan National Army, and 10 ambulances for public hospitals in five cities. It also gave three Air India aircraft to Ariana, the Afghan national carrier, when it was restarting operations.Other projects: India has contributed desks and benches for schools, built solar panels in remote villages, constructed Sulabh toilet blocks in Kabul. New Delhi has also played a role in building capacity, with vocational training institutes, scholarships to Afghan students, mentoring programmes in the civil service, and training for doctors and others.Ongoing projects: Last November, Jaishankar announced that India had concluded an agreement with Afghanistan for the construction of the Shatoot Dam in Kabul district, which will provide safe drinking water to 2 million residents. He also announced the start of some 100 community development projects worth $80 million. Last year, India pledged $1 million for another Aga Khan heritage project, the restoration of the Bala Hissar Fort south of Kabul, whose origins go back to the 6th century. Bala Hissar went on to become a significant Mughal fort, parts of it were rebuilt by Jahangir, and it was used as a residence by Shah Jahan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-uncertain-future-of-india-s-economic-relationship-with-afghanistan-101630328083601.html
30-08-2021||News||In Perspective: India’s big bet on drones||Last week, India’s civil aviation ministry notified new rules covering drones — the second time that regulations were updated this year itself. Citing feedback from several quarters, the government said the rules published in March were seen as being restrictive.The resulting rules appear to recognise that the previous regulations more or less amounted to throwing the baby out with the bathwater – a labyrinthine process ostensibly aimed at keeping the skies safe meant people had to navigate through 25 forms, obtain a remote pilots’ license, and get a security clearance before they could fly drones for simple uses such as wedding photography.In the rules notified on August 26, much of this red tape has been done away with and India’s regulatory framework now appears to be on par with global practices. This will be crucial because drones have emerged as a crucial part of future technologies. World over, the small flying machines are gathering data from hard-to-reach places, helping humans avoid treacherous locations, improving the speed of life-saving assistance and may someday even emerge as a mode of transport.The government indicated that it recognises this potential and announced it wants to go further by helping establish an industry around it. Here, we decode some of the crucial ways in which the rules have changed and the gains it could lead to, as well as note some of the concerns that persist.What are the big improvements?The biggest change that will help the government’s objective is the way people can now gain authorisation to fly drones. A vast proportion of users are likely to fall in the recreational category and the most popular devices in this segment (due to their affordability and practicality) are likely to be classified as micro and nano drones. People will no longer need a remote pilot’s license.Also Read | In Perspective: Taliban, tech and the fight for Afghanistan’s futureThe government has also done away with the need for a security clearance.The number of forms and amount of fees have been whittled down too – people now need to identify one of five forms and have to pay one of four categories of fees.The rules also make it easier for companies wanting to deploy drones as well as those seeking to produce or import it. Previously, a foreign company or its subsidiary was not allowed to operate drones in India. Imports would not be possible unless the civil aviation regulator, DGCA, issued a specific import clearance. Now, both of these hurdles have been removed.How will they help?Encouraging use: The initial boost is likely to be evident in the nano and micro drone categories that are popular with hobbyists. The smallest “nano” category start at close to ₹50,000. But the rules also make it easier for researchers to deploy drones. In India, some of these applications have been in agriculture and geomapping – these are areas where adoption is likely to automatically increase.Encouraging industry: Companies carrying out R&D of drones have been exempted from filing for certification or remote flying licence if they use the drones within premises they own or rent. This will benefit companies making their own drones for sale. The rules also exempt certification requirements for drones that are not meant for use in India and are only being exported, and pitch for a council to be formed to promote drones. Market analysts expect India’s drone market to log an annual growth rate of over 12% — if the country is able to establish a production ecosystem to cater to such demand, it will lead to thousands of new jobs.Encouraging innovation: Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said, while briefing the media on the new regulations, that the rules pave way for ultimately even allowing Uber-like drone taxis. A key point that backs up the support for innovation is also the plan for a dedicated drone corridor for cargo deliveries.What India needs to think aboutThere are two particular areas of concern that persist.First, drones are expected to capture vast amounts of data. This will inevitably include sensitive information, such as the location of an individual, their residence and nature of their large assets such as property and vehicle. Advances in technology mean operators can also potentially use drones for close surveillance, using, for instance, face recognition. At present, the regulatory mechanism proposed under the personal data protection law to prohibit the abuse of such data is yet to be put in place.Second, companies have flagged some concerns with the technical portions of the framework for regulation of drone use. In particular, this has to do with the Digital Sky platform and a feature known as no-permission, no-take off (NPNT). A representative of drone maker DJI, for instance, flagged the lack of development of the Digital Sky portal. Separately, experts also foresee problems in the use of the NPNT system, which is meant to act as an automatic geofencing system to prohibit a drone from taking off in a red zone, or breach the 200 ft ceiling in a yellow zone.In Perspective takes a deep dive into current issues, the visible and invisible factors at play, and their implications for our future. The column is out every Monday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-perspective-india-s-big-bet-on-drones-101630327003832.html
30-08-2021||News||Chhattisgarh: The inside story of the Bhupesh Baghel-TS Singh Deo battle||It was the afternoon of December 15, 2018 at the New Delhi home of senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge. There were four senior Chhattisgarh Congress leaders present, none of them pleased.They should have been. In assembly results four days earlier, the Congress had swept to power in the state for the first time in 15 years in a landslide, winning 68 of 90 seats.And yet, there sat one leader, announced to the room as Chief Minister (CM) who would lose the post a few hours later; another who reluctantly settled for Speaker; and two others who refused the leadership of the first, and would in the immediate future, thrash out an unprecedented, if clumsy, two-and-a-half year power-sharing arrangement.And that is the cornerstone of the conflict between CM Bhupesh Baghel and Health Minister TS Singh Deo today.The roots of the crisisThe story of their leadership begins in tragedy, in May 2013, when the then Congress leadership in the state was wiped out in one of the most lethal Maoist attacks ever.Also Read | Dindori: As district gets added to India’s Maoist map, what it means for StateAs a Congress yatra made its way through the Darbha ghati in Bastar, an ambush ended the lives of state Congress stalwarts such as Nand Kumar Patel, Vidya Charan Shukla, Mahendra Karma and 24 others. Shorn of its biggest leaders, the reins of the party were handed over to Bhupesh Baghel and TS Singh Deo, then close confidantes.Elections, which took place in six months, proved too soon for a change, but in the five years between 2013 and 2018, Baghel was the aggressive state Congress chief, Singh Deo, the calm and suave leader of Opposition.As the November 2018 elections approached, and the sense that the Congress had a clear chance of uprooting the Raman Singh-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government for the first time in 15 years grew, the signs of distance began to show. Baghel and Singh Deo operated largely separate from each other.Baghel was aggressive, taking on Raman Singh for alleged corruption repeatedly, and even playing a hand in the removal of Ajit Jogi, the first Congress CM from the party. His tenure was nothing if not controversial, even going to jail for three days for allegedly circulating a distributing an alleged fake sex CD of the BJP PWD minister Rajesh Munat.Singh Deo, on the other hand, was quieter, many argue sometimes too quiet in taking on the BJP, but spending time in the creation of an ambitious “Janghoshna Patra” (People’s manifesto) that was built by criss crossing the state, and focusing on his stronghold in north Chhattisgarh.The post-election battle in RaipurCut to December 2018, and the Congress had decimated the BJP, sweeping 68 of 90 seats. Those for Baghel argued that he had led the party in the face of the 2013 crisis, and aggressively taken on Raman Singh and the BJP. Singh Deo aides spoke of the role the manifesto had played, how often it was cited among the people, and the Congress sweep in north Chhattisgarh.The battlelines had been drawn. The central Congress leadership then seemed to begin an experiment in deciding leadership. Observer Mallikarjun Kharge arrived in Raipur, and went straight to Babylon Hotel, where every victorious member of the legislative assembly (MLA) was waiting.As crowds jostled downstairs, shouting slogans, even breaking a glass door in the melee, in the rooms upstairs, Kharge, and general secretaries PL Punia, Chandan Yadav and Arun Oraon began an exercise. They asked each MLA whose leadership they backed, with the other option leaving it to the high command. At another level, calls went out to party workers, asking the same question, seeking responses on the “Shakti App.” Many MLA’s just left it to the High command, but as the exercise ended, most in the Chhattisgarh Congress felt that it was Singh Deo who had taken the lead.For two days, as the Congress struggled to put out fires despite victory in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, seen as much trickier — given both the narrower margins of victory, and the stature of the competing leaders in Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot, and Kamal Nath and Jyotiraditya Scindia — Chhattisgarh waited.The Delhi formula By December 14, four leaders, Baghel, Singh Deo, old warhorse and former state Congress chief Charandas Mahant, and central OBC wing president Tamradhwaj Sahu were called to Delhi.Each had one-on-one meetings with both Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi. By the afternoon, it became clear that neither Baghel and Singh Deo were relenting, even as crowds thronged their Raipur and Durg homes, waiting for news. Mahant had settled for speaker, but at the home of Kharge then, a decision was announced, with a box of ladoos on the table. Sahu, who had spent most of his five years in Delhi had snuck ahead to be the party’s choice. Baghel and Singh Deo were stunned, and did not accept the decision. The ladoos, it is said, remained untouched.Ruffled by their lack of acceptance, the four were called back to the residence of Rahul Gandhi, and it was here that the power sharing deal was thrashed out. Gandhi reportedly conveyed that Sahu had been made CM because his two leading candidates had reached an impasse. Prodded on by their close confidantes, Baghel and Singh Deo spoke for the first time, and came up with a solution.Singh Deo presented a scenario where he would take power for two years initially, and Baghel for the next three, with the next elections being fought under Baghel. Faced with the prospect of Sahu being CM, Baghel acquiesced, but wanted to go first. Gandhi reportedly stepped in, and nixed the two and three idea, arguing for a split two-and-a-half year term each. The question then became who would go first, with Gandhi and Punia among those that deliberated, and eventually that role went to Baghel.Central to that decision was the argument that Chhattisgarh has a large population of OBCs and with Lok Sabha elections in six months, it would do well for the party to have an OBC leader at the helm.Singh Deo’s side argued that while there may be OBCs in Chhattisgarh, they are scattered, and don’t vote on caste lines, pointing to a Thakur leader in Raman Singh winning three terms, and that Chhattisgarh was, at its core, a tribal state.Six months later, despite the thumping assembly victory, the Congress won only two of eleven Lok Sabha seats. Its biggest margin of loss was in Durg, by close to 400,000 votes, home to its OBC chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and OBC Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu.The persistent friction Saddled by this two-and-a-half year arrangement at the top of their minds, the relationship between Baghel and Singh Deo, now health minister, has never mended. The closer one is to Chhattisgarh, the stronger the sense of friction, despite claims of “collective leadership”.While the disagreements have been quieter than ones in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, in Chhattisgarh, there have been many examples of the simmering anger, with Baghel accused of not inviting Singh Deo to health department meetings. In that time, Baghel has built a national profile, campaigning in Uttar Pradesh and most recently in Assam, even going door to door. Within the state, the power balance has seemingly shifted too, towards Baghel, with a focus on a “Chhattisgarhiya” son of the soil identity. Baghel has become a loud and reocgnisable voice, often frequenting national media events, and strongly putting forth the Congress stance.And yet, not everything has been perfect. In May, four tribals in Bastar died in alleged police firing in Silger, and in the protests in the aftermath, human rights activists Jean Dreze and Bela Bhatia alleged that they were prevented from going to the spot. There have also been allegations of a reduction in a proposed area of an elephant reserve at the altar of mining, something Singh Deo has objected to.By June 17, the day the two and a half year term deadline was passed, the voices of disagreement had only become louder. Recently, Singh Deo walked out of the state assembly, with Baghel sitting inside, irked at the lack of a government response denouncing allegations by Baghel loyalist Brihaspati Singh that he had engineered an attack on his vehicle. Singh Deo only returned to the assembly after an apology was issued, and none other than Tamradhwaj Sahu issued a statement.Will the deal be implemented? Two months later, saddled with a clumsy power-sharing agreement that was ill designed, the future is still unclear. Last week, in meetings with both leaders, it seemed like that the Congress leadership wanted Baghel to honour the agreement, and a defiant CM returned to Raipur, alleging that those who spoke of such an arrangement would never succeed.Baghel then returned to Delhi on Friday morning, with more than 40 MLAs in tow, for a second meeting. In another marathon conversation with Rahul Gandhi, and this time Priyanka Gandhi too, he seems to have accrued an advantage by pointing to his tenure as CM, and of course, his supporters bringing back the argument that his OBC identity was an asset. Emerging out of the meeting, Baghel said he had put “all issues” in front of his leader, and he had invited Rahul Gandhi to Chhattisgarh next week, “as Chief Minister”.Singh Deo’s argument has been constant. That Baghel’s chief ministership was premised on the deal, and he would simply like it honoured. His aides argue that unlike Pilot and Scindia, he has dealt with his marginalisation with dignity, and rarely spoken out of turn.When he returned to Raipur on Sunday, to a quieter welcome than the jubilant scenes of Baghel’s triumphant welcome in the morning, Singh Deo said that “everything” had been discussed and the decision “had been kept safe for now”.For the Congress, the leadership can either take the position that the promise must be enforced and send the message to its leaders that it will live up to its word. Conversely, it could take the position that Baghel has grown into his role and that a change midway, no matter what promise, sends a poor message. Either way, the continuing silence from the Delhi leadership, and two leaders hanging on to hope, will only further cleave the party from within.While there is no immediate danger to the government with the numbers it has at its command, there will be an election to fight in a little over two years. Even as a surprisingly subdued state BJP watches from a distance, the notion that even in a state where the mandate is clear and the leaders are no behemoths, the Congress is incapable of keeping its house in order, will only grow stronger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/chhattisgarh-the-inside-story-of-the-bhupesh-baghel-ts-singh-deo-battle-101630318304804.html
30-08-2021||News||Dindori: As district gets added to India’s Maoist map, what it means for State||Fitari is quiet. The kind of quiet that can only exists in a village in the middle of a Sal forest, its people from a tribe famously reclusive. A thin black tarred road snakes its way to the village, cutting through the Maikal hills, and two small rivulets. As a vehicle passes, the children scatter and the adults stop and stare. Most watch with surprise. The sound of an engine, or the voices of outsiders are still rare.But there is now wariness in those eyes too. For uniformed visitors, both Maoists and the police, have become increasingly frequent. And for villages in Dindori, now on the country’s Maoist map, that can only mean trouble.In July this year, the Union home ministry revised its list of districts affected by Left Wing Extremism across the country, bringing them down from 90 to 70. In every affected state, except one, the number of districts either stayed the same, or came down. The only addition, Madhya Pradesh’s Dindori.Also Read | Climate risk maps can mitigate the crisis and protect vulnerable livesThe list has also seen Chhattisgarh’s Mungeli district replacing Balod, which shares a border with Dindori, and the already declared Kabirdham district.For security agencies, this is an admission that a decade long expansion project of the Maoists into these parts, first spotted in 2012, called the MMC (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh confluence) zone requires focussed attention.For 17-year-old Maha Singh Dhruv, the classification brings no solace, just a sense of dread, of the uncertainty and fear impending conflict bring.“For the last year, I fear entering the forest thinking that if someday they (Maoists) meet me and ask for help, what will I do? I will have to help them because they carry weapons and if I do, the police will ask a hundred questions,” Dhruv said.Dhruv is a Baiga, who form more than 80% of the population in Fitari, which has a population of 500 voters. The tribe, famously reclusive, are one of the 75 notified Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG) in the country, and one of the seven notified in Madhya Pradesh.The government defines PVTG’s as “tribal communities who have declining or stagnant population, low level of literacy, pre-agricultural level of technology and are economically backward”.Also Read | Climate crisis: India now confronts a droughtDhruv lost his father very young, and lives in small one room hut with his mother. He went to school in the village itself, but dropped out when his father died. Like with everyone else in the village, there is no income, only subsistence. There is paddy that grows seasonally in two acres of land, and a small kitchen garden where there are long stalks of maize. The rest, the forest has always provided for. But now, with the peace beginning to break, Dhruv wants to leave. “I want to leave this place now. I need a job in Dindori town, 80 kilometres away,” Dhruv said.The mechanics of identification The police focus is on three police station areas in Dindori district, Samnapur, Bajag and Karanjiya. The village has electricity but no mobile towers, and to make a phone call, the few who have phones climb up to specific areas atop hills where the signal bar on the handset flickers on.Senior police officials told HT that earlier this year, they were given inputs of a team of Maoists attempting to speak to villagers in Fitari. Silence is perhaps the best escape and Dhule Baiga has an answer everyone else does too. “I know nothing,” he says.Sanjay Singh, superintendent of police, Dindori, said the movement and interaction that the police have noticed in the area, have been in and around 65 villages, mostly in “Baiga Chak”.In 1890, the then colonial government had notified “Baiga Chak” as an area that the Baigas lived in, where they would practice shifting agriculture, locally called “Bewar”. The residents would burn patches of forests and then sow seeds with the government instead training them to practice “settled farming”. At the time, the Baiga Chak had seven villages, but the term is now commonly used to refer to 52 villages, both in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.Also Read | A leap in India’s vaccine driveBut even if villagers are afraid to talk of the increase presence of Maoists, the police argue that there are clear indications of a growing presence. In 2018, four kilometres away from Fetari, in the biggest local market in Dhurkuta, where everything from an umbrella to spices is sold, a driver spotted a group of 28 armed cadres crossing the forests. “I remember it was a chilly morning and I was returning from a marriage in Dhurkuta. I counted them. Initially , I thought they were police personnel but later because they were very cautious, I realised that they are Maoists,” said the driver, tracked down by HT, who lives in Chhattisgarh’s Kabhirdham, bordering Dindori.Acting on this information, the police had at the time, sent teams to the village and found telltale footprints at the spot the driver had mentioned. “I tried to ask the villagers but most said nothing. Only one elderly Baiga told me that he saw those people twice walking outside the village,” a local police officer said.Officers of the Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh Police, who have interrogated surrendered cadres that worked in the MMC zone in the last three years believe that the Maoists are developing a new ‘base area’ in the dense Amarkantak forests. Amarkantak is where the Vindhya, Maikal and Satpura ranges converge in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.In 2012, the Central Committee of the CPI (Maoist) decided to form this new zone, apart from the one already operational in Bastar called the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee (DKSZC). Documents accessed by the police show that by 2017, the work of “social investigation” was completed by “vistar platoons” covering more than 500 villages in the area. This survey included analysis of demography, target population, economic status, employment, and socio-economic problems of the area along with the identification of safe routes for the movement of armed cadres. The aim is to create another “Abhujhmaad”, which is a 4000 square kilometre area in south Bastar, unmapped by the government, and known to be the area where members of the Central Committee of the CPI(Maoist) live and operate from.Also Read | In Kabul, India’s twin agendaIn their conversations, surrendered cadres have told police that the Maoists have surveyed the forests to map water bodies, high vantage points to watch the movement of troops and police stations in a bid to create a safe zone. The team responsible for developing this passage and base area is headed by Maoist commander Rakesh Ode, originally from Gadchiroli, who heads a team of 22 armed cadres. Rakesh heads three Area Committees of CPI (Maoist) – Bhoramdeo, Bodla and Khatiamocha and reports to Kabeer who heads the Kanha Bhoramdeo (KB) division of the MMC zone. Police records show that there are a total of 85 armed cadres operating in the area, of which 34 are women.The beginning of a vicious cycle? The increase in the Maoist presence is also throwing up a familiar, hotly contested argument, one that has caused much strife in areas such as Bastar. The Dindori police plan to set up four new police camps in the area, at Chauradadar, Padaripani, Chada and Gaurakanhari, all in Baiga Chak. In Dhurkuta, this plan worries Arjun Singh Dhruv, president of the Baiga Nritak Dal and a retired teacher. “I don’t know about Maoists and their presence in this area, but one thing is concerning for us – our freedom. When the forces will be deployed, we will be caged,” Dhruv said.Dhruv said that Baiga culture has very little crime, close to no theft, so much so that there are very few homes that even own a lock. “The nearest police station, Bajag is 28 km from this village but when the police from outside (referring to paramilitary personnel) come to this area they definitely intrude into our daily lives, and can harass us,” he said.Dr Vijay Chaurasia, a homeopathy doctor based in Baiga Chak, and author of the book “Prakriti Putra Baiga” shares similar concerns and said that it took him close to a decade to win the confidence of the Baigas. “If the Maoists are talking to Baigas and trying to enter this peaceful community, they are actually harming them. But the government decision to deploy forces in this area makes this tribe venerable. This is bad move,” he said.But Ved Ram Hanote, Station House Officer of the Bajag police station has already spotted signs of a shift in stance and vocabulary in some sections of the population. “We have information that some people, possibly Maoists, are entering remote villages of Baiga Chak and encouraging the residents to encroach forest land for cultivation. To me it seems that the language of Baigas has changed, they have a new vocabulary where some are talking about rights and laws. Rights and laws are not bad in themselves, just that the change in words tells me that a new influence has seeped in,” Hanote said.Although there has been no recorded Maoist violence in Dindori, the district police believe that the villages inside the forest of Dindori are now a “safe area” for Maoists. In March 2021, a massive anti-Maoist operation was launched by the Mandla police where, under fire, the Maoists escaped towards Dindori and settled there for about a week. “They travel along a river called Kharmer, which borders two states every time they feel pressure in Chhattisgarh or Mandla,” said the Dindori SP, adding that the state government had been trying to include Dindori in MHA’s list for last two years.He said that he hoped that the Baigas being reclusive would stem the spread of Maoist influence, but hidden in that, is a double edged sword. “They rarely entertain outsiders and therefore the chances of widespread Maoist influence is less. But if the Maoists do manage this, then it would be really difficult for us because they rarely say anything to the police,” said Singh.Also Read | The art of mediating conflictsThe district plans to deploy all Baiga policemen in these areas, who will aid the paramilitary in their operations, and attempt to “keep a check on them”. The plan is to deploy 400 central forces, but augment them with 550 district police personnel. “We have started training officers to prevent any harassment in the region. The behaviour of police must change while working in these tribal dominated areas; otherwise the Maoists could take advantage and we will lose the trust of the community,” said the SP.However, within the state apparatus, there is no unanimity on what is clearly a complicated question. Intelligence officials HT has spoken to said that the large number of deployments themselves may be what the Maoists want the state to do. “I think that the Maoists want such a deployment of police forces because this will make tribes feel threatened and in turn, they create ideological space for themselves. What is need of such a huge deployment? These villages are merely a passage of Maoists towards Amarkantak. Baigas don’t like uniformed people and hence it could be dangerous,” an officer posted in the region said.The Chhattisgarh dimension In Chhattisgarh’s neighbouring Mungeli district, also newly added to the list of Maoist districts by the MHA, around 50 villages of the Khudiya post in Lormi, are being watched closely by the state. Police functionaries said that all of these are Baiga dominated villages and more than ten “interactions” have been recorded in the past year. Remote and sparsely populated, these villages get cut off in the monsoon.“My brother lives in Aurapani and guards a small rest house there. He told me that about a year ago , four people in black uniforms came and asked him several questions about and topography. They enter our village from Ajgar Pahad in Mungeli,” said Chamran Singh Baiga, who once lived in Aurapanu, but has since moved to Mahuamacha village.A senior police officer, posted in Chhattisgarh’s capital of Raipur said Mungeli has developed into an area of strategic importance for the MMC zone. “We have included the district in our list Khudiya outpost is the entrance point of their base area –the Amarkantak forests. If they get support or recruitment from the villages alongside, it will be very difficult to contain them in next few years,” said the officer.Chhattisgarh DGP DM Awasthi said the state wanted to be careful with its planning and deployment and not exacerbate a sensitive situation. “In 2018, Kabirdham was added in MHAs list and now we have decided to add Mungeli. The reason is simple, Maoists are expanding MMC zone towards Amarakant and it is important to check them. We are still thinking about deployment and based on intelligence inputs decisions will be taken,” Awasthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/dindori-as-district-gets-added-to-india-s-maoist-map-what-it-means-for-state-101630298322778.html
