01-01-2022||Former Ambassador||Afghan peace, stability may stay elusive||For long, Afghanistan has been the less-favoured child of history. In this difficult journey, it has often been betrayed by the powers and people it trusted. Former Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, the US and its agent Zalmay Khalilzad are the latest inclusions on this black list.The Taliban are a natural fit. They had long anticipated their return to power, and had years to prepare for governance. Once earlier, in the 1990s, they had wielded the ruling stick in Kabul. Yet, they were caught unprepared by the suddenness of their victory.The Afghan people, abandoned by their leaders, were quick to accept the new reality; that life under the Taliban would be brutish for the general public and short for the regime’s opponents. To add to their misery, the country is already facing a devastating humanitarian crisis and a free-falling economy.Yet, the Taliban remain fixed in their ways. This means women are unlikely to get their place in society and the girl child will continue to be denied her right to education. It also means freedom of expression and democracy are terms for farther shores. The media, such as it is, will remain muzzled and the parliament building constructed by the sweat of Indian workers will not host debates after the abolition of the Election Commission by the Taliban.Unless there is a radical course correction, chances are that the Afghan economy will steadily regress towards the very bottom it had reached during the previous Taliban rule.Afghanistan’s economic figures tell an entire story. Throughout the Taliban rule, and up to 2001, the Afghan GDP remained at around $2.7 billion. From that rock bottom position, it climbed steadily over the years to achieve a GDP of $19.5 billion in 2017.It was the same case in per capita GDP terms. From a low of $119 in 2001, it reached $550 in 2017. The exports reveal a similar picture; Afghanistan’s exports in 1996, during the Taliban rule, were a pitiable $90 million. By 2017, they had reached a reasonably respectable figure of $784 million.Now, with international sanctions in place, the slide to the dismal state of the 1990s may not take long. Rather, the conditions could worsen. During the first Taliban rule, there was virtually no opposition to the government. This time, the government itself is divided between factions. There are rumours of a growing rift between the Haqqani network— a Taliban faction based in the east — and a Kandahar-based faction of Taliban co-founders in the south of the country. Moreover, ethnic minorities like the Hazaras are restless, and the substantial population of Tajiks remains on edge. There are also reports that the Taliban are forcibly evicting hundreds of ethnic Uzbeks, Turkmen and the Shi’ite Hazara minority from their homes and land.Separately, the Taliban are being undermined by the Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) group. Gradually, and as frustration with the hardline methods of the government grows, other pockets of resistance could emerge. Discontent may also become more pronounced within the Taliban ranks, in part, because of the Haqqani group’s domination in critical security positions. All these are formidable odds for a new government. Still, the Taliban’s discipline and resourcefulness might ensure that its regime endures.As for the outside world, its choices are limited and not too pleasant. Still, some contact must be established so that the Taliban are reminded from time to time of the expectations of the outside world. The UN has a chance to do so after the adoption in December 2021 of the UNSC resolution to provide humanitarian assistance. This resolution has put in place a monitoring mechanism to ensure that the aid it provides, reaches people. It also called on all parties to respect the human rights of all individuals, including women, children and persons belonging to minorities. Whether this call will be heeded by the Taliban, and whether they will make a fundamental switch in their approach, remains to be seen. But there is no harm in the UN making this pitch. Meanwhile, the best the outside world can hope for is the following: Afghanistan remains intact geographically, in its present form; over time, as economic and societal issues begin to overwhelm it, the Taliban might make some concessions to ease the lives of people; the unemployed cadre of the Taliban are not deployed for terror activities in other countries.These are minimal expectations, yet the Taliban might prefer to keep walking down the negative path. Then, the way ahead could be challenging for it and the region around it. As it is, there are critics who maintain that India should offer refuge to Afghan minorities such as the Hazaras, Tajiks and Uzbeks etc. But this appeal for generosity ignores the security implications these vast numbers pose, nor does it take into account the societal impact of accommodating a large influx. Europe’s discomfort in having accepted a rush of refugees is a case in point.Then there are those who find fault with India for saying, during the pre-Taliban phase, that it was on the same page as America. The counter to this being: would they rather prefer that India announced it was not on the same page as America?What’s needed is a balanced view that takes into account India’s historical experience. Over centuries, India gave refuge to the Afghans. This fact did not deter Afghanistan from sending volunteers to fight alongside Pakistani tribals in J&K in 1947-48. India’s aid to Afghanistan has been consistently significant. This received an appreciative nod from the people, but India was never regarded as a partner of strategic significance by Afghan governments. The Northern Alliance played a hopeful role for a brief period. But it was never powerful enough to pose a challenge to Kabul. In any case, it was a product of circumstances and overlapping interests then. These no longer exist. Russia follows a different trajectory and so does Iran. It will now be unrealistic and hazardous to expect India to launch a solo foray.Given the turbulence that lies ahead, it will be prudent for India to maintain some sort of informal contact with the government in Afghanistan without getting involved one way or the other. Chances are that the churn there may end up singeing those who take an intrusive interest in its affairs. This applies equally to Pakistan, which wishes to act as an overlord in Kabul without taking on the responsibility of nurturing Afghanistan. Consequently, misunderstandings and frictions between the two may increase steadily.Another result could see Pashtuns on both sides of the Durand divide combine in common cause against Pakistan. Where that leads to, time alone will tell. Meanwhile, the ISI could divert the unemployed Taliban cadres to terror assignments in the region. Either way, it holds out a cautionary warning for the outsiders; that every Afghan stone is soaked in blood and that throughout its troubled history, this land has been the graveyard of empires. The current Taliban interlude will be the chapter that follows, and it might turn out to be equally bloody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/afghan-peace-stability-may-stay-elusive-356787
01-01-2022||Associate Fellow||China lurking, India walks tightrope on Myanmar||Myanmar has been gripped by instability after the February 2021 coup which removed the Aung San Suu Kyi-controlled government from power. This coup in its wake brought western sanctions on Myanmar with the hope that it will put pressure on the military junta to restore democracy. The coup has also posed a challenge before the biggest democracy in the region, India, to devise its own policy towards the crisis in Myanmar. The recent visit of Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla to Myanmar was aimed at constructively engaging the country that shares its borders with the Northeast and where vital Indian interests are involved.India would prefer that democracy is restored in Myanmar and the country moves towards a more federal structure based on its Constitution. New Delhi expressed its unhappiness when ousted Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi was found guilty by a court of charges of incitement and breaching of Covid-19 restrictions. India criticised the verdict and saw it as undermining the rule of law and democratic process. Still, it was careful not to be too critical of Myanmar’s military rulers fearing that it might drive the country closer to China.To restore democracy in Myanmar, Shringla, during his visit, urged the military leadership in the country to hold elections. The military junta in Myanmar has indicated that they might hold elections in 2023 and they are considering introducing proportional representation along with direct elections. India has, however, suggested that Myanmar should opt for a system that is politically more acceptable to its people. India also urged the Myanmar authorities to release political prisoners. Shringla had a meeting with the opposition National League for Democracy (NLD) to indicate that India considers the opposition party an important stakeholder.However, India can’t adopt the western policy of imposing sanctions on the military junta in Myanmar. India shares a 1,700-km-long border with Myanmar in its north-eastern part. This region has been plagued by insurgency and in the past, several north-eastern insurgent groups have operated from Myanmar territory, with or without the support of the Myanmar authorities. In the last few years, due to better understanding between India and Myanmar, these insurgents have been on the backfoot. The cooperation of the Myanmar military has been crucial in improving the situation in the Northeast and bringing relative peace. However, even today, at least six insurgent groups active in India’s Northeast are believed to be operating from Myanmar and China has shown its inclination to use these to cause disturbance within India.Myanmar also needs to be handled carefully for geopolitical reasons amid the unrest prevailing in the country. China has always been deeply entrenched in Myanmar. It has been a major supplier of weapons. Only a few days ago, it gave a submarine to the Myanmar navy at a ceremony in Yangon, presided over by coup leader Senior General Min Aung Hlaing. China is also engaged in infrastructure building as part of China-Myanmar Economic Corridor. Besides, Myanmar has been sourcing fighter jets, jointly manufactured by China and Pakistan. Russia, another major player, has been contacted by the Myanmar authorities for supply of weapons. Russia is also looking for a port in this area, which can be used by its navy for logistic purposes. Clearly, complex geopolitical developments are taking place in this region and any fissures in the India-Myanmar relations would be used by forces hostile to India.The pro-democracy protests in Myanmar unfortunately have caused another security issue for India. Due to the crackdown of military on the pro-democracy protestors, some of them have escaped to the Indian states of Mizoram and Manipur. The Indian policy in this regard is to persuade these protesters to go back to Myanmar. It is believed that a persistent Covid infection in Mizoram is due to the crossing over of these protesters. To deal with the situation, India has donated one million vaccines to Myanmar, most of which will be used to vaccinate border populations.There is no doubt that a civil war-like situation in Myanmar is of great concern to India. If this situation worsens, the fighting might spill over to the bordering areas of the Indian side as well. The deterioration in situation might be used by China or Pakistan to revive a weakening insurgency in India’s Northeast. There are already reports of intensified arms smuggling in the area. Some of these arms could be easily transferred to the Northeast insurgents. At this stage, keeping the sensitivity of the situation in view, India can’t afford to take sides and the pragmatic policy of engaging with all stakeholders is the only option. The military junta in Myanmar seems to be going back to the old system that prevailed before 2011. However, if this leads to a serious decline in the situation, either within Myanmar or in the bordering areas of India and Myanmar, then there might be a need to revisit this policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-lurking-india-walks-tightrope-on-myanmar-356789
