02-01-2022||THE pages inside are yellowed with age||How to be a person with humour, valour and resilience of spirit||As I turn the pages, I find a record of my handwriting through the years. The colour of the ink varies between blue, red, green and purple. I have filled up piles of diaries with reporting and workshop notes, but this one notebook in which I have transcribed minimal quotes that spoke to me or startled me when I stumbled upon them, has remained my constant companion. Every now and then something reminds me to browse through it and search for connections in its pages again.“I have traversed many kinds of health, and keep traversing them… And as for sickness: are we not almost tempted to ask whether we could get along without it?” reads a quote from Nietzsche. The next sentence is written in all caps on the page:‘ONLY GREAT PAIN IS THE ULTIMATE LIBERATOR OF THE SPIRIT’When I read this now, I also see the person who had transcribed this carefully. I was in my twenties and had been living with a recurrent, unexplained stomach migraine — bouts of pain that would often debilitate me for two days, keeping me up through the night, alone with myself and my books. Friends would feel sorry for me and look on helplessly. I would struggle to articulate that while I wanted a diagnosis and cure desperately, I didn’t entirely mind the solitude of pain and sleeplessness that I had to endure. Whatever I managed to read in that vulnerable interlude touched me more deeply. Sometimes I wrote poetry. Being cut off from the noise and expectations of everyday life was a fertile ground for other experiences. Learning to cope gave me perspective and I was richer for it.Another line in my diary defines great health as rare humour, valour and the resilience of the spirit. My body was in pain but my spirit was healthy and these words validated that. My friends did not understand yet, but in the writings of a philosopher I knew nothing else about, I had found that pain can have a purpose.In a book of short stories by Gabriel Garcia Marquez, I found the cure that endless visits to doctors’ clinics and hospital OPDs could not offer me. “…play music for her, fill the house with flowers, have the birds sing, take her to the ocean to see the sunsets, give her everything that can make her happy... no medicine cures what happiness cannot.” Indulge yourself with beauty and art, I noted for myself. It will heal you.It is the default design of a life well-lived that there will be milestones of gut-wrenching loss, rejection and break-ups. A few months ago, I was beginning to mourn another instance of moving on in life and letting go of a team I had been nurtured by. It didn’t take too long before these words copied out from a newspaper article on the break-up of the Beatles came back to remind me to kindly not take myself too seriously.The quote is attributed to John Lennon: “It’s just natural, it’s not a great disaster. People keep talking about it as if it’s the end of the earth. It’s only a rock group that split up, it’s nothing important. You know you have all the albums there, if you want to reminisce.”I say these lines to myself in my own version of Lennon’s accent and they always work like magic to snap me out of self-pity.On another page, a quote from an Anais Nin essay reads: “The woman of the future… I imagine she will be very tranquil about her strength and her serenity, a woman who will know how to talk to children and to the men who sometimes fear her.” On the same page is a sentence from one of the final pages of ‘The Colour Purple’ by Alice Walker, “Celie’s quest is not so much to straighten out her relationship with her Mister, but to develop her relationship with the universe.”For the young adult who copied these lines in her diary, they were a revelation. You will not be defined by how others relate to you. You have permission, like Celie, to become your own person, connected to the wider world. Cultivate serenity, it will be your power.On a lighter note, there is this ageless conversation between Pooh and Piglet:“When you wake up in the morning, Pooh,” said Piglet at last, “what’s the first thing you say to yourself?”“What’s for breakfast,” said Pooh. “What do you say, Piglet?”“I say, I wonder what’s going to happen exciting today,” said Piglet.Pooh nodded thoughtfully.“It’s the same thing,” he said.Happy New Year, dear reader. May your breakfast and 2022 be equal parts exciting and tranquil for you.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-to-be-a-person-with-humour-valour-and-resilience-of-spirit-356994
02-01-2022||THERE’S an old saying that the army marches on its stomach. Nothing can be truer||Recipe for a difficult stint made easy||We were in the North-East in the 1980s. The CO (a 1971 war Vir Chakra awardee) had a weight issue and would skip dinner. He would come to the mess for lunch but unfortunately, since he was fond of continental food, the menu was always the same. Most officers yearned for dal-chawal, but had to pretend liking the western spread. A mess cook (now called chef mess) was posted and I interviewed him. ‘What all can you make?’ I asked. The senior mess staff would take young Second Lieutenants very lightly and the chef, Nk Bishambar, haughtily replied, ‘Saab, I can make 28 types of chutneys alone’. As it turned out, Bishambar was an exceptional cook. He made sure no continental dish was repeated in a fortnight. We ate dishes we didn’t know names of till one discovered Italian food much later. And this was the no cheese, pasta, mayo period.I moved to a new raising where the chef, Nk Padam Singh, was a Pahari who had learnt cooking only in the Army, but had fine-tuned his talent. He was proficient in any cuisine; his mastery over puddings was phenomenal. However, I can never forget his barbeques after 24-hour marination and for which a bottle each of brandy and rum were sought. But Padam was always a hardy Kumaoni soldier first. We were in Arunachal (Bumla sector) and one fine Sunday morning, a blizzard struck. It snowed for over three hours and the door of our FRP (an igloo-type fabricated hut) got jammed in 2-foot snow. The two of us inside hadn’t eaten breakfast and by noon, our stomachs were rumbling. Communication had been disrupted, so we were resigned to someone discovering us. Suddenly, we heard voices outside. Nk Padam had marshaled the mess staff and shoveled the snow to open the doors. In he walked with a pressure cooker full of hot khichdi. Never had khichdi tasted better!I remember at Binnaguri, our chef Siddiqui (known as Khan in the entire station) could create magic with almost any ingredient. Such was his reputation that we received several requests for him, especially on raising days. But this one is not about Khan. A new chef, Suresh, had recently joined. He was from a farmer family of Haryana, and had been enrolled without realising it was a vacancy for a cook. He knew nothing about cooking and to put it in Khan’s words, not even how to boil water! Khan employed Suresh mainly for chopping and cleaning. During that period, an enterprising officer at Army HQ tied up with some five-star hotels to train chefs. Suresh was detailed and he spent the next three months at Delhi’s Maurya. He returned a changed man, so confident of his culinary abilities. I immediately sent Khan on short leave lest he ruin his learning with ‘that’s not how it’s done’! But I kept Suresh’s new-found talent under wraps.Soon, we moved to Siachen where deployment is in two lots. Half the battalion under the CO would stay on top for three months and the others under the 2IC (me) for the next three. I ensured that the CO got the senior cook, Khan, for his stint and I humbly settled for Suresh. Cooking on the glacier is extremely difficult: the cook’s day starts with gathering shovelled snow into a huge tub to convert it into water so that the rest of the cooking activities can start. I can reveal today that my glacier tenure was made that much more comfortable since Suresh satisfied all my foodie cravings. Much later, someone leaked my smart act to the CO, who laughed, ‘So that’s how you came down from the glacier with your weight intact!’In the Army, the mess staff’s bond with the unit and the officers is life-long. Though Suresh retired, he somehow found my number and rang me up close to my son’s wedding. ‘Shall I come to help, saab?’ he asked. ‘No, but do come and attend the wedding,’ I said. He did, finding fault with the reception caterer’s preparations!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/recipe-for-a-difficult-stint-made-easy-356993
02-01-2022||ANOTHER year of loss goes||Memories, and chance to make many more||2021 was a forgettable year. It was an unforgettable year. The desire to forget grapples with memory, and burnt into collective memory are tears of people lining up all night for an oxygen cylinder for a loved one, bloated bodies thrown up by the Ganga, queues in front of crematoriums, dozens of pyres sending up flames and smoke, almost en masse.Sport, perhaps the most irrelevant of all modern multi-billion dollar enterprises, with little inherent value, has great benefits — it boosts the immunity of those who play and it elevates the mood of those who watch. Scientists suggest that the brain’s memory is almost limitless in theory — around a quadrillion bytes, enough to take in all information contained on the entire Internet. But for practical purposes, only certain images in the mind’s eye are uppermost, stirring emotion, pleasant or unpleasant — sport can edge out some of the unpleasant memories.Washington Sundar hooking a ball, aimed at his eyes, for a six at the Gabba ground in Brisbane is one of the most amazing memories of 2021. Washington — whose father, Sundar, whispered the name of a Hindu God, Srinivasan, in his ear at his birth, but gave him a Christian name after a kindly neighbour in Triplicane — swatted off the world’s best bowler, Pat Cummins, as if he were a nobody. The Indian cricket team, whose bowlers had a combined 13 wickets going into the Brisbane Test, had the weakest attack Australia had faced in 140 years. But they turned the series on its head. The audacity of Washington took the breath away and left a lasting impression.India won seven medals at the Olympics, including a gold in the main Olympic stadium, where track and field events take place. It was a feat that we did not even dare to dream of. Our sportspersons have become world-class in events which have weight categories to make an allowance for smaller individuals — boxing, wrestling and weightlifting, for instance — or those that don’t require the highest degree of athleticism, like shooting or archery. Neeraj Chopra’s gold — India’s first track and field medal in the Olympics — is groundbreaking because javelin throw requires strength, agility, technique of the highest order. PV Sindhu’s second consecutive medal is similarly remarkable. And the memory of P Sreejesh sitting atop the goal after the hockey team won a bronze, ending a wait of four decades? Priceless!An unforgettable memory of the most forgettable kind has Sushil Kumar peering at the camera through a yellow towel that hid his face, escorted by men of Delhi Police’s Special Cell. Perhaps the greatest living Indian sportsperson — with two medals in consecutive Olympic Games, a feat later equalled by Sindhu in August — has touched the nadir by allegedly killing a young man in his akhara in Delhi.The reset this yearThis is the year of the Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games — combined, these two mega-events will provide to Indians world-class competition in wrestling, boxing, archery, shooting, cycling, hockey, athletics, to name a few. Four years ago, Neeraj Chopra won gold at CWG and Asian Games, and this year he should do a repeat — despite the distractions that a grateful country threw at him, due to which he lost practice time but gained 12-kg weight!The new normal at sports venues, bereft of claps and laughter, is horrible, as we saw at the Olympics: What is sport without fans? It was a fate reserved in India for Test cricket in cities such as Nagpur and Mohali, where schoolkids would be bussed in to populate the stands, so that the players could wave at someone after performing a spectacular feat.The desolate stadiums, sans fans, are terrible, and sport on TV is but a pale shadow of seeing it in person, but it’s a mercy that sport continues, new memories continue to be forged, giving us solace in terrible times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/memories-and-chance-to-make-many-more-356992
02-01-2022||EDUCATION and culture||Resettling women refugees||In Lahore, I studied at Rai Bahadur Sohan Lal Training College for my BT (Bachelor of Teaching) and then joined Government College, Lahore, for MA in Philosophy. Since my father, Col Sher Singh, was in Peshawar, I was in college hostels. My parents’ progressive attitude towards learning and my determination to study for higher education allowed me to be in Lahore as a young woman. Even as I studied hard, I learned to negotiate the barriers of patriarchy and feudal attitudes. In my free time, my friends always teased me they did not have to look hard to find me; I would be at the nearest fruit shop.In April 1946, I moved from Lahore to Patiala after completing my MA and soon started teaching. I would often reminisce about my pleasant Lahore days and say that I would soon visit the capital of Punjab. This was not to be.The year 1947 was historic, it gave us Independence, and the Partition triggered the massacre of lakhs of Hindu, Sikh and Muslim masses. Particularly painful was the humiliation and mistreatment of women — thousands suffered as they were abducted and abused. Many jumped into wells and died.In the last days of August, I was standing on the balcony of our Lal Bagh house when I heard loud noises in the street and saw about two dozen unclothed women being paraded by a horrible crowd. So disgusted was I with this terrible scene that even today, when I think of it, I shudder with revulsion. I vowed to do all I could to help my unfortunate sisters, although I could do nothing that day.Refugees started pouring into Patiala, spurred by the generosity of Maharaja Yadavindra Singh, who welcomed them. They were in a pathetic state — people of means suddenly without means, rendered homeless, grateful to be alive. Now they had to deal with the loss of those family members and friends who did not make it, as well as the catastrophic loss of the financial underpinnings that built up their family’s economic security.With like-minded ladies, most of them elder to me, I got to work in Mata Sahib Kaur Dal, named after Guru Gobind Singh’s wife.Manmohan Kaur, the wife of Gian Singh Rarewala, the then Prime Minister of Patiala state, was the president and Harraj Kaur the vice-chief. I was the general secretary. To help these displaced people, we sought the assistance of prominent people, especially the DC, Baldev Singh, and Wazir Singh Jeji, DPI.We concentrated on women refugees from Lahore, Rawalpindi, Pothohar, Multan and Jhang. Over a hundred beautiful Kashmiri women who were especially vulnerable in the Kurukshetra camp came to Patiala.We wanted to gather as much as we could give to them. So, in addition to official help, we would go around the city collecting food and clothes. We had never ever done this, and we were initially a bit embarrassed, but the cause emboldened us. Seeing girls from “good families” coming out on the streets to ask for donations was a unique sight. They gave generously, and I am sure that the novelty factor also came into play. Let’s remember that this was the Patiala in which, when I was in school, a covered family buggy always transported me in purdah.Of course, there were difficulties, including the one I faced at home when my mother gently admonished me and said girls from our background were not expected to be out on the streets, literally begging! The eternal issue: “What would people say!”I replied that the cause was so great that it didn’t matter what people thought; what mattered was what we could do for the people who needed help so desperately. She soon came around to this point of view and in fact actively donated from our own home and started persuading others to donate as well, of course without ever coming in the limelight or stepping out of her Lal Bagh home, as was expected of her. I have always admired the power of Indian women who accomplish so much within the social constraints they face.We sent two truckloads to refugee camps in Baramulla and Poonch in Kashmir, where the Patiala army had come to the rescue of the locals. These trucks contained food items, old clothes, blankets, woollens, as also bathing items.Meanwhile, Patiala was being inundated with people from across what had suddenly become a border. Active measures were taken by Gian Singh Rarewala and the editor of Parkash daily newspaper, Giani Gurdit Singh, to bring in scholars and settle them in Patiala in the houses vacated by the Muslim population that had now moved to Pakistan. On behalf of the Mata Sahib Kaur Dal, we rehabilitated hundreds of families at Patiala.We gave the women sewing machines to work on, earn a living. Initially, we even marketed their products. All this in addition to the regular work we did at our homes! In my case, there was also teaching at the Victoria Girls Intermediate College, which I had joined on December 16, 1946.Soon after Partition, there was the issue of marooned Muslim women who were being exploited. Along with other ladies, I met Mridula Sarabhai. She enlisted our help, but the task itself was challenging, and I have mixed feelings about it till date.We faced many difficulties in recovering abducted women. In Sangrur, a Muslim woman flatly refused to go to Pakistan. “I live well here. I get to eat and drink, I get to wear jewellery, I have two children, how can I leave them?” she said. In Bhawanigarh, another woman voiced a common concern: “I lost my honour here, who is there to accept me now?” In a village near Kharar, the Sardar who had a Muslim woman in his house said: “This Allahrakhi had given me my heir.” The woman, too, refused to go.I enlisted one of my friends from Lahore to help us, and with her assistance, we were able to locate some families and send women back to them. On the whole, for many, it was double displacement, and it was with a sense of relief that many of us volunteers saw the endeavour wind down.In any case, there were refugee families in Patiala to be taken care of. As often happens, with the passage of time, help was dwindling, but in the meantime, the people who had crossed the border were empowering themselves, taking control of their lives.Post-partition, Patiala had lost a sizeable Muslim population. The new population came in with fresh energy. People were willing to work to regain the life that they had lost, and they devoted themselves to it with uncommon verve and focus. Naturally, this brought a sense of satisfaction and pride in me and became the balm that healed the horrors I had seen. In time, I would teach their children in college, and they would be post-graduate students at Punjabi University when I was there.— The writer served as Vice-Chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala, & headed Staff Selection Commission, New Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/resettling-women-refugees-356959
