03-01-2022||---||Rerun of Cuban Missile Crisis||Overwhelmed by the Omicron scare, a blitzkrieg to project UP as heaven on earth — blurring all distinctions between advertisements vis-a-vis news — and the continuing fallout of the extinct farm laws, Indians have been largely oblivious to a developing diplomatic predicament abroad similar to the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis.If the efforts fail, an already impoverished Ukraine will be the biggest loser from the crisis, having been reduced to yet another pawn in a new Cold War.Last week, Russia and the US announced that they would step back from their flashpoint — over Ukraine this time — and hold talks on January 10 to listen to each other’s concerns about Eastern Europe. Hopefully, they will move towards a solution instead of another irreversible phase of the new Cold War.The White House would have us believe that Russian President Vladimir Putin was scared by US President Joe Biden’s threats of ‘decisive economic and other measures’ against Moscow if the Kremlin escalated its threats to invade Ukraine. Such spin followed an over two-hour-long secure video call between Biden and Putin in the first week of December, their first serious dialogue in six months. The first in-person meeting between the US and Russian Presidents since 2018 was in Geneva last June.The spin from the Kremlin was that Putin told Biden unequivocally that Ukraine would not be allowed to join NATO, and that this Russian position was not negotiable. Video clips of the virtual summit have found the Russian claims more credible than US disinformation in circles worldwide which have long-standing expertise on Russia-US relations. These clips show Biden surrounded by his advisers and top aides. Some of these aides, according to leaks, often intervened during the 122-minute meeting, ostensibly whenever Biden was about to commit a gaffe, which he is prone to.The most frequent interventionist was Biden’s Secretary of State Antony Blinken. His Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, however, was conspicuous by his absence. It is to the credit of the Kremlin’s diplomatic astuteness that he had prepared the world what to expect in the weeks prior to the summit by disseminating Russian positions. At a meeting of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe just before the summit, he accused NATO of refusing to ‘consider our proposals on de-escalation of tensions and prevention of dangerous incidents.’ He warned that a ‘nightmarish scenario of military confrontation is returning.’In the face of such Russian plain talk, William Burns, Director of the US Central Intelligence Agency, was forced to contradict the Biden administration’s propaganda that Putin was about to invade Ukraine and that Biden would be the white knight in Kiev protecting Ukraine from Russia’s appetite for a valiant, unbowed, democratic neighbour. Burns, a former US ambassador in Moscow, who knows Putin well, debunked a story in The Washington Post attributed to US intelligence that an imminent Russian invasion of Ukraine would involve 1,75,000 troops. ‘We don’t know that Putin has made up his mind to use force,’ Burns said. ‘But what we do know is that he is putting the Russian military, the Russian security services in a place where they could act in a very sweeping way.’Unlike Biden, Putin faced the Americans alone. Not a single aide by his side, even his interpreter sat in another room doing the simultaneous translation of US statements. Videos showed a relaxed Putin, repeatedly leaning back on his swivel chair, at times tapping fingers on the table to demonstrate his impatience with the White House. He dramatically raised the stakes by demanding written guarantees that Ukraine will not be invited to join NATO and that Kiev’s NATO membership would be a red line for Moscow. He also demanded that the US should not place offensive weapons in Ukraine which could erode strategic stability in Eastern Europe or threaten Russia’s domination of its sphere of influence, which includes Ukraine. This is a replay of the Cuban Missile Crisis with the US and Russian roles reversed.America’s willingness last week to engage Russia in further talks and listen to Moscow’s concerns about NATO expansion is similar to then Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev’s willingness to take into account the then US President John F Kennedy’s fears about Moscow’s missile deployment in Cuba. Khrushchev’s decision to take the missiles away from Fidel Castro’s hands and ship them back home ended a threat of nuclear war and consequent mutual destruction.Will history be repeated after nearly six decades? Kennedy agreed to remove missiles placed in Turkey and in Italy’s south, which targeted Soviet territory, in exchange for a complete withdrawal of Russian missiles from Cuba. Putin has demanded that NATO members should remove their offensive weapons and personnel from Ukraine and cease military activities in Eastern Europe, the South Caucasus, and Central Asia.Like Kennedy in 1962, Putin has offered a way out of the quagmire. To facilitate the talks to be convened a week from today, the Russian President has ordered 10,000 of his troops, who have been conducting exercises near the Ukraine border, back to the barracks. In terms of atmospherics at least, it has been a face-saver for the White House. Jake Sullivan, the US National Security Adviser, has said that talks with Russia ‘will take place in the context of de-escalation, not escalation.’What if the January 10 talks end in a stalemate? The Europeans are the most concerned because they are tied to Russia in many ways, including energy supplies during the continuing winter. Will there be a war over Ukraine? Unlikely unless hawks in the US push Biden to a point where he leaves Putin with only a military option.The most likely outcome in that case will be the integration of Ukraine’s Donbass region with Russia one way or another, as in Crimea. Eventually, the so-called Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics in Ukraine will then be organically linked with Russia. At any rate, an already impoverished Ukraine will be the biggest loser from the current crisis, having been reduced to yet another pawn in a new Cold War.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rerun-of-cuban-missile-crisis-357456
03-01-2022||---||Timely intervention key to success in Covid battle||THE timeless aphorism, ‘a stitch in time saves nine’, is certainly true in the medical field. Timely intervention and treatment lead to optimal outcomes. The Covid-19 pandemic has only underscored the importance of this dictum.For the past two years, the whole world has been grappling with this pandemic. While the search for an effective line of treatment is on, the early availability of vaccines has been a boon for our attempts to minimise the spread and severity of infections and reduce mortality. Unfortunately, viral mutations have created new challenges. The new Omicron variant, with more than 50 mutations, has turned out to be highly infectious. It appears to exhibit immune escape capabilities, not only in relation to the available vaccines but even to the immunity generated by past Covid infections.Available scientific data shows that the immune protection of the available ‘two-shot’ vaccines administered in our country (Covishield and Covaxin) gradually diminishes over a period of 3-6 months and a third or booster dose is necessary to ensure adequate protective immunity, particularly against this new variant. This is also true of the other vaccines. Data from Imperial College, London, in relation to the AstraZeneca vaccine (administered in India as Covishield), has shown that the administration of the third or ‘booster’ dose reduces the risk of hospitalisation by 79 per cent. In this background, the announcement by the Government of India permitting the ‘booster’ or ‘precautionary’ dose is a welcome and timely step. We do need to wait for around 14 days before the third dose begins rolling out, and the vaccine may take another two weeks from the time of administration of the third dose to stimulate the immune system to reach optimal protective immunity. Nonetheless, there is no gainsaying that a third dose of the vaccine is vital for healthcare professionals, frontline workers and other vulnerable groups.The Omicron variant appears to demonstrate high infectivity, which is nearly four times that of the Delta variant. Obviously, its spread is rapid. The experience of South Africa, the US and European nations is before us. The variant is already in our country and the infection and positivity rates are rising almost daily in most states. The high incidence of social gatherings during this time of the year, and the inevitable political gatherings in the poll-bound states, heighten the fear of quick spread. It is imperative that we rigorously adhere to Covid-appropriate protocols, and voluntarily minimise social events and gatherings. Proper mask use is essential. It is disappointing to see many people wearing masks only to cover their mouth but not their nose. This greatly reduces the efficacy of masks and may, in fact, be as bad as not wearing one.It is true that the currently available scientific data indicates that the Omicron variant carries a 50-70 per cent reduced risk of hospitalisation compared to the Delta variant. But this data is not adequate to fully comprehend the virulence of the Omicron variant. Given the rapid rate of spread, we will have to be prepared for potential hospitalisations and the need for ICU care. It is important to identify cases early and provide high-quality medical supervision even at the stage of moderate symptoms/illness. Optimal and timely management and care, at this stage itself, would prevent patients from deteriorating to a critical phase where hospital beds and ICUs become necessary, and avoid mortality. Past experience clearly documents that timely use of oxygen and medicines like steroids and low molecular heparin help prevent deterioration of the patient’s condition. Of course, medical specialists should stick to evidence-based practices and avoid overuse and abuse of drugs. We should not forget the danger posed by mucormycosis, which we witnessed on a big scale principally because of the injudicious use of steroids.Both public and private healthcare institutions must rise to the challenge and ensure the availability of adequate manpower and infrastructure. Punjab needs to take special care, in view of the high prevalence of comorbidity factors among its population, which increase the risk of mortality. Proper care and management of the comorbid diseases are also important and can be a challenge amid the pandemic. People hesitate to visit healthcare facilities even for medicines and medical consultation for fear of catching the Covid-19 virus. Unfortunately, a large number of health workers being on strike in Punjab at this juncture is a matter of serious concern. It is important for health workers to realise the weight and significance of their responsibilities to the people during these times, as also for the government to address their genuine concerns. During the deadly second wave, even patients from Delhi and adjoining states had approached healthcare services in Punjab for help.We face some challenging times ahead. Vaccination, timely detection and proper management/treatment on a war footing can see us through — coupled, of course, with an almost religious adherence by all of us to Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/timely-intervention-key-to-success-in-covid-battle-357455
03-01-2022||---||Grip over party remains Gandhis' priority||The year 2022 will be critical in the long and illustrious history of the Indian National Congress spread over 137 years. Much more than in 1969, 1977, 1989 or 1996, it’s in 2022 that the grand old party is desperately looking for credible leadership, electoral success and self-confidence. The outcome of the Assembly polls in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Goa will therefore have a crucial bearing on whether the Gandhi trio — Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka — will win a vote of confidence within the Congress parivar. In fact, internal disquiet and the Gandhi family’s anxiety to continue its dominance over the organisation have forced Priyanka Gandhi to stay on Uttar Pradesh turf.It should be understood that Priyanka’s UP engagements have far less to do with electoral forays than organisational compulsions. One-fifth of the Congress delegates come from UP; they have a say in the election of the Congress president, members of the Congress Working Committee etc. Theoretically, if a revolt against the Gandhis is to gain momentum within the party (just as it had happened against Indira Gandhi in 1969 and 1977), UP, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and other big states would have a decisive role in unseating the incumbent leadership.Throughout 1992-96, PV Narasimha Rao, who was both Prime Minister and the Congress president, struggled to retain his supremacy over the AICC delegates from UP to curb a revolt. In order to checkmate Arjun Singh and ND Tiwari from Madhya Pradesh and UP, respectively, Rao had employed Jitendra Prasada as political secretary. Prasada had this designation during the era of the then PM Rajiv Gandhi, who too had leaned on the taluqdar from Shahjahanpur (and father of Jitin Prasada, who is currently in the BJP) to keep the old guard, including Pandit Kamlapati Tripathi, under check.As per the Congress Constitution, 15 per cent of the AICC delegates can requisition an AICC session to discuss leadership issues or force a change. Arjun Singh, ND Tiwari, Sheila Dikshit, ML Fotedar and others who were opposed to the then Congress president PV Narasimha Rao, had tried using this instrument in 1994.In 1969, a group of senior Congress leaders, called the syndicate, had evicted Indira from the party, leading to a split. An emotional Indira insisted that Congress membership was her ‘birth right’ and that she had been irrevocably born a Congressperson many years ago at Anand Bhawan. “Nobody can throw me out of the Congress. It is not a legal question, nor one of passing a resolution to pronounce an expulsion order. It is a question of the very fibre of one’s heart and being,” she had thundered before bouncing back in the 1971 General Election. However, she had lost control over the party organisation and headquarters at 7, Jantar Mantar Road, New Delhi.Eight years later, the Congress tasted its first defeat since Independence in the 1977 Lok Sabha elections, resulting in a mass exodus from the party. On January 1, 1978, the then Congress president, K Brahmananda Reddy, expelled Indira from the party. Reddy had the support of many powerful leaders such as YB Chavan, Vasant Dada Patil and Swaran Singh. DK Barooah, incidentally, had earlier coined the slogan, ‘Indira is India, India is Indira’.A somewhat lonely Indira found a new band of loyalists — Buta Singh, AP Sharma, GK Moopanar, Syed Mir Qasim and Maragatham Chandrasekhar — who had marched to Reddy’s residence to challenge her expulsion. Buta, who was formerly with the Shiromani Akali Dal, spoke harshly to Reddy, demanding to know how Nehru’s daughter could be expelled from the Congress. The 1978 split had cost Indira dearly. Apart from losing the support of 76 of the 153 members of the Lok Sabha, her new party was homeless. It had also lost control over the party symbol of a cow and its calf.These examples reinforce why Sonia, currently the interim AICC chief, having personally witnessed these phases, has been cautious. Her priority remains having the reins of organisational control.The current year is set to witness the Congress organisational polls. Usually, the AICC delegates are elected for a fixed term of five years, as per the party Constitution. The list is tweaked and revised before the organisational polls are held. This explains why Sonia and the Gandhis do not want dissenters like G-23 or other disgruntled leaders to have any foothold in state party organisation. The Congress has continued with a Gandhi loyalist, Adhir Ranjan Choudhury, in West Bengal in spite of a dismal performance in the Assembly polls. Kamal Nath continues to hold the dual charge of Madhya Pradesh Congress unit chief and leader of the Congress legislature party in the state Assembly. Across the length and breadth of the country (with few exceptions), handpicked leaders have been chosen to man the state party units. The number of AICC secretaries is nearing 100, while the convention has been not to exceed over 20. Propriety demands that new state heads and party office-bearers should have been appointed after September 2022, when the party polls are scheduled to be completed.The tenure of the Congress president and the CWC is for five years. The party had amended its Constitution in 2010 to extend the term of its president from three to five years, assuming that the era of Gandhi rule in the party was here to stay. But now many within the Congress think otherwise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/grip-over-party-remains-gandhis-priority-357448
