04-01-2022||---||Capture of Brachil Pass tribute to Army’s spirit||In the freezing chill of that dark night of December 6, 1971, an eerie silence had enveloped the moving column of my battalion, 18 Punjab, as we trudged in unfamiliar, hostile territory. The immense risk of getting ambushed, the inherent danger of treading on mines or getting trapped in hostile fire from adjoining enemy posts haunted us. Traversing across the enemy land in the high-altitude terrain of Kargil, it was an incredible experience. I was a second lieutenant then, and getting blooded in combat.Invoking God’s blessings, we descended stealthily at last light from Kala Pahar at Kargil, astride the Srinagar-Leh road, and moved in a single lane through our own minefield, treading softly, so that no rolling stones alerted the enemy. However, the sudden emergence of a few stone-walled huts in the desolate surroundings while crossing the Line of Control had imposed caution on us, lest some inimical elements may be present there. Suddenly, a captivating picnic spot appeared while we moved through a flattish area, but now tremendous danger lurked in that bone-chilling cold, dark night. We had never imagined earlier that some day we would be destined to set foot in that forbidden valley.At Conical, a feature that took its fancy name from its appearance, like many other features in the mountains, the Brachil Pass, the main objective assigned to 18 Punjab became discernible. Brachil is an awesome mountain pass that stands at a height of 4,260 metres (13,990 feet) with sharp, protruding features amidst the mountain tops of the Kargil region and opens the gateway beyond to Skardu. The short halt taken at Conical to dump our heavy baggage, bivouacs, and back-packs was enough to chill the feet and the frozen sweat could cause chilblains or frostbite.Evidently, the terrain favoured the defenders at Kargil, because they were well entrenched to face the onslaught of an attack and also to brave the freezing temperature of minus 25°C.After having plodded the entire night, and as the wee hours approached, silhouettes of the enemy post Bahar, the outer crust of Brachil Pass defences, loomed out of the hazy darkness. Suddenly, a Pakistani sentry challenged us, screaming in a shaky voice, “Kaun hai”, and an illumination round fired by the Pakistanis lit up the area around. Our arrival had stunned the Pakistanis. The ordeal had just begun. Even before the illumination round had extinguished, enemy machine guns opened up and the valley reverberated with the echo of the machine gun fire.The capture of Bahar had been tasked to Charlie Company, commanded by Major Sarjit Singh Sahota. As daylight was approaching fast, Major Sahota decided to lead the assault himself. Raising his walking stick skywards, he stood up to make his men realise that the enemy fire was going overhead. He then rushed forward, urging the men to move forward for the assault. Full-throated ‘jaikaras’, ‘Bole So Nihal, Sat Sri Akal’, ‘Durga Mata Ki Jai’ and our battalion war cry, ‘Har Maidan Fateh’, rent the air, resounding all over and reaching a crescendo.Major Sahota was wounded by grenade splinters, blood oozed from his neck, but he resolutely carried on wishing that he would collapse only after the Brachil Pass was captured. Major Sahota was evacuated later, but he returned after a couple of days with thick bandages around his neck. He was awarded the Sena Medal.The battle for the enemy’s post Bahar had begun. The enemy’s sustained machine gun fire impeded our uphill assault. Havildar Gurmukh Singh was hit by a bullet. Incessant lobbing of grenades by the enemy raked us. Splinters of a grenade burnt a hole in my coat parkha, and the smell of burnt rubber oozed from my right-foot snow boot.Then we heard the Commanding Officer, Lt Col Bhim Sen Joshi, exclaiming, “tagre ho, tagre ho”. Creditably, Lt Col Joshi had imparted us extensive training, turning the battalion into a hardened, battle-fighting machine.Undeterred, Sepoy Sampuran Singh threw a grenade in the machine gun bunker, neutralising its occupants. The machine gun and its ammunition were captured intact. Sepoy Sampuran Singh was awarded the Vir Chakra. As Lieutenant Ramesh (Gulshi) Bhola, a gallant officer of Charlie Company, came nearer, we chanced upon one of our medium machine guns being hauled up. The men carrying it appeared exhausted and were lagging behind. We pulled and shoved these men uphill. They got emboldened on reaching the top. Later, I was to gift my ‘kara’ (iron bangle), to Gulshi Bhola; he still wears it and proudly displays it as a token of our lifelong bond.Gulshi and Subedar Mohinder Singh’s platoon were rushed forward for the assault. The perplexed enemy ran rearwards, but opened fire, killing three of our men. Weapons, mortars, huge quantities of ammunition, rations and clothing were captured. Bodies lay scattered. Subedar Mohinder Singh was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra.It had taken more than 36 hours to capture the formidable Brachil Pass. The enemy had defended it valiantly. Over 40 km of Pakistan-occupied territory and 19 enemy posts were captured by 18 Punjab, earning the Battle Honour, ‘Brachil & Wali, Malik’.The morale of our men remained high because of our camaraderie, regimentation, unit ethos and good training. Moreover, as officers, we too had shared their worries, discomforts, problems and undergone the same hardships. This operation was the Indian Army’s early tryst with winter warfare in high-altitude terrain. During the 1999 Kargil operations, the troops had operated in summer and had an edge with better, improved clothing and equipment. The troops now operating in Siachen Glacier are better off with superior clothing and equipment. It was not so in December 1971.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/capture-of-brachil-pass-tribute-to-armys-spirit-357851
04-01-2022||---||India will come apart if secular contract is torn||There is a famous Sherlock Holmes story about ‘the dog that did not bark’. Holmes solves the mystery by surmising that the murderer was known to the watchdog. In a like manner, we are witnessing scores of attacks, verbal and physical, on Muslims and Christians of the country. Yet, the watchdogs — those who rule the country and its law and order machinery — seem to have heard nothing. Perhaps, like the canine in the Sherlockian mystery, they are familiar and even friendly with the attackers and see no reason to bark, leave alone bite.The signs have been visible for the past few years, but the crescendo has now intensified. A week ago, brazen attempts were made to prevent Christians from observing their major celebration of Christmas. Churches have been vandalised in Karnataka, Assam and Haryana.As for the Muslims, after a string of assaults and murders by the so-called cow protection groups, they are now facing open calls for their elimination. In Gurugram, a systematic campaign is on to prevent them from offering their Friday prayers.The reigning ideology of the country, Hindutva, is based entirely on a semi-literate, if not illiterate, understanding of history. There is the bizarre notion that the Muslim citizens of the republic today are somehow personally responsible for the atrocities that may have been committed by an invader or Muslim ruler hundreds of years ago. Christian charities and schools are accused of conversion, but there is no answer as to why after a century and a half of British ‘Christian’ rule, just 2 per cent of the people of this country profess that faith.Most shockingly, some of this campaign is being led by people who are camouflaging their murderous rhetoric by wearing the saffron robes of Hindu renunciants. In mid-December, some of these leaders met at a religious conclave in Haridwar, where the theme of many speeches was the need to ‘finish off’ Muslims. It would be easy to ignore this as the ranting of fringe Hindutva elements, but it’s no longer clear whether they are the fringe or the vanguard of the Hindutva.As of now, the proponents of Hindutva are happy using these elements to harvest votes, but there should be no doubt that the India we know will come apart if their project proceeds further. Just look at the map. Along the periphery, there are three Christian-majority states: Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland; Arunachal Pradesh has a plurality of Christians; Jammu and Kashmir has Muslim majority; and Punjab is a Sikh-majority state.Worse, if threats of ethnic cleansing and mass violence are actualised, be sure that those affected will not take it lying down. It is one thing to conduct ethnic cleansing in Nagorno-Karabakh, Serbia or Palestine, and quite another to contemplate it in India where the Muslim population is spread throughout the country and numbers over 200 million. As Naseeruddin Shah noted in a recent interview, “If it comes to the crunch, we will fight back”, and the country’s social and political fabric will be torn to tatters.Note that none of the senior RSS/BJP leaders has publicly advocated any of this. The BJP governments in various states and the Centre have walked a fine line and ensured that, barring the anti-CAA riots in January, there have been no incidents of mass communal violence since 2014. But at the same time, they have looked away from individual instances of lynching, intimidation and harassment that are enabling a climate of increasing impunity.Promoting religion by building temples is more of an opportunistic weapon to win elections than an act of religiosity. This is Hindutva whose goal is political power and, where needed, they have not hesitated to build alliances with a clutch of “Christian” parties in the North-East, the Akalis in Punjab and the PDP in Kashmir.The anti-Muslim card has played well in a huge chunk of the country. The Godhra incident was used to mobilise for the Gujarat elections that launched Modi’s political career. Since then, anti-Muslim rhetoric and actions have been used to overcome caste divisions and polarise Hindu votes, especially in the Hindi-speaking heartland.Most Hindutvavadis do implicitly, if not explicitly, support the notion of some kind of a second-class status for the minorities, something akin to what happens in Pakistan or Saudi Arabia. But they are not aware of the price that will be paid for this. No country aspiring to be a leading economic and political power can afford to have an underclass of hundreds of millions who will, inevitably, be the source of constant social and political tension.India’s religions have a unique political sociology, as brought out by a Pew poll in June last year. Most people — Hindus, Muslims, Christians and Sikhs — are deeply conservative and prefer to be among their own when it comes to friendships, marriages and places of residence. Yet, all of them see respecting all religions as a core value. The survey found that conversions were rare.By promoting Hindu nationalism as a means of gaining electoral power, the ruling party and its fringe/vanguard elements are disrupting this complex pattern without a clear idea as to where they are headed.This pattern has been fairly resilient till now. Recall that even in the high tide of Islamist radicalism in the1990s, the Indian Muslims remained largely free of the extremist virus. But today, they are being constantly hammered by discrimination and intimidation. How long they can bear the onslaught is not clear, except that the consequences of the breakdown of the Indian republic’s secular contract will not have pretty consequences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-will-come-apart-if-secular-contract-is-torn-357850
04-01-2022||---||Name of the game||China ‘standardising’ names of 15 places in Arunachal Pradesh cannot be overlooked as a routine exercise. The six places standardised in the first lot in 2017 are Wo’gyainling, Mila Ri, Qoidêngarbo Ri, Mainquka, Bümo La and Namkapub Ri. In India, they are named Urgelling, Daporijo, Upper Siang District, Menchuka, Bum-La and Namka Valley.India and China may get into a cartographic battle if China is able to enforce global search engines and websites to use standardised Chinese words.China had justified the renaming being done on the basis of its historical, cultural, and administrative jurisdiction over the area. It said the names existed since ancient times, where ethnic Momba and Tibetan Chinese lived for generations, and their standardisation was done in accordance with regulations issued by the State Council.Global Times then wrote, ‘China has been making efforts to solve the territorial disputes with India, but over the past decades, India has not only increased migration to the disputed area and boosted its military construction there, but it also named Arunachal Pradesh, China’s South Tibet, as a formal state of India in 1987.’This time, more places are being added, including eight residential areas: Sêngkêzong and Daglungzong in Cona County, Mani’gang, Duding and Migpain in Medog County, Goling, Damba in Zayu County, and Mêjag in Lhunze County. The four mountains are Wamo Ri, Dêu Ri, Lhünzhub Ri and Kunmingxingzê Feng while the two rivers are Xênyogmo He and Dulain He, and a mountain pass is named Sê La, in Cona County. All these names have cultural and military significance.No clear explanations have come from officials, but experts have explained through Global Times that ‘after Zangnan (Arunachal) was illegally occupied, the Indian government has established some illegal names in the area, but the right to name places in the region should belong to China.’ They added that the naming of places and the adoption of border law are being made to ‘safeguard national sovereignty, national security and border management.’In 2017, Chinese experts were quoted as saying that standardisation was a sign of ‘China’s growing awareness of the geography in South Tibet.’ Clearly, Beijing has had scant historical records about borders until recently when they possibly gained access to Taiwanese archival records and maps. Possibly, the Tibet experts have found new sources to prove China’s historical, cultural and administrative control over ‘South Tibet.’The renaming of six places in 2017 came weeks after the Dalai Lama visited Tawang. This was viewed in India as a retaliatory move by Beijing. But it was done with a much greater aim at reaffirming China’s claim over the Tawang monastery, which was controlled by the Ganden Phodrang (Tibet government) and functioned under the Drepung Monastery in Lhasa from 1681 to 1952.The Tibetans too asserted that they enjoyed sovereign control over Tawang even while the area fell south of the McMahon Line. Lhasa continued to appoint twin authorities’ bla gnyer (abode manager) of Tawang Monastery and rdzong dpon (governor) of Tsona Dzong until the ‘status quo rights’ document was signed by Tibetan officials and the Government of India on July 8, 1952.The change of Ugyenlling to Wo’gyainling is significant because Tsanyang Ghatso, the sixth Dalai Lama, was born here in 1683. While doing so, China wanted to underscore the point that the area is significant because it is the birthplace of the Dalai Lama.India’s MEA said the move by Beijing ‘does not alter’ the fact that Arunachal was an integral part of India. In 2017, Union Minister Venkaiah Naidu responded by saying, ‘China has no right to rename our cities... every inch of Arunachal Pradesh belongs to India... let them rename. How does it matter? It’s like you renaming your neighbour. It does not change his name.’ Yet, the renaming cannot be dismissed as a play of nomenclature. India and China have changed the names of places to reflect a certain political narrative. If China applied Sino-centrism as a tool for cultural dominance, India too has played the name game before. Tawang was a part of NEFA until it was Sanskritised as ‘Arunachal Pradesh’ (land of the rising sun) coined by Sri Bibhabasu Das Shastri when it became a UT in 1971, and later a state in 1987.The Chinese have Romanised the spelling of Mao Tse Tung to Mao Zedong. But China’s renaming drive is linked to stepping up of its territorial claims. In the past, its objection was confined to visits by Indian leaders — Presidents, PMs, and senior ministers — to Arunachal.China has been confiscating thousands of maps that failed to depict Zangnan (Arunachal) and Taiwan as part of China. The latest move comes weeks after the US State Department appointed Uzra Zeya as the new Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues. She has been authorised to coordinate US policy on Tibet and oversee activities relating to environment and water resources of the Tibetan Plateau. Zeya is being appointed under the US Tibetan Policy Act that had been lying vacant during the Trump administration.The latest move seems also a part of China’s new land borders law that came into force on January 1. The law, enacted by the National People’s Congress in October, provides the PLA full responsibility to take steps against ‘invasion, encroachment, infiltration, provocation’ and safeguard territory. China has reportedly built 628 ‘moderately well off’ villages along the LAC, stretching from Ladakh to Arunachal.India and China may soon get into a cartographic battle if China is able to enforce global search engines and websites to use standardised Chinese words. China may even use these names as reference points in its border negotiation with India in the future.It could also have a cultural angle. Any attempt at Tibetanising or Sinifying names in the Himalayas serves China’s interest, for the epicentre of Tibetan culture is in China. One shouldn’t be surprised if the pattern follows in Ladakh as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/name-of-the-game-357849
