05-01-2022||---||Urbanisation of rituals||Kolkata’s Durga Puja is now a UNESCO cultural heritage not only on account of solemn devotion that this occasion arouses but also because of the joy and mirth that accompany it. Only after Durga Puja moved from just prayer to prayer plus that it evolved to its current manifestation and for that we must thank urbanisation.We owe it to urbanisation to bring merriment into our world. Without it, traditional distances would prevail, drastically cutting out the happiness quotient of festivals. As long as Durga Puja was confined to ritually marked spaces (or, thakur dalan) it was primarily worship and prayer and that would not have won it UNESCO’s recognition. It needed to move from rural to urban Bengal to acquire its current cultural expression replete with elaborate marquees (or pandals), food, theatres, films, and, most of all, fun.Durga Puja transformed in stages. Initially, only the landed rich hosted these ceremonies and kept the riff-raff out. In the late 19th century, a group of Brahmins, insulted at not being invited, organised a semi-cooperative puja with a larger membership. But it was only after Durga Puja came to Kolkata in the early 20th century that it truly became a public festival.It is this contemporary manifestation of Durga Puja that UNESCO was pleased to include as an intangible heritage. Though the puja caught UNESCO’s eye, Ganesh Chaturthi in Mumbai arouses as much joyful participation. Once again, this festival too gained in prominence after it moved from solemn ritual in the house of Peshwas to a public ground in Mumbai.Bal Gangadhar Tilak first brought Ganesh Chaturthi to Girgaum, Mumbai, in 1893. He did it with the intention of firing public enthusiasm for the national movement and bridging caste divides. It was also a symbolic challenge to colonial authorities who placed restrictions on public gatherings. Needless to say, as urbanisation grew, so did Ganesh Chaturthi.This shift in venue from the homes of the privileged to public spaces would have been unthinkable, but for urbanisation. The unflinching grip of class and status that held rural folk loosened in the urban world. Now, past identities mattered less, allowing people to meet freely and anonymously. If there was a grip at all, it was a velcro one, easily adjustable.All of this tells us that we owe it to urbanisation to bring laughter and merriment into our world. It is not just slums, violence, and dirt that should characterise our towns and cities, for, if given a fair shake, joy can also colour our urban existence. The soft power of celebrating together generates more harmony than any number of posturing from political podiums.In other words, give urbanisation a chance! It is not a bad word.Christmas, too, attracts attention today because it moved away from pure ritual, most notably with the arrival of Santa Claus. This again was an urban affair. Santa, as Father Christmas, wasn’t a religious figure but a jolly, chubby, old man addicted to gift giving. Once again, both Santa and merriment in Christmas grew with urbanisation, particularly after WW II.The carols at Christmas are all-time hits and practically every singer of repute in the West has an album dedicated to them. Gift-giving too exploded with urbanisation and from toys to cars, every commodity came with commercial sweet sell. Through all of this, the Santa myth had to be kept alive or else the fun would be gone. Without Santa, why long for Christmas?Incensed by how Santa was displacing Christ, the Catholic clergy in Dijon, France, decided it was time to act. In 1951, they called the townspeople and their children to church where they first damned Santa as a pagan and then publicly hung his effigy and burnt it. As this act failed to win too many friends, both locally and in the national press, Santa Claus lives on in Dijon.Anthropologist Claude Levi Strauss famously noted that Santa is kept alive by older people who don’t believe in him but encourage their children to do so by plying them with gifts. This is so different from religion where the older you get, the more you believe. Yet without keeping the myth of Santa going, there would be no gift, no tree and the lights would dim at Christmas.It is only when worship couples with joy and laughter that people truly come together in camaraderie, caring little for class, caste, wealth and status. Commercialisation may pressure us to junk the old and buy the new, yet Christmas revellers want old fashioned fun. The same carols are sung and the same baubles decorate the real or fake pine tree at home.So many worshippers of Durga reverentially fold their hands for anjali in the morning but stay on in the pandal to meet friends, eat Mughlai paranthas, eggs and sandesh. Take all that fun away and watch the Durga Puja become a different phenomenon and it may not then attract UNESCO’s attention. Did we ever think of thanking urbanisation for these good times?This is the story of nearly all religious festivals, whether it is Durga Puja, Ganesh Chaturthi, Eid, or Holi. The ritual aspect is the legitimising factor, but without urbanisation, traditional distances would prevail, drastically cutting out the happiness quotient of these festivals. Granted, market forces come in, but used wisely, that is part of merrymaking.The Santa Claus image got a boost when Coca Cola decided to use it in its commercials and gave it a red coat, cherubic cheeks and sparkling shiny eyes. Years later, the origin of the familiar Santa as Father Christmas is lost. What remains is the depiction of wholesome good cheer now even endorsed by those who would never touch Coca Cola.On such festive days, alarm clocks are denied their sadistic morning pleasure. The kids are already out of bed in anticipation with their glad rags on to match their smiles. Besides, why should only adults have all the fun?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/urbanisation-of-rituals-358178
05-01-2022||---||Non-Cong Oppn coalition has its ifs & buts||A deliberation on the Opposition regrouping sans the Congress, christened as a ‘third front’ or a ‘secular, democratic coalition’, or whatever, is invariably governed by numerous caveats which have arisen from past experience with such experiments. Prime among the riders are which party would steer a formation of the disparate forces against the near-hegemonic BJP, and critically, who would lead it and not so much on who would arbitrate the contradictions and straighten out the creases. The individual has become significant in the era of presidential politics ushered in a parliamentary system by the BJP.With two years to go for the next Lok Sabha elections and a heap of decisive Assembly elections to negotiate, the Opposition still has the time, energy and temptation to debate on a prospective front, without the Congress, which on its part, has not inspired hope and confidence about its credentials to be the leader. There are too many threads running asymmetrically through the fabric that makes up an Opposition coalition. So many, that it’s arduous to make sense of the skein right now.It’s equally premature to dismiss the notion of a joint front as a fantasy or a non-starter because most of the potential stakeholders would want an alternative to the BJP at the Centre, given their none-too-happy engagements with it in their states. The question is: where does the endeavour begin — in a state election or Parliament?It says something for the BJP’s persistence at undermining Parliament’s salience and gravity that the Opposition has been unable to use the institution to confront and corner the government as effectively as it did with the support of a powerful breakaway group from the Congress, in 1989, in the Lok Sabha.In the last winter session, the Trinamool Congress Party (TMC), that fancies itself as the pivot of a non-Congress Opposition, refused to engage with the Congress, a gesture that was reciprocated by Sonia Gandhi, who did not invite the TMC to a meeting of the Opposition. The result was the absence of a bulwark of resistance against the BJP, although the Opposition was not strapped for issues.In the jumble that followed, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) — which leaned more on the BJP until recently — reached out to the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in what seemed like the beginning of a southern confederation, but the initiative fizzled out. The DMK is a Congress ally, just like the Shiv Sena, which for better or worse, relies on the Congress to prop up its Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra. The Sena made it clear that it did not take kindly to the TMC’s ambitions to joust with the Congress nationally.The crucial difference between the regional parties of yore and now is that most state satraps harbour national ambitions — apparently a fallout of Narendra Modi’s ascendancy and success. As the Gujarat chief minister, Modi was another regional chieftain of the BJP on a par with, say, Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan. He was part of a strong party infrastructure backed by the RSS and could realise his larger aspirations after a few bottlenecks. Modi’s refrain of how a ‘humble’ person like him, without the ‘advantages’ of pedigree, could make it to the topmost job, ostensibly fanned the yearnings of other chief ministers, prominently that of the TMC head, Mamata Banerjee.Doubtless, Mamata fought the BJP hard in the West Bengal Assembly elections and won a well-earned victory. Her soaring ambitions have since taken her to Goa in the west and Tripura and Assam in the east.If the goal of the regional parties is to fight and win elections and project themselves as serious stakeholders in the national sweepstakes without holding corresponding political capital, can the competing hunger make for Opposition unity?It conjures the image of a crowded, noisy marketplace populated with self-seeking individuals. The fire in the belly is understandable because without it, a good fight can’t be staged; but it isn’t the only route or the most desirable one to upstage a ruling party.The Opposition constituents are bereft of a larger programme to take to the voters, or a big idea which can challenge the BJP. Remember the BJP was not birthed to just appropriate political power; it has to sub-serve the RSS, the ideological fountainhead. Federal interests are fine and the regional Opposition must strive to get its rights from the Centre. On a national canvas, can dots of federal entities make up a whole?So, what is that big idea the Opposition has to search for? Secularism served its purpose in letter and spirit when the United Front coalition came into being after the 1996 elections. The BJP’s Hindutva narrative had not washed out other beliefs and programmes. With notable exceptions, the discourse today is about minority baiting and hating and crafting vicious ways of painting Muslims and Christians into a corner and victimising Dalits every now and then. The Opposition understandably tiptoes on the Hindutva terrain, and in cases, acquiesces to the agenda of religious polarisation and redefined ‘nationalism’.If Hindutva is wished away, the Opposition must willy-nilly focus on governance and policies. The Centre’s pandemic management left much to be desired and its cavalier approach is manifest once again as the country is up against a fresh wave. Can the states ruled by the regional parties claim that their own records surpass that of the Centre? Maharashtra, governed by two regional forces, the Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party, with the Congress as a minor partner, is inevitably the worst hit and it struggles the hardest and longest.Before talking of ‘fronts’, it is incumbent upon the Opposition to look within, glean lessons from the past, iron out the contradictions, and importantly, decide if the Congress must be part of the endeavour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/non-cong-oppn-coalition-has-its-ifs-buts-358177
05-01-2022||---||Why we must not take Omicron lightly||Omicron, the new variant of SARS-COV-2 virus, hit world headlines last month and since then, it has spread to 108 countries. India, too, has been seeing a surge of cases of Covid-19 in the last two weeks, with an alarming positivity rate of 3.64 per cent in Delhi on January 1. There is no denying that we are in the midst of the third wave of the Covid-19 infection.India has already recorded around 2,000 cases of Omicron. These numbers may not, however, be the true reflection of the actual figures since they are based on genome sequencing, which is being done for only about 1 per cent of the cases. With impending elections in many states and poor compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour guidelines, India could see a rapid increase in the numbers.The second wave of Covid-19 in April-June had devastated the nation because we had started believing that we had some kind of natural immunity and that we had won over the virus. How wrong were we!The new variant has around 50 mutations, with 32 of them in the spike protein, and some of them in the region that promotes virus’ entry into the host cells. These mutations imply that the variant is more infectious, spreads rapidly and also can escape immunity conferred by previous infection or vaccination. The doubling time for the new variant is much shorter than that of the Delta variant, which suggests that it spreads faster. In a few weeks, it can become the dominant strain in any community it infects.While Omicron is more contagious and multiplies rapidly, it seems to be causing a less severe disease. Laboratory studies show it multiplies rapidly in the upper respiratory passages, but does not penetrate the lungs per se as much, thereby not causing severe lung injury which could result in hypoxemia.Studies from the UK suggest people catching Omicron are 50 to 70 per cent less likely to need hospital care compared with the previous variants. Data from South Africa show that while hospitalisations increased by 70 per cent there, the ICU occupancy remained low at 7.5 per cent, with less than 14 per cent hospitalised patients requiring supplemental oxygen. The death rates have remained low, both in the UK and South Africa.A recent, yet to be published report, from Manchester, UK, has, however, suggested that there is no decrease in hospitalisations due to Omicron as compared to Delta.The symptoms of Omicron are somewhat different from Delta, with running nose, sore throat, cough and fatigue, especially in the fully vaccinated. Significantly, a majority of the cases may not have any symptoms at all. In the unvaccinated, there is fever, with chances of a severe disease. In the US, hospitalisations due to Omicron are primarily in the unvaccinated individuals. Children, too, are getting admitted.The situation in India is likely to be no different. The illness can be more severe in the elderly or those with other diseases, like heart or chronic lung disease and those on chemotherapy or immunosuppressants. Even the common cold or influenza virus kills millions each year in people with compromised health.What should be done if one tests positive? Asymptomatic and mild cases should be home-isolated so that other family members do not get infected. While the UK defines self-isolation as seven days, in the US, it is five days. For people who are elderly or have comorbidities, consultation should be sought with a physician. Further intervention will depend upon clinical and laboratory parameters.Experts have predicted that India is likely to see an increasing number of cases in the coming weeks, with a likely peak by mid-February. This can get compounded by election rallies in some states going to the polls. While there may not be as many severe cases this time as in the second wave, there are chances of panic, and the likelihood of testing and emergency facilities being overwhelmed.One school of thought is that since Omicron generally causes a mild disease, its rapid spread may, in fact, boost the immunity of a large section of population, thereby helping us in the long run. But the uncertainties of severity of infection in the elderly, those with comorbidities and those yet unvaccinated (amounting to nearly 40 per cent of our population) should be a cause for concern.On the other hand, laboratory data suggests that prior infection or vaccination or a combination of the two fail to neutralise Omicron effectively. The Pfizer vaccine has been shown to lose efficacy to 60 per cent by five months against the Delta variant, and below 40 per cent against Omicron. A booster increases effectiveness against Delta uniformly but there is not much data against Omicron. After much debate, the Indian Government has also allowed ‘precautionary dose’ to some groups of vulnerable people.While the available evidence so far suggests that Omicron causes a milder disease, we should be wary in the coming months. A spate of cases in schools and colleges across the country confirms the need for vaccination for all. It is important to ensure that people who have hesitated to take the second dose be coaxed to get it.In October, the WHO had laid down guidelines for booster shots which were to be administered to a vaccinated population that has completed a primary vaccination series when, with time, the immunity and clinical protection has fallen below a rate deemed sufficient in that population.Experts point out lack of relevant Indian data. We do not have our own data on the degree by which immunity wanes at different intervals following vaccination. We should also know how many infections occur after a single dose and at different intervals after the second dose of Covishield or Covaxin. We also do not yet know whether a mix-and-match strategy for the booster dose of the two available vaccines is better than a single vaccine.Omicron is a reminder that the world continues to struggle against the pandemic. Unless vaccine inequality ends and there remain pockets of vulnerable populations, the virus will find hosts to multiply with the potential to mutate further. The next variant may be a super-variant, who knows?The onset of Omicron should be a warning to us to not be complacent. While the government handles vaccination, it comes back to us, the individuals, to do our bit — wear a mask, avoid crowded places, get the two shots (and the booster, too) and avoid unnecessary travel — to prevent the virus from overwhelming us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-we-must-not-take-omicron-lightly-358172
