06-01-2022||---||High-stakes Afghan game||I mran khan has the dubious distinction of being Pakistan’s first PM to create rifts between army chief General Bajwa and an ambitious ex-chief of the ISI, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, who is hoping to succeed General Bajwa on November 1, 2022. Hameed had earned international notoriety by using coercive powers of ISI proteges in Afghanistan, the notorious Haqqani network, for driving out Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar from Kabul to Kandahar. Baradar was set to be appointed as the new PM. What followed was the installation of a new Afghanistan cabinet in the presence and involvement of Hameed. While Imran Khan backed this arrangement, it could well herald new problems for him. There is no way that Hameed’s successor, Lt Gen Nadeem Ahmed Anjum, would play to Imran Khan’s tunes.Pakistan has used every conceivable move to benefit from global concerns arising out of Taliban rule. All this is happening as Bangladesh is marking the 50th anniversary of its liberation from Pakistani occupation. Bangladesh has done far better than Pakistan in most economic indicators. It has also done well in maintaining good relations with its neighbours in South and Southeast Asia. This is different from Pakistan, with its pretences of being a leading champion of radical Islamist organisations worldwide.Pakistanis, like the respected physicist, Pervez Hoodbhoy, have noted: ‘Today, some economists say that Bangladesh shall be the next Asian tiger. Its growth rate last year (7.8 per cent) put it on a par with India (8 per cent), and well above Pakistan (5.8 per cent). The per capita debt of Bangladesh is $434, which is less than half that of Pakistan ($974). Its foreign exchange reserves ($32 billion) are four times Pakistan’s reserves of $8 billion.’ While Pakistan claims international economic ‘parity’ with India, it has a less than one-fourth of the foreign exchange reserves of Bangladesh. Islamabad’s foreign exchange reserves are $8 billion — barely 1.25% of the foreign exchange reserves of India ($640 billion).Not surprisingly, the foreign ministers of Afghanistan’s five Central Asian neighbours — Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan — prematurely left the Islamabad ministerial-level conference of Islamic countries to attend a foreign ministers’ meeting in Delhi to discuss regional cooperation and problems arising from Taliban rule in Afghanistan. Other invitees included middle-level representatives from the US and its allies. The Islamabad conference was inaugurated by Imran Khan. Not much aid can, however, be expected from most of those who participated, apart from an initial contribution by Saudi Arabia, as a founder of the OIC.Pakistan has used every conceivable move to benefit economically from global concerns arising out of Taliban rule by taking centre stage diplomatically. There are, however, serious challenges Imran Khan faces because of his own domestic problems. His statements backing Taliban’s practices, like denying employment opportunities and education to women, will not be welcomed by the US, or its European allies, or even by many Islamic countries. Talks are underway for providing international economic assistance to Afghanistan. India, Iran and their Central Asian partners should devise measures for increasing the use of Chabahar Port in Iran, as a transportation corridor for relief supplies to Afghanistan.The next two years are going to be crucial for Imran Khan, as he prepares for the 2023 general election. Even prior to that, a decision has to be taken on who is to be Pakistan’s next army chief. It is no secret that there is no love lost between Imran Khan and the present army chief. The differences were out in the open recently, when Imran Khan had to eat a humble pie and implement the army chief’s decision to transfer his favourite, the former DG ISI, as a Corps Commander, while accepting the army chief’s nominee, Lt Gen Nadeem Ahmed Anjum, as the new ISI chief. Despite Pakistan’s claims about its role in the US ‘war on terror’, it has been accused of aiding the Taliban. Imran Khan regretted Pakistan’s decision to join the ‘war on terror’, describing it as a ‘self-inflicted wound’. Interestingly, after milking the US for economic and military aid for over two decades, Pakistan is now feeling disappointed with Washington.India did well to avoid getting involved militarily in the ‘war on terror’ in Afghanistan, though it did provide defence and economic assistance to elected Afghan governments. However, US President Biden retains warm feelings for Pakistan. This was evident when he invited Pakistan to his much-touted ‘Summit of Democracies’, while ignoring the fact that the army remains the lead player in Pakistan. While doing so, Biden chose not to invite established democracies in South Asia, like Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. Obviously under pressure from China, Imran Khan turned down the invitation. These are developments that India has taken note of. The recent visit of Russian President Putin to India made it clear that India intends to safeguard its strategic autonomy. New Delhi cannot be coerced by Biden on who its friends and strategic partners should be.Interestingly, Taliban soldiers recently disrupted an attempt by their Pakistani counterparts to fence the Pakistan-Afghanistan border along the disputed Durand Line. This is a border imposed on Afghanistan by the British. Afghan defence ministry spokesman Enayatullah Khwarizmi described the Pakistani border fence as ‘illegal’. The entire incident was videotaped by the Afghans. One wonders how Pakistan and its Taliban protege Sirajuddin Haqqani will react in future to such incidents across the disputed 2,600-km border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/high-stakes-afghan-game-358476
06-01-2022||---||Politics of hate has hit UP’s development||As Ayodhya, Varanasi and Mathura take centre stage in India’s weightiest state, it is clear that the ruling party’s campaign in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP) is centred on Hinduising the voters, rather than bothering about the economy or harmony. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its lead campaigners are reluctant to focus on the track record of their double-engine government in the last five years. But they are never short on attacking past governments for lack of development and making exaggerated claims regarding development under their own government. That’s why, it is imperative to scrutinise the claims of the UP Government and the consequences of its divisive politics.The state records one of the lowest growth rates in India. On most development indicators, UP ranks poorly compared to other states. It is economically backward and socially conservative. Even a cursory examination of the actual conditions of people would show no significant improvement in the quality of public life, health or education sectors or employment opportunities. Unemployment, lawlessness and the collapse of public infrastructure remain the calling cards of the state.Even so, the BJP has been trying to portray UP as a ‘transformed’ state under its government. The UP Chief Minister had said in March 2020, while marking his government’s fourth year in office, that UP had been lifted from the ‘Bimaru’ (Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh) status to ‘Samarth’ (capable). But most development indicators belie these claims. UP was a ‘Bimaru’ state and it has remained so. If anything, it has worsened in some respects in the last five years.An important indication that things have not changed much can be seen from the state’s per capita income, which has increased by just 0.43 per cent over the four years of this government as against the claim of 100 per cent growth. Per capita income was half (Rs 41,023) of the national average (Rs 86,659) in 2019-20 and the second lowest in the country.But still, the UP Government has been putting out front-page advertisements in leading newspapers that the state is making great progress, even claiming that UP’s per capita income has doubled. These claims are based on figures of gross state domestic product (GSDP) in the budget documents of 2021-22, which was revised upward, implying an increase in growth over 2019-20.But this is far removed from the official estimates of GSDP prepared by the Department of Economics and Statistics (‘Economic Growth in Uttar Pradesh in Recent Years’, Economic and Political Weekly, December 11, 2021).Let us look at the two crucial indicators of health and women’s employment to gauge the state of development. UP is at the bottom of the 19 large states in the latest Niti Aayog health index for 2019-20. It is ranked the worst in institutional deliveries both in 2014-15 and 2019-20. The state was hit by the disastrous second wave of Covid-19. The state’s misery was reflected in oxygen shortages, failing public hospitals and visuals of hundreds of dead bodies buried hurriedly on the banks of the Ganga. UP is among the states with the lowest female participation in the workforce. It was less than 10 per cent in both urban and rural areas in pre-Covid-19 years and is unlikely to have grown since the pandemic. With 91 per cent of women out of the labour market in UP, they are among the poorest and most vulnerable. UP’s economy has clearly failed them in terms of meagre employment generation and the lack of associated income opportunities.The dismal state of development has to be seen in the backdrop of the growth of Hindu nationalism which dominates politics and society in that state. UP has been critical to the public staging of the Hindutva project in a way that is not true of other states. The figurative significance of Ayodhya, Kashi and Mathura in this process as symbols of Hindu unity and as a wedge around which communal consolidation can take place cannot be underestimated. None of the other states quite have this cache. Currently, nation and religion are interchangeable in UP, but, ironically, the state is more divided and unequal than before. In fact, the ideologues of Hindu nationalism never ever refer to distributive justice or equity or improving the lot of the poor. They seek to unify the majority by disguising the true state of development or livelihoods with the lure of religious nationalism, which then becomes a mask to obfuscate the most significant inequalities.The head of a mutt is the head of the government. Under his watch, the state’s descent into a communal cul-de-sac has gained momentum. Every day, there is a frontal assault on secularity, justice and decency. Add to this, the discrimination and intimidation of Muslims by the highest political functionaries and their total exclusion from public institutions, fusing the state with religion (of the majority) entirely. This underlines the inability of religious nationalism to conceive of equal citizenship and equal participation as the foundation of democracy.The stage is set for a high-voltage electoral battle in UP in the coming months. This is the moment when the state government must be held to account as regards its performance. This has acquired urgency as the BJP seeks to alter the very basis of politics to create a permanent ethnic voting bloc, privileging the majority Hindu community to establish Hindu dominance, with economic issues relegated to the background and matters of jobs, price rise and public health thrown out of the electoral fray.The politics of hate adversely affects economic activity as it overtakes basic issues. As a result, UP is struggling with the contradictions between the socio-economic needs of the people and the communal agenda of the regime.Hindu nationalism has subverted the political vocabulary from democracy, rights, equality and deliberation to sacrifice, duty, victimhood, pride, law and order, cow protection, love jihad and conversions. This vocabulary undercuts the language needed for actually developing and implementing policies that would benefit the people.The rights-based approach to development, where people get benefits as a right, rather than as an act of benevolence from the government, is the way to rescue UP and reverse the damages caused by the counter-revolution in the heartland of our democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/politics-of-hate-has-hit-ups-development-358477
06-01-2022||---||Holding of polls put to test amid the pandemic||The moral superiority of a democratic arrangement in the ordering of society is premised on the accountability of power towards the securing of the common good. And democratic legitimacy presupposes the integrity of electoral process that facilitates the exercise of free will by the people. These fundamental prerequisites of a vibrant democracy are on test in these times of pandemic.Irrefutable medical evidence and past experience have established beyond doubt that electoral processes which entail participation of large crowds and close physical contact of millions of people in campaign rallies are Covid super-spreaders. The horrific consequences of recent elections during the second wave in which many lives were lost to the virus are before us. Scientific evidence suggests that the ability of the virus to infect is not entirely “a property of that virus or its virulence alone” but of “how the virus and human society interact…” Empirical studies have confirmed that 8% of the infected people are responsible for 60%-80% of secondary cases of Covid. The highly transmissible Omicron variant is expected to peak in the coming 4-8 weeks, leading to a sharp increase in the spread of the disease. According to some reports, the country’s current R-naught (RO) value suggests a transmissibility rate of 1.22. Several districts of the country have already reported more than 10% positivity rate. The highest national daily new Covid-19 infections since the abatement of the second wave at 27,553 have been reported as on January 3. The Union Health Minister has cautioned that in the third corona wave, we can expect “3-4 times the surge in Covid-19 cases in comparison to their earlier peaks”. These are clear pointers to a grave national medical emergency in the offing. In these testing times, difficult choices have to be made.The necessity of time-bound elections, an integral component of political democracy, seems clearly to conflict with a higher constitutional imperative of securing the health and life of citizens. This is particularly so because as a matter of practical reality, it is virtually impossible during the elections to prevent the spread of virus through effective enforcement of the requisite Covid protocols. Critical choices are never easy but often necessary. It is argued that deferring of elections could cause a setback to the democratic process enabling the ruling dispensations to enjoy power beyond their mandated tenure, which is seen as a kind of “coup d’etat” by unpopular governments. But we also know that elections at various levels were temporarily deferred in 31 countries as on July 2020 on account of Covid. In the case of India, it is argued that postponement of elections is beyond the remit of the Election Commission, which can only be done through a constitutional amendment necessitating the broadest political national consensus that does not exist. This raises the question about constitutional resilience in subserving national goals and responding to an unprecedented situation to validate the promise of a “living Constitution” that must address national concerns in these defining times. The provision of constitutional amendment has been repeatedly used to address urgent national concerns. It should thus be possible to amend the Constitution to add “grave national medical emergency” as a ground for temporary extension of the tenure of state assemblies by the Parliament or the Election Commission. Political morality demands that we learn from experience and shun mistaken choices at the altar of political expediency and ambition.Recent restrictions in response to the Covid situation, including night and weekend curfews in certain states alongside other local restrictions, are clearly incompatible with the holding of Assembly elections in the prevailing situation. The utter irrationality of lockdowns on the one hand and permission for electoral activities on the other mocks the intelligence of the people and interrogates the motives of our leaders. The nation is entitled to ask whether, given the exceptional circumstances and grave danger to the health of lakhs of citizens, it is too much to expect the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the situation. The court has exercised its ‘nudge’ function in lesser situations in the past to summon the national mood in favour of a temporary deferment of elections. Faced with a choice that entails the health and lives of the people, we cannot truly contend that a mere postponement of elections for a few weeks or months in response to a grave medical emergency is a heavy price to pay for the well-being of the people or that it would perilously endanger our democracy.On the contrary, a flawed electoral exercise would interrogate our credentials as a credible democracy. The electors are expected and indeed entitled to cast their franchise in an atmosphere free from fear of disease and unrestricted by disability. It is inconceivable in the prevailing circumstances that the critical pre-requisites of free and fair elections can be guaranteed by the government or the Election Commission. These include full and effective opportunities of deliberations, equality of participation, quality of election management, equality of contestation and a necessary environment for enforcement of rules, including the necessary medical protocols. With barely a few days left for the electoral process to be set in motion, there is no mechanism to purposively enforce the requisite health protocols.The challenge for our democratic institutions is to find the right balance between means and ends. While the people have a right to know how the Election Commission and the Supreme Court intend to reconcile the requirement of free and fair elections with the citizens’ fundamental right to health and life, the national government, as custodian of the people’s power, must tell the nation why it baulks at asserting the prime constitutional value, right to life.In these defining moments that demand “a different order of public life and political practice”, the timing of the elections can and ought to be subordinated to the centrality of human well-being as the core democratic value. Harold J. Laski in his seminal book A Grammar of Politics has reminded us that “no theory of the state is ever intelligible, save in the context of its time”. Clearly, therefore, the nation cannot suffer the emasculation of the larger constitutional goals, particularly the sacrosanct right to life, in an age defined by a reluctant deference to any value. Our ability as a nation to navigate the critical trade-offs inherent in the situation will be a test of political leadership and define the boundaries of a rational democracy.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/holding-of-polls-put-to-test-amid-the-pandemic-358478
