07-01-2022||Naveen Patnaik's heart is with the poorest of the poor. Whereas the BJP government at the Centre has abandoned them||Take over from the nuns||The ‘storm troopers’ will simultaneously learn to reconvert to Sanatan Dharma those poor souls who had been influenced by the nuns’ selfless work.I suppose their fate in states ruled by the BJP would now be different. Christian religious orders are anathema to them and the poorest of the poor are not their concern. The foreign funding which enabled the sisters to shower their love on God’s lesser children has been stopped by the simple expedient of not renewing the FCRA licence which they enjoyed for the past many decades. Now, no longer will they be able to feed these humans or clothe them or even shelter them unless kind souls like Patnaik demonstrate leadership of a higher order.The CMs of Opposition-ruled states should emulate the BJD leader. I expected Mamata Didi to have been the first to do so. The BJP chief ministers should spend quiet time with their own selves. They may rejoice over the treatment to these Christian missionaries whose only mission in life, according to Hindutva’s mentors, is to convert the Adivasis and the Dalits to Christianity, thus upsetting the social order ordained by the ‘rishis’. The truth of this oft-repeated allegation has never been put to the strict test of proof but their rabid followers are convinced that ‘conversions’ will turn the land into a Christian fortress. And that has set them off on a spree of vandalism that has caught the tiny Christian community off-guard.I have a suggestion to make to the leaders of the Sangh Parivar. Today, your chance to convert thugs into angels has come. Bajrang Dal cadres engaged in lynching Muslim beef traders and destroying Christian schools and places of worship can be reoriented to care for the babies and the old and the feeble. Perhaps, the good nuns, practised as they are in the art of caring, can be asked to teach Bajrang Dal strongmen how this art can be put to use by them. Instead of the white with blue border saris, the strongmen can don saffron ‘kurtas’ and pyjamas. To motivate them, they can be told that they will simultaneously learn to reconvert to Sanatan Dharma those poor souls who had been influenced by the nuns’ selfless work by doing similar work themselves.Of course, the delicate question of caste will have to be tackled. The cleaning of those picked from roads and even babies, who mess their clothes constantly, will involve tasks that have been traditionally left to those outside the ‘varna’. If they are to replace the Christians, they will have to soil their hands and their standing among their own or, God forbid, leave the poorest of the poor to die. That decision will have to be made by their leaders, both political and spiritual. It will be a tough call. The poor are expendable in a right-wing scheme of things but they are Indians like any of us, deserving of dignity even in death.If communism had merely distributed poverty and discouraged individual endeavour, the form of capitalism we Indians have experienced in the past seven years of the Modi-Shah regime has succeeded in enriching only the rich, simultaneously making the poor poorer. The 3 per cent sudden drop in GDP after demonetisation has put the economy in the doldrums, from which the country is struggling to recover, especially after the Covid struck.The sight of thousands of poor migrants trudging home from cities and bodies floating down the Ganga because of non-availability of oxygen to save them from death had unnerved the Hindutva forces, forcing them to fall back on the gods to put them back into electoral reckoning. From all accounts, the ploy seems to be working!Added to that is the total lack of unity in the Opposition parties, with the Gandhis, Mamata Didi and Arvind Kejriwal vying for pole position to lead the Opposition. But politicians are a breed apart. We will leave them to their own devices. They care only for votes that will keep them in power. At present, the gods are in demand, particularly in middle-class upper-caste Hindu families. It has even influenced the poor who fall back on faith and hope when every other force has failed them. Unemployment and rising prices are the factors that influence electoral fortunes in most democracies, but in our land the gods count more.Is it this understanding of the polity and the hopes and aspirations of the people that prompted the holy men and one woman in Uttarakhand, who took part in the Dharma Sansad at Haridwar, to spew venom on Muslims and threaten to exterminate them.I am delighted that four senior retired IPS officers, including the intrepid Vibhuti Narain Rai, a former DG of UP Police, raised the issue with the Uttarakhand CM, protesting the lack of political will to silence these dangerous voices before Hindutva’s storm troopers go berserk.The one feature that unnerves me is the silence of respected police leaders when the law is so blatantly violated by supporters of the regime. I can understand the inaction on the part of officers in service, whose very career depends on obeisance to political authority, but the superannuated should have no such hesitation in speaking out for the nation’s good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/take-over-from-the-nuns-358855
07-01-2022||---||Vigilantism is about failure of the system||When it comes to interpreting the vigilante as a hero, Bollywood is second to none. Amitabh Bachchan perfected the role of the lonely cop wending his own way through the shattered landscape of injustice. Disillusioned by the failure of the Indian State to punish the wrong-doers — from corrupt police officers to zamindars and industrialists — our hero dished out retributive justice. His justification ranged from personal vendetta to occupation of the space vacated by a tardy system of justice. Delirious audiences clapped when Bachchan declared in his sonorous voice in Shahenshah: “Rishte mein to hum tumhare baap lagte hain, naam hai shahenshah.” This must be one of the silliest lines ever written for a hero by a scriptwriter, but the audiences lapped it up. Finally, a father figure had appeared on the horizon, dressed in plated armour, with a lock of hair falling onto one eye, to punish the criminals. The applause this indifferent film received was a damming comment on the lapses of the State.Life, goes the cliche, imitates art. But life is not a film that ends in a few hours. That is why the explosion of vigilantism in our society over the last few years is a cause for worry. This avatar of vigilantism is not an alternative to the State; it completes the agenda of dominant ideologies — racism, homophobia, patriarchy, casteism and communalism. Is vigilantism the new normal? Perhaps! Still, we were shocked when saffron-clad sadhus called for genocide at Dharma Sansads in Haridwar and Raipur. Other films were more sophisticated. The slickly produced thriller A Wednesday, starring the ultimate actor Naseeruddin Shah, showed an ‘ordinary Indian’ killing three prisoners. They had not been executed till then, so he stepped in to fill the gap! The ultimate in vigilantism was Rang De Basanti. A group of friends shoot the defence minister. He is held responsible for the death of their friend. Subsequently, Rani Mukherjee in Mardaani blithely says: “This is India. If in India, 50 people take the law into their hands and kill someone, it cannot be counted as an encounter, but as public outrage.”The dialogue should have raised eyebrows as much as the patriarchal title of the movie did. But apparently consumers of whatever Bollywood gives us are simply not bothered by the glamourisation of vigilantism. Few people bother to question the over-simplistic solutions offered to complex questions of generalised injustice. Vigilantism is acceptable. The macho decisive hero, or his female counter-part, provides an alternative to a non-performing State.Life, so goes the cliché, imitates art. But life is not a film that ends in a few hours. That is why the explosion of vigilantism in our society over the last few years is cause for worry. This avatar of vigilantism is not an alternative to the State; it completes the agenda of dominant ideologies — racism, homophobia, patriarchy, casteism and communalism. In England, the Skinheads, distinguished by their haircuts and their dress — jeans, T-shirts, leather jackets and heavy boots, erupted onto the political scene in protest against immigration in the 1960s. Their preferred mode of violence is mind-numbing. They stomp on helpless non-whites with their murderous boots. Closely associated with this ideology of white supremacism are bands that play the music of a violent sub-culture.From England, the ideology of Skinheads spread to the United States and reinforced the racism of the Ku Klux Klan. The KKK, emerging in the aftermath of the civil war, specialised in wreaking vengeance on the emancipated Blacks. The group was reinvented at the beginning of the 20th century. In Europe, the explosion of racism and vigilantism in 2015-16 was a reaction to mass migration. From Nordic countries to Poland, Austria, Italy and France, these groups spout hate and violence against the non-whites.Sadly, India is no exception. We have seen goons surrounding a member of the minority community and lynching him to death. Vigilantes kill citizens on the mere suspicion that they are engaged in transporting cattle, or because they indulge in ‘love jehad’ or because of a WhatsApp message, or for any reason whatsoever. They have introduced unspeakable violence in Indian politics. Death by lynching in a public place where people stand around and watch, or worse, film the despicable event on their phones and upload it on the social media, is routine. The killing of defenceless fellow citizens has become a spectator sport, rivalling ancient Rome that had devised unique ways of putting men to death in public forums to storms of applause from the audience.Is vigilantism the new normal? Perhaps! Still, we were shocked when saffron-clad sadhus called for genocide at Dharma Sansads in Haridwar and Raipur. The abuse and violence that came out of these assemblies violated not only propriety, it infringed the Constitution, poached upon the power of the State, and established a direct relationship between the instigators of violence and the people they speak for and to, over the heads of an elected government. It is difficult to reconcile these images with the idea of the saffron-clad renouncer, or the holy man as an apostle of peace.The contrast between religion as faith, and the cynical use of religion as a means to power, has never been clearer. Religion has been tarnished. Democracy has been dishonoured. Urdu poet Saghar Khayyami (2008) powerfully sums up the way politicians seek power via the route of religion: “Aisi koi missal zamaane ne paayi ho/Hindu ke ghar mein aag khuda ne lagaayi ho/Basti kisi ki Ram ne yaaro jaalayi ho/Nanak ne sirfraah Sikhon ko dikhayi ho/Ram-Raheem-o-Nanak-o-Eesha toh narm hai/chamchon ko dekhiye toh pateeli se garm hai.” Can anyone, asks the poet, give an example of God setting fire to Hindu homes? Has anyone witnessed Ram burning a settlement? Can anyone believe that Nanak showed the right path only to Sikhs? Ram, Raheem, Nanak and Eesa are gentle. Their courtiers burn more than a scorching pot. This is, in a nutshell, vigilantism justified by religion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/vigilantism-is-about-failure-of-the-system-358856
07-01-2022||---||Roadblocks remain on way to economic growth||THERE is no doubt that the economy will be facing a series of challenges in the months to come. The first has emerged already just as it seemed the country was moving out of the pandemic doldrums. A new Covid variant has stormed in with the potential to halt the fledgling recovery process. The prospect of a V-shaped recovery has diminished and only a K-shaped or uneven revival process is visible right now.As Covid cases are rising all across the country, assurances are being given by experts that the new variant has milder symptoms and could have much lower hospitalisations and deaths than the earlier Delta one. But other experts are saying the prospect of many people, especially healthcare workers, falling sick at the same time, could cripple medical infrastructure. Cries for help are already emerging in the social media from doctors in the US who are battling the virus with truncated staff due to colleagues falling sick, albeit with mild symptoms. Caution is thus the need of the hour, but visuals from all across the country are showing heedless crowds in holiday season revel and also in markets.The outcome of the third wave, yet in its initial stages, will unfold itself much later. But dealing with its impact on the economy immediately is becoming a major challenge for both the Central and state governments in 2022. It has already taken its first casualty. The contact-intensive sectors that were poised for resurgence in the past few months are again facing a slump. The restaurant and hotel industry that employs millions of workers has had to weather yet another setback. The aviation sector which had just come back to the pre-pandemic levels of passenger traffic is now likely to face curtailed take-offs. West Bengal has already cut back on flights from Mumbai and Delhi. The vast hospitality industry in the formal and informal sector is clearly facing a bleak future.This brings one to the linked issue of unemployment that has been the worst aspect of the pandemic since March 2020. The jobs scenario was not looking bright even before the Covid virus hit these shores. It became a crisis after the lockdown last year. The latest data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) shows the unemployment rate rose to a four month high of 7.9 per cent in December. On the plus side, rural areas have continued to show a better performance than urban segments in jobs data. But the quality of rural jobs continues to be poor as many more are relying on job schemes like MGNREGA. In other words, more jobs are available largely for unskilled labour, while the better quality jobs in urban areas have been declining, according to the CMIE.The hard reality is that the bulk of employment in the country is in the informal sector. The migrant workers that were trudging back to their rural homes after the lockdown last year have not all returned to their jobs in urban areas. Many are simply not available any longer as establishments are hesitant to re-employ staff owing to the yo-yo situation resulting from the onset of the second wave. The jobs crisis is worsening right now. It does not help to avoid referring to it while commending the faster recovery in the formal sector. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, for instance, did not mention jobs while citing several key economic indicators recently to stress that things are now even better than the pre-pandemic times in many ways. But unless unemployment rates are brought down significantly, the pain of joblessness will continue to haunt those at the bottom of the pyramid.There are external challenges as well in the coming year. The greatest concern is hardening of global oil prices. These had shot up in October last year to 86 dollars per barrel for the benchmark Brent crude, a level unsustainable for a country that imports over 80 per cent of its consumption. The market had shown a softening trend over the past month owing to Omicron fears. But this has now reversed due to reports of mild symptoms by those hit by the new variant, indicating it may not be too disruptive for the world economy.The high oil prices in recent months have already affected the current account which has shifted from surplus to deficit in the second quarter (July to September). This was mainly due to the widening of the trade deficit to 44.4 billion dollars from 30.7 billion dollars in the preceding quarter. Widening of the deficit is not of immediate concern as it also reflects buoyancy in the economy due to rise in non-oil imports. But a continued spurt in the cost of oil imports will be problematic at a time when revenues need to be allocated for other key sectors such as vaccinations, investments in infrastructure and rural job schemes.Rising world oil prices will also create further inflationary pressures at a time when the consumer price index is moving upwards. Inflation is yet another challenge to be tackled by policymakers. The large contribution of oil to rising prices will be difficult to manage as global oil markets are likely to remain volatile. The need to balance concerns over inflation with the need to promote growth is one of the dilemmas facing the country’s central bank. These are the same issues facing the banks of many other countries. Even in developed economies like the US, inflation has reached unprecedented levels and this is likely to spell the death knell for the easy liquidity policy of recent times.There are certainly many positive economic indicators as the country moves into 2022. These include monthly GST collections sustaining at over Rs one lakh crore over a six month period and foreign exchange reserves reaching record levels. Exports are also surging and 10,000 start-ups emerged in the last six months. But these cannot wish away the other infirmities that can cause a lag in growth. A high unemployment rate, continuing slump in contact-intensive segments, rising oil prices and inflationary pressures are all factors that can put a dent in the efforts to revive the economy and improve the state of well-being of the masses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/roadblocks-remain-on-way-to-economic-growth-358857
