08-01-2022||---||Economy of freebie politics||In 2019, when the Modi government announced a Rs 6,000 gift to all farmers in India, it was hailed as a political masterstroke. When opposition parties announce similar schemes ahead of Assembly elections, our mainstream media houses write editorials against ‘freebies’ and ask questions about their financial feasibility. Pundits fulminate on Twitter about how we are sliding into ‘socialism’ and why such sops kill productivity and innovation. In WhatsApp groups of the affluent, people share banal homilies about how such socialism makes everyone poor.Aid to the poor is seen as a wasteful expenditure. But low interest rates for corporates to get cheap loans or the ‘sop’ of cutting corporate taxes are never criticised.This attitude comes from three decades of operating within the dominant discourse of market capitalism. India’s vocal rich, who shape opinions in the media, are closely imbricated in the corporate world. They are either employed by corporates or run small businesses that act as vendors to larger companies. Then there are lawyers, doctors, architects, designers, and other professionals, who sell their services to these people. And we also have babus, netas, journalists and commentators who have a symbiotic relationship with this affluent class.This class thinks within the system of concepts, motifs and themes, through which their own lived relationship to the market gets represented to them. So, aid to the poor given either as money or in kind (free cylinders, laptops, bicycles) appears to India’s rich as wasteful ‘freebies’ given from ‘our’ taxes. On the other hand, the perpetual ‘freebie’ of maintaining low interest rates for corporates to get cheap loans, or the ‘sop’ of cutting corporate taxes to increase profit margins for big businesses are never criticised. In fact, in the imagination of India’s ruling classes these freebies and sops constitute sound economics.When the Centre gives incentives to stimulate private investment or states give free land to big companies and announce multi-year tax holidays, questions are not asked as to where the money will come from. Such decisions are rationalised with arguments that corporates create jobs. But corporates can only create jobs if they have a market of buyers for their goods and services. And freebies and sops given to the poor should help create that demand. In other words, the multiplier effect of inducing demand through fiscal transfers is equal, if not greater than giving incentives to the corporate world.The bigger question is why do political parties need to promise sops to the poor before every election? The answer lies in the utter failure of our economic policies to create decent livelihood for a vast majority of Indians. If anything, both the RBI-KLEMS estimates for employment since 1981, and the employment surveys done by the Centre for Monitoring India’s Economy (CMIE) since 2016, have shown that employment growth initially slowed down from the 1990s, and then has turned negative over the past few years. It is obvious that if people don’t earn enough to get two square meals a day, they will be unlikely to vote governments back into power.Real income growth of the bottom 30% of Indians slowed down from 1982, when India first began ‘opening up’ and ‘liberalising’ its economy by encouraging the private sector. At the same time, this income had to be reoriented towards spending a disproportionately higher amount on education and health, from which, the state increasingly withdrew. The poor today also spend on things which appear to be luxuries; cellphones and data-packs are two such examples which are shown as signs of India’s increased affluence. In reality, these have become essentials in the gig-economy, where mobile numbers act as permanent addresses for itinerant workers, where they can be contacted by potential employers. For migrant workers, the mobile phone helps them keep in touch with their families back home, or do a quick video-call to see how their infant is learning to sit up or crawl.If we take CMIE’s latest employment data, we find that less than 38% of Indians above the age of 15 had paid work in December 2021. The situation wasn’t significantly better before Covid hit us. In February 2020, less than 39% had some sort of employment. ILO data suggests that the global average at that time was about 57% . A large number of Indians have got so used to not getting paid work that they have stopped looking for it altogether. The global average for people wanting jobs (known as the labour force participation rate) was about 61% before Covid, while in India, CMIE’s data shows it was less than 44%.Income data from CMIE’s surveys and from the World Inequality Database suggests that not more than 10% of Indians earn enough to spend on high-value durables. Another 30% have incomes that enable them to spend on low-value durables and cheaper FMCG items. The bottom 30% barely manage to survive, while another 30% above them are always in danger of slipping into poverty.Our organised sector, whether in manufacturing or services, is almost entirely oriented towards catering to the top 10%. A smaller portion of their output is consumed by the next 30%. The remaining 60% of people are simply out of their ken. India’s corporates and the ruling classes they sustain do not need the bottom 60% of Indians.Sadly, however, they have a vote. That means politicians cannot ignore them. This is why they must promise income support or subsidies on essentials, whether in cash or kind. These sops ensure that a majority of Indians can stay afloat in a fiercely difficult economic environment. Without this, they might throw governments out of power, or even begin to question what media and public-culture feed them. A democracy that is controlled by a corporate-dominated ruling class requires popular support for its rule to continue. The sops and freebies to the poor buy it the requisite votes. It is a small price that India’s affluent have to pay to ensure the economy continues to disproportionately reward them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/economy-of-freebie-politics-359152
08-01-2022||---||Aviators don’t have much margin for error||Media reports indicate CFIT (Controlled Flight Into Terrain) as the likely cause of last month’s Mi-17 crash at Coonoor that claimed the lives of General Bipin Rawat and 13 others. The Court of Inquiry has now apparently come out with its findings in good time. After the cockpit voice recorder and the flight data recorder analyses, besides other inputs such as radio calls with ground stations, air traffic control and possibly even accounts from some ground observers, it must have been amply clear to them that the aircraft itself was airworthy and there were no other contributory aspects such as crew incapacitation.The Kobe Bryant chopper crash in Los Angeles in 2020 was eerily similar. Another high-profile accident attributed to CFIT was the 2003 Fokker crash into hilly terrain near Kohat that killed Pakistan Air Chief Mushaf Ali Mir. In these VVIP cases, the pilots would have been under added pressure to make it on time and this could have induced disorientation for them, perhaps flying in marginal weather. Casualty numbers were high too in all three cases.One of the basic subjects a trainee pilot learns in the IAF is aviation medicine. Any pilot, especially a military one, has to understand the aeromedical aspects of the flying ambit. Disorientation is a phenomenon all pilots are taught to recognise and counter during training. The main requirement is to realise when one encounters the situation. Thereafter is the need to revert to instruments in a timely fashion so that aspects such as “leans” and “autokinesis” do not endanger the flight.In the Coonoor instance, it is plausible that the pilot in command, statedly the Wing Commander and CO of the unit, experienced disorientation while willy-nilly confronting hazy or cloudy conditions, which denied him visual cues and affected his situational awareness. The advantage in twin- crew aircraft is that the second pilot could save the situation as it is very unlikely that both pilots simultaneously get disoriented. But in this case, the fact that the co-pilot was a Squadron Leader, who was a subordinate of the Captain organisationally, could have affected his ability to intervene or take over control.The IAF, more so in the transport and helicopter streams, spends considerable time towards crew resource management (CRM) exactly for this purpose. In the cockpit space, both pilots need to know exactly what is expected of each pilot. In any case, they are constantly in communication on the intercom (if for any reason that fails, they can physically attract each other’s attention to indicate taking over of flying controls or such. We just cannot afford to let a situation develop where one pilot is disoriented and unable to fly safely and the second pilot who is not disoriented is unable to intervene for whatever reason.Another important aspect is the adage that disorientation spares no one, regardless of experience, if the requisite causatory conditions obtain. So, even very experienced pilots can get disoriented. Hence, the vulnerability to phenomena such as leans or autokinesis! In the first one of “leans”, the human middle ear vestibular organ causes a feeling of the aircraft turning to one side when actually the wings are level, all because the initial control inputs were below the sensory threshold of the celia within the vestibular organ and any subsequent control input causes a sensation of “leaning” to the opposite side and consequent disastrous implications, should the pilot not steadfastedly trust his instruments. These aspects of flying are reinforced during the Air Crew Examining Board visits and Instrument Rating Tests.Autokinesis is another aero-medical condition wherein a single stationary light source at night gives a feeling as though the light source is moving, thus jeopardising the pilot’s situational awareness. Given that such situations could be confronted by any pilot in appropriate weather and visibility conditions, onboard features such as a terrain warning radar would of course make it that much easier for the pilot to reorient. But then, these are expensive add-ons on any aeroplane or helicopter and that is perhaps the reason why regulators such as the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) have not laid it down as a mandatory aid on board. While we don’t yet know what the recommendations of Air Marshal Manavendra Singh-led Court of Inquiry are, it is possible that a cut-off time to fly in a valley or mountainous terrain, especially for helicopters, may now be introduced in South India too, as has been in vogue up North and in the North-East. This, of course, is mainly weather-driven, and on account of prevalence of phenomena such as ‘mountain waves’ in the vicinity of peaks, causing unforeseen updrafts and downdrafts that could impact aircraft safety.The CFIT is thus a real hazard in aviation, whatever be the causatory aspects. It may not always be “finger trouble” as the fly boys call it, but there’s no denying that experience does overcome such accidents generally. The need for a reasonable amount of monthly flying hours by each pilot in a flying unit need not be overstated. More so for VVIP flying tasks wherein pressures on the pilot are of a different kind and the consequence of any goof-up are invariably too prohibitive.This is an aspect proven time and again all over the world in civil and military flying. Like they say, God never intended man to fly, but when his ingenuity took him into that realm, an entire slew of dos and don’ts became inevitable and anyone who flouted them without the wherewithal in terms of professional acumen as a back-up was bound to come a cropper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/aviators-dont-have-much-margin-for-error-359153
08-01-2022||---||A glimpse of what lies beneath judicial decisions||How do judges think? How do they reach their decisions? These questions have always intrigued legal academia, lawyers and litigants. Recent research has shown that there are factors, other than legal, which impact the outcomes in the courts. Forensic psychology suggests that there is a crucial effect of the personality of judges and the impact of various psychological factors on court procedures. This has significantly unravelled how courtroom situations impact the decision-making process in the court.Judicial opinion is a mere justification of a judge’s desires. This observation by Theodore Schroeder in his impactful paper, ‘The Psychologic Study of Judicial Opinion’, fuelled a sensational debate decades ago about judicial behaviour. Later, Richard A. Posner, a noted judge and a professor in the US, also said that the US Supreme Court ‘is not an ordinary court but a political court, or more precisely a politicised court, which is to say, a court strongly influenced in making its decisions by the political beliefs of the judges’.Granting bail, imposing punishment and allowing injunction in civil disputes are not necessarily matters associated with the law. Judges asking for Hindu Rashtra (Meghalaya High Court), skin-to-skin touch test of sexual assault in a POCSO case (Bombay High Court) or telling the rape accused to get a rakhi tied by the victim (MP High Court) are essentially matters of invoking the attitudinal or behavioural moorings by the individual judges. Factors like the past and present professional and personal history and life events of a judge drastically determine several things in a judicial process which are essentially considered to be a judicial outcome.C. Herman Pritchett of the University of Chicago researched on Supreme Court judges in the US, including their agreements with other judges, dissents etc. during the 1940s. He tested the hypothesis that judges were not merely motivated by the statutes, precedents and other such factors, but also by ‘ideological preferences’ and arrived at the conclusion that this factor indeed influenced judicial decisions. Noted researcher Charles G. Haines also found that “judicial decisions are affected by the judge’s view of public policy and by the personality of the particular judge rendering the decision. To Haines, the factors most likely to influence judicial decisions are: (1) “direct influences” which include: (a) political affiliations and opinions; (b) legal and political experiences; (c) intellectual and temperamental traits; and (2) “indirect and remote influences” which include: (a) family and personal associations, including wealth and social status and; (b) legal and general education.”Similarly, adjudication of disputes is guided by various factors. Judicial precedents are often a factor influencing the decision. In normal circumstances, judges comply with the decisions of the higher courts and the behaviour of complying with such decisions is considered ‘legally appropriate’. Reversal of such precedents has a cost associated as they could be overturned by the high courts or affect prospects of promotion of judges. Fear of being reversed on appeal, overall public opinion, their mood, gestures or tone of the lawyers or witnesses and the desire to appear unbiased or neutral are contributing factors in judicial decision-making.Judges are usually categorised as liberal, conservative or between this spectrum based on political ideology. It is theorised that the decision of a judge is influenced to bring the law in line with their political ideology and attitudes. There are also a variety of other factors such as the defendant’s personal details and features along with systemic features factoring into judicial behaviour.Despite the best efforts of judges to put aside inherent biases, emotions, attitudes, language in the courtroom and other factors, numerous studies have determined that even judges are vulnerable to and rely upon the cognitive decision-making process akin to a layperson. Due to the high caseload, judges are under time pressure and likely to resort to cognitive shortcuts.Studies suggest that judges are vulnerable to the influence of hindsight bias (perceiving past events as more predictable than they actually were), framing bias (influenced by the manner that information is framed), anchoring bias (relying heavily upon the first or pre-existing information), egocentric biases (relying heavily on own perspective), and representativeness heuristic (ascertaining likelihood of an event by comparing it to a model that exists in one’s mind).Many researchers believe that judicial opinions are often a reflection of the personal impulse of a judge and the character of these impulses is determined by the judge’s lifelong series of previous experiences, with their resultant integration in an emotional tone. These predispositions, with varying degrees of significance, “unconsciously attach themselves to the conscious consideration of every problem” a judge confronts. Judicial conduct may be traced “by a chain of causation running back to the earliest infancy”. The study of analytic psychology attempts to uncover some of the “potent, yet submerged impulses governing the actions of judges” and concludes that “there can never be a judge without predispositions (or prejudices).” Jerome Frank presents that a mere cough, twang or gesture by a lawyer or witness may elicit these unconscious biases which are constantly operating and thus, influence the judge’s ruling. Additionally, the conscious desire of the judge to be admired as someone who is not prejudiced against a particular group or class may dictate his or her decision in a particular case. Frank concludes that “the particular traits, dispositions, biases and habits of the particular judge will then often determine what he decides to be the law.”Despite legal training, it was found that judges are prone to exhibit stereotypes such as gender bias, manifested in victim-blaming or castigating a sexual assault victim for her conduct; demeaning a mentally weak person or imposing higher penalties on social considerations.Courts have great powers, including the power to invalidate Acts enacted by Parliament. Courts are also endowed with a degree of judicial discretion having a direct bearing on the decisions. Therefore, it is essential to increase emphasis on the study of judicial behaviour and to understand factors influencing judicial behaviour to enhance judicial independence, efficiency, public trust and implementation. It can be said that regardless of their legal training, judges are no different than laypersons in being prone to cognitive biases. Some studies indicated that if judges are provided with increased time and detailed information to examine and calculate, their training will help in processing information differently than laypersons. Judicial academies have a lot do in this regard.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-glimpse-of-what-lies-beneath-judicial-decisions-359156
