09-01-2022||With this grey||Winter of despair||Contrast this with the luxuries that we now take for granted: running hot water, radiators, electric blankets and gadgets that warm a room in minutes. We complain because we have so much. When these were unknown to us, we cheerfully bore the hardships that went with spending winter in the hills. Ah yes! I forgot to mention thermal underwear, puffy windproof jackets and hoodies. My mother-in-law once told us about their bi-annual trek to Badrinath from Chamoli, where my father-in-law was posted as the SDM. He was also the administrator of the shrine and had to seal the temple after it was closed for winter in October, and open that seal after the snows melted in early March. The trek took several days and along went a long line of porters and staff to set up tents and cook. There were no snow boots for any of them and the women wore saris, not pants and jackets. On one such trek in March, their party was joined by a few Naga sadhus who decided to go along with them for the ceremonial opening. ‘They were virtually naked,’ she told us. ‘All they had was a thin dhoti and a kamandal; their bare bodies were smeared with ash while dreadlocks covered their heads.’ At night, they sat outside the porters’ tents around a roaring fire, which also lit their chillums. Stoned out of their wits, they felt neither cold nor discomfort. This was truly a pilgrimage made by the faithful.Contrast this with what our modern ‘pilgrims’ expect: a helicopter ride, the comforts of a modern hotel and instant VIP darshan. What is more, the government goes out of its way to widen roads (with disastrous ecological consequences) for a seamless Char Dham Yatra and gives many incentives to attract tourists. So religion has now become a part of tourism promotion for developing these pristine and hallowed spots. A laser show in Kashi, a jag-mag Diwali in Ayodhya and a meditation cave in Kedarnath! ‘Shiv Shambhu,’ my grandmother would say in horror at these reincarnations. The same may well be true of other religions in this millennium: everything that was deemed private between one’s God and oneself is now given social sanction only if it is loud and vulgar. Loud prayers, kitschy décor and an emphasis on consumption. Private religious rituals done in modest shrines are a memory like my winter memories of Nainital — they seem like fairy tales.Let’s move to the drama unfolding in Punjab. While a furious debate is raging between two sides about whether there was a genuine security lapse or whether this was yet another ploy to gain electoral advantage, the truth is that all sensible people are disgusted at what this once-proud state has been reduced to. We spent a long time in Punjab and still maintain a deep affection and pride in its people, yet when one encounters the present set of political leaders, one can only hang one’s head in shame. No one is above blame: neither the politicians, nor the bureaucracy and police force, nor even the farmers. I want to say no more on this issue because I try and stay away from political topics, yet I have to share a hilarious clip sent by a The Tribune reader of a person who heads the Jumla Party of Punjab. He promises impossible dreams if his party is elected: free power, money in your bank every month, free water, schools, hospitals and roads. Not just that, if you want a house, all you need to do is bring a handful of sand and the rest of the expense will be taken care of by the state. Then there is the proposal to build a road from Kanada to Punjab and a Canadian citizenship to whoever wants it. The whole episode reminds me so much of our dear Jaspal Bhatti, whose deadpan face was a perfect foil for the sarcasm and satire he conveyed without offending anyone. I still love to watch his antics on YouTube and share them with our children, who now live abroad but have wonderful memories of the magical time they spent when growing up in Punjab.I pray that common sense and decency return once more to a land that has so much to show the world: courage, generosity, a vibrant love of life and the capacity to laugh at themselves. How can they allow the country to laugh at them?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/winter-of-despair-359465
09-01-2022||The Israel-Lebanon gruesome war had just ended. I was picked to lead my battalion||Winning hearts and minds in Lebanon||Lebanon has a vibrant western culture and majority of the population comprises Christians, with a sprinkling of Shias and Sunnis. I was deeply conscious of the fact that the greatest challenge during the peacekeeping duties would be effective communication between the soldiers and the civilian population.During the three months’ training at Khanpur camp at Delhi, my task was cut out — to train the simple yet burly Sikh soldiers in understanding and usage of simple English and Lebanese words. That was the first step towards winning the hearts and minds of the local population in those difficult times.The Sikhs as a community are very adaptable and have a very quick uptake. Lo and behold, within no time, the troops became adept at not only the usage of simple Lebanese words, but started dabbling in English as well. After landing at Beirut airport, they had a pleasant surprise in store for the Lebanese people when they started greeting them in their language. That was a great take-off point for a cordial relationship with the masses for the next one year.I soon realised that ours was the only contingent out of 17 in Lebanon who could converse with the Lebanese people. Soon, the Sikh troops became the cynosure of all eyes. The Lebanese were thrilled by the turban the troops adorned with elan, with six uniform folds on the top right. Neatly-tied turbans impressed the locals, especially young girls. I recall an official engagement when I had to visit Israel to resolve some operational issues. In Jerusalem, my driver, Havildar Kulwant Singh, got mobbed by young girls who wanted to click selfies with him. Kulwant’s happiness knew no bounds when he became the impromptu star at a famous tourist spot, so much so that I got envious of him. He was too happy to oblige all of them, caring two hoots for his CO, who had no option but to wait patiently to allow him to have a field day. Back in the jeep, he sheepishly replied, “Saab, main ki karda, menu kudiyan ne gher leya (What could I do, I was mobbed by girls).”As a Commanding Officer, I used to remind myself each day that I have to tap the potential of every one under my command. We had a soldier who had honed his culinary skills in whipping out delectable jalebis before we left India. Therefore, I had him deployed at a small eatery our unit ran for the soldiers, who were itching for home-made goodies after getting fed up of consuming United Nations’ high calorie diet, mainly comprising non-vegetarian food. After a week, I noticed a beeline of civilians next to the eatery to buy the jalebis.I was convinced, whether it be war or winning hearts and minds of the local population, no one can beat the Sikhs. One fine day, a company post reported an accident in which an armoured personnel carrier of the Belgium contingent had overturned, critically injuring the occupants. Our troops immediately reacted with the Quick Action Team and were able to rescue all the injured, evacuating them from the difficult hilly terrain. I was surprised when the Belgium Defence Minister flew down to honour all the members of our 15 Punjab Quick Action Team with medals.I realised that the foreign armies have a great sense of gratitude towards their soldiers and a unique way of honouring their colleagues. It is worthy of emulation in our country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/winning-hearts-and-minds-in-lebanon-359466
09-01-2022||I’ll be India’s sole competitor at next month’s Beijing Winter Olympics. Competing at the Olympics has been a childhood dream||As India's sole competitor at Beijing, I'll try to make us proud||I still remember how it all started. I was probably three or four when my father, Yaseen Khan, took me to the slopes in Gulmarg in January 1994. I was given a pair of skis and the next day I was trying to navigate the slopes. In a couple of days, I got the hang of it and within a week, I was able to ski down the slopes and control my speed.It was all basic stuff with the instructors, but it made me fall in love with the sport. The reason I’m in this sport is because of my father as he ran a skiing business as an instructor in Gulmarg — we had the equipment needed for the sport.He remains my biggest backer — this is an expensive sport and you need funds for travel, training and equipment upgrades. Whatever I have accomplished so far is down to his confidence in me. I had the talent — as a junior, I used to beat senior pros in races — but the opportunity to train or compete was directly related to our tourism business in Gulmarg. If the season went well, I would have enough savings to train and travel abroad; and if the tourists stayed away — it’s Kashmir, after all — we would struggle.I never really had a full-time coach as I was mostly training in Gulmarg with instructors only. There was no coaching, to be honest. Then when I travelled to Jilin, China, and to Japan for the Asian Alpine Championships, I picked up tips from international athletes. Things started to look up when the international federation, FIS, sent two coaches to India to promote the sport. It was a good stint, and I and the others in the training camps improved our skills.However, my first overseas training stint came only in 2008 when I went to Switzerland and spent some time training with a club in Verbier. It was a three-week stint before I headed to New Zealand for private coaching from Austrian coaches. Again, all due to our savings from the tourist season.Things have improved as 40 per cent of my expenses are now taken care of by JSW Sports, and even the J&K Government gave me some funding. I now hear that the Sports Ministry has approved Rs 17 lakh for me under its TOPS scheme. I’ll be honest: This is not enough, but at least the government is acknowledging that there is talent and trying to support our sport.I’m happy and proud that I’ll be the sole representative from our 1.4 billion population in Beijing. It’s not a big deal as many athletes have represented our country in the Winter Games, but my feat is historic because I’ll be the first to participate in two events — slalom and giant slalom.Beijing could have been my second successive Games as I was very close to qualifying for the 2018 event. The cancellation of the last qualification event and the fact that there was no federation to back me then (it was suspended) were issues beyond my control. That episode, though sad, made me the athlete I’m today — more determined, tougher.I could not train for almost all of 2020 due to Covid-19. I didn’t lose hope as you cannot dwell on things that are not in your control. As soon as it was OK to travel, I was out of the country. I’ve been out throughout 2021, either for training or for competitions. I’ve been in Austria since July, training with my coach, Stefan Zlatarev, who runs the Austria Racing Camps. I’ve been traversing through Switzerland, Germany, France, and Italy and even the Balkans, where I won my second qualification in giant slalom. I’m trying to soak in all I can, while I can.My best result has been a 45th place at the World Ski Championships in Italy last year. While I’m confident about my training and performance, in Beijing it will come down to my second run. In my sport, the first run is where generally the athletes are a little conservative, but they let it all go in the second. If all goes well, then who knows what I can achieve. No one can guarantee a medal, but one thing is certain — I’ll ski aggressively. A top-30 finish will be a great result for me. I know people will think finishing in the top-30 is not really an achievement — but in my sport, it is. There is hardly any difference between those who finish at the top and the rest. If I have a very good day, I may even finish in the top-15.I’ve trained well and I have the experience to compete on artificial ice, so nothing I face in Beijing will be a surprise. I’m ready to go for it. I really hope that I’ll give a performance that will make our country proud.— As told to Vinayak Padmadeo||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/as-indias-sole-competitor-at-beijing-ill-try-to-make-us-proud-359469
