10-01-2022||---||Kazakh steppes come alive||The US containment strategy against China and Russia has failed to gain traction beyond the realm of rhetoric. This has prompted the US to enforce a bifurcation of the world community — ‘You are either with us, or against us.’ US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has been nudging ‘swing states’ like Turkey, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and India, as Russia’s standoff with the West over Ukraine continues. The US has imposed sanctions against select African and Latin American countries that maintain close ties with China.Moscow and Beijing are poised to coordinate a security framework for the Central Asian and Eurasian regions, effectively blocking NATO from expanding eastward. Unsurprisingly, Kazakhstan, sandwiched between China and Russia, has become a testing ground. The recent developments in Kazakhstan bear an uncanny resemblance to the colour revolution in Ukraine in 2014. Militant nationalists and pro-western groups joined hands to delegitimise the Kazakh government. As in Ukraine, protesters resorted to violent methods to undermine security agencies and paralyse the government while agents provocateurs queered the pitch for usurpation of state power.Russia, which is traditionally the provider of security in Central Asia, took a low-key approach initially and refrained from pointing finger at any foreign interference. But Kazakh president Tokayev alleged that external forces were instigating the protesters. Two of Russia’s close allies, Belarus and Serbia, also repeated this allegation. Their Presidents spoke of a regime-change agenda. On Friday, the Iranian foreign ministry commented that ‘some foreign parties were trying to take advantage of the situation’ and stirring up unrest in Kazakhstan.Tokayev said in a nationwide address: ‘Gangsters and terrorists very well trained, organised and commanded by the special centre. Some of them were speaking non-Kazakh languages… The analysis of the situation showed that Kazakhstan is facing an armed act of aggression well prepared and coordinated by perpetrators and terrorist groups trained outside the country.’As violence cascaded and Tokayev sought help from the Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO), the Kremlin sprang into action through the night of December 5. This is the first time that the CSTO is seeing ‘action’ since its inception in 1992. The CSTO deployment is a de facto Russian operation and it took Washington by surprise. Blinken called his Kazakh counterpart within hours of the Russian deployment and advocated for ‘a peaceful, rights-respecting resolution to the crisis,’ and raised the priority of ‘promoting stability in Europe, including support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity in response to Russian aggression.’Washington understands that Moscow has created new facts on the ground that would pre-empt any further western attempt to install a pro-West government in Kazakhstan and encircle Russia. This becomes a defining moment in post-Soviet history, considering that Russia and Kazakhstan alone account for 80 per cent of the territory of the former Soviet Union.Western capitals have grasped that a new geopolitical reality is appearing in the strategic Kazakh landmass that straddles Russia’s 7,600-km border in the south and China’s 1,780-km border of Xinjiang. (Baikonur Cosmodrome and Sary Shagan, the testing range for Russia’s ICBM missiles, are located in Kazakhstan.) Moscow has become ‘a guarantor, whose actions might determine how the situation will unfold,’ as the top Kremlin pundit, Fyodor Lukyanov, wrote.Kazakhstan will not be a drag on Russia. Apart from being a resource-rich powerhouse, Kazakhstan stands out in the Human Development Index. Adult literacy rate in Kazakhstan stands at 99.8%. Asian Development Bank estimates that only 2.7 per cent of Kazakhstan’s population (17 million) lives below poverty. With a GNI per capita of $25,000, Kazakhstan is not a ‘poor’ country. Poverty is largely related to employment opportunities, which have been plentiful in the oil business. Kazakhstan has achieved many of its Millennium Development Goals.The Russian presence in Kazakhstan can be seen as a game changer in the geopolitics of Central Asia. The great game is not going to end here, but just when the Biden administration began sounding bugles on Russia’s western front, Moscow is gaining strategic depth elsewhere. No doubt, the CSTO intervention in Kazakhstan signifies a setback for the US’ Indo-Pacific game plan to destabilise Xinjiang.Beijing lost no time to signal its satisfaction over the turn of events in Kazakhstan. The Chinese foreign ministry said on Friday, ‘China and Kazakhstan are friendly neighbours and true strategic partners. The sides have always been maintaining good contacts on issues of border control and cooperation… The border between China and Kazakhstan has become a bridge of friendship and a link of cooperation… The Chinese side is ready to continue close cooperation to maintain tranquility in border regions, to promote the development of regions in border areas.’It is conceivable that Beijing and Moscow have been in consultation regarding the incipient signs of an upheaval in Kazakhstan and its potential consequences for regional security. What needs to be factored in is that the CSTO is also moving toward putting the establishment of dialogue and cooperation with China on the alliance’s agenda, anchored on the Sino-Russian strategic partnership.This follows President Xi Jinping’s statement during his talks with President Vladimir Putin on December 15, underscoring Beijing’s intention ‘to resume flexible and multifaceted cooperation with Russia and other CSTO countries in order to maintain security and stability in the region.’Looking ahead, Moscow and Beijing are poised to coordinate an overarching framework of collective security for the Central Asian and Eurasian regions. This will effectively block NATO from expanding eastward. Putin’s forthcoming visit to Beijing assumes great importance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/kazakh-steppes-come-alive-359729
10-01-2022||---||Apprehensions persist over electoral bonds||How would you like to play a game in which one of the players can change the rules at will? If you point out it is not a fair game, the answer comes, ‘but the playing field is level!’ This is not altogether an imaginary situation about Indian elections, indeed as made clear by a press release dated December 30, 2021, which said that the State Bank of India (SBI) had been authorised to issue and encash electoral bonds from January 1 to 10, 2022. Elections are round the corner in five states and preparations for the next General Election are already underway.Electoral bonds were first announced by the then Finance Minister (FM) in his budget speech on February 1, 2017, as an innovation to bring “transparency in electoral funding”. The same afternoon, the FM, in a media interaction, said, “These bonds will be bearer in character to keep the donor anonymous.” The scheme was notified on January 2, 2018. Since then, ‘anonymous’ funding and a ‘transparent’ election process has continued to co-exist peacefully in this land of democracy.The chronicle of the crime was foretold in full public view, almost like that famous Gabriel Garcia Marquez novel. The only difference, it was not magic reality, a la Marquez, but Indian electoral reality.The government decided to issue electoral bonds as part of a ‘Money Bill’. This was unconstitutional as electoral bonds are not covered by the definition of a ‘Money Bill’ given in the Constitution.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the sole authority to issue currency (bill of exchange, promissory note or engagement for the payment of money payable to bearer on demand) under Section 31 of the RBI Act, advised against the electoral bond scheme for “encouraging money laundering”.The RBI was approached four days before the announcement of electoral bonds, “requesting early comments”, not agreement. And, the RBI’s views were overruled by the Finance Ministry saying, “RBI has not understood the proposed mechanism of… for the purpose of keeping the identity of the donor secret…”, and that “We may go ahead… because… the Finance Bill was already printed.” Convincing argument?The Election Commission of India (ECI), when asked for its reaction to the proposed scheme, responded that “it will have a serious impact on transparency aspect of political finance/funding of political parties… This is a retrograde step as far as transparency of donations is concerned.” It further clarified that this would “lead to increased use of black money for political funding through shell companies” as “this opens up the possibility of shell companies being set up solely for the purpose of making donations to political parties with no other business of consequence having disbursable profits.”And yet, after a series of meetings, a Secretary in the Finance Ministry recorded on file that “it is my understanding that the (Election) Commission was reasonably satisfied about the electoral bonds being a fair and more transparent system of political donations” although there is nothing on record to show that the claim was true. On the contrary, the ECI filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court in March 2019 saying that electoral bonds, in their current form, should be scrapped.What is instead on record, however, is a question asked by a member of the Rajya Sabha, Mohammad Nadimul Haque, in the Winter Session of Parliament: “Had the Election Commission of India raised concerns about electoral bonds?” The Minister of State for Finance, P Radhakrishnan, flatly replied that the government had not received “any concerns from the Election Commission on the issue of electoral bearer bonds”.As notified, the funding window was to be opened only four times a year, ten-day window each time but “an additional period of 30 days (could be allowed) in the year of General Elections to the House of People.” Despite this clear stipulation of “General Election to the House of People”, the Prime Minister’s Office ordered that the scheme be opened for state assembly elections, breaking a rule that it had made itself, soon to be followed by another rule broken by the Finance Ministry when it ordered the SBI to encash bonds worth Rs 10 crore, which had already expired crossing the 15-day validity period.The anonymity of the donor of electoral bond was protected in so far as the SBI is the only bank authorised to sell electoral bonds and that it will collect “Know Your Customer” (KYC) particulars of the buyers of electoral bonds, but not share this information with anyone unless demanded by a court order.None, it was stressed, other than the donors will know to which political party they have contributed, because the electoral bonds will not have serial characteristics. This, too, turned out to be a false claim, as proved conclusively by The Quint, in an outstanding example of investigative journalism. Each bond actually carried a unique alpha-numeric number visible only under ultraviolet light. Such surreptitious identifiability made it even more difficult for parties in the Opposition to attract funds.This apprehension was proved justified in the very first year when actual data for sale of electoral bonds became available. Of bonds totalling Rs 215 crore sold in 2017-18, as many as Rs 210 crore (95%) were donated to the ruling party, the BJP, a trend which continues with the BJP alone receiving about 82 per cent of all the bonds sold in the three years for which data is available.The electoral bonds scheme is cleverly designed to provide an incentive for all parties to not really oppose the scheme, in the hope that they might be the beneficiary of the scheme as and when they obtain a majority in their state legislature. However, this is like the proverbial carrot that is dangled before the donkey, which never gets the prized thing.Only 15 regional parties received donations through electoral bonds, the highest amount being the Biju Janata Dal’s Rs 264 crore, over the same three-year period. For Opposition parties, electoral bonds pose the fear of omission (being starved of funds), and the fear of commission — being traced and harassed by the ED and the CBI.This paralysing fear has to be broken. The Supreme Court is seized of the matter since August 2017 through two petitions. The first substantial hearing was held on April 12, 2019, following which, the court said, in an interim order, “Rival contentions give rise to weighty issues which have a tremendous bearing on the sanctity of the electoral process in the country. Such weighty issues would require an in-depth hearing…”The law would take its own course and time, but political parties in the Opposition will have to fight the elections in the meantime. Will they decide to enter the boxing ring with one hand tied to the back, or choose to come together at least on this issue to press for repealing this scheme?Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/apprehensions-persist-over-electoral-bonds-359730
10-01-2022||---||Mobile app use in need of stringent checks||The Bulli Bai app case has once again brought to the fore the need for appropriate regulation of mobile content targeting not only women but also communities. The Internet has made it possible for anyone sitting in one part of the world to go ahead and target people in another part through electronic content and also through mobile apps.Mobile apps have become the flavour of the times. Almost every person seems to be dependent on them. With new apps coming in every day, there is no denying the fact that they have a huge impact on not just the life of a person but also on the manner he or she thinks, behaves or perceives.That is why mobile app developers are increasingly looking at newer areas of demand and customising their apps. The Bulli Bai app is a manifestation of a medieval mindset — treating women as property.Today, to talk about women being made available as items for online auction is an idea that is abhorrent to the values of modern civilisation. However, the fact is that if this kind of content is still continuing to be made available in the online ecosystem, the question that comes up for consideration is: What is the Indian legal stand on the same?The Indian legal framework does not have provisions specifically pertaining to mobile apps. In fact, India does not have any mobile app policy. India has not even learnt from US states such as California which have detailed guidelines and policies on how app developers need to develop their mobile applications.The only thing India currently has by way of a cyber law is the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, which is the mother legislation on everything pertaining to the electronic format. In 2000, we had not even covered mobile phones under the ambit of that law. However, by the time the IT (Amendment) Act, 2008, was passed, we added mobiles and all kinds of communication devices within the purview of the law.However, when one goes through the provisions of the IT Act, one doesn’t find any direct provisions concerning mobile apps. Clearly, all app developers who develop apps or all app stores or play stores that host mobile apps are intermediaries under the Act because they are network service providers. Further, they are legal entities, who on behalf of other persons, are receiving, storing or transmitting particular electronic records.However, though the government has the power to stipulate various parameters of due diligence for intermediaries under Section 87 of the IT Act, this power has never been exercised in the context of mobile apps per se. In fact, all intermediaries in the country are now mandated to exercise due diligence while they discharge their obligations under Section 79 of the Act if they have to take benefit of the statutory exemption of legal liability.While rules and regulations have been framed by the Central Government pertaining to due diligence by the intermediaries, specific rules pertaining to mobile apps and the conduct of mobile app platforms have not been stipulated.Even the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, do not specifically deal with aspects pertaining to mobile apps. We have seen that the only governmental approach to any kind of unwarranted app is to go ahead and block it by exercising power given to the Centre under Section 69A of the IT Act.Consequently, the government has been banning various mobile apps over the years. In the recent past, many Chinese apps were banned in the Indian digital environment.A ban is never a successful bullet to bite because the moment you do it, you are actually pushing far more Internet traffic towards the banned mobile app. This is so because banning can never be absolute in today’s interconnected world. Even if you ban an app within the territorial boundaries of India, it is still available for access by users even in India, using virtual private networks.So, consequently rather than banning such mobile content, countries have to come up with innovative approaches so as to deal with unwarranted content. In the Indian context, it will be great if we come up with a detailed legal framework to regulate mobile applications available in the Indian ecosystem and also to stipulate minimum parameters that need to be fulfilled by all developers of mobile applications and platforms hosting such mobile applications.Hopefully, the Bulli Bai and other cases could propel the government into action in coming up with a dedicated new legal framework to govern the content that mobile applications can potentially publish. Further, it is hoped that the government also comes up with strong capacity-building measures so as to enhance the capacities and awareness levels among general users so that they do not get swayed by content published by unwarranted mobile applications.Technology and law are always battling each other, and technology is invariably 10 steps ahead of the law. Therefore, while the adoption of mobile technology and mobile apps has reached a substantial level of maturity, it will be imperative that appropriate steps also need to be taken so as to update the existing Indian legal framework to meet the current challenges thrown up by unwarranted apps in the mobile ecosystem. Adopting such an approach will enable the nation to appropriately protect mobile users from potential exposure to undesirable content in the form of apps and other applications in the mobile ecosystem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/mobile-app-use-in-need-of-stringent-checks-359732
10-01-2022||Over the years||Where does the truth lie?||Before proceeding, let us take note of the progression of lies from childhood to adulthood and then onto institutions, both private and public. The adult gradually, consciously and subconsciously, tends to make lies a big part of his quest for worldly success. In the society in which he operates, it does not always pay to be totally frank and straight-forward. You have to tweak facts and your opinions in tune with your goals; sometimes, you have to resort to outright fabrication. As you come to join government, public or private institutions, you come into contact with ‘pressure groups’ — with stated and unstated goals, with public and private faces. The final decision to align yourself with such forces and their goals lies with you and you should not, just for the sake of mere survival, barter away your ideals and your allegiance to the rule of law. Of course, this is a path that entails some amount of personal discomfort, but then the path of truth also leads to personal salvation… ‘the truth does set you free’.Government is a huge business and has multifaceted duties to perform for which there are multiple departments. Let us divide them broadly into management of finances, development work and maintenance of law and order (internal and external security). Development is a huge task, but then gigantic promises are made. In the absence of fulfilment of these promises, humongous public relations exercises using sophisticated methodology for disguising the truth and telling lies have to be undertaken to befool the people.As far as the domain of finances is concerned, we have data thrown at us to prove GDP growth, per capita income, poverty levels decreasing, inflation rising and falling; however, as we all know, data and statistics are only as good or bad as the people manufacturing them. The government comes out with one set of figures, the Opposition with another, the World Bank, the Asian Bank, Moody’s, and other private players have their own figures, and each set of figures comes with the stamp of eminent economists from the finance department, RBI, professors from Columbia, Harvard, etc. Recent events such as the telecom and coal scams, demonetisation, disinvestment of major national assets, etc, are all examples of muddled data and statistical artistry. You can believe whosoever you want to, some lies, some truth, some according to the ideology you subscribe to.Let us briefly look at the internal and external security aspects. The normal uniformed police departments are supposed to perform their law and order duties. In India, these have become the handmaidens of the ruling parties, no matter which party is in power. In investigation and prosecution, fabricated versions of the truth are the norm today and not the exception. Then we have specialised agencies of the Government of India, that is the IB, NIA, CBI, ED, NCB, RAW, etc. Most of these agencies are not statutory bodies and are not answerable to Parliament. They have been created for specific purposes but again, made very flexible and malleable by the politicians in power to further their personal agendas. They get away with it because of no accountability. Foreign intelligence agencies of most countries indulge in intricate conspiracies, creating unrest in other nations, fuelling insurgencies. In most of these tasks, truth is the first casualty, the creation of misinformation and a cover story, etc, are the basic ingredients of this game. The Taliban were raised, trained and funded by the CIA with the help of ISI in order to oust the Soviets from Afghanistan.Subsequently, after 9/11, the same Taliban and Afghanistan were bombed for 20 years; today, they are back again in the saddle and the Americans have left. New conspiracies are now being hatched by different blocs of countries to further their own goals in this strategic region. Similarly, in the second Gulf War, the Americans and the British with their allies descended on Iraq with all fury and fire — why? The Iraqis evidently had weapons of mass destruction (WMDs) which posed a great threat to their national security. The United Nations inspectors came to the conclusion that there were no WMDs. The British and US intelligence said there was very reliable information to the contrary. And so, Iraq was reduced to rubble, Saddam killed, and petroleum resources were taken over. Later, it was admitted that no WMDs were ever found or that they existed — again, what was the truth, what were the lies and what did the people believe?Coming closer home, what is happening on the LoC, the LAC and in the disturbed areas within the country? These are mostly inaccessible areas, and one has to go by the government’s handouts and by the media reporting on the handouts. Independent observers, mediapersons and Opposition parties have no access to these areas. Whereas government reports indicate that all is well at the LAC and LoC, other reports and purported satellite images show a different reality. Because of major national security issues being involved, I would like to believe the government’s truth, but I keep my fingers crossed.One can go on and on and see how major and minor events have been preceded and succeeded by a web of lies. However, one more example of the big lie and which comes from the beacon of democracy is the last presidential election in the US. Joe Biden was officially declared elected, but his rival Donald Trump refused to accept the result and claimed that the election was stolen from him by the Democrats. He went on propagating ‘the big lie’ and encouraged an armed attack on the Capitol. Others labelled it as an insurrection and inquiries are ongoing. However, Trump continues his rhetoric, and his followers believe it. So, there is one truth that was officially declared, one enunciated by Trump and the people are divided on party lines. On the first anniversary of this infamous episode, President Biden stated that we have to face the truth for that is what great nations do: “they face the truth, deal with it and move on.”I have not touched matters at home because of their religious and inflammatory nature. However, the major dramatis personae have their own brands of truth and lies — take your pick, but take it knowingly. It is still difficult to sift the truth from the lies, but it is becoming easier by the day for those who are willing to call out the lies when they see them. The child still tells harmless lies, but the grown-ups are becoming more malicious and vocal. What kind of world will we leave them — with a beacon of light and truth, or a chimera of darkness all around?One last thought about the agency that was created by people and organisations of vision with lofty ideals and goals to help people sift through this maze of deceit and falsehoods — the media. From state-level newspapers and magazines to national chains, to the visual and social media, the original ideals have been replaced by a media controlled by state and corporate strangleholds. There are facts and alternate facts, myths and realities, heavy doses of fabrication and manipulation of truth… a few nuggets of truth are occasionally thrown in to keep up appearances. There do remain a few beacons of truth which shine ‘the light’. The emergence of social media with all its ‘freedom’ has led to further muddying the water and this medium is again dominated by those commandeering large armies of trolls. So, where do we go from here and whom do we believe — where does the truth lie? I, for one, hope that the media will rise to the occasion and follow the old dictum: “ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free”.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as the Jammu and Kashmir DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/where-does-the-truth-lie-359464
10-01-2022||The saddest takeaway from the Dharma Sansad held at Raipur on December 25-26 is that fancy dress and cross-dressing qualify for scholarship in Indian traditions||The thriving hate industry||The hate speeches of Hindu supremacists are actually an apology for not keeping the country intact, and Gandhi was always their convenient villain.Without taking offence at Gandhi getting abused, the Dharma Sansad was still disappointing for another reason. Kalicharan did not use an Indian or Hindu word to abuse Gandhi. He had to borrow from Arabic and Islamic practices to abuse Gandhi for not being Hindu enough. Haram is an Arabic word and a concept integral to Islam, meaning that which is forbidden. Harami, thereby, is an illegitimate child born of a forbidden relationship. Of course, a man of indigenous religions cannot be expected to proffer the sophistry and articulation of a Booker Prize winner or a Nobel laureate like Churchill, who famously asked why Gandhi didn’t die along with the millions who were starved to death by the British. But can’t Kalicharan at least learn a few cuss words in Sanskrit, like jaaraja (child of a married woman by her lover) or kaaneena (child of an unmarried woman) or golaka (child of a widow)? Just as Indians have separate names for maternal and paternal cousins and aunts, we have specific cuss words for every possible illegitimacy.Despite such great wealth of colourful vocabulary, a man in saffron robes chose the most pedestrian abuse, showing once again how Islam and words of Arabic origin have become an essential part of the Indian social intercourse for the lowest common denominator. In that sense, Kalicharan was totally secular in his choice of words. But this complete descent into ignorance of the popular Hindu clergy is very disturbing. The fact that any person with an illiterate or semi-literate past — in this case the person is a school dropout — can get invited to a so-called Dharma Sansad proves that the Hindu religion is in the hands of those who have no clue about its many languages, literatures, traditions and practices. Any person wearing saffron, abusing Muslims and proclaiming allegiance to the ruling party now qualifies to be a man of religion.Hatred has almost hit us like Comet Dibiasky of the latest DiCaprio-starrer satire, Don’t Look Up. If we do look up, what we see is a nation-killer comet of hatred targeting every Indian. No one is safe and nobody would have a future if we allow this comet to hit us. The hate-speakers may have upped their volume for election-time reasons, but each attack has a lasting impact. Every time an entire community is threatened with ethnic cleansing and genocide, a valid reason is being offered to it to get armed and fight. For those who spew venom, it could only be bravado aimed at immediate electoral gains, but the politics that they articulate is very old — as old as the Partition. The hate speeches of Hindu supremacists are actually an apology for not keeping the country intact, and Gandhi was always their convenient villain.Of course, the essential contradiction in the proposition does not occur to the Hindutvavadis seeking an Akhand Bharat — or united Bharat — encompassing the present-day Pakistan. If Hindus and Muslims are two nations, as Savarkar and Jinnah claimed for the benefit of their British patrons, how could they be united under a Hindu government? Gandhi might have even dreamed of undoing the Partition through the example of love and peaceful coexistence and was indeed planning a trip to Pakistan when he was assassinated. Akhand Bharat can be achieved only if both communities live happily and peacefully together, a condition that is not available even in Jammu and Kashmir. Still, if semi-literate, saffron-clad public speakers seek a Hindu Rashtra, they are merely reiterating the reprehensible two-nation theory without realising that our society cannot afford nor does it have the stomach for another Partition.Gandhi need not be treated as a totem, but what he represents has to be held sacred for an emerging economy like India. A pandemic-induced lockdown broke our back and we can only imagine what a civil war would lead us to. Well, it could be argued — can a few illiterate hotheads in fancy dress trigger a civil war? Won’t it only ring in the New Year with a lot of electoral goodies, to be forgotten after the last voting machine is accounted for? No. The socio-cultural wounds that these hate-mongers inflict cannot be healed. If it was so very easy for the colonial administration to prop up Jinnah and create Pakistan 75 years ago, it would still be easy to build bloodstained walls between communities in our districts and villages. After all, the Indian political Right has not moved an inch from where it was designed to be by the British.The situation has only become worse with liberal Indians progressively abandoning their cultural roots and offering the space to the national fancy dress competition. One can only marvel at the colonial brilliance as its allies still control the grand Indian narrative from the perspectives of Jinnah, Savarkar, Ambedkar and even the imbecile princelings against the lone man in loincloth. At the close of a terrible year of loss, the memory of the father of our nation remains brutalised. According to Indian traditions, being an illegitimate child or harami is no big deal, as is illustrated by the great Mahabharata character Karna. But a father getting abandoned by his children causes the gravest disgrace; for a son is the one who delivers the father from hell (put nama narakat trayate iti putra). Let us wish the father of our nation deliverance in 2022. Happy new year!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-thriving-hate-industry-356779
