11-01-2022||---||Disparity, escalation key issues for NPT review||THE Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Review Conference (RevCon) that was scheduled for the first week of January 2022 could not take place owing to the rising cases of Covid. The gloom over the postponement, the third since the original date of the RevCon in May 2020, was however, somewhat dispelled on January 3, 2022, when the five nuclear weapon states, the P-5, announced a joint statement that echoed the words of Presidents Reagan and Gorbachev from November 1985, that “a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought”.Obviously, the P-5 joint statement had been prepared with the RevCon in mind — to showcase P-5 unity and to pre-empt criticism that was expected for their blatant nuclear modernisation. Having worked on reconciling their differences to get the statement ready, the P-5 found it expedient to release it, possibly, for two reasons — one, to bind each other to the commitments enlisted in the statement; and secondly, to collectively ward off pressure from non-nuclear weapon states (NNWS), which is anticipated during the first meeting of the states party to the Treaty on Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, to be held later this month.Whatever be the motivation, this is the first occasion when the five have jointly made an attempt to address the issue of growing strategic risks. In recent times, such a sentiment has only been expressed at the bilateral level — between Presidents Biden and Putin; and between Presidents Putin and Xi. A joint affirmation of the thought that “nuclear weapons — for as long as they continue to exist — should serve defensive purposes, deter aggression, and prevent war” has been expressed for the first time.The response to the joint statement has been varied. Several, including the UN Secretary General, have welcomed it as useful move that reinforces their commitment to eventual elimination of nuclear weapons. But many NNWS and nuclear disarmament activists, such as ICAN, have cynically dismissed such verbal assurances as meaningless in view of the ongoing modernisation of arsenals.The true value of the statement, of course, will only emerge when actions follow the expression of lofty words. The P-5 have committed to “continue seeking bilateral and multilateral diplomatic approaches to avoid military confrontations, strengthen stability and predictability, increase mutual understanding and confidence, and prevent an arms race…to pursue constructive dialogue with mutual respect and acknowledgment of each other’s security interests and concerns.” All of these resolutions, however, will not be easy given the differences in their approach to nuclear weapons, deterrence doctrines and threat perceptions.It is fortunate that the statement has been made ahead of the scheduled NPT RevCon, now planned for August 2022. This gives precious eight months to the five governments to show some concrete action to realise the vision of the statement. It will also give the NNWS an opportunity to evaluate the movement in this direction as per the benchmarks laid down in their statement and comment on it at the RevCon, thereby not letting the P-5 forget or ignore their pledges.Thirty seven years ago, when Presidents Reagan and Gorbachev had first made such an articulation, it had led to transformational developments. They too had met in rather tense times over “serious differences”. They too had acknowledged and emphasised the importance of “preventing any war between them, whether nuclear or conventional”, and also pledged that they would “not seek to achieve military superiority”. Subsequently, both took unilateral, reciprocal or joint measures to make this possible. An ongoing dialogue process and more summit meetings in quick succession paved the way for landmark treaties for Strategic Arms Reduction (START) and on Intermediate Nuclear Forces (INF).India has welcomed the P-5 statement. In fact, New Delhi could go a step further and echo the same at an individual level. It could also call upon the P-5 to start realising their promises by joining India on the two resolutions that it annually presents at the UNGA. One of this precisely matches the P-5 promise to address nuclear dangers. India’s resolution is called “Reducing Nuclear Dangers” and calls for steps to reduce the risk of unintentional or accidental use of nuclear weapons, including through de-alerting and de-targeting of nuclear weapons. A second resolution on Convention on Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons would perfectly fulfil the expressed desire of the statement to create a security environment conducive to progress on disarmament since it seeks an international convention prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons.Support to the statement by India, including by voicing the main point on futility of nuclear war, would not only earn it goodwill, but also be useful at four other levels: one, it would pitch India alongside the P-5; second, it would distinguish India from the other non-NPT countries with nuclear weapons; third, if P-5 take steps to reduce the salience of nuclear weapons, it would support India’s contention that this is the only credible and sustainable way to get to nuclear disarmament; fourth, a resultant lowering of international tensions between nuclear weapon possessors would be in India’s security interest.Indian support for the statement and a decision to offer similar commitment will not really demand any immediate steps that could adversely impact its nuclear deterrence. India’s nuclear doctrine already accepts the ideas of minimum deterrence and no first use. Other NWS, in fact, will have to match these as a way of implementing their joint statement. India, therefore, can help make the P-5 statement a big deal for international security.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/disparity-escalation-key-issues-for-npt-review-360082
11-01-2022||---||Onus on Centre to probe security breach||THE motto of the Indian Republic is ‘Satyameva Jayate’. This Sanskrit aphorism is an abridgement of a line in the Mundaka Upanishad that says: Satyameva jayate naanritam — Truth alone triumphs, not falsehood. We must truly bow our heads before the wisdom of India’s Constitution makers who chose it from an Upanishad which literally means the Head of all Upanishads (Munda in Sanskrit means head.) The message of this motto is further reinforced by where it appears — on our national emblem with its Dharmachakra or the Wheel of the Eternal Law. Dharmachakra also sanctifies our national flag. Truth and dharma, according to Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of our Nation, are one and the same. They are the pillars on which the nation stands. To weaken them is to weaken India.This being our exalted heritage, it is deeply distressing to see how truth is in danger of being made a casualty. Prime Minister Narendra Modi claimed his life was in danger when he was stranded for 15-20 minutes during a journey from Bathinda to Ferozepur on January 5. True, there were some protesters at some distance along the road — about a kilometre away, according to Charanjit Singh Channi, the Chief Minister of Punjab. Modi chose to return to Bathinda, most probably because the pre-election rally he was scheduled to address in Ferozepur was going to be a flop due to the presence of a very thin crowd. Nevertheless, he surprisingly changed the narrative by hinting that he avoided a potential assassination attempt, and sarcastically thanked Channi for the fact that he came back ‘alive’.If there was indeed such a conspiracy, the nation cannot take it lightly. After all, India has lost two former prime ministers to assassination plots that succeeded. The Supreme Court has now set up an independent committee, headed by a retired judge, to probe the incident. However, the subject of the probe cannot merely be whether there was a breach of the security protocols. Evidently, there was some lapse, but was the nature and degree of that lapse such that it would have endangered the PM’s life had he chosen to continue with the journey to Ferozepur?To frame the issue in this manner is valid because neither Modi nor Home Minister Amit Shah (who described the incident in Punjab as a ‘Congress-made’ plot) alleged a threat to his life in proven instances of security breach in the past. For example, on December 17, Modi chose to travel slowly through the narrow lanes of Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency, with hundreds of people throwing flower petals on him from four-storied buildings flanking the road. At one place, he even asked the Special Protection Group (SPG) to open the door of his vehicle to receive a turban from a group of fans. Nothing could have been a clearer breach of security protocol — that too in the immediate proximity of the prime minister, and permitted by Modi himself.Since Modi did not see a threat to his life when he himself broke SPG’s sacrosanct rules in Varanasi, but saw one in Punjab, this raises some troubling questions. These questions have become more germane in view of the subsequent attempts by Modi’s own supporters across the country to malign Punjab and Punjabis (subtext: Sikhs) for aiding a “Khalistani” plot. We should not forget here that the same people had blamed the 16-month-long peaceful farmers’ agitation near Delhi as a “Khalistani” conspiracy to destabilise the Modi government.Question 1: If Modi could permit people almost body-to-body contact with him in Varanasi, why did he not approach the protesters in Punjab — or at least invite a small group of them to meet him after proper security check, hear them out, and pacify them with some assurances? This gesture would have surely heightened his reputation both within Punjab and nationally.Question 2: How can India’s democratically elected prime minister — especially one who calls himself the nation’s ‘Pradhan Sevak’ or First Servant — be accessible only to his fans, and not to his critics? Isn’t it his ‘Raj Dharma’ to treat his supporters and opponents alike? This question is salient because, throughout the 16 months of the farmers’ agitation in which nearly 700 persons died, Modi did not meet them either at the protest site or invite their representatives to his office (which obviously would have posed no security threat to him).Question 3: Don’t Indian citizens have the right to protest peacefully in order to highlight what they regard as their legitimate demands and grievances? Or does Modi deem every protest against him, especially in Punjab, to be potentially life-threatening for him?Question 4: Is it right for the prime minister to pin the blame for any security lapse entirely on Punjab’s chief minister, especially since it was Modi who took the last-minute decision to abandon the original plan to travel by a helicopter and undertake a road journey?Question 5: Have Modi’s supporters — especially those in the higher echelons of the RSS — ever cared to think of the long-term consequences of showing Punjab and Punjabis, especially Sikhs, in a bad light? Why are they constantly in search of internal enemies, doubting the patriotism of Muslims, Christians and Sikhs, and behaving as if our nation belongs only or mainly to Hindus? The onus now is on the Central government to pass the truth test and credibly establish the existence of an assassination plot. Failure to do so would suggest that there was some political motive to dramatise the situation. Whatthis might do to the PM’s image in the eyes of the people, or to his place in history, is less important. Far more important is what such recourse to falsehood would do to our society and our democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/onus-on-centre-to-probe-security-breach-360081
11-01-2022||---||Losing the grand dream||THERE seems to be no end to our moral, cultural and political decadence. Here, as violence is sanctified in the name of religion, it is exceedingly difficult to distinguish the so-called sadhus from goons; technology is used to spread psychic poison; and women are seen as mere objects of desire. Even if through all sorts of rhetoric, the ‘messiah’ of the nation assures us that India is a ‘Visvaguru’, the fact is that ours is a decadent society. As the notorious incident of hate speeches at the Hardwar ‘dharma sansad’ indicates, a call for genocide is normalised, and Hindus are asked to kill minorities and attack their religious spaces in the name of ‘safai abhiyan’. As the messages disseminated through ‘Sulli Deals’ and ‘ Bulli Bai’ app indicate, it is possible to imagine Muslim women as saleable objects for auction. This sort of sexist politics of religious bigotry is the new normal.Godse is our new hero; Savarkar overshadows Nehru; we laugh at Gandhian socialism, Nehruvian secularism and Tagore’s vision of India as an oceanic civilisation. Are we shaken? Does the dominant political class or the ruling regime feel ashamed of this rot? Do you and I acquire the courage to say enough is enough, and we should not allow our culture and society to indulge with this ugliness—ugly politics, ugly symbols, ugly speeches, ugly television channels and ugly goons wearing the garments of sadhus? Well, we are used to the typical bureaucratic response—its coldness: ‘The law will take its own course’. And some of us might shout: What is the judiciary doing? However, in order to do something life-affirming and meaningful, we ought to scrutinise ourselves, and undergo a process of political/cultural/psychic cleansing.Let us accept that we have lost the grand dream—the dream of new India: decolonised, liberal, pluralist and egalitarian. The ethos of the freedom struggle, and above all, the noble urge to overcome the trauma of Partition violence, and start afresh with cultural/religious diversity and pluralism inspired us to undertake a new journey. We were poor; yet, we cherished our dreams. Possibly, most of us—even when we didn’t agree with everything Mahatma Gandhi believed in—didn’t want to worship Nathuram Godse. And the syncretic tradition that Gandhi’s disciples like Maulana Azad and Zakir Husain embodied was an inspiration for many of us. And we grew up with Muslim friends and neighbours; we loved many Christian missionaries and their dedicated work for the poor and the marginalised; and Mother Teresa was very close to our heart. However, through the process of a complex and curved trajectory of the postcolonial nation, these days we have begun to ridicule that grand dream. Godse is our new hero; Vinayak Savarkar overshadows Nehru; and we now laugh at Gandhian socialism, Nehruvian secularism and Tagore’s vision of India as an oceanic civilisation. Instead, we are celebrating militant nationalism, hegemonic Hindutva, and its psychology of revenge amid glossy developmentalism or consumerism.Second, it is important to see the character of the mass culture of Hinduism: continually manufactured by and disseminated through toxic social media, loud gestures like the cacophony of ‘Jai Shri Ram’, gross emotions centred on Mathura, Kashi and Ayodhya, and popularisation of slogans like ‘desh ke gaddaron ko goli maro’. This mass culture of Hinduism is devoid of even the slightest meditative and spiritual churning—the way, say, the Upanishads reflected on a quest for the transcendental and the Infinite; or Narayana Guru and Kabir sought to take us beyond hollow ritualism or the tyranny of the priestcraft. Instead, exhibitionist ritualism, construction of spectacular temples, proliferation of pro-establishment new-age babas, and above all, the act of demonising the Muslims and other minorities characterise this cultural politics. It is not different from any other form of religious fundamentalism. It is gross, sexist, aesthetically dull and spiritually impoverished! As we breathe this culture and normalise it, everything is possible—cow vigilantism, lynching, hate speeches and degradation of women.And third, this culture, any sane observer would say, is encouraged and pampered by the dominant political class—silently as well as explicitly. As Hindutva—a totalitarian discourse of militant nationalism—tends to become hegemonic, even opposition parties, barring exceptions, fail to evolve a sharp and authentic critique of this cultural and psychic degeneration. Those who still dream of and fight for cultural syncretism, ecological modernity, secular and vibrant civil society, critical and libertarian pedagogy, and openness of human consciousness are marginalised, insulated, ridiculed as idealists, or condemned as anti-national conspirators. This toxic culture is cancerous; in fact, it would not be wrong to say that it has poisoned almost every institution. Ours is a classic case of ‘legitimation crisis’.It is not easy to combat this intoxication with ugliness. It is futile to believe that a set of token FIRs, or arrests, or condemnation by select intellectuals would make any fundamental change in the way most of us behave and see the world. We need yet another renaissance—a new way of seeing the world, politics, religiosity, education and cultural practices. And this requires a collective effort and struggle involving educationists, cultural activists, environmentalists, scientists and spiritual wanderers: a rainbow platform that enters every locality, communicates with people with patience and hope, spreads the light of reason and love, and activates the potential that is often repressed because of propaganda, violence, instrumental politics and hatred—the ability to see oneself beyond limiting and exclusivist identities, and realise the oceanic abundance within.Will it ever be possible to see a new era? Or will the situation degenerate further? The answer is not easy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/losing-the-grand-dream-360080
