12-01-2022||---||Policing challenge in the times of divisive politics||IT shocked but did not surprise that the police forces of Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh, irrespective of being governed by ideologically diverse political parties, faltered in equal measure to prevent and neutralise the ‘Godsewadi’ hate and genocidal campaign at the pre-Christmas Dharma Sansads held in Haridwar and Raipur. The follow-up FIRs have carried weak accusations initially in spite of an open-and-shut case of engineering supremacist terror in both instances.The Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh effected an arrest after several days, inviting procedural objections from BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh, whereas no arrest has been made in Uttarakhand by the BJP government. In the meantime, adding to the hate chaos around Friday namaz disruptions in Gurugram, the Christmas celebrations in some BJP-ruled states were openly disrupted on the pretext of anti-conversion sentiments of the majority community. Since then, multiple videos have surfaced of oath-taking events involving schoolchildren across the country to turn India into a Hindu Rashtra.The current election-time polarisation may draw a parallel from the political annals of the country, but it certainly defies normal law and order protocols. In the given scenario, hence, instead of merely criticising the police failure and inaction, it should also be debated whether and how the police could have acted differently. Their helplessness is apparent from the ‘absence of complaint, ‘no violence followed’ and ‘awaiting investigation outcome’ excuses made by the DGP, Uttarakhand, for remaining a spectator to the widely publicised genocidal call at the Haridwar event. The stark rationale behind the police’s readiness to cope with the crime and lawlessness in society but not a fascist ideology was too evident.How to tie politics and policing together while respecting the identity of various segments in a huge pluralistic society like India, which often faces communal, casteist and ethnic incitement in the run-up to the elections? EO Wilson, an American naturalist, dubbed the modern-day Darwin, who passed away last month, had argued in a wider context of humanity making changes to manage the planet, “We have stone-age emotions, medieval institutions and god-like technology.” That equation in human evolution has puzzled even the most organised democratic societies from time to time.Should not our overarching Constitution with checks and balances be a befitting legal answer? Seventy-six lawyers of the Supreme Court have sent a joint letter to the Chief Justice of India, with familiar pleadings, to intervene suo motu. They submitted: “The recent speeches are part of a series of similar speeches that we have come across in the past. It may be noted that no effective steps have been taken under the provisions of Sections 153, 153A, 153B, 295A, 504, 506, 120B, 34 of the IPC in respect of the earlier hate speeches. Thus, urgent judicial intervention is required to prevent such events that seem to have become the order of the day. We have also been informed that in this regard, a few petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution are also pending for consideration before the Hon’ble Supreme Court.”The mention of Section 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy which refers to the meeting of minds for the commission of an offence) is of utmost relevance here in view of the patronising silence on part of the political guardians in the saddle and their ideological mentors over the identity, intent and purpose of the ultimate links propping up these sansads. It is being defiantly claimed that the nation will shortly witness more such sessions.There is enough moral indignation as well in the media and intellectual spaces, but the streets representing the political landscape of criminal fantasies against Muslims and Christians are dominated by one ideology only. That scenario cannot sustain without a criminal conspiracy being hatched in the backrooms of power politics. For instance, the enormously inflated Gurugram namaz row had an easy administrative solution: instead of open spaces to overcome the shortage of mosques for Friday prayers, a practice fraught with nuisance potential, why not utilise community halls, sports centres, CSR initiatives and other neutral indoor facilities? Which side the political balance of social harmony is tilted towards can be gauged from the way the lynching of a beadabi intruder in the Golden Temple has been ignored by political parties in Punjab. Similarly, the boycott of the mid-day meal prepared by a Dalit bhojan mata at a government school in Champawat, Uttarakhand, brings no political dividends in the savarna state.In 1935, a book was published in Austria titled Sein Kampf (His struggle, an Answer to Hitler) in which the author, Irene Harand, went through Hitler’s Mein Kampf (My Struggle), considered the ‘Nazi Bible’, challenging the arguments, assumptions and the actions of the German dictator, tearing to shreds the anti-Semitic ideology which swept through Germany and Austria from the time it was first printed in 1925. Harand’s activism included a lecture circuit that took her all over Europe to ascertain whether the Nazi doctrines can bear critical examination before the civilised world. She had hoped, “When this book becomes the common property of the people, the Jewish danger will be as good as gone.” It turned out to be different. Great orator that he was, Hitler believed that “all the formidable events which have changed the aspect of the world were carried through, not by the written but by the spoken word.” He noted, “An orator receives continuous guidance from the people before whom he speaks.” In a war-humbled Germany, Hitler’s ‘absolute authority at the top and absolute responsibility for the rest’ appeal carried a façade of national consolidation, scoring over the fragmented bourgeois democrat.Are we not at a point of no return? The right-minded among our politicians will have to vocally and demonstratively meet the Hindu Rashtra propaganda in the streets and the right-minded governments must crush the conspiracy behind Dharma Sansads with all the might at their command.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/policing-challenge-in-the-times-of-divisive-politics-360382
12-01-2022||---||Armed forces should resist politicisation||THE new year began with a communally corrosive hangover following disruptions in churches and calls from a Dharma Sansad (religious parliament) for genocide. Another disturbing carryover is the discernible politicisation of the military underway.I joined the Army when Gen Thimayya (Timmy) was the COAS — a period that led up to the 1962 debacle when Prime Minister Nehru and Defence Minister VK Krishna Menon sought pliable Generals. I listened to Timmy’s address to officers in Srinagar that all was well in the Army following his resignation after his brush with Nehru and Menon, its withdrawal on Nehru’s urgings and subsequent unfounded rumours of a coup. It was not a happy start for independent India’s military with Menon also gunning for the outspoken Maj Gen Sam Manekshaw. Bar this short-lived but reputation-scarred decade, the military has remained firmly under civilian control and apolitical. No other Army Chief has ruffled feathers except the flamboyant and intellectually rich Gen Sundarji while Gen VK Singh created a storm in a teacup.Fast-forward to late Gen Bipin Rawat. When he was appointed India’s first CDS, he was already beholden to the BJP government for superseding two senior Generals in making him the Army Chief. It is the incumbent government that created conditions for the negative political reorientation of the services. During Vajpayee’s rule, Defence Ministers George Fernandes (who sacked Navy Chief Admiral Vishnu Bhagwat) and Jaswant Singh (Army Major) would never have allowed the military to deviate from its compass bearing of being apolitical, professional and secular. There was no straying off course.Prime Minister Modi’s grandstanding as the strong political leader of the armed forces commenced with the modest but politically exaggerated cross-border Uri surgical strikes. For the first time in the history of elections were pictures of Director General Military Operations, the strapping Sikh Lt Gen Ranbir Singh emblazoned on banners and posters alongside pictures of Modi and Amit Shah for the UP elections despite the Election Commission forbidding involving the military.Three years later, Balakot air strikes ensured the BJP’s 303-seat victory in the General Elections; Balakot and the politics that engulfed it became folklore. The soldier was inveigled into domestic politics. The entrapment of the military and veterans began with an imperfect One Rank, One Pension which is locked in court. Tying rakhis to soldiers, carrying Diwali sweets for frontline troops and making much of them through symbolism won over soldiers. Troops reciprocated carrying yoga mats, constructing over-bridges and clearing garbage from mountains, thereby enabling officers to ingratiate themselves with the political class. The 60-year-old autonomous Institute of Defence Studies and Analyses was prefixed with the name of former Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar and for some time, carried Modi’s pictures on flyers.Unobtrusively, SOPs were changed to apparently Hinduise, even saffronise the secular fighting forces. At the Artillery Regimental Centre in Deolali, arti was recited on parade with soldiers clapping. Enshrined on a prominent boulder on the parade ground was the symbol Om. Arti and Om celebrate the majority religion. For the first time, arti was sung on parade. In other regimental centres, the parade would end with singing the regimental anthem. The ceremony now ends with Bharat Mata Ki Jai. When Gen Naravane took over as the COAS, he said at his first press conference that he will be guided by the Constitution of India. He has not issued any reprimand.Rawat at the helm was seen to be compliant with the government agenda. He associated with some events that were clearly political and supportive of the Central and state governments. He even skipped a Navy Day event for this. The political tamasha at the Purvanchal Expressway where the three services were key participants marked the height of brazenness. It seems Modi does not worry about the military correctness of involving soldiers in political events. The then Army Chief Gen Tappy Raina, when requested by Defence Minister Bansi Lal to provide water trucks for a political rally, refused to oblige. The Army’s evaluation of good order and military discipline is extremely strict and any violation falls in its net. Last year, a Lieutenant General Corps Commander, responsible for a quarter million men, had the temerity of tweeting ‘Happy birthday PM Modi’ and got away with wholesale sycophancy.Another symbol of politicisation is acquiescence. Previously, Generals would write notes of protestation against this or that event which they regarded as being political, likely to adversely influence the homogeneity and secular credentials of the armed forces. That seems to be changing. Now, Navy and Air Force Chiefs have written letters to the President and Prime Minister for protection and preservation of communal harmony in the military following hate speeches at Dharam Sansad. Not a single Army Chief, according to Admiral Arun Prakash, was willing to sign on to the letter. Neither the President who is the supreme commander of the armed forces, nor the Prime Minister who is the operational executive, nor even the Home Minister has said a word condemning the organised event.The ruling dispensation has excelled in high tokenism and higher symbolism towards defence and national security, even if it will not walk the talk in funding the military’s modernisation programmes. In its seven years, the average GDP share for defence has declined to around 1.6 per cent. Monies for modernisation are getting less than even committed liabilities — this after the LAC has become LoC. Gen Rawat’s biggest contribution to the armed forces would have been in arresting and rolling back the tide of politicisation begun in 2016 that will certainly damage the ethos, integrity and traditions of the armed forces, which in turn, will make dysfunctional his transformational defence reforms.Celebrating atmanirbharta, the post-Independence privilege of importing Scotch in canteens has been banned. But the PM’s convoy has been upgraded from BMW to the Rs 12-crore Maybach Mercedes Benz.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/armed-forces-should-resist-politicisation-360381
12-01-2022||---||Not a big deal||ON January 3, the five permanent members (P5) of the UN Security Council — China, France, Russia, the UK and the US — issued a joint statement of their leaders declaring their commitment to ‘Preventing Nuclear War and Avoiding Arms Races’. The statement is noteworthy as it is issued on behalf of the leaders of the P5, who are also the original five nuclear weapon states. It has greater solemnity if not credibility. It was clearly aimed at the Tenth Review Conference of the Treaty on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), scheduled to be convened from January 4, but was postponed due to Covid surge. The non-nuclear weapon states party to the NPT are dissatisfied at the lack of progress in achieving nuclear disarmament to which the nuclear weapon states had committed themselves in Article VI of the treaty. The statement, the P5 would have hoped to deflect the negative sentiment against them. The P5 sought to convey that despite the political tensions prevailing in their relations, they were adopting measures to reduce the risk of the use of nuclear weapons and would continue to work together to prevent a nuclear arms race. They acknowledged that ‘a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought’. This echoes a dictum that emerged from the Reagan-Gorbachev summit of 1985, when the leaders declared that ‘a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought’.The P5 have excluded the four other nations which have nuclear weapons — India, Israel, Pakistan and North Korea — but are not acknowledged as such under NPT.If this is what the P5 truly believe, it is difficult to understand their rejection (except China) of the principle of the non-use of nuclear weapons which has been on the UN agenda for several decades. The P5 have been consistent in their rejection, even condemnation, of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW) which was adopted by a large majority of the members of the UN (122) on July 7, 2017, and came into force on January 22, 2021. The TPNW prohibits the development, testing, production, acquisition, possession, stockpiling and use or the threat of use of nuclear weapons which would have been the logical outcome of the P5 delivering on their commitment to achieve nuclear disarmament. India has also rejected the treaty.The P5 statement emphasises ‘the importance of preserving and complying with our bilateral and multilateral non-proliferation, disarmament, and arms control agreements and commitments’. The reality is that over the past decade, we have seen a whole series of arms control agreements being abandoned. The US withdrew from the Anti-Ballistic Missile (ABM) treaty in 2002, the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty in 2019 and the Open Skies agreement in 2020. The only bilateral US-Russia arms control agreement still in force is the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty which was extended in 2021 and will expire in 2026. The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) has not yet been ratified and no new arms control agreements are in the offing. Therefore, the statement is not credible.An important commitment on behalf of the P5 is the reaffirmation that ‘none of our nuclear weapons are targeted at each other or any other state’. But with current technology, targeting can be done almost instantly. What is more important is keeping weapons de-mated from delivery vehicles. The deployment of hypersonic glide weapons greatly enhances the risk of pre-emptive strikes, both of nuclear and non-nuclear weapons.In the light of this record, it is difficult to feel reassured by the P5 statement.A Chinese official suggested that this statement was first of its kind from the P5. That is not true. The P5 have issued statements on nuclear issues in the past at the official level. There was a similar statement at the foreign ministers’ level on the 50th anniversary of the NPT on March 10, 2020. A P5 Process has been in place at Geneva since 2008, associated with the Conference on Disarmament (COD), but its proceedings are in the nature of informal consultations. The P5 may have major differences among them but usually collude when their common interests are under threat, such as their privileged status as permanent members of the UNSC or as the only states that are ‘legitimate’, because only they are acknowledged as nuclear weapon states under the NPT.It should be apparent that the assurances contained in the statement do not have credibility because they have excluded the four other states which have nuclear weapons, but are not acknowledged as such under the NPT. These are India, Israel, Pakistan and North Korea. Their nuclear arsenals may be small, but capable of triggering a catastrophic war. Any credible set of assurances must include their commitments. Their inclusion in any nuclear non-proliferation or nuclear disarmament process will not be possible under the NPT, since they are not members. Even if the P5 were able to reach some significant nuclear arms control or disarmament agreements among themselves, these would be incomplete without the participation of the four non-NPT nuclear weapon states. It makes more sense to initiate a multilateral negotiating process at COD at Geneva, which is sole multilateral body under the UN mandated to negotiate arms control and agreements. Issues of nuclear war cannot only be the business of those who possess such weapons.Much of the discourse on nuclear weapons and doctrines has evolved in the East-West binary dominated by the two erstwhile superpowers, the US and the then Soviet Union during the Cold War. The world is different today. Not only are there several more nuclear actors but their doctrines of use of nuclear weapons are also different. The dynamics among nine nuclear weapon states will be different from the old binary context. The US and Russia are today unable to reach significant nuclear weapons agreements because each is concerned about the rise of China and its rapid build-up of its nuclear and delivery assets. But China is not ready to enter into trilateral negotiations. India has to worry about both Pakistan and China. It is only in a multilateral negotiating process that these asymmetrical realities can be addressed, and hopefully, reconciled. India has been a constant champion of this at COD and should continue to mobilise a larger constituency in its support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/not-a-big-deal-360380
