13-01-2022||---||Elected-10 helping make UNSC broad-based||WITH no imminent sign of expansion of the UN Security Council (UNSC) and stalemated positions of the Permanent-5 or (P-5) that continue to impede the ability of the institution to respond to the critical peace and security challenges of the 21st century, the creative diplomacy of the Elected-10 (E-10) member states is resurrecting the promise of multilateralism to some extent.Under Article 24, Chapter 5 of the UN Charter, the Security Council is responsible for the maintenance of international peace and security. At present, less than 25% of the world’s population has a representation in the permanent seat of the UNSC. If one excludes China, the other four UNSC members — the US, UK, Russia and France — comprise 7% of the world’s population. The UK and France, the two UNSC members from Europe, comprise 1.5% of the world population. Due to the great power rivalry between the P-3 (the US, the UK and France) and the P-2 (Russia and China), the practical reality of the recent past is that on many of the hotspots, there is often a stalemate in the Council. The stalemate and lack of action from the Council had come at the cost of human lives and exacerbating conflict dynamics on the ground.Much of the Council’s business is becoming perfunctory in nature and is in the context of renewal of past peace-keeping mandates and Special Political Missions. In contrast to the E-10 member states, a P-5 member state has the advantage of institutional memory of various files. Even then, many non-P5 member states spend a considerable time and resources to campaign and lobby for a seat at the horseshoe table. Every two-year term, Elected-10 member states temporarily beef up their diplomatic capacity for two years and middle-level diplomats arrive to quickly get acquainted with all the ongoing Security Council’s agenda items in the shortest possible time-frame.The E-10 bring in greater inclusivity to the Council and at times, there is a degree of freshness to the arguments being made on issues already on the Council’s agenda. For example, on Myanmar, the role of Indonesia, which had been selected as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the period 2019-20, was critical in bringing in greater sensitivity of the regional nuances during the Council’s discussions on the situation in Myanmar. In the same vein, Egypt, selected for the period 2016-17 to the Council, provided constructive inputs from the perspective of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on the persecution of Rohingyas in Myanmar. The inputs were made in the context of enlisting steps that could be taken to avoid religious polarisation on the ground such as promoting inter-faith conciliation through various pathways.Likewise in December 2021, it was under Niger’s presidency, a draft resolution on climate crisis, one of the major existential challenges, was tabled. The draft requested the Secretary General to integrate climate-related security risk as a central component into comprehensive conflict-prevention strategies of the United Nations, to contribute to the reduction of the risk of conflict relapse due to adverse effects of climate change. The resolution garnered the support of 12 Council members and the co-sponsorship of 113 member states. Russia opposed the resolution whereas China abstained and India voted against the resolution. India, which is presently one of the Elected-10 member states, argued that the resolution, an attempt to link “climate with security, obfuscates a lack of progress on critical issues under the UNFCC process.”There is a vast corpus of evidence that some of the recent mass displacements in Asia and Africa has been traced back to climate change. However, the framing of the current climate change debate is constrained by the understanding of civil society and its bureaucratic structures of the global north without adequate knowledge and field-work of granular nuances of the global south.In this context, the vigorous debate between supporters of the UNSC draft resolution and the opposition of India should be welcomed as it enriches the wider dimensions of the global discourse on climate change. No headway on climate change can be made without India’s endorsement as it constitutes nearly 17% of the world’s population and the fact that its manufacturing capacity is potentially limitless because of its demographic dividend.In the same vein, India, under its own presidency, has also injected thematic issues such as maritime security, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism. Each one of these issues pertain to the wider global south and their contribution to multilateralism. Within the realm of UN peacekeeping, Troops Contributing Countries (TCCs) are becoming progressively impatient over the present state of affairs that has both financial and operational dimensions. Two African countries (Ethiopia and Rwanda) and four South Asian countries (Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and Nepal) contribute over 5,000 troops each. Over the years, the TCCs have consistently argued for more cooperation between the Security Council, which provides the mandate for the peacekeeping missions, and the TCCs.Meanwhile, five new E-10 members, namely, Albania, Brazil, Gabon, Ghana and the United Arab Emirates are the new entrants to the Council. With progressively increasing fluidity in the Middle East, that includes Saudi Arabia’s reported indigenous missile programme to counter Iran’s missile arsenal and continuing tensions on account of Israel-Palestine relations, the UAE’s position on Gulf-related issues will be closely watched. Israel, which has often tried many times unsuccessfully to gain entry into the Council, has also welcomed the entry of the UAE to the Council. The UAE had signed Abraham Accords with Israel on August 13, 2020.That is why in a context of repeated P-5 conflictual positions on various issues within the Council, the E-10 is providing the UNSC a greater inclusivity, freshness and above all, a knowledge pool of the issues in the peace and security realm, and this role requires greater appreciation and acknowledgment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/elected-10-helping-make-unsc-broad-based-360723
13-01-2022||---||Reforms should make farming sustainable||WHILE Indian policy makers and economists haven’t drawn any lessons from the failure of market reforms in American agriculture, and even after the three contentious farm laws were repealed, they still reiterate that supply-demand equilibrium leads to price discovery. Market dynamics has once again failed American farmers from making a decent living.This time, it is the turn of the livestock farmers.Even the US President Joe Biden acknowledges the fiasco. In a statement, he said: “Fifty years ago, ranchers got 60 cents of every dollar families spent on beef. Today, they get about 39 cents. Fifty years ago, hog farmers got 48 to 50 cents for each dollar the consumer spent. Today, it is about 19 cents. And the big companies are making massive profits.” This is happening at a time when the US Department of Agriculture (USDA) estimates the beef prices to have shot up by 21 per cent, prices of pork increasing by 17 per cent and chicken prices by 8 per cent over the year.President Biden further added: “As their profits go up, the prices in the grocery stores go up immensely; the prices farmers receive for the product they bring to markets go down.” To explain, the US Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack responded in a tweet, saying: “This summer, I met a farmer in Iowa who told me he lost $150 per head selling cattle to a processor who would end up making $1,800 per head.” Imagine the kind of profits meat processing companies are making while squeezing farmers’ income.In India, we can certainly blame the profiteering arhtiyas (commission agents) and traders for exploiting farmers; the four meat processing giants controlling 85 per cent of the US meat industry are in reality the bigger middlemen, no less than big sharks. In India, there is a concerted campaign to discredit the arhtiya, building the case in turn for bringing in agri-business companies. There is certainly a need to regulate the middlemen, but the American experience shows how the consolidation of the meat industry, leading to market concentration over the years in the hands of afew big companies, is making itdifficult for livestock farmers tosurvive. With prices crashing over the years, generations of families that reared cattle, hogs and chicken are broke, and faced with an exodus. As rural communities got wiped out, the ‘farm to fork’ experiment only ended up further expanding factory farming.The collapse of the American farming is a living testimony to the destruction wrought by free markets in agriculture, and still worse the denial of the failure of supply-demand equilibrium in ensuring fair prices to farmers. This happened earlier with agriculture commodities, with dairy industry and now with livestock farming. Consolidation is happening across the supply chain, from farm inputs to the retail market. In fact, concentration leads to monopolisation and power, and the cartels these conglomerates form end up ruthlessly exploiting the producer as well as the consumer. Faced with the multinational corporations extracting their pound of flesh, the US National Farmers Union is running a nationwide campaign, ‘Fairness for farmers’, to break up corporate monopolies and to ensure stronger enforcement of anti-trust laws.The US government has responded. President Biden has called for a crackdown on what some major players are doing in the economy that is keeping the prices high. To begin with, the government has allocated $1 billion for investments in small meat processing units to enable ranchers to compete with the giants in the industry. Not a perfect solution, but at least an acknowledgement of the devastation corporate monopolies inflict on both end of the supply chain — the producers as well as the consumers. The better way, however, would have been to guarantee prices to producers of agricultural commodities and livestock. Seeking income parity, this is what the massive tractor protest that took place in Washington DC in 1979 had also demanded.Indian farmers too are demanding a guaranteed price by way of a legal sanctity to the Minimum Support Price (MSP), ensuring that no trading be allowed below the benchmark prices. Same in Europe, where farmers have been protesting time and again seeking a guaranteed fair price to bail them out of the continuing crisis.Declining farm incomes over the past several decades has been the primary reason that led to the global farm crisis. To illustrate, in 2005, Canada’s National Farmers Union had in a detailed submission on The Farm Crisis: Its Causes and Solutions explained the reasons behind the unprecedented farm income crisis the world was witnessing for the past 20 years. Between 1985 and 2005, farm incomes had remained in the negative zone. This is exactly what the UNCTAD had also brought out in one of its studies acknowledging that farm gate prices, when adjusted for inflation, had remained static the world over in the 20-year period.Recognising that “the farm crisis has landed with a vengeance in the highly-regulated farm economies of Europe and with equal ferocity in relatively unregulated Australia and Argentina,” the Canadian NFU lamented that the prices farmers were getting in 2005 were far less than the years of Great Depression in the 1930s. And that too at a time when the world was witnessing an impressive economic growth, a booming stocks market, growing trade and a record grain production. Among the 16-plan package it suggested as a solution to the growing crisis, guaranteeing farm incomes topped the list.Canada’s NFU had then asked the government to implement a farm income support programme that will guarantee at least 95 per cent of farmers recover their cost of production, including reasonable returns on labour, management and investment. But like in America, the Canadian government too ignored the farmer’s legitimate call for a guaranteed price. This is essentially because the dominant economic thinking all over the world has failed to recognise the crying need to ensure farmers with a living income. As a result, farmers across the globe carry the burden of producing food at a loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reforms-should-make-farming-sustainable-360722
13-01-2022||---||Khorana & Indian science||THE New Year has begun with a significant event on India’s science calendar — the birth centenary of Nobel laureate Har Gobind Khorana. It is an occasion to recall the pioneering contributions he made to the fields of chemical biology and genetics and their continuing relevance. The centenary has brought into focus the lesser-known scientific legacy of undivided Punjab which was the birthplace of three Nobel laureates — Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, Abdus Salam and Khorana. The state also produced several other scientists like Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar, Ruchi Ram Sahni and Yash Pal. It is a shared legacy of the subcontinent that needs to be celebrated.Larger issues relating to hierarchy, academic freedom, inadequate thrust on research and research-industry collaboration need to be addressed.Amidst the celebrations have surfaced stories about how Khorana failed to get a job after he returned to India in 1949 with a doctorate from the University of Liverpool and post-doctoral research experience at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, and that he was forced to return to Europe. Though the phrase ‘brain drain’ was not in vogue then, Khorana’s could be the most celebrated case of the phenomenon, in retrospect.Khorana was among the earliest products of the exercise to boost modern higher education in India, initiated by Sir Ardeshir Dalal, head of Planning and Development in the Viceroy’s Executive Council appointed in 1944. Dalal found that existing educational institutions were not capable of producing manpower necessary for developing an industrial base in India. It was his idea that India needed MIT-like technology universities. For the short term, he drew up a scheme, Government of India Fellowship Programme, to sponsor higher education of Indian students in Europe and America. Among the first set of students to benefit from this scheme was Khorana who had just finished post-graduation in chemistry from Punjab University in Lahore. Several generations of Indian students got this scholarship which was continued after Independence as well, and upon return to India they were deployed to work in scientific institutions and industry.At the time Khorana was beginning a career in science in the post-war world, scientific research in the newly Independent India was just getting organised. The Indian Agricultural Research Institute — where he was seeking an appointment — was far from being a vibrant research outfit. The facilities for basic research were lacking, as pointed out by several visiting scientists. For example, Kenneth V Thimann of Harvard University, who was in India to address the Indian Science Congress in 1957, wrote to PM Nehru: ‘Numerous young PhDs have gone abroad to receive some training in some aspect of modern plant physiology, but too often they return to a heavy schedule of teaching and a laboratory whose equipment can only be described as medieval.’The Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) — founded to meet the war exigencies in the 1940s — was being shaped to serve the needs of an aspiring nation. The overhaul of other colonial-era research councils such as agriculture and medical research councils was yet to begin. The work on a spate of new educational and research institutions meant there was a clamour for resources. The scientific community and the government were still debating the division of resources for utilitarian research meant for nation-building and basic research. Foreign exchange crunch meant scientists either had to fabricate instrumentation on their own or look for aid from UN agencies or foreign governments. Dollars needed for subscriptions to scientific journals had to be justified to the Reserve Bank of India.This answers if Khorana could have achieved in India what he did in universities in Europe and North America had he been employed in any Indian laboratory in the 1940s.In the early 1960s, Khorana moved from Vancouver to the University of Wisconsin at Madison to become co-director of the Institute for Enzyme Research where he did his path-breaking work on the synthesis of proteins. In India, biochemistry research then was just taking shape and the discourse centred on establishing a National Biological Laboratory on the lines of the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) and the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) under the CSIR. The UGC was trying to figure out ways to promote biochemistry education and research in universities. Dr Pushpa Mittra Bhargava, then a young biochemist at the Regional Research Laboratory at Hyderabad, was prodded by his mentor Dr Syed Husain Zaheer to organise a group of biochemists to chalk out research agenda in this new field. The group met informally in January 1960 in Khandala – at a villa owned by writer Mulk Raj Anand who happened to be a close friend of Zaheer. Independent of this initiative, Dr Obaid Siddiqi networked with international groups to shape the Molecular Biology Group at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). Siddiqi’s brainstorming sessions became famous as the Mahabaleshwar Seminars in modern biology, while Bhargava’s initiative continued as ‘Guha Research Conference’.Khorana was not directly involved in such efforts to promote biochemistry research and education in India but he was in touch with members of these groups, such as Dr GP Talwar at the AIIMS and Zaheer at the CSIR. Bhargava also interacted with Khorana at the famous Gordon Research Conference on Nucleic Acids in 1964, in which the who’s who of modern biology were present. Khorana was the vice-chairman of this landmark meeting where several past and future Nobel laureates were present.Scientific research in India has come a long way from the time of Khorana not finding suitable research opening in Indian laboratories in the late 1940s. The research infrastructure in Indian laboratories is no more ‘medieval’ as described by visiting scientists in the 1950s. Access to scientific knowledge is just a click away. Research funding is growing and multiple channels of funding are available. But larger issues relating to hierarchy, academic freedom, inadequate thrust on research in universities, research-industry collaboration etc., remain not fully addressed. A real tribute to Khorana would be to correct some of these imbalances to encourage fundamental research and provide opportunities to young scientists in emerging areas of new biology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/khorana-indian-science-360720
