14-01-2022||---||Possible to rejig economy through cash transfers||It is reasonable to ask the government what it has done for the people in the pandemic years of 2020 and 2021. The Modi government has time and again trumpeted what it has done for the people, from free foodgrains to 80 crore people to free vaccine to 90 crore and more adult population so far. The money spent on these schemes does not seem to add up to any large figure. It looks quite modest in terms of the total GDP. It means that the government did not have to strain itself to meet the contingencies of the pandemic. It means that India is now able to manage its internal emergencies from its own pocket.According to an International Monetary Fund (IMF) capsule about how governments of various countries have responded to Covid-19, the figures quoted for India are revealing. It seems that the government has spent as of June 2021, 3.5 per cent of the GDP for what is called ‘above-the-line’ or direct spending, of which 2.2 per cent was spent in 2020. What was spent in kind — foodgrains in the form of free ration and cooking gas — is 1.2 per cent of the GDP. Cash transfers account for another 1.2 per cent of the GDP. Wage support and provision to low-wage labourers, the IMF note says, is 0.5 per cent of the GDP, and insurance coverage for health sector workers and healthcare infrastructure amounts to 0.1 per cent. Fertiliser subsidy is 0.3 per cent and support for urban housing construction 0.1 per cent. The Production Linked Incentive (PLI), which was announced with much flourish, is 0.8 per cent of the GDP spread over five years. Unsurprisingly, support for businesses is 5.3 per cent of the GDP.Translated into actual figures, all these turn into a few thousand lakhs of crores. And the Press Information Bureau (PIB) releases always mention the lakhs of crores spent on the measures separately. For example, the food subsidy from May 2020 to March 2022 under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) is Rs 2.60 lakh crore. The subsidy for Phase V from December 2021 to March 2022 is Rs 53,344.5 crore, involving the distribution of 163 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrains.Despite doling out free foodgrains to 80 crore people under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has been able to offload 71.4 lakh tonnes of foodgrains in the open market this financial year compared to 20.7 lakh tonnes in 2020-21. The good news is that India has attained more than self-sufficiency in the production of foodgrains, so that it is able to give it free to 80 crore and also sell quite a bit of it in the open market. The government did not have to import foodgrains, nor did it feel the pinch in distributing the foodgrains. The question to be asked is whether the ration doled out is sufficient for a month to feed an average Indian family of four or five individuals, children and adults, and whether they can buy the shortfall from the market. And whether coarse grains given free meet the nutrition needs of the people to whom it is given.It is also the case that the money spent under PMGKAY is only a part of the Central food subsidy, which includes the procurement of foodgrains from the farmers. The general Central food subsidy for the year ending March 2022 stands at Rs 3.72 lakh crore, which is less than Rs 5.29 lakh crore in 2020-21. It was explained by an FCI official that food subsidy outgo was higher last year because of the FCI’s borrowings from National Small Savings Fund.The reason for quoting the figures is to show that India is now equipped to handle a crisis and that the government’s back is not really broken in doing so. This does not, however, mean that the economy is robust. The growth in the agriculture sector has been impressive and it is for this reason that the government took the risk of weaning them away from depending on it and exposing the farmers to the risks of the market. Of course, the farmers refused to bite the bait and the government had to step back and repeal the so-called farm reform laws.There can always be a debate on whether more could have been spent on the measures to counter the impact of Covid-19 in economic and social terms, and that too without taking credit away from the government for what it has done. Looking at the figures, it seems to be a modest effort. And if they had spent more, the economy would have been more active than it is now. One of the things was to enlarge the cash transfers instead of distributing foodgrains because then the people would have spent and that would have helped the economy. It looks like the individuals who received the cash dole in the United States managed to turn the corner because they paid off part of their loans and even increased their savings. It needed daring and imagination to do that kind of thing. And perhaps the government can think of some such thing in the future, and it will not be necessary that these things should be done only in the face of a pandemic.What the figures cited above suggest is that the Indian economy is large and its subsidy burden on essentials is not a large part of the bill. It is possible to rejig an economy through cash transfers to the people who will spend it. There is the credit off-take path too, where businesses are expected to create jobs. Until they do it, the people will have something to spend, and that might increase the GST collection. India is a country of a billion transactions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/possible-to-rejig-economy-through-cash-transfers-361006
14-01-2022||---||Digital change behind IT sector job growth||The country’s globally feted information technology leaders seem to have converted a challenge into an opportunity. At the time of the pandemic and lockdowns, the software biggies appear headed for a record hiring in the current financial year (2021-22). As a service provider’s topline (revenue or sales) is a multiple of its headcount, the hirings seem a precursor of the year turning in robust revenues.Right now, as the third quarter results of the financial year 2021-22 have just been announced, the headlines will be grabbed by Tata Consultancy, clocking an eye-catching revenue of $25 billion in the calendar year 2021.According to analysts tracking the IT leaders, the big five (TCS, Infosys, HCL Technologies, Wipro and Tech Mahindra) have this year till now hired a massive 83 per cent more in comparison to the previous year. The fresh hiring of 150,000 employees leaves way behind the previous best figure of 90,000 in 2018-19, that is well before the pandemic arrived.But it is not as if you hire and the gravy will come in a couple of steps behind. Massive hiring by all sections having to do with information technology — like the service providers themselves, Indian operations of global firms, start-ups and even corporates who want to go digital inhouse — means there is high staff turnover (grabbing heads from each other). Infosys’s attrition rate has gone up from an already high 20 per cent to 25.5 per cent over a single quarter.The departures have to be compensated through fresh hiring to enable which the leaders have had to sharply up compensation packages. The resultant overall rise in the wage bill, the key item of expenditure for the sector, is likely to put pressure in the short run on the bottomline — the profits delivered.But the whole point is that this is the beginning of the story. During the pandemic when work-from-home has become the norm and strong demand to enable this has been faced by the service providers, they have met the demand and done more. Along with the ongoing move by companies to go digital, they are also being helped to move to the cloud, not just their data but applications too. This process is being simultaneously propelled by the extensive use of automation by the service provider itself.The move on the part of businesses to go digital is reflected in the estimate of analysts that Indian IT spending (the sum of all IT budgets) is likely to cross $100 billion in 2022, for the first time in three years. This means that the pandemic initially dealt a setback to business but that has been overcome and the lessons learnt in combating the hurdles to business have opened the doors to new ways of doing business with the help of IT.According to one expert, the digital transformation which was induced by the pandemic is here to stay. In the year just begun, Indian chief information officers will capitalise on the new interest in digital technology to survive the pandemic and ask and get fresh budgets to make the digital transformation mainstream. And as company IT budgets grow, the IT service providers will thrive. They are prepared and ready to grab this opportunity with their fresh hirings.The big leap that the Indian IT service providers have to take to move forward is implicit in what they deliver now — a ‘service’. They essentially perform clearly defined tasks and their skill lies in being able to do it cheaply with both efficiency of execution and also by taking advantage of the lower wages that Indian techies are willing to work for compared to their American counterparts. At the end of the day, they work on a ‘cost plus’ basis.What they have to do now is get into consulting, define the tasks that service providers have to deliver on. There are two aspects to this. One, the IT firm consultants have to interact with not the chief information officer of the business, but the CEO and his team to see how his business can be taken forward. Hence, the IT firm seniors have to be ‘domain experts’, that is know the business that the client is in, advise the client on how to take the business forward and develop a business plan to enable this.The IT part of the job is a part of the business plan. It is an open ended mandate. The better the IT firms are in devising overall business solutions, the more of an IT role they can create for themselves. It is a matter of reaping the benefits of what you have sowed. The trick lies in sowing good seeds. For this, it has become imperative for the Indian IT firms to get into consulting as a lot of the services they have offered till now are getting automated. So, getting into consulting is emerging as a do-or-die proposition for Indian IT firms.The progress of leading Indian firms into consulting has till now been fraught with challenges. Infosys acquired Lodestone Management Consultants nearly a decade ago but that has not transformed the Indian IT leader into an equal offer or of consulting services. The same is the story of HCL Technologies earlier acquiring Axon. But instead of becoming a consulting power, the Indian leader has moved into designing products and platforms. Wipro last year acquired Capco to get into consulting. Tata Consultancy has followed a different route, by seeking to grow consulting skills organically instead of through acquisition. The jury is still out on the last two.Indian IT has historically overcome many challenges. Many wrote it off when the tech bubbles burst late in the last century, but then the Y2K opportunity came to the rescue. Thereafter, challenges have been overcome one after another. Turning consultants will mean having to change the DNA. Difficult but not impossible! Wait and watch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/digital-change-behind-it-sector-job-growth-361004
14-01-2022||The PM’s inability to reach his destination in Punjab on January 5 showed the state government and its police force in a very bad light. It failed to fulfil its constitutional obligation to ensure safe passage to the nation’s Chief Executive! This has not happened before||Punjab Government tripped, and how||If the newly installed CM thought he was teaching his rivals a lesson in political jugglery, I reckon he has picked on the wrong horse.Before a PM crosses into a state, the SPG, which is in charge of the PM’s personal safety, sends an advance party of senior officers to thrash out every detail of his or her itinerary with the DGP and his Intelligence wing. Visits are paid to the spots where the PM is scheduled to visit. The law and order machinery of the police, as represented by the DSP and his juniors, is associated in the planning of the entire event.The Intelligence Bureau (IB), which monitors the political pulse of the parties and people involved in the event, is associated with the security arrangements. The final call on every detail is with the SPG, which has been especially raised for securing the life of the country’s PM. In the case of Modi, the threat perception must be considerably higher than what it was for Dr Manmohan Singh or Atal Bihari Vajpayee.I presume these drills, which cover all the special precautions to be taken in case of eventualities like a change in route, were discussed and finalised by the state’s police leadership with the SPG and the IB team. The PM was to use a helicopter to travel from Bathinda to Hussainiwala in Ferozepur district, where he was to honour the martyrs who laid down their lives to free the country from colonial rule. That the helicopter may have to be abandoned was always on the cards. Winter mist and rain that hampers visibility is a regular feature in Punjab at this time of the year. It must have been factored in during the course of the preparations for the visit.I am afraid that the Congress government has messed up badly. No excuses can soften the blow, since no excuses will be accepted. The security of the PM is the topmost concern of every citizen of this country and not merely the agencies constituted to ensure that his life is safe. It is a matter of national honour.While the SPG guards his proximity and his person, it is the responsibility of the state’s police to ensure that the PM moves about without any hindrance. Malcontents and sundry political opponents who wish to demonstrate against him have to be called and told what will be permitted and what will not be allowed. Uniformed police officers are adept in this particular police duty.I do not subscribe to the BJP’s charge that the Congress government wilfully exposed the PM to danger in the hope that he would be harmed. That is a misstatement of facts meant to gain political mileage. The people are not so dumb. But what the people do not know is that unwittingly the state government has thrown itself open to the charge that the PM’s personal security could have been compromised by the sudden hold up on the bridge near his destination. Any unhinged person could have caused damage. That lapse cannot be excused and it will not be, though here again the charge that the Punjab Police purposely leaked the details of the route to be followed by the PM to the farmer protesters can be discarded as another instance of political grandstanding. A route prescribed for the travel has to be secured well in advance. Movement of policemen detailed for such work will be known to everyone, friend or foe, by the very nature of the exercise.But the act of the protesters in blocking the road had to be prevented at all cost. I cannot believe that the police had no inkling of the farmers’ moves. This was a group that was attempting to establish its individual identity on the political landscape. This was an added reason for the Intelligence wing to keep them under strict surveillance. The wing has obviously failed.The normal drill is for the police to summon the leader of the demonstrators and tell them how far they could go in their constitutional right to protest. Simultaneously, the protesters needed to be told that the higher constitutional right of the nation’s top leader to go where he legitimately wished to go would be safeguarded by the state’s police, under any circumstance.If the protesters were determined to block the PM’s journey, they should have been temporarily detained till the PM had completed his meeting and departed. If they went further and resorted to violence, the police should have used force to disperse them. But in that case, the police would need enough men to chase, arrest and restrain, and a fleet of Black Marias or hired buses to whisk away those detained. All this needed to have been planned in advance.This drill has been practiced by the police in all parts of the country over the years. Why was it not planned on this occasion? If the newly installed CM thought he was teaching his political rivals a lesson in political jugglery, I reckon he has picked on the wrong horse! It is a foolhardy venture that is bound to boomerang.CM Channi’s taunt that the PM had to cancel his meeting in Ferozepur because only 700 of the 70,000 chairs were actually occupied is ridiculous. If you allow the roads to be blocked to ensure that those who were on their way to the venue could not get there in the first place, the taunt is not a taunt anymore. It is an outright lie which will diminish his credibility.The BJP is convinced that unless its writ runs in the states, like it runs at the Centre, no real progress is possible. In short, it envisages an Opposition-free government in the country, which translates into one-party rule. This concept spells disaster for Indian democracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/punjab-government-tripped-and-how-361002
