17-01-2022||---||Desertions test BJP’s Hindutva agenda in UP||POLITICIANS do not usually dump a winning party to join a losing force. The dramatic defections from the BJP to the SP in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh do indicate that the Opposition is gaining momentum. On January 11, important OBC face and Labour Minister Swami Prasad Maurya, along with some MLAs, resigned. More bad news for the BJP followed the next day when the Minister for Environment and Forests, Dara Singh Chauhan, also quit. The seats from where Maurya and Chauhan were elected fall within the region referred to as Purvanchal, the eastern part of Uttar Pradesh that extends to the border with Bihar.Maurya’s seat Padrauna is 70 km from Gorakhpur, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s constituency, where he remains the head priest of a religious order. Likewise, Chauhan’s current seat, Madhuban, is 90-odd km from Gorakhpur. The CM himself will contest from Gorakhpur Urban, a safe seat for him, although there are intriguing reports about why the BJP top brass decided against making him contest from Ayodhya.But first, the ministerial desertions indicate that the national party’s carefully woven social coalition of non-Yadav OBCs is in danger of coming apart (A third minister, Dharam Singh Saini, from Saharanpur, also quit the BJP on January 13). The BJP had managed a phenomenal social engineering feat, getting the support of both backward and forward castes in the nation’s most populous state that sends 80 MPs to the Lok Sabha.Leaders such as Maurya and Chauhan were important OBC faces who would not have been denied tickets by the BJP. Their exit suggests they are responding to the mood of their voters. East Uttar Pradesh and Bundelkhand are far poorer than the western parts of the state bordering Delhi and Haryana. If rooted OBC leaders like Maurya and Chauhan have ditched the BJP on the cusp of an election, it also means that they believe the SP-led Front could be in a position to defeat the ruling party.Between December 11, 2021, and January 13, 2022, 19 BJP members joined the SP-led front. Fourteen of them were sitting MLAs and this figure is expected to go up. According to data collected by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), between 2016 and 2020, 182 MLAs from across the country joined the BJP while only 18 left the party. Defection of MLAs was a factor in the BJP forming governments in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa and Manipur (the last two states also vote in this round of Assembly elections). But the point is that when a reverse trend begins, it suggests that something is going wrong for the ruling party in Uttar Pradesh.The BJP is not one to roll over and accept defeat in the face of setbacks. What is worrying for them, however, is that the departing ministers and legislators have framed their resignations as being due to the regime's insensitivity to backward castes and Dalits. Since Adityanath Yogi is a Thakur, the most muscular forward caste in the state, the desertions have inevitably been positioned by SP as a backward caste revolt against the forward castes. The BJP has already begun responding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is "the biggest OBC leader" but this is a state election. So far, the BJP's attempt to make this election Narendra Modi vs Akhilesh Yadav, the SP chief, has not succeeded. It is, after all, a state poll and the SP leader has calibrated it as Akhilesh vs Yogi.Still, the BJP does have an upper hand in party structures, cadre, financial resources, social media outreach and in the event of a hung mandate, a friendly Governor. And regardless of chaos in the ranks, the RSS-run ideologically motivated cadre does booth management down to the last solitary outpost. The SP is also a party rooted in the state, but works very differently from the BJP. The SP will be giving tickets, in view of many aspirants, to the candidates most likely to fight hard in each constituency. Yet, it is a challenge to accommodate so many new entrants into the front when the party itself is well established in the state.The SP Plus front is fighting the election tactically, seat by seat with multiple small caste parties. The BJP, conversely, is still going with the big narrative around Modi, Yogi, welfarism and Hindutva. Now that the tickets are being distributed, separate social media cells for each seat will also be activate but broadly the BJP social media works as a broadcaster of speeches of the PM and CM along with content used to discredit Akhilesh, keep the focus on othering Muslims and bolstering the Hindutva ideology and symbolism.There is now a touch of desperation in the push on hardline Hindutva. Besides, the CM’s statement that the election is between 80 per cent and 20 per cent (Muslims make up 20 per cent of the electorate), is the most memorable thing he has said this poll season. Perhaps the party genuinely believes this is the push that will get it through; these are certainly the prime ideas the CM seems to have. Now, however, after the defections, he had to showcase himself having food in a Dalit household on January 14.The SP, meanwhile, is in the process of upping its social media campaign as many volunteers and professionals have now stepped in. Strategically, they will seek to dominate the news cycle and try to create the news as opposed to just responding to it. The messaging will be about economic issues along with positioning the fight as that of forward versus backward. They say they want the social media to also amplify people's voice beyond that of Akhilesh Yadav and want a two-way conversation and a lighter touch. Akhilesh Yadav himself has done a good job in media interviews that are now being widely circulated.The state machinery, both in the state and Centre, is with the BJP. With the Election Commission having put curbs on rallies and roadshows, BJP leaders/workers are more likely to get away with violations in the door-to-door campaigns that candidates will depend on.It is known that the current dispensation can be vindictive against opponents. Indeed, an old case against Swami Prasad Maurya was mysteriously revived the day after he quit the BJP. Income tax raids have taken place targeting those believed to be holding the funds of the SP, although in one instance, the authorities allegedly goofed up, going after a businessman with a similar name to an SP backer.The BJP is a formidable force that began this battle with a mammoth 40 per cent of the vote in the 2017 elections. What is working best for the BJP is the support of those who got houses under government schemes and a regular supply of free rations. But the national party is still shedding some voters and leaders and if this continues, then the battle would begin to be described as a wave election against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/desertions-test-bjps-hindutva-agenda-in-up-361841
17-01-2022||---||Insight into China’s anti-India propaganda||THE analysis of a country’s media provides useful insights into its leadership’s thinking, especially when government functioning is deliberately kept opaque in a country as vast as China. As China’s aggressive actions against India increase, an analysis of the Chinese media becomes more important.Ever since its inception, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has paid a lot of attention to its propaganda apparatus. It has become increasingly adept at managing it over the years and its propaganda department tightly controls the country’s Chinese and English language media. Academic publications are subject to similar controls. Highlighting the importance of propaganda is the fact that the portfolio has always been managed by a member of the Politburo Standing Committee — essentially the seven or nine persons who run the country.The propaganda department disseminates the approved party ‘line’ and, thrice daily, ‘guides’ editors on what they can report, prominence to be given to each item and directs them to the official news agency, Xinhua’s version on controversial matters. Failure to comply attracts prompt punitive action.Over the past decade, the CCP has increasingly targeted foreign audiences through its English-language publications such as the Global Times, China Daily and the Beijing Review. The Global Times is more acerbic, blunt and sensational. Owned by the CCP’s official mouthpiece, People’s Daily, it conveys messages that the Chinese authorities want to send out but are hesitant to do so as blatantly.Especially since May 2020, the Global Times has targeted the Indian audiences almost every day with a steady outpouring of criticism. Even its report on the tragic demise of General Bipin Rawat was offensive.Three recent articles appearing in reputed Chinese-language publications give an insight into Chinese officialdom’s thinking on India’s geo-economic and foreign policies. All convey the party ‘line’.An article by two Chinese journalists in Sichuan University’s bimonthly publication asserts that the Modi government’s economic policies are doomed to fail because India will incur considerable economic costs as it ‘struggles’ to reconcile its development objectives with issues of national security.It warns that in the wake of the Galwan valley skirmishes, India’s policy of ‘comprehensive decoupling’ with China will make it difficult for India to realise its global ambitions because Chinese imports will remain very important for India’s economic growth.The subject of US-India relations comes up repeatedly. Another article asserts that the United States seeks to contain China by incorporating India into its Indo-Pacific strategy. The article — whose author is with a think tank that is administered directly by China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs — claims that India participates in the US strategy not because it wants to take the US side in its competition with China, but because India sees cooperation with the US as the best way to achieve its great power ambitions.The article declares that the US-India relationship is not smooth sailing. It says the two countries have conflicting objectives and differ in their geopolitical, security and economic thinking. In addition, there are trade frictions between the US’s ‘America First’ approach and Modi’s ‘Made in India’ strategy, as well as differences over India's continuing purchase of Russian weapons.As such, the author declares, the China factor alone is not enough to push India into an alliance with the US. It also warns India that the US and China will eventually learn to co-exist, reducing India’s ability to play one off against the other.On the other hand, if China and India were to rise together, they will play increasingly significant roles as the world transitions towards a multi-polar order. It declares that Modi must, therefore, decide the future of India's non-alignment policy.The third article analyses the situation along China’s borders. It’s author, Ouyang Wei, a ‘princeling’, retired senior colonel and border affairs expert, accuses India of adopting the strategy of “defending the north and advancing eastward”.He says that encouraged by the US’s Indo-Pacific strategy, India has taken a hard-line anti-China stance on the Belt and Road Initiative, “built up military deployment in border areas and encroached on China’s territory”. Nonetheless, he says, neither China nor India wants a military conflict and it is very unlikely that a local clash will harm the overall stability of the border areas.It is China’s English language Global Times, however, that delivers a blunt and stern message. In its October 11, 2021, article, it says that “China has made tremendous efforts to ease and calm the border situation, while India insisted on unreasonable and unrealistic demands, adding difficulties to the negotiations”.The hard-hitting article says that India expects Beijing will yield to its demands to prevent an Indo-US alliance. However, this will not work as the border issue is related to the dignity of all nations and trying to coerce the other side into making concessions that are not in line with the real situation will only create trouble for itself.And then it issues a final warning: “The Chinese people know that both China and India have enough national strength to sustain a long border standoff. Such mutual attrition is regrettable, but if India is willing to do so, China will keep it company until the end. New Delhi needs to be clear about one thing: it will not get the border the way it wants. If it starts a war, it will definitely lose… China’s territory belongs to China and we will never cede it.”While their styles differ, noteworthy is that all articles emphasise that China is in a stronger position, but chooses not to take tougher measures. They also warn India that the US and China will possibly eventually reach some sort of modus vivendi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/insight-into-chinas-anti-india-propaganda-361840
17-01-2022||AS the highly transmissible Omicron-fuelled surge in coronavirus infections alarmed Indians in the last one month||A picture of health||India-US healthcare partnership has gone beyond being a bilateral initiative and is global, with much more to come as countries learn to live with coronavirus. This partnership has yielded significant results in combating the third wave of the pandemic, but has been obscured by a public and media obsession with numbers of coronavirus infections. The current wave of infections has set the stage in the framework of the India-US partnership to find equitable solutions as every country learns to live with Covid-19, including its many variants anticipated in the future.Last week, the Associated Press (AP) issued guidelines to its editors and reporters to avoid emphasising case counts in stories about the disease. ‘That means, for example, no more stories focused solely on a particular country or state setting a one-day record for number of cases, because that claim has become unreliable,’ said AP’s explanation of its internal guidelines for the public.In the US, more and more news organisations are following AP’s lead in avoiding an overemphasis on statistics, especially with the Omicron variant reducing the relevance of figures, what with fewer hospitalisations and fatalities. Katherine Wu, who writes on Covid-19 for The Atlantic, calls the ongoing pandemic coverage in the media as a ‘data disaster’.Eventually, if the Indian media follows suit, it would be possible to extrapolate lessons from the India-US Covid-19-related healthcare partnership and create better awareness of the initiative. The public has been hamstrung in India by a lack of awareness in this matter.As soon as predictions began of a third wave in India, amidst dire warnings about the Omicron variant, India’s ambassador in Washington, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, got into a succession of meetings with leaders of the US pharmaceutical industry. These meetings are continuing: the latest was a week ago with Joe Almeida, CEO of Baxter International. It is expected to pave the way for stronger health supply chains in the fight against the pandemic.Baxter is a good example of the horizons in India-US healthcare partnership. Over three years ago, this US pharmaceutical company expanded its global footprint into Gujarat by buying Claris, an injectables manufacturer in Ahmedabad with an investment of $625 million. This investment’s significance is the eventual acceptability for Indian pharmaceutical products in the US through the best practices of US companies. At the time of the purchase, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had several adverse inspection reports against Claris. Three years on, Baxter has claimed that the Ahmedabad plant ‘has been through a transformative journey to evolve and nurture a culture of safety, integrity and quality’.A week prior, the New Jersey-headquartered pharmaceuticals multinational, Merck, licensed Dr Reddy’s Laboratories in Bengaluru to manufacture and sell its anti-viral Covid pill, Molnupiravir using the generic brand name Molflu. When it was announced that Molflu will be available to Indians at 2 per cent of what it costs Americans, Sandhu cited it as an ‘example of India-US collaboration leading to affordable solutions in public health’. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said 13 Indian companies would eventually sell Molnupiravir at similarly affordable prices.Maryland-based Novavax Inc., which produces vaccines against Covid, granted Serum Institute of India the rights to manufacture their vaccine in Pune under the brand name of Covovax. All these US treatments were swiftly granted emergency use permissions by India’s Drugs Controller General (DCGI), unlike during the second wave, when confusion reigned both at political and administrative levels on approvals and treatment protocols.An offshoot of the India-US healthcare partnership that has domestic political ramifications in the US has been the emergency use permission by the DCGI for a low-cost vaccine developed in Texas by the Children’s Hospital Center for Vaccine Development. It has been licensed through the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston to be manufactured in Hyderabad by Biological E under the brand name of Corbevax.Because the vaccine’s developers do not belong to the big pharma, but are independent health science institutions, the low-cost vaccine has become the pride of Texas. Peter Hotez, Dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, made a point of the institution’s decision as ‘a gift to the world’. It does not plan to make any profit from the new vaccine. The vaccine technology will be transferred to Indonesia, Bangladesh and Botswana, in addition to India.In Texas, reaction to the DCGI approval was swift. Beto O’Rourke, a Democrat who has a good chance to create history in this year’s election of Governor of this Republican state, lost no time in hailing the vaccine development as a Texan achievement.Not to be left behind, US Senator John Cornyn of Texas tom-tommed the initiative as a milestone for Texas. Cornyn has a special interest in India’s use of Corbevax: he is one of the most active members of the Senate India Caucus and has been its Republican Co-Chair several times. Indian Americans generously fund his campaigns because he is one of the most vocal supporters of India on Capitol Hill. Manufacturing Corbevax in Hyderabad will, therefore, have implications in India-US relations that go well beyond healthcare.India and the US started a bilateral Health Dialogue in 2015, but it largely languished until the pandemic outbreak two years ago. Since then, the India-US healthcare partnership has gone beyond being a bilateral initiative and is global with much more to come as countries learn to live with coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-picture-of-health-361839
17-01-2022||Poll time is when opportunists wager their political capital. So||When Indians get angry||If communal spite and polarisation are the BJP’s only antidote to the incensed voter, these old tricks may not work — for an angry India does not think communally.The first sign of serious distress for the BJP in UP was the Centre’s decision to repeal the contentious farm laws. It was clearly aimed at the Jat community that has varying degrees of influence across western UP, which accounts for 135 seats. Soon, reports from western UP (including The Tribune’s story, ‘Winter of discontent in western UP’) indicated that the Jat discontent is getting converted into a social alliance of Jats and Muslims against the BJP over the secular issue of farm distress and the Centre’s apathetic imposition of the laws, even if they were subsequently repealed. This social alliance has also found a political expression in the tie-up of Jayant Chaudhary’s Rashtriya Lok Dal with Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party. Interestingly, western UP goes to the polls in the first two phases and will be badly affected by the campaign ban on account of the milder Omicron surge.The BJP had won about 100 out of 135 western UP seats and 51 of the 71 Jat-dominated constituencies in the last Assembly polls in 2017. With a three-fourth majority and 312 seats in a house of 403 on its own, a loss of a few seats would not have really mattered to the BJP. But the Jat discontent seems to be merely the reflection of a deeper political angst against the ruling establishment — socially and politically. UP is a place where one’s social identity counts most. The more the Chief Minister begins to identify with his own caste or community, the greater the opposition it builds. When Mulayam Singh Yadav and Akhilesh Yadav nurture Yadavs using Muslims as props, the other communities obviously gang up, bringing the incumbent down.This fact of identity anti-incumbency or a group apathy against the Chief Minister for empowering only his or her own community has been ensuring organic opposition against ruling parties in UP and elsewhere, disallowing incumbents to continue in power. Most leaders who have bucked this trend are those without community baggage, like Jyoti Basu and Naveen Patnaik. Interestingly, Yogi Adityanath was hyped up as a Hindu monk without a caste bias. The revolt of the Jats and now the other backward caste leaders against Adityanath reveals that the BJP’s Hindutva plastering over the caste cracks is peeling off. Adityanath is looked at more as a Thakur or Rajput leader than a Hindutva consolidator, thereby weakening the credibility of the BJP’s saffron campaign.Along with the Jats, the non-Yadav OBCs are a significant block of voters and when some of their leaders with a criminal past come out of the protection of the ruling establishment, it surely reflects the larger sentiments of the people who they represent. Sure, these opportunists could be jumping ship merely because of the fear of being denied the party ticket or for lucrative offers from various quarters. The BJP is expected to deny tickets to a large number of sitting MLAs to overcome anti-incumbency. Still, these MLAs would have done their basic math before throwing their ministerial perks away. The question is: are the people of UP angry enough with the BJP?However much political parties take credit for regime changes, they happen primarily because of a negative vote. It was not a vote for the Congress in 2004, but a vote against the BJP; similarly, the 2014 mandate was also for change and hope against the corrupt UPA. The anti-corruption movement led by Anna Hazare and Arvind Kejriwal since 2011 successfully unleashed a tidal wave of opposition against the UPA; and the BJP and its leadership were the beneficiaries. Now, the anger against the Centre, expressed during the farmers’ agitation, has a bearing on the elections in at least two states: UP and Punjab. In UP, if those who have quit the BJP have any politics beyond personal aspirations, they seem to represent the fury against governments at the Centre and in Lucknow. For, the BJP has been running a strong campaign over the ‘double engine of growth’ and if the people are still not convinced, then both the engines have to bear the brunt of their anger.In Punjab, the removal of Captain Amarinder Singh has helped the Congress fight anti-incumbency, particularly because he has struck an alliance with the BJP. The greatest gain for the Congress in Punjab is that the free-floating anti-establishment anger got channelised into the farmers’ protest against the Centre. So, despite the Congress being in power in the state for a full term without much to talk about, the Centre has to face the people's ire. The security lapse of not keeping the Prime Minister’s route sanitised has also, curiously, let the Chief Minister score a few brownie points with the irate farmers.There is no landslide in the BJP’s favour in Goa, Uttarakhand or Manipur, giving a fillip to the theory of the angry India. Are these Assembly elections the tipping point of people’s angst against the Central government? Well, unlike other governments, particularly led by disparate coalitions, the Modi government is cohesive, purposeful and proactive. It sees the writing on the wall much before others do, courtesy its regular surveys that read the people’s pulse. If the Haridwar and Raipur Dharm Sansads, communal spite and the moth-eaten idea of polarisation are the BJP’s only antidote to the incensed voter, these old tricks may not work — for an angry India does not think communally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-indians-get-angry-361304
