20-01-2022||---||Xi resets policy priorities to boost economy||China’s Central Economic Work Conference (CEWC), held at Beijing from December 8 to 10, 2021, decided that all stakeholders should work actively to maintain stability in the macro-economy in view of new challenges as the country holds the Winter Olympics from February 4 to 20, 2022, and the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of China (CPC) later this year. What made the economic planners to rethink the policy direction was the sharp dip in China’s GDP growth rate from 18.3% in Quarter 1 of 2021 to 7.9% in Q2, 4.9% in Q3 and 4% in Q4.Structural changes ordered by President Xi Jinping such as reducing loans to the real estate sector, lower emission targets resulting in power cuts and the zero tolerance to Covid-19 had played an important role in decelerating the economic growth. Xi is personally involved in directing the real estate policies as he considers the unchecked growth of this sector as posing a threat to China’s economic stability.New measures undertaken by the Xi regime included severe restrictions on giving bank loans, allow hugely indebted developers to default to rein in large unproductive expenditure and announcement of a property tax on a trial basis in certain provinces to discourage the purchase of multiple properties to curb speculation. Given that the real estate sector accounts for 29% of the Chinese economy, these measures, according to some economists, may reduce China’s GDP growth by about 0.5% in 2022 and thereafter. These restrictions have strained the local government’s finances, as selling land is an important source of revenue. Several local governments slashed the salaries of their staff, weakening the consumption.In the last two years, China has undertaken several measures to reduce its greenhouse emissions, including controlling of its coal-fired power plants to meet its targets of peaking carbon dioxide emissions by 2030, lower the carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP by over 65% (from 2005 level) by 2030, increase the share of non-fossil fuels and forest stock. Decrease in power generation by coal-fired plants and rationing since September 2021 disrupted industrial production in many provinces as several industries were forced to cut production and reduce jobs. Recurrent outbreaks of Covid in some areas and China’s zero tolerance approach again forced several businesses to close and confined about 20 million people at home. The working of several companies in technology, education and gaming sectors was adversely impacted due to the regulatory actions, resulting in lower earnings and loss of jobs.At the CEWC, it was felt that new external challenges had arisen as President Biden had not only continued the policies of his predecessor but also taken a harder line with his allies towards China. The Comprehensive Investment Agreement with the EU had remained frozen and China’s relations with Australia and Japan had deteriorated. These countries had become more vociferous in criticism of China’s human rights record and applied a number of sanctions against the Chinese companies and individuals for investments and exports. Several Chinese leaders appeared nervous about the slowing of economic growth in 2022 as Xi is expected to seek an unprecedented third term as President. They advised him that priority should shift to maintaining growth and stability so that the Chinese economy could convey a picture of strength.Amid deterioration in China’s external environment, the conference identified securing supplies of primary products such as food, soybean, minerals and energy as a priority to prepare for the post-Covid world. “The Chinese people’s rice bowl must be firmly held in their own hands at all times,” Xi emphasised. He underlined the need to establish a strategic materials reserve to secure minimum needs at critical moments and work on a comprehensive conservation strategy. Other four priorities agreed were “common prosperity, capital regulation, defusing major financial risks and carbon neutrality. Concerns were expressed at the high level of unemployment among the migrants, the youth and possible outflow of foreign exchange as the US dollar strengthened following rise in the interest rates.In view of these reasons, it was agreed that the government would have to give bigger policy support to the economy. China’s central bank had also conveyed dovish signals, cutting the reserve requirement ratio to the banks in a departure from central banks in the developed countries. Though the policymakers remained committed to structural reforms, it was agreed to slow down the regulatory crackdown and provide targeted support to SMEs, first time homebuyers, more funding for technology innovation and green investments.China’s foreign trade made impressive gains in 2021, reaching $6.05 trillion as it functioned as a supply house to the rest of the Covid-stricken world. Trade with the US soared by 28.7% ($755.6 billion) and India by 43.3% (total $125.66 billion, Indian exports $28.14 billion, imports $97.52 billion). The increased global demand was chiefly responsible for 8.1% growth of China’s economy in 2021.Chinese leaders are worried that external demand may not sustain as other major economies come out of Covid and start exporting this year. Consumption in China has not moved beyond 55% of the GDP (54.3% in 2020) in recent years due to the saving habits of the Chinese people for expenditure on health, education and old age. The government is, therefore, forced time and again to resort to big investments to drive up the growth rates.It is now trying to increase investments in research and innovation (its R&D expenditure reached 2.4% of GDP in 2020), adoption of intelligent technologies and digital economy. While these technologies will yield efficiencies and mitigate to some extent the adverse impact of declining workforce, these will not lessen the latter’s adverse impact on lowering consumption. China will, therefore, be forced to accept sub-5% economic growth in the coming years as it rebalances its economy away from non-productive expenditures and starts experiencing the negative effects of population decline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/xi-resets-policy-priorities-to-boost-economy-362717
20-01-2022||---||Trade push with UK may revive job growth||In the midst of the third Covid wave fuelled by the Omicron variant, India and the UK are launching talks to finalise a trade deal. It may not be the most auspicious of timings, but both sides are clearly keen to engage and tie up the deal by the end of the year. The anxiety to make this trade pact a success is shared by both countries which have deliberately put sensitive issues aside in a bid to ensure the early harvest agreement gets underway as soon as possible.The push for a trade deal comes in the backdrop of India’s merchandise exports rising sharply to $299.74 billion over the first three quarters of the current fiscal. It is evident that despite the gloom over the latest wave having put brakes on the nascent economic revival, there remains one bright spot in the economy. And that is trade. Exports have been rising consistently in 2021, though comparisons to the previous year would be unbalanced given its low base. But even compared to 2019, export growth from April to December 2021 was about 26.5 per cent higher in value terms. In fact, the rise in exports is unprecedented, with an expectation that these will reach a record level of $400 billion in the current fiscal.Obviously, there is need to ensure this is not just a flash in the pan. The momentum in trade growth must be sustained over the long term. This can be helped by entering into more free trade agreements with key markets. The problem is, most of our major trading partners are simply not interested in such tie-ups. The US has already indicated its disinterest in any trade pact for the time being. And the proposed free trade agreement (FTA) with the European Union has been languishing for nearly a decade. The reasons are partly India’s rigidity on tariffs on key products and partly the EU’s reluctance to delink the FTA with an investment pact. The UK’s enthusiasm is thus bound to come as a soothing balm to this country which urgently needs to stitch up such pacts in a hurry.One of the reasons for doing so is the hard reality that India is losing out on the trade front to many others due to its failure to enter into any major regional trade agreements. It took a conscious decision not to become part of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), on the ground that it might hurt some segments of domestic industry. But it has also not been able to finalise any other major trade deal, leaving it vulnerable at a time when most dynamic economies are getting preferential access to their trading partners. India, in contrast, is only entitled to most favoured nation (MFN) status under the rules of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). But this is not available from countries which have concluded bilateral trade pacts of their own choosing.India is thus on a weak wicket right now on this front. It already has some FTAs with countries like Japan and Korea but these have so far not brought much tangible gains. Hence, the anxiety to seal the deal with the UK as quickly as possible. The UK, on its part, is equally eager to conclude the agreement without any roadblocks as Brexit has left it rather high and dry on the trade front. Tying up an agreement with the EU right now is problematic, while the US is just not interested. From the British point of view, India would be a big prize as a preferred trade partner, given the prospect of it emerging as the world’s third largest economy by 2050. Its huge market is appealing to British trade and industry which has already made sizable investments here.Even India’s reputation as a tough, virtually intractable negotiator has not put off the UK which may actually provide some concessions on visas for professionals and students. As for other countries, some progress seems to have been made in finalising trade pacts with Australia and the Gulf Cooperation Council, a six-member grouping of countries including the UAE. And talks may begin soon with Canada and Israel while reports indicate the ice has finally broken on resuming India-EU FTA negotiations.The focus on trade is not misplaced at a time when unemployment levels are rising due to the disruption caused by the pandemic. Some of the biggest foreign exchange earning sectors provide millions of jobs to both skilled and unskilled workers. The gems and jewellery industry, readymade garments, textiles and handicrafts are among the sectors which can push jobs growth in case export volumes continue to grow at the current pace. In fact, small and medium-sized enterprises that comprise export-based industries employ many times more personnel than large formal sector industries. Economist Arvind Panagariya once estimated that apparel export units employed about 250 times the same personnel for the same amount of investment compared to large-scale units.A similar rationale applies in rural areas where support to export-linked sectors like agro-processing units will not just push up the export of value- added fruit and vegetable products, but also boost employment in these areas. The need for a better quality of jobs in rural areas has become more urgent following surveys showing that post-pandemic job growth has been largely in the unskilled or semi-skilled category schemes such as MGNREGA.Trade thus needs to be seen as more central to economic policy than it has been till now. Giving sops and incentives in the forthcoming budget to export-based industries actually provides a helping hand to innumerable MSMEs that are now on the verge of closure. Many migrant workers who marched back to their rural homes after the lockdown in March 2020 were employed in small export units all over the country, from Surat to Jodhpur to Tirupur. These units have been facing a roller-coaster ride during the pandemic. Despite their travails, they have managed to push exports to unprecedented levels. It is time for these export industries to be taken more seriously and given the much-needed support for recovery and revival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/trade-push-with-uk-may-revive-job-growth-362713
20-01-2022||---||India’s N-project going strong||An important feature of India’s nuclear deterrent has been the calibrated secrecy surrounding its growth. This is essential, as India’s nuclear weapons and missile programmes have a large involvement of dedicated scientists and engineers from the DRDO, the Department of Atomic Energy, academic institutions, and commercial organisations from the public and private sectors. India’s nuclear weapons programme is under continuing worldwide scrutiny, including by specialist organisations like the Federation of American Scientists and similar organisations in the UK, France, Russia, and doubtless, China and Pakistan.India has produced three nuclear-powered submarines, and could induct the fourth next year.While Indian scientists have made discreet statements about our ballistic missile tests, one finds more details of our nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles in studies by American scientific publications like the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists and other organisations like the MacArthur Foundation. Such studies are carefully researched and counterchecked. These are not significantly different from what one periodically finds in writings in India.According to the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, India has enough weapons grade plutonium to produce 150 to 200 nuclear weapons, with a current estimated stockpile of 150 nuclear weapons. There is potential to step up production of fissile material significantly through the growing numbers of fast breeder and other plutonium reactors. According to the infamous Dr AQ Khan, Pakistan provided China with the centrifuge technology for enriched uranium, whose details he had purloined in Europe in the 1970s and 1980s. China, in turn, provided Pakistan the knowhow to utilise enriched uranium produced in Pakistan for nuclear weapons. The then US President Jimmy Carter looked the other way at these developments after he was swept off his feet by his ‘friendship’ with Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping.China now possesses 350 nuclear warheads, while Pakistan has 165, and India 156, according to the latest assessment of the Stockholm International Peace Institute (SIPRI). Apart from its land-based nuclear missiles, India launched its third nuclear submarine barely a month ago. It is said to have a capability to launch eight ballistic missiles. The two earlier submarines can reportedly launch four missiles each. India now has the capability of ‘canisterising’, or storing the missiles in a sealed, climate controlled tube to protect them during transportation. This would apply to the entire range of missiles, including the recently tested Agni-P and the Agni-V, which has a range of 5,500 km. Many studies allude to an important role of the French-built Mirage 2000 and Rafale, as carriers of India’s nuclear weapons.China has provided Pakistan with the designs for its nuclear weapons and a wide range of missiles. The missiles provided by China to Pakistan extend from the short range (320 km) Ghaznavi missiles to Shaheen 2 (2,500 km) and Shaheen 3 (2,750 km). The Chinese nuclear weapons designs given to Pakistan were transferred by AQ Khan to Islamic countries with nuclear ambitions, like Libya and Iraq. While India now has produced three nuclear-powered submarines, there are reports that a fourth submarine could be inducted next year. There are also reports that India is developing the technology for multiple warheads on its missiles. A recent report by the Federation of American Scientists noted that India carried out the second test of its Agni-P missile. The first test of the missile was reportedly carried out in January 2020. This could lead to the missile being berthed in the growing fleet of India’s nuclear submarines. This would be complemented by submarine-launched Agni-V missiles with multiple warheads.China will inevitably continue to pretend it has no interest in having any nuclear dialogue with India. India is, in the meantime, also developing a K-4 submarine-launched missile, with a 3,500-km range. It is a naval version of Agni-3, an intermediate-range ballistic missile (IRBM). The K-4 has undergone a number of tests but it has yet to be deployed. The missile was tested in January 2020. Though the DRDO did not confirm the test, media reports, quoting officials, claimed that the launch was successful. While Pakistan has not formally enunciated a nuclear doctrine, the long-time head of the Strategic Planning Division of its Nuclear Command Authority, Lt Gen Khalid Kidwai, told a team of physicists from Italy’s Landau Network in 2002 that Pakistan’s nuclear weapons were ‘aimed solely at India’. Kidwai added that Pakistan would use nuclear weapons if India conquers a large part of Pakistan’s territory, or destroys a large part of Pakistan’s land and air forces, or if India tries to ‘economically strangle’ Pakistan, or pushes it to political destabilisation.This elucidation, by the man who has been the de facto custodian of Pakistan’s nuclear arsenal for over a decade and a POW in India in 1971-73, was a precise formulation of Pakistan’s nuclear thresholds. It is now clear that a bankrupt Pakistan facing pressure from international finance organisations will have to think carefully before resorting to support for terrorists seeking to destabilise India. With the Taliban supporting Pashtun aspirations on issues like the Durand Line, India’s readiness to provide essential economic assistance to Kabul should be taken forward. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh recently noted that while India presently stood by its commitment of ‘no first use’ of nuclear weapons, ‘what happens in future depends on the circumstances’.The nation needs to always remember the contribution of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, his team of engineers and scientists, and the distinguished scientists in the Department of Atomic Energy for developing the country’s nuclear and missile potential to meet the challenges to national security, posed jointly by China and Pakistan. There is also need to remember those in the private sector, who discreetly played a key role in this effort.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indias-n-project-going-strong-362708
