21-01-2022||---||Indian Ocean new Chinese sphere of influence||The western Indian Ocean Region merits cohesive attention. The Chinese Foreign Minister’s New Year safari has been reserved for Africa for the past 32 years. Normally, five countries are visited. This year, all five were not in Africa. Besides Eritrea, Kenya and the Comoros, Foreign Minister Wang Yi visited the Maldives and Sri Lanka.Four of them are in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). In 2022, therefore, the Chinese safari extended into the IOR substantively since Comoros and Kenya are also in the IOR.In January 2021, Wang Yi visited five African countries, including Seychelles, in the IOR. The Chinese imprint in the IOR challenges other countries’ influence. This started mainly with Chinese anti-piracy naval deployments around the Gulf of Aden in 2008; thereafter, China rehearsed its logistical support to flotillas in the IOR, developing a wider reach for its blue-water navy. China opened its first African base in Djibouti in 2017. Djibouti is strategically located in the Horn of Africa, and already hosted French, US and Japanese bases.China is now reportedly establishing a base in Equatorial Guinea on the Atlantic coast. This would imply China securing supply routes through the Southern Indian Ocean for which Comoros and the Seychelles are important.To assess the impact of the recent visit of the Chinese FM on the IOR, the visit to Kenya is illustrative. During the visit, the oil terminal at the Mombasa port was inaugurated. This is an important project on the Indian Ocean coast. It augments the $3.6-billion Chinese-funded Mombasa-Nairobi railway. Kenya is a major Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) recipient and seeks support for its infrastructure development.The visit to the Comoros was an unusual one after a gap of many years. The ability of Comoros to absorb Chinese funding is limited and the effort is to develop the health sector. Medical teams, pandemic-related supplies and the development of a hospital are among the ongoing programmes. Universal immunisation and dealing with malaria draw synergy between the Emerging Comoros Plan for 2030 and the nine significant programmes of the FOCAC (Forum on China-Africa Cooperation) meeting in Dakar, Senegal, in December 2021.The visit to Comoros also challenges French influence in the area. The French continue to hold the island of Mayotte which geographically is a part of the Comoros chain.Instead of visiting other African countries, Wang Yi chose to visit the Maldives to mark the 50th anniversary of establishment of diplomatic relations and Sri Lanka for the 70th anniversary of the rubber-rice pact and the 65th anniversary of diplomatic relations. Therefore, the New Year safari focused on consolidating the IOR imprint of China.Sri Lanka and the Maldives are known to seek Chinese investments and infrastructure support fortheir economic development. They seek similar support from India and have learned to play their cards between India as a neighbour and China as a rising superpower. So long as they do not impinge on Indian security concerns, the economic engagement could be acceptable to India. These perceptions can be easily vitiated in the absence of adept responses. Politicians in these neighbouring islands often suggest standing up to India as policy.India has to do more to deal with Chinese forays into the IOR. It consistently supports Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Comoros besides the other Indian Ocean countries of Mauritius, Seychelles and Madagascar. Evidently, Chinese deep pockets make bigger inroads into these countries which also profess friendship with India.How is India tackling this engagement? India considerably enhanced its bilateral support including currency swaps in the Maldives and Sri Lanka. Whenever there is a crisis, whether from a coup attempt, terror attack, water crisis or the pandemic, India is supportive. India helps them often but in recent times, the rough edges to the partnership have eroded possible gains for Sri Lanka.In the Comoros, India assisted with vocational training centre and a power plant but these have not attained maturity. In Kenya, it is an investment-led relationship, since Kenya has a strong economic imprint of people of Indian origin. In 2020, Kenya borrowed a line of credit to revive the Rivatex textile mill. However, in these countries, an India-China comparison emerges. Essentially, it is for India to do what it is good at and what it can afford. It may seek to create larger coalitions to provide alternatives to Chinese financing.The western IOR is part of the Indo-Pacific SAGAR (Security and Growth for All in the Region) policy of India. Japan and France also look at the western IOR as part of the Indo-Pacific. For the US, the western IOR comes under CENTCOM, whereas from Hawaii to India, the region is covered by the Indo-Pacific Command. Australia does not have much outreach to the western IOR.In 1997, India developed, with 14 partners, the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA). Now it has 23 members. Initially focused on economic cooperation, IORA expanded its scope to include maritime security and non-traditional security threats. The US and China are dialogue partners and recently, the UK and Russia were added. France is now a member. This gives India greater opportunities to work with these partners keeping China as a dialogue partner (DP) and excluding Pakistan.Between 2012 and 2017, the India-Australia-Indonesia commonality of view on the IORA gave it an impetus, which has somewhat been lost since then. Now that Bangladesh is the chair of IORA, perhaps vigour can be added. This can also be the basis to revive the India-Indonesia-Australia trilateral.India could utilise the Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative (IPOI) to expand its imprint in the region. The IPOI draws on existing regional cooperation architecture to concentrate on seven central pillars. Some have attracted interest but not for the western IOR. The IPOI was announced by India at the EAS summit in 2019. Its pillars like maritime ecology, security, marine resources, capacity building, disaster-risk reduction, S&T, trade and connectivity have immense relevance to the western IOR, IORA and Africa.India could do well to invite Quad partners, France and the EU, to promote aspects of IPOI, including for the western IOR and create a substantive alternative to Chinese largesse with its attendant challenges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/indian-ocean-new-chinese-sphere-of-influence-363009
21-01-2022||---||Pakistan’s National Security Policy a sham||Prime Minister Imran Khan recently unveiled his country’s first-ever National Security Policy, which is touted to articulate a ‘citizen-centric’ framework as compared to the military-focused one hitherto. While launching the public version of the document, the PM kept blaming the earlier governments for his country’s economic woes. The 100-page document had been endorsed by the National Security Committee and the Cabinet earlier.The NSA, Moeed Yusuf, claimed that the new policy put people and economy at its core, leading to a Comprehensive National Security Framework. They are all big words, no doubt, and clearly orchestrated by the country’s military establishment, which has ruled the roost for over half of the beleaguered country’s over 70 years of existence.Interestingly, the new document statedly mentions ‘Hindutva’, aggression for political gains and disinformation as the prevalent threats from India. Yusuf further puts Jammu and Kashmir as the “core of the bilateral relationship” and implores India to benefit from regional connectivity to garner peace and stability in the region.The original version of the document is stated to be classified, clearly shielding the perennial “terror-for-geopolitics” national ethos. With the FATF continuing to retain the country on its Grey List (with the addition of bosom pal Turkey into that dubious fold, for good measure) and its economies in a shambles, it cannot just be a coincidence that both these Sunni Islamist bedfellows rue their dire straits predicament, with inflation, dollar parity and national reserves declining abysmally each day.Having had the opportunity to study the Pakistani military mind, thanks to a diplomatic tenure in Islamabad at the turn of the last millennium, I find it difficult to visualise a military dispensation now amenable to academic or doctrinal moorings.I still recall one of my early tête-à-têtes with the PAF’s late Air Chief Mushaf Ali Mir, wherein he categorically stated that his air force was essentially a “tactical” entity and had no use for any high-fangled service doctrine manuals (this when the IAF had just articulated its first air power doctrine).At another interaction with senior PAF officers during a reception for a visiting US War College team, in reply to a question from a student officer as to what he would suggest as a suitable topic for a course dissertation, the then PAF Deputy Chief nonchalantly replied, “Why not the Talibanisation of Pakistan?”It was the standard briefing during those days among the Defence Attaché community to count the numbers of bearded cadets and officers during the passing-out parades at the PMA Kakul, the Risalpur PAF Academy and elsewhere.So, what about this well-known Islamised orientation in the new National Security Policy?Clearly, those aspects, including the nuclear priorities and shady relations with fringe elements in Afghanistan and Kashmir, must have been reserved for the classified portion of the document. That itself makes the entire exercise a fallacy, as the nation’s “Military Incorporated” just cannot afford to compromise its self-interests. So also this sham of a National Security Policy, surely built around larger-than-life portrayals of its military machismo, devoid of any nuanced articulation of doctrines, conducive civil-military relations and the like.Notwithstanding all this, the status of Pakistani military in its social fabric, in an otherwise dishevelled polity, is bound to sustain.Another aspect that comes to mind is the military’s obsession with religion and the indoctrinations and fervour thereof. During an official tour on board a Pak navy destroyer off the Karachi harbour, once during an ongoing “jack stay” exercise, all sailors vanished to do their prayers in response to the azan call from the on-board muezzin! The navy officers then tended to make light of it, no doubt, but to a trained eye, the priorities of a religion-inspired fighting force was amply clear.So, the long and short of the issue is that some things like feral feline stripes just cannot change, and Pakistan military’s terror and jihadi orientation will stay forever.The absolute disdain (as witnessed) with which the Pak military holds its civilian counterparts is another straw to break the camel’s back. In a nation already in a precarious economic condition, the military has to ensure that it gets its share of the limited national exchequer pie, and the bogey of threats from India cannot be underplayed even for a moment. And the anointment of Imran Khan as a convenient stooge for these machinations will play out in the days to come.The tenure of Army Chief Bajwa ending later this year, and frustration amongst junior aspirants who would have been overlooked for promotions, thanks to his inordinate extensions, are bound to take a toll on the civil-military applecart. When the considerable international pressure post the ascent of the Afghan Taliban is added to this, no amount of gameplaying, such as the new National Security Policy paper, would help prevent the inevitable crisis-to-crisis security management in Pakistan.China, of course, will continue to fish in troubled waters, be it through the ambitiously troublesome CPEC or through opportune military sales, such as the supposedly ensuing 25 J10C deal. Any viable security architecture needs a national security strategy as a starting point, no doubt. But that has to be buttressed by sound professional military education and a democratic value system where the civil authority calls the shots.As long as that doesn’t obtain, Pakistan will overspend militarily in panic, till, of course, the disgruntled common man pays the ultimate price. Opportunistic hangers-on, including the incumbent Prime Minister and his cortege of clueless, sycophantic cronies, would only serve to expedite the downslide. Egged on by the army/intelligence establishment and other power-mongers to compete militarily with India, a replay of a familiar cold war fiasco appears slated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pakistans-national-security-policy-a-sham-363008
21-01-2022||I am a practising Catholic||Guilty of cardinal sin||A judge presiding over a Sessions trial has to judge if a law has been breached. He cannot sit in moral judgment.Here is my conclusion after studying the judgment acquitting the Catholic Church’s Jalandhar bishop Franco Mulakkal in a rape case. A trial judge has to determine if the accused arraigned before his court is guilty of an offence punishable by law. He does not and cannot sit in moral judgment like most interested citizens are wont to do.The bishop seemed to have had consensual sex with a senior nun over whom he held some ecclesiastical authority. If he had used the threat of the power he wielded over her to force her to submit, he would have been found guilty under Section 376, IPC. Since such threats had not been proved, he was rightly acquitted. His neglect of his vows of chastity, made at the time of his priestly ordination, can only fall under the head of ‘moral turpitude’, over which a Sessions Judge has no jurisdiction.All the evidence adduced in the court of judge Gopakumar shows that the nun, who incidentally was no spring chicken, had personal ambitions to rise in her own order, and to that end had even suggested the creation of a new unit in the Missionaries of Jesus, the order to which she belonged. She had suggested that the new unit should be under the diocese of Bihar!She was not happy with the appointment of one Sr Tincy as the Mother General of her order. Her new superior obviously did not allow her and her group of nuns the latitude in the use of the convent’s facilities that they once appeared to have enjoyed. This was a minor issue for the rest of the laity but a matter of concern for those shorn suddenly of the importance they had become accustomed to.Evidence proves that the nun wielded considerable influence with the bishop. She used this proximity to push her suggestions on appointments and transfers of other nuns of the order. When relations soured, this influence also evaporated, as often happens in such cases. The nun then seems to have sought a lateral shift to the Syro-Malabar Catholic denomination from the Roman Catholic one. The request was made to the Cardinal Archbishop of Kochi.There are many photographs that show the victim happily interacting with the bishop after the alleged rapes. She had even travelled on a long journey by car with him on a day after one of the alleged sexual encounters. The evidence on record does not show any unwillingness on her part nor any friction in their relations at that stage.Sometime in January 2017, the victim conveyed to the bishop that she would not allow him to come to her convent. A nun who can convey such a stern message to a bishop is certainly not one who will submit to an atrocity of the type she alleged during the trial. She was already in a supervisory capacity when all these alleged atrocities took place. I have not come across a nun, or for that matter, a priest who has attained a supervisory level if she or he is of a submissive temperament.When and why the cosy relations between them soured are known only to themselves. Some scanty details of a complaint by a cousin of the nun against her for illicit relations between the cousin’s husband and the nun had come up in the course of the trial as part of the accused’s defence. It did not impact on the conclusion reached by the judge because the allegation was not pursued. It strikes me as unethical that the bishop should have introduced this in the course of his defence. But here again, it is an issue of morality over which the State’s judicial bodies have no part to play.I read the arguments of Flavia Agnes, a crusader for women’s rights, in a leading English daily yesterday. I have great regard for Flavia, who I can boast of knowing, though only casually. I respect her views, but in the matter of the State v/s Bishop Franco, I beg to differ from her conclusions. A judge presiding over a Sessions trial has to judge if a law has been breached. He cannot adjudicate on charges of moral turpitude.These will now be scrutinised by the Ecclesiastical Courts in Rome. Instances of bishops and priests breaking their priestly vows of chastity are not uncommon. In the US and Europe, such cases are more numerous than in India, which is comparatively conservative.Some two or three centuries after the advent of Christianity, the Church decided to enforce priestly celibacy. Before that priests were predominantly married. In other Christian denominations like the Orthodox, the Anglican and the other Protestant communions, the priests are thankfully married. The union of man and woman is in the natural order of nature. The propagation of the species is dependent on such unions.Unfortunately, today no Pope can dare to reverse this dictum. The Catholic Church will split down the middle if it is permitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/guilty-of-cardinal-sin-363007
