22-01-2022||---||How Ukraine standoff can impact India||An imbroglio has evolved around Ukraine. The US and its NATO allies find themselves in a confrontational mode with Russia over Ukraine. The principal contention surrounds Russian refusal to acquiesce to any possibility of NATO drawing Ukraine within its orb. Moreover, Ukraine borders Russia and it is considered by Russia to be within its sphere of diplomatic influence.Furthermore, Russia insists that NATO repudiate its earlier resolve of including Ukraine and Georgia within its ambit. It wants to reduce provocative western military activity on its borders, work out new arms control and military confidence-building measures in Europe. Nevertheless, the official viewpoint from Washington DC and Brussels insists that NATO’s eastward expansion is legitimate and that it does not pose any threat to Russia.The US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, held parleys with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv earlier this week. The explicit objective was to display American security adherence to Ukraine, currently considered susceptible to Russian threat. Blinken confabulated with his German, French and British counterparts in Berlin on Thursday to discuss a potent response, should Russia resort to military action against Ukraine.At present, Russia has sent troops to Belarus for major military exercises. That would reinforce the already amassed nearly 100,000 Russian troops along with tanks and other heavy weapons at very close proximity to the Russia-Ukraine border.The western powers are apprehensive that this might be a prelude to the Russian occupation of Ukraine. That, according to them, could jolt the present power structure set-up and its attendant attributes. Even before, in February, 2014, Ukraine had forced its then allegedly pro-Russian President Viktor Yanukovych to resign.Russia interpreted it as a ploy by the western powers to challenge Russian influence in its own backyard. As a rejoinder, it seized and annexed Ukraine’s southern Crimean peninsula. Subsequently, it supported separatists who were supportive of Russia to capture large swathes of Ukraine’s two eastern regions, known collectively as the Donbas.Even then, currently, Russia has denied any intention to attack its ex-Soviet neighbour. But, it has demanded guarantees from the West that NATO would not extend its reach to Ukraine, neither to any other former Soviet nations, and nor would it place its troops or weapons there.This episode is symptomatic of a seemingly continuing disagreement about what the collapse and disintegration of the erstwhile Soviet Union means for the global order. For many westerners, the legacy of the Soviet downfall is quite simple: the US won the Cold War and has taken its rightful place in the world, whereas the post-Soviet Russia has been essentially unsuccessful to integrate itself as a regional power in the Washington-led post-war liberal international order.For Russians, the perspective is completely different. In their view, Russia’s subordinate position is the illegitimate result of a never-ending US campaign to keep Russia subverted and to prevent it from regaining its proper status.Today, Moscow is apparently keen to grapple with the challenge for successfully demarcating a Russian sphere of influence in the former Soviet space, excepting the Baltic nations. It is definite in its resolve that the West recognise it, fair and square. To reach any measure of meaningful accommodation with Russian President Vladimir Putin and his colleagues at the Kremlin, the West has to acknowledge it, at least to some degree. It is surely not Russia’s destiny to confront the West continuously. Russia’s prevailing dilemmas with the US-led West are not really about ideological principles. They concern the terms of an honourable accommodation.However, this quandary in Eastern Europe could have an unwarranted spillover effect for India. Till the disintegration of the former USSR, the Indian ruling establishment had maintained strong ties with Soviet Russia, to counter what it saw as recurring US ignorance towards Indian national security interests.The Soviet Union collapsed in 1991. Thereafter, the new Russian nation eagerly embraced the US-led order. But that bonhomie did not continue for long. Relations between Russia and the West began to sour towards the end of the last millennium.Consequently, Indo-Russian relations also witnessed a new era of warmth. Moscow also cultivated closer ties with China and built new coalitions in a bid to engender a multi-polar world that would potentially limit the possibilities of excessive American hyper-power. Incidentally, India’s relations with the US started witnessing a rapid improvement circa 2000.Notably, the strengthening of India’s ties with the US also witnessed a concurrent exacerbation of Russian relations with the US. Conversely, Russia relatively strengthened its ties with China.While India has been increasing its parleys with the US and entering into various pacts and alliances with it, Russia has been cementing its ties with China in a bid to be able to better counter US aggressiveness, should the need for doing so arise. For India, the China threat is perceived to be managed well through a strengthening alliance with the US. But Russian apprehensiveness to that dynamic refuses to abate.Ties between India and Russia would have to navigate through the tortuous ways of the present scenario, seemingly tempestuous dynamics of international politics. For both countries, understanding the contextual and particularities of each country’s case-specific interests would undoubtedly contribute to meaningful Indo-Russian bilateral relations. Coping effectively with the complex, turbulent dynamic of Russian diplomacy with the US-led West would have to be an enduring, successful element of India’s foreign policy. As long as it does not hurt the fundamental Russian security interests, burgeoning Indian alliances with the US should not be a cause of Russian anxiety.It is a fervent hope and possibility that Russia would recognise that a prolonged confrontation with the US and Europe would not serve its interests. Relying solely on China to secure its geopolitical interests has inherent dangers for Russia. Because China has more often than otherwise displayed and attempted its own hegemonic designs on other countries. A meaningful accommodation with America and Europe is bound to be a high priority for Russia.Similarly, America and its allies in NATO would also do well to realise that an undue expansion of their military alliance near Russia’s doorstep would be a sure recipe to incurring Russian angst and wrath. A framework and approach of effective cooperation would be more conducive and contributive for global peace and stability.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-ukraine-standoff-can-impact-india-363308
22-01-2022||---||Pak security policy faces strategic challenges||Pakistan’s first-ever National Security Policy (NSP) was unveiled by Prime Minister Imran Khan on January 14. The public version of the NSP puts “economic security at the core of comprehensive national security” and aims to enhance the economic outreach for Pakistan. It is intended to be an umbrella document providing a guideline for the future growth and development of the country, specifically for the next five years (2022-26). The NSP has apparently been in the making for seven years and was started in 2014 under the then National Security Adviser (NSA), Sartaj Aziz. The document has generated ample speculation and curiosity in India.While an official document of this nature has been announced for the first time in Pakistan, there have been attempts in the recent past aiming at national growth emphasising geo-economics and connectivity which seems to be a buzz phrase now in Pakistan. Pakistan’s Army Chief formulated the ‘Bajwa Doctrine’ in two phases, one in 2018 and the second in 2021. The Bajwa Doctrine 2.0, articulated on March 18, 2021, during the Islamabad Security Dialogue, had a short expiry date and nothing concrete was heard regarding the execution of the Army Chief’s vision.The NSP talks about the government’s vision, “which believes that the security of Pakistan rests in the security of its citizens. This citizen-centric approach to national security prioritises national cohesion and the prosperity of people.” The policy brings in a much-needed national initiative accelerated by Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf, aiming for a growth-driven policy for the country. Pakistan has been facing critical internal and external challenges and a revised narrative is expected to bring hope to the populace which is angry and disappointed with Imran Khan for failing to fulfil his election promises of ‘Naya Pakistan’, and are struggling to deal with the high inflation rate and rising consumer prices.Islamabad’s pressures have been mounting. Pakistan’s worsening economic crisis projects alarming figures and the country seems to be in the position of a chronic borrower as it gets ready to go to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for a review. The IMF loans do fuel more resentment and anger given the strict conditionalities attached to the IMF loan, which demand a raise in taxation and reduction in subsidies. The much applauded China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is moving at a dimmer pace (than planned) and the anti-state and anti-China protests are getting traction in Gwadar — a jewel in the CPEC crown. The peaceful and non-violent civil rights movement driven by the popular Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (PTM) in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) and the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) — FATA merged with KPK in 2018 — alleges serious human rights violations and alienation by the state authorities against the Pashtuns, who comprise the largest minority making up 15-20 per cent of Pakistan’s population. The Pashtuns have been protesting against the targeted killings, encounter killings, forceful disappearances, arrests and harassment at the multiple check posts in the region. Ironically, the PTI government has been keen to liberally negotiate with the deadly terrorist organisation Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) — with the help of the Afghan Taliban — responsible for Benazir Bhutto’s assassination and the 2014 Peshawar school massacre. On the other hand, the state sees the ethnic loyalties (Pashtun movement) as a challenge to Islamic unity of the country and tags the PTM supporters as traitors and foreign agents.On the international front, even though Imran Khan and his cabinet try hard to sustain the conventional narrative of victimhood, Pakistan’s image and credibility has taken a significant beating in recent time, given its support to the Taliban takeover in Kabul and the unending Afghan miseries. The Afghan Taliban, although dependent on Rawalpindi for support, have fiercely combated the fencing of the contested Durand Line by Pakistan and have refused to recognise it as an international border. Pakistan has also not been able to convince the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to exclude it from the grey list and have failed to implement the action points. While Pakistan is extremely confident of the fatherly support from of its all-weather friend China, the current status of its relationship with the United States is not comforting. India’s growing strategic cooperation with Washington is adding to Islamabad’s (and Beijing’s) discomfort. Whether Pakistan likes it or not, its relationship with the US, which in the past got it much-needed strategic dividends, now seems to be restricted to counter terrorism.With respect to India, the document attempts to open channels of dialogue with India and puts across that Pakistan would want to resolve all disputes with India, and Jammu and Kashmir is at the core of the bilateral relationship. But the NSP blames India for having hegemonic designs, raising the threat of military adventurism, arms build-up, expansion of nuclear triad, regressive and dangerous ideology, introducing destabilising technologies (which) disturb the strategic balance in the region, and spreading disinformation against Pakistan. Ironically, while Pakistan claims that it does not want war with India and seeks resolution of outstanding issues, its narrative for India has not altered in any form. Although the NSP talks about facilitating peace and stability in the region, two months back, Pakistan declined India’s invitation to attend the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue to discuss Afghanistan on November 10, 2021. China, which sees India-Pakistan hostility to its strategic advantage, also skipped the meeting. Pakistan took over a month to respond to New Delhi’s proposal of sending wheat to Afghanistan. Pakistan’s use of terror has been a deterrent in any dialogue or resolution so far. India’s position — talks and terror cannot go together — has been pretty firm post the Pathankot terror attack on January 2, 2016.While overall, the NSP appears to be a step in a positive direction, the execution is not known and would demand a paradigm shift in Pakistan’s thinking and approach. Pakistan’s strategic calculus which relies on terrorism as a foreign policy tool will have to be altered. A citizen-centric “Comprehensive National Security” framework would imply prioritising the welfare of its people vis-à-vis a highly militarised political and economic culture which restricts dividends for the masses. Pakistan will have to redefine its national objectives with a reduced obsession for staying at par with India and enhanced focus on building the real strength within. The critical question here is whether Pakistan is ready for a complete policy shift or is the NSP just rhetoric? And if it is ready, will its strategic allies/assets at the domestic level and international level allow such a shift?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/pak-security-policy-faces-strategic-challenges-363304
22-01-2022||---||Constitution a work in progress||The Indian Constitution, one of the longest in the world, is generally interpreted as a lawyer’s gold mine. Many legal battles have been fought over each provision, careers have been made and wrecked, and a great deal of jurisprudence generated on every issue. However, the judicialisation of the Constitution has obfuscated its essential nature as a political document. We tend to forget that the basic rules of the political game were established in, and through historical processes initiated at the turn of the 20th century. By the 1920s, the freedom movement was transformed into a mass movement, and the concept of freedom was cast in liberal notions of fundamental rights, rule of law, parliamentary government, and universal adult franchise. Though the administrative structure of the Constitution is based on the 1935 Government of India Act, the Preamble, fundamental rights and Directive Principles were the outcome of initiatives taken by the leaders of the national movement.The Constitution seeks to create a democratic community out of a welter of cultural, religious, linguistic and ethnic communities. The project still awaits realisation.The leaders insisted that Indian Constitution would be written by Indians themselves. As Republic Day approaches, it is time we begin to appreciate this aspect of the struggle for freedom, and recollect that these precepts were a creative response to a particular crisis in the body politic. We also need to recollect that the Constitution was written against the background of tremendous upheavals: the assassination of Gandhi, agrarian revolts, integration of princely states into the Union, and above all, the Partition that left a million dead, half a million in the region of Indian Punjab alone. And yet, the makers of the Constitution held fast to their cherished dreams of democracy and minority rights. It is this we should memorialise when we celebrate its making.On December 9, 1946, a Constituent Assembly met to draft a constitution for a people headed towards independence. The Objectives Resolution was introduced by the PM of the interim government, Jawaharlal Nehru. He drew attention to the fact that the Constituent Assembly was not a gift of the colonial government. Indians had fought for the right to author their own Constitution. ‘For a long time, we have been having various plans for a free India in our minds, but now, when we are beginning the actual work, I hope, you will be at one with me when I say, that we should present a clear picture of this plan to ourselves, to the people of India and to the world at large.’ The task of the Assembly was to build on previous initiatives, as well as set a blueprint for the future.Nehru’s words served to remind the Assembly that Indians had begun to conceptualise the basic precepts of their own Constitution as far back as 1895, when a ‘A Constitution of India Bill’ came to the attention of the public. No one was sure who the author was, though Annie Besant thought that Tilak had scripted the Bill. In the second decade of the 20th century, 43 distinguished Indians signed a memorandum accompanying ‘The Commonwealth of India Bill 1925’. The Bill was sent for consideration to the Labour government in England. However, after the first reading in the British Parliament, the Labour government was voted out of power and the Bill did not come to fruition. The Bill included a list of civil liberties, the right to freedom of religion, and social rights. A fuller version of these rights was enshrined in the 1928 document, known as the Motilal Nehru Constitutional Draft. The Bill stated: ‘We could not better secure the full enjoyment of religious and communal rights to all communities than by including them among the basic principles of the constitution.’The Congress session held in Karachi in 1931 adopted ‘A Resolution on Fundamental Rights and Economic and Social Change’. It incorporated a fuller list of fundamental rights. In 1945, the Sapru Commission Report stated that the fundamental rights of the new constitution would serve as a ‘standing warning’ to all. ‘[W]hat the Constitution demands and expects is perfect equality between one section of the community and another in the matter of political and civic rights, equality of liberty and security in the enjoyment of the freedom of religion, worship, and the pursuit of the ordinary applications of life.’Rejecting the 1933 White Paper issued by the British government, the Congress Working Committee stated that the ‘only satisfactory alternative to the White Paper is a constitution drawn up by a Constituent Assembly elected on the basis of adult suffrage. If necessary, important minorities should elect their own representatives.’These resolutions and initiatives embodied three precepts of the freedom manifesto. The first was self-authorship. Indians could only own their Constitution if it was written and signed by their representatives. Two, elections to the Constituent Assembly must be held on the basis of adult franchise. Three, special consideration was given to the interests of the minorities.In 1940, Nehru authored a piece titled ‘Why We Ask for a Constituent Assembly’? A Constitution authored by and for the people ‘means the creation of a new state; it means the walking out and away from the economic foundations and structure of imperialism. This cannot be done by the wisest of lawyers sitting together in a conclave; it cannot be done by small committees trying to balance interests and calling that constitution-making; it can never be done under the shadow of an external authority. It can only be done effectively when…the urge and the sanctions come from the masses. Hence the vital importance of adult suffrage.’Constitutions are historical documents. The Constitution of India embodies the aspirations of the Indian people who had dared to dream of a life that was free of colonialism. The Constitution is also a project for the future. Dr Ambedkar, quoting George Grote, the historian of Greece, spoke of constitutional morality as ‘a paramount reverence for the forms of the Constitution’. This morality, he accepted, has to be cultivated. But it must be learnt because the Constitution gives us the wherewithal to think and act democratically. The Constitution seeks to create a democratic community out of a welter of cultural, religious, linguistic and ethnic communities. The project still awaits realisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/constitution-a-work-in-progress-363303
