23-01-2022||I have reached a stage when all that happened in the past appears infinitely more attractive than what is happening now. This is the first sign of dotage and I recall with shame and regret how we made fun of our grandmothers and mothers when they harked back to the idyllic time they had when young. The other day||To be or knot to be||Those days, I used to gather together old issues of ‘Woman and Home’ (inherited from mum-in-law) and ‘Woman’s Weeklies’ (renowned for their knitting patterns and recipes) and share them with my neighbours. We swapped patterns and exchanged woollies to clothe growing children and regularly went to Ludhiana to buy yarns of wool that we made into manageable balls for knitting. I have delightful memories of the gossip that went along with the hot tea and snacks that were an essential part of these sessions.And then, as we discovered ready-made winter wear and our children sniffed at our homely woollen offerings, citing friends whose posh parents bought designer wear from abroad, we gradually gave up. Today, I doubt if there is anyone who still knits socks at home. Why bother when, at the click of a button, you can order really good bargains? However, I intend to start all over again. If I had my granddaughters nearby, I would have surely taught them the intricacies of stocking stitch, moss stitch, raglan sleeves and neat knitting. Sadly, they are oceans away and may never know what a knitting needle looks like, since they live in cities where it never gets cold.Another lost art is needlework. In the convent where I studied as a young girl, the German nuns were accomplished at exquisite needle work. We were rapped on the knuckles if we made knots to start and Mother Lucy would pull our plaits if the back was a jumble of ugly strands. Hemming, embroidery and darning — these were considered necessary arts for young girls to learn. Today, with the militant movement against ‘gendering’, these may come across as perpetuating patriarchal stereotypes but shame on those who cannot sew a button or repair a hole without running to the local tailor for help. Every girl was given a sewing machine when she got married, and in our time, these were still the old hand-or foot-driven ones. How those days have vanished! I have a marvellous book on needlecraft that my grandmother bequeathed to me so that I could knit and sew for my family. Its handsome leather-bound cover has the lettering tooled in gold and is now a museum piece but as I turn its yellowing leaves, I swear I can smell her special perfume.Enough nostalgia. Let’s come now to the present. In the hurly-burly that is now a bubbling pot of rival political parties and competing candidates in Punjab, I was delighted to see that the present Chief Minister has chosen Chamkaur Sahib as his constituency. Decades ago, when my husband was posted as SDM Samrala, Khanna, Chamkaur Sahib and Machchiwara were part of his beat. I can recall several picnic outings in a rattling old jeep when I accompanied him with our baby son to spend time in Chamkaur Sahib’s beautiful Rest House where he held court. The roof used to fascinate us: it was an inverted dome made of terracotta and so cool in summer that you didn’t need a fan. In any case, each summer, Punjab had punishing power cuts that went on and on and the ‘jimidars’ would come to complain about how the local petrol stations were hoarding the diesel they needed to run their tubewells. Among them was a certain Rajewalji who was then a young left-leaning activist as well. Mr Channi was probably a baby in the arms then. Samrala was the birthplace of the legendary writer Manto we discovered when his centenary was celebrated a few years ago.I am sure we had a karmic connection with that area for when we first came to Delhi, I started work as a part-time sub-editor in the Indian Express. Parking in that area was a problem, so I used to leave my car across the road under a shady tree. Nearby was a taxi stand, called Machchiwara Taxis, where a bunch of Sikh drivers sat on a charpoy, waiting for clients. Afraid that my car would be towed away, I hesitantly asked them in my broken Punjabi, whether they would look after it, adding that I have been to Machchiwara. It was as if a bond grew suddenly between us.‘Jao, behenji,’ they assured me. ‘Assi ithe kisi nu nahin aan diange.’ Not only did they stand guard after that, every day they dusted and cleaned the car as a bonus for a fellow villager.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/to-be-or-knot-to-be-363573
23-01-2022||A middle-aged woman||Dalip Kaur Tiwana's search for the ultimate truth in narrative||Thus begins ‘Tell the Tale Urvashi’, the award-winning autobiographical novel of Punjabi writer Dalip Kaur Tiwana. On this, the second anniversary of her death, it is fitting to remember the life and works of this ground-breaking novelist. With an over 65-year writing career and recognised with every major Indian literary award, her works reflect upon the experiences of modern, well-educated women in a rapidly changing post-Partition India, specifically in Punjab, as well as upon the struggle for spiritual meaning and hope in a world that is increasingly slipping its moorings.I had the good fortune to work with Professor Tiwana as an English-language translation editor of two of those books, ‘The Tale of the Phoenix’ and ‘Tell the Tale Urvashi’, the latter of which won the Saraswati Samman prize in 2001. Both feature strong female protagonists, highly educated professors from traditional Sikh families. These women face the Sisyphean task of balancing careers and intellectual pursuits with traditionally expected duties. Often these tasks involve caring for aging family members and serving as the support beams of families that are unsuccessfully navigating the storm and stress of modern life. Relationships with others, particularly family members, form the essential substance, the very warp and woof, of these women’s lives, just as relationships with her large family formed the fabric of Professor Tiwana’s life. Although these female characters deal with stressors that are sadly all too common — abusive, alcohol-fuelled relationships, unwanted pregnancies, abortions, adultery, divorce, and single parenthood — they remain unbroken and sustained by a core of inner strength.In an interview in 2019 with the scholar Amandeep Kaur, Professor Tiwana pointed out that novels can serve as the autobiographies of those who cannot speak freely. Her art often reflected her life, though she also spoke freely in other contexts. Tiwana’s works are populated with complex women who, while often in traditionally arranged or negotiated marriages, hold down careers as teachers. She herself was a Professor of Punjabi at Punjabi University in Patiala for 30 years. After her retirement, she was named a Fellow and the writer-in-residence for life.The marriages of characters in Tiwana’s novels are often blistering, divisive couplings experienced by women who are struggling to wear too many hats, to emotionally and spiritually support too many people, all the while experiencing little support from their spouses. However, Professor Tiwana’s marriage to sociology professor Bhupinder Singh (aka the poet Sarvan Minhas) was long, fruitful, and collaborative. A skilled polyglot, he was instrumental in seeing many of her works translated into English.A devout Sikh, in both ‘The Tale of the Phoenix’ and ‘Tell the Tale Urvashi’, Prof Tiwana wrestled with the bigger questions of life as she struggled to understand the untimely deaths of several family members, often crossing religious lines to bring insights from both Buddhism and Hinduism.Artists also live on in their works. Professor Tiwana wrote, among other works, 50 novels and seven collections of short stories, all in Punjabi, all exploring in some way the themes of oppression and repression of women. Many of the later works explore the search for liberation, transcendence, and release from attachment — moksha — at the personal and spiritual level. The moksha that her characters attain at the end of these two novels transcends the boundaries of their lives to impact the lives of others.Celtic Christians use the term ‘thin places’ to refer to those places, times and events where the veil between this life and the next seems almost transparent. The ghosts of Punjab’s past, the darkening reality of the present Punjab, and hope for the Punjab come to interact within thin places in these two novels. Pilgrimages are the metaphor of search, struggle, and self-discovery in both novels. The sense of uncontrolled movement of people and events across time allows for articulated reflections on life. Tiwana’s characters find that heaven can begin on earth by searching for release from the flow and encumbrances of the river that is life itself.In ‘The Tale of the Phoenix’, the sense of the darkness descending on Punjab is palpable, the sense of fear and outrage tangible. Professor Tiwana’s love for India and her fierce outspokenness compelled her to return, in 2015, the prestigious Padma Shri award that she had won in 2004, citing her outrage at the violence against religious minorities, the communalism, and the disregard for free speech rights that were ripping Indian society asunder.Dalip Kaur Tiwana’s search for the ultimate truth in the narrative ended on January 31, 2020, suddenly and unexpectedly, at the beginning of the pandemic.— The writer teaches at Washington State University||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dalip-kaur-tiwanas-search-for-the-ultimate-truth-in-narrative-363572
23-01-2022||AFTER the Shimla Agreement in June 1972||Captain who acted as a saviour in 1947||Kanwar Surinder Singh Bedi, Commissioner, Jalandhar division, who had done a commendable job both during the 1965 and 1971 Indo-Pak wars, was awarded the Padma Shri and Padma Bhushan. To commemorate the victorious operations, he invited the Corps staff for a civic reception at Gurdaspur. The Corps Commander, Lt Gen KK Singh, MVC, deputed the Chief of Staff, Maj Gen Jaswant Singh, and a few other officers to receive the honours on his behalf. After the formal address and exchange of mementoes, Kanwar Bedi hosted us to a dinner, enthralling us with ghazals, thumri and khayal of Begum Akhtar.On our way back, Gen Jaswant asked the driver to turn in on a small road at Mukerian. After some enquiring about, we landed at a cloth shop where an old man, wrapped in a thick blanket, was sitting along with two young men, probably his sons. As they met, the General, calling him Chachaji, touched the old man’s feet. Recognising the guest, he raised his voice, “Vekho kaun aaya hai, saada rakha Jaswant aaya hai (See who’s here, our saviour Jaswant has come).” After exchanging pleasantries, recounting the horrors of Partition, and a cup of tea, we parted and returned to Samba.The next day, as usual, while I took a voluminous stock of papers to the Chief of Staff for his signatures, I asked him about the previous night’s meeting. The General told me that in 1947, he was a Captain who had come home on leave to Sialkot when the Hindu-Muslim riots broke out. He tried to prevail upon the Muslim brethren not to harm any Hindu or Sikh as they had lived in harmony. While the elderly among them agreed, there were some youth who were bent upon causing damage to lives and property.That’s when Capt Jaswant stood in the middle of the village and taking out his pistol warned them of dire consequences if any person was harmed. This worked and the youth withdrew, assuring safe passage for the Hindus and Sikhs. Capt Jaswant then arranged a few military and civilian trucks and evacuated all the Hindu and Sikh families safely to India.I observed that the General, much early in his career, had adopted a principle of three Cs — commitment, compassion and conciliation. While commanding 7 Punjab during the 1965 war, he captured a bridge over Ichhogil canal. As a Brigade Commander in 1968 in Mizoram, he was instrumental in establishing jhooms (habitations) as a protection from the militants, as also to earn livelihood through agriculture, cattle and fish breeding, etc. As GOC during the 1971 war, he ordered that no civilian property would be damaged or plundered. Now, as the Chief of Staff, he was liberal in granting compensation and ex gratia to the affected citizens. Even later, as a Corps Commander, he provided succour to the marooned during floods in Mathura in 1978-79.Sadly, he died in harness as the Vice Chief of Army Staff in 1980 at the age of 55, leaving behind a legacy of goodwill and exemplary leadership.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/captain-who-acted-as-a-saviour-in-1947-363571
23-01-2022||THE first time I saw Pandit Birju Maharaj dance was at the birthday celebration of the granddaughter of Chiranji Lal||An artiste extraordinaire||Needless to say, I was mesmerised by his ‘tayyaari’ (technique and speed). Birjuji came from an illustrious family of dancers and my first Guru Kanhaiya Lal’s family was indomitable too and included talents like Guru Mohan Lal, Guru Chiranji Lal and Guru Narayan Prasadji. While my gurus, including Guru Kundan Lalji, belonged to the Jaipur Gharana, Birjuji was an exponent of the Lucknow Gharana. Those were the days when there was no rivalry or competitive jealousy between different gharanas. Each artiste stuck to his or her style. The intrinsic purity of one’s gharana was integral to them. Hence appreciation for each other came naturally and they partook in each other’s happiness and sorrow, celebrated and mourned together.If my first introduction to this virtuoso was when I had begun to learn kathak, the second time I saw him perform was during a workshop at Kathak Kendra. Here again, doyens of kathak like Sitara Devi were present. Since it was a workshop, all of them presented thaat, which is the posture for standing in kathak. Again, Birjuji’s presentation not only impressed me but remained on my mindscape forever.Over the years, he became a role model for me as far as abhinaya (interpreting words through gestures) goes. His ‘bhaav’ (expressions), the way his malleable face would encompass myriad emotions, was incomparable. In kathak, primarily the art of storytelling, the dancer plays not one but many parts. One moment he would become natkhat Krishna, and in a flash, he would transform into the beloved Radha. In fact, named Brij Mohan, he was truly a Braj ka Mohan and loved to create pieces around Krishna and Radha.Though I dare say Birjuji was not particularly handsome, on stage his charisma was unmistakable. He exuded a sacred divya shakti (divine power) each time he performed. It is often believed, not erroneously, that the Jaipur Gharana is dominant in veer ras (elucidating bravery) and Lucknow is brimming with shringaar ras (beauty, love). However, the truth is dance is a visual art that thrives on grace and beauty. Besides, it is incomplete sans tayaari and abhinay and all these parameters are common to all dance forms, whatever may be the style.Birjuji, we all know, learnt from three great maestros. I would say he was a triveni in himself. He imbibed finer nuances of abhinay from his uncle Lacchu Maharaj. Yet another uncle, Shambhu Maharaj’s influence could be seen in his tayaari and from his father, Acchan Maharaj, he learnt how to blend both effortlessly. But what is remarkable is that he did not limit himself to what he had grasped from the great masters; rather added new chapters and created new frontiers. Breathing new life into the Lucknow Gharana, he took it to the world stage, earning accolades and honours without asking for any favours.Why he became a phenomenon that generations of dancers looked up to is not easy to decode. Destiny always plays a part. But in his case, it was his earnestness, honesty and dedication, besides his resolve not to overstep the boundaries of his gharana. Humility was his middle name, and I have rarely come across such a humble artiste, as celebrated as him. I recall the year 2011 when we (Pracheen Kala Kendra) honoured him with the Koser Award here in Chandigarh. He had no airs, whatsoever. He did not ask for any stay in a five-star hotel or throw any tantrums. Since a cricket match was being played in Mohali, majority of the hotels were already booked. He agreed to stay with us in our modest home and ate home-cooked food without any fuss.Not only was he an unassuming person, but was also incredibly amiable. I never saw him ever getting angry or peeved, even when I would complain that his disciple, who was in charge of his dance calendar, does not take my calls. Nor when I would tell him why should students who attended his workshop for two days proclaim that they were his disciples.To this observation of mine and the fact that some of his disciples who copied him shamelessly, his refrain would be, “Kya farak padta hai, let them be happy.” Is it any wonder that on stage one rarely saw him emoting raudra or vibhats ras in his dance compositions.An expert in ‘nazakat’ and ‘nafasat’, the quintessential characteristics of the Lucknow Gharana, his ‘kataksh’ (emoted through sidelong glances) was extraordinary too. A complete artiste, how beautifully he played pakhawaj and tabla, how melodiously he sang and wrote! Watching him dance was akin to witnessing imagination acquire wings. What one experiences in day-to-day life, he would express in laya and taal. He would take vignettes from everyday moments, and with sheer movement of hands and exemplary footwork, make you see a flight of pigeons. To something as mundane as a climb up the stairs, he would add lyrical and visual beauty.His mathematical tihaais are yet another priceless contribution to the annals of kathak. With him, both a pioneer and true representative of the Lucknow Gharana has been lost forever. And my eternal source of inspiration is gone. Though I have danced to his grandfather Bindadin Maharaj’s compositions, one day I hope and wish to perform to his poetry: “Aaj shaam mori roki dagaryia, luk-chip jaat rahi panghat ko, dhaye cheen lini mori chunriya”. That would not only be my eulogy to his immeasurable talent, but also a personal accomplishment.— The writer is a Chandigarh-based award-winning kathak exponent(As told to Nonika Singh)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/an-artiste-extraordinaire-363569
