24-01-2022||---||Budget needs holistic approach to healthcare||The national and global discourse on health reforms has received an unprecedented impetus due to the onslaught of the Covid-19 pandemic. This is despite a time-honoured, long-standing set of popular principles along which to shape national and global health systems. This is not to say that the discourse on health during the pre-Covid era hasn’t been vibrant, but barring a few examples scattered across the upper and upper-middle income countries, substantive action on health reforms has been largely ad hoc, reactive and lumbering. And India is no exception. Responsible health systems must not wait for pandemics to strike to learn valuable lessons, and a pandemic budget must reflect a long-term perspective in addition to meeting immediate concerns.Two years into the pandemic, there is consensus among global players today that Covid-19 has tended to capitalise strongly and effectively on the pre-existing, long-lived deficiencies of health systems. For example, almost half of the respondent countries in a 2018 survey hadn’t updated their national pandemic influenza preparedness plans for almost a decade. Experience has shown that national as well as sub-national contexts with robust primary healthcare systems, often driven by multi-disciplinary primary care teams with cross-cutting sectoral engagements, have tackled the pandemic better than others in several aspects. Similarly, a major factor implicated in the disproportionate impact of the pandemic on low-income contexts is the perennial shortage of health manpower, estimated at 18 million globally before the pandemic. It is only provident that budgets strongly reflect these long-term reform priorities for at least the next decade, and until a significant headway in them is achieved.The rise of the Omicron variant has led many to surmise that the coronavirus has entered an inescapable trajectory of progressively lesser virulence. The fact is that it is an apocryphal myth. No one can guarantee whether SARS CoV-2 would go the influenza way of regularly recrudescing outbreaks, or follow in the footsteps of other largely innocuous coronaviruses and endemise into oblivion. But what is crucial is that as the pandemic progresses, evidence and not collective fuss determines priority setting in overall public health action.Anti-Covid measures, which have till date rested mainly on the scientific evidence backing them, will increasingly need to justify themselves vis-a-vis action on other pressing areas of public health in terms of their growing opportunity costs. It is known that the overall costs of the pandemic far exceed those required to achieve universal health coverage (UHC) and fair levels of health security. The implication of anti-Covid measures in terms of morbidity and mortality from other health problems has already been disproportionate. Further measures, such as full-fledged booster programmes for the population, will need to be based on substantive evidence of a major public health benefit vis-a-vis their direct and indirect costs. Nonetheless, in view of the threat that Covid-19 continues to pose, Budget-2022 is expected to carry significant appropriations for Covid vaccination of vulnerable groups and children.Two recent reports, one each by the World Bank and the World Health Organisation, underscore the importance of cultivating a multi-disciplinary team-based approach to primary healthcare, and acknowledge that emergency preparedness efforts best go hand-in-hand with its expansion. Such multi-professional primary care teams have worked wonders for primary care in countries like Brazil and Turkey. Since 2012, a tangible policy shift towards a greater emphasis on non-communicable illnesses culminated in the Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centre (HWC) initiative in 2018. The HWC with its team-driven and comprehensive approach to primary care, along with features such as improved data systems and population empanelment, serves as a great framework which must be expanded and deepened with significant infusion of funds. The latter has been elusive, and as on December 14 2021, only 80,764 HWCs could be operationalised out of a target of 1.5 lakh by December 2022. While significant appropriations here are called for, arbitrary targets resulting in undue haste is undesirable given the multifarious inputs required in their expansion. Alongside HWC expansion, attention is merited on reforming provider-payment and incentive systems in primary care which have hitherto displayed little dynamism.Rs 64,180 crore was announced last year under the Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission (ABHIM) over a course of six years until 2025-2026, which mainly aims to ramp up the epidemic preparedness and disease surveillance infrastructure. In line with tradition, the initiative has been envisioned in mission mode with an inherently circumscribed life, and it would be crucial how it integrates with the existing public health infrastructure and processes, which is essential for producing and sustaining tangible results. While the spirit is encouraging, the allocation for ABHIM amounts to less than half per cent of GDP spread over six years. Also, budget reliability and utilisation of allocations for the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana will be important to monitor, which have remained stagnant for the last couple of years. The health insurance scheme, which envisions to be the harbinger of UHC in the country, has produced a visibly limited impact during Covid-19.Human resources for health is arguably the most understated area meriting priority action today, despite being widely and repeatedly enunciated across a range of government policy documents. During the pandemic, insufficient staffing has been reported to be the foremost constraint in health service continuity in 66 per cent of the countries in a WHO survey, and is often more of a limiting factor than the availability of beds and physical infrastructure. While a considerable headway has been achieved in the past few years in terms of expanding medical colleges in India, training of nursing, public health and paramedical workers is of paramount significance. Important leads for a long-term health manpower policy can be derived from the ad-hoc expansion of health workforce during Covid-19, and can be implemented in tandem with other programmes that seek to bolster the existing infrastructure in district and regional hospitals. Such a policy must finally converge on a much needed, all-embracing public health cadre in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/budget-needs-holistic-approach-to-healthcare-363829
24-01-2022||---||A toehold in Central Asia||The pandemic forced the government to reschedule in the virtual mode its first-ever summit meeting with the Central Asian leaders. The pomp and ceremony of the Republic Day will be missed. Summitry in the virtual mode tends to become suboptimal as it diminishes the scope for personalised diplomacy. Nonetheless, the recent momentum in India’s relations with the Central Asian region must be kept up.China has a big presence in the region. India should exercise great caution while choosing its extra-regional partners.The best way to make up for such deficiency will be to transform the January 27 event into a truly defining moment. Looking back, the then PM Narasimha Rao’s path-breaking visits in 1993-94 to the newly independent ‘Stans’ ended up as episodic events. India’s relationships with the five Central Asian states remain patchy. Building content into the relationship should be the top priority.Therefore, absence of an access route to the region needs to be addressed purposively. This means building up the route via Chabahar Port. Unfortunately, Washington interfered with India’s relationship with Iran, and you can’t pursue diplomacy with an important neighbouring country with political clearance from the US embassy in Chanakyapuri. Luckily, that period is receding like a bad dream.Delhi shouldn’t be going to the Central Asian region for the wrong reasons, either. China is a big presence in that region. China has vital interests and it has been diligently pursuing them. China’s investments in the region, around $140 billion, testify to this reality. There are some very wrong notions among Indian analysts that Russia promotes India as a ‘balancer’ vis-a-vis China. This mindset weaned on western propaganda has been delusional about the alchemy of the Russia-China strategic partnership in Central Asia. The recent events in Kazakhstan should be an eye-opener. The alacrity with which Beijing welcomed Russia’s intervention in Kazakhstan was extraordinary.President Xi Jinping’s message to Kazakh President Tokayev framing the upheaval as an attempt at ‘colour revolution’ that must be quashed had appeared just as the first Russian airborne troops were landing. The congruence of interests of the two big powers was self-evident, riveted on China’s recognition of Russia’s pivotal role as the provider of security for the region. Indeed, an unspoken division of labour and a condominium of sorts had all along existed — Russia taking lead role on security issues (military bases, drills, exchange of sensitive intelligence) while China focused on the economic sphere (trade, investment, management of Tajikistan’s and Kyrgyzstan’s debt shares, Belt and Road, etc.)As great powers, Russia and China have a common vision in regard of the post-liberal world order. They attribute crucial importance to the Central Asian region as the testing ground of such a world order. A key element in this has been the exclusion of the ‘collective West’ from the region. In this paradigm, Russia and China see themselves complementing each other at times, coordinating with each other at other times and cooperating with each other most of the time. The interdependency is highly strategic since their common agenda not only relates to the birth pangs of the new world order but also affects the trajectory of their own destiny.That said, neither Russia nor China has interfered in the affairs of the Central Asian states. Thus, Kazakhstan followed a ‘multi-vector’ foreign and energy policy all through the past three decades since its independence that allowed Chevron, ExxonMobil, and ConocoPhillips to become predominant stakeholders in that country’s massive Caspian oil patches, and Europe emerged as the country’s principal export market for oil.From the Indian perspective, however, a critical new element in the Central Asian region is going to be its encounter with political Islam following the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan. This has serious implications for all regional states. Hizb ut-Tahrir has received less international scrutiny than other fundamentalist Islamic groups because it advocates a non-violent approach toward its goals — unlike Islamic State or the Al-Qaeda.Hizb ut-Tahrir is a difficult issue because in theory, the group rejects terrorism, considers the killing of innocents to be against Islamic law. In his book Globalised Islam: The Search for a New Ummah, French scholar and political scientist Olivier Roy described Hizb ut-Tahrir’s strategy as ‘a global, grassroots revolution, culminating in a sudden, millenarian victory.’Growing out of movements in the Middle East in the 1950s to counter the rising wave of Arab nationalism threatening western hegemony, the group has flourished in Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. They plan their political progress in three stages: first, convert new members; second, establish a network of secret cells; and, finally, infiltrate the government to work to legalise their party and its aims. Such ‘sleeper cells’ in all probability fuelled the upheaval in Kazakhstan — a dress rehearsal of sorts. Hizb ut-Tahrir has considerable support among young educated Muslims and a large organisational base in London. Their exact association with the western intelligence remains a mystery wrapped in an enigma.Last Thursday, the Russian foreign ministry took note of ‘Kabul’s successful counterterrorist actions that led to the… arrest of a number of members of the terrorist group Hizb ut-Tahrir in Takhar Province. We urge the Afghan authorities to intensify these efforts, paying attention to terrorist activities in the northern provinces that border our Central Asian neighbours.’The statement went on to caution Taliban that the ethnic protests that broke out in northern Afghanistan in recent days were ‘provocations staged by destructive elements, which are aimed at fuelling ethnic strife with a view to destabilising the situation during this difficult time for the country.’ Suffice to say, India should exercise great caution and reserve while choosing its extra-regional partners in the Central Asian region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-toehold-in-central-asia-363825
