26-01-2022||---||Fighting Covid-19 with booster vaccination||SINCE the beginning of vaccination against Covid-19 a year ago, over 160 crore doses of two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, have been given till date. This is a remarkable achievement for India. Earlier this month, the government allowed an additional dose (precaution dose) to select categories of people. The recent spurt in cases due to the Omicron variant has prompted a large number of people who were earlier hesitant to go for the vaccine.The development of Omicron as a new variant of concern in November and its higher transmissibility had brought back memories of the devastation caused by the Delta variant across the world. It has also brought to surface the spectre of some new and lethal variants developing in the coming months. Currently, while there is a steady increase in the overall number of cases in the country, a few metropolitan cities are showing signs of the ebbing of the wave. Projections suggest that the peak of the third wave will be in mid-February.Recent data show that there are significantly lower deaths and hospitalisations in the ongoing third wave as compared to the second wave. A year ago, with over 3,80,000 new cases on April 30, there were over 3,000 deaths, but recently, with close to 3,20,000 new cases, the number of fatalities was 380.This is attributed in part to the successful vaccination programme. While only two per cent of the people had been vaccinated at that time, now over 72 per cent of the eligible population is vaccinated. Figures from Mumbai showed that three-fourth of the deaths during this wave were in the unvaccinated people. The same has been the experience of some other countries.Vaccines have been proven to prevent severe disease and, hence, reduce hospitalisation and death. Both of the widely used vaccines in India, Covishield and Covaxin, have fulfilled these expectations. However, several vaccination follow-up studies have shown that the levels of protective antibodies decline substantially after six-nine months of the second dose, more so in the elderly and immune-compromised.A recent study from Hyderabad has reiterated that almost one-third individuals had antibody levels below the protective immunity levels after six months of the second dose. These individuals were mostly above 40 years with co-morbidities like hypertension and diabetes. However, despite achieving more than 70 per cent vaccination of the over 18-year-olds, we do not have much data from India on the waning of immunity over a period of time.The other information lacking is data on the mix-and-match of different vaccines. In a small study, again from Hyderabad, antibody response was four-fold higher in those who received two different vaccines compared to those who got both doses of the same vaccine.Western data suggest that a booster shot of a different platform vaccine than the first two gives a better protection. The results of the COV-Boost study from the UK showed that a third dose of Covishield resulted in over three-fold increase in neutralising antibodies, but the use of Novavax and Pfizer-BioNTech resulted in much higher augmentation. Data on the efficacy of boosters against Omicron are limited though. A recent report in The Lancet showed that a booster dose does increase the level of neutralising antibodies against the Omicron variant. While after two doses, protection against Omicron was not sustained, after the third dose (booster), the antibody response was more than 2.5 times stronger.The Centre of Disease Control, USA, recently released three sets of its data. Booster doses were 90 per cent effective at keeping people out of hospital after they had become infected with the Omicron variant. The doses were also 82 per cent effective at preventing emergency department and urgent care visits. Previous researches in Europe and South Africa also showed that available vaccines are less effective against Omicron than the earlier versions of the coronavirus, but also that additional doses boost the virus-fighting antibodies to increase the chance of avoiding symptomatic infection.Indian data on Covaxin has also shown an increase in neutralising antibodies by seven times after a third dose as compared to the placebo. Bharat Biotech has claimed that these antibodies effectively neutralise the Omicron variant as well.Scientists have raised the issue of lack of more Indian data. With a centralised vaccine portal (CoWIN), we should have data on reinfection/breakthrough infection, level of antibodies generated and their decay on follow-up, effect of natural infection on immunity following vaccination and impact of mix-and-match of different vaccines as boosters.There is also a need to study differences between India and other countries. We have a larger proportion of younger population and we encountered the Delta wave much before widespread vaccination was delivered. We could be having a more pronounced and sustained antibody response after natural infection with the Delta variant which was widespread in the second wave.While booster shots have been definitely shown to protect against severe disease due to Omicron, India still has many people who have defaulted from the second dose. About 6.5 crore people have not yet received their scheduled second dose. States lagging in complete vaccination are Jharkhand, UP, Punjab, Manipur, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar. It is a matter of concern that three of these are going to the polls soon.The government has rightly launched ‘ghar ghar dastak’, a doorstep vaccination programme, but more could be done. In the USA, incentives like free food coupons and free transport were offered to those missing the second dose. Another way could be to charge for a delayed vaccination. Some European countries have brought in ‘vaccine mandates’, to disallow unvaccinated individuals from public places, theatres and clubs etc. Healthcare workers are mandated in many countries to have complete vaccination. Unvaccinated individuals not only run the risk of disease themselves and transmit it to others, but also act as potential hosts for the virus to multiply and mutate further.India has also initiated vaccination in the 15-17 year age-group. It is time to extend it to the younger children, especially when another vaccine, ZyCoV-D, has got approval for 12+ children. Extending vaccination to children is extremely important to confidently restart schools and colleges. We also have the option of using Corbevax (developed in collaboration with the Baylor College of Medicine, Texas) and Covovax (Indian name for Novovax) in our vaccination drive.We must continue with the vaccination drive with vigour and extend the scope of vaccines and boosters to more groups of people. That will go a long way in our fight against Covid-19 in its current avatar or any of its future ones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/fighting-covid-19-with-booster-vaccination-364418
26-01-2022||---||Central Asia summit needs right outlook||FOR the first time, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual summit meeting on January 27 with the leaders of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. The summit is being held at a critical time when the diplomatic tightrope has been wearing thin for Delhi against the escalating tensions between the West and Russia and also the US and China. While the Quad and the Indo-Pacific drew India’s attention, Delhi has lately faced geopolitical setbacks, from tensions with China to a Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.The summit comes after President Putin’s recent visit to Delhi that may have allowed India to leverage Russia to moderately balance China in Eurasia, and to contain the threats from the continental domain that have increased manifold after the Taliban takeover.The recent unrest in Kazakhstan signified new actors vying for geopolitical influence in Central Asia in the post-Afghan era. Motives remain obscure: whether to bring regime change, targeting Russia, sabotaging China’s BRI, thrusting Islamisation et al. The outcome has, however, boosted Russia’s role as the main security provider to what Moscow considers as its ‘near abroad’ — indeed a setback for China, the US and Islamic zealots.The upcoming summit is the culmination of an idea that germinated in 2012 during a Track 1.5 format when the “Connect Central Asia” policy was launched in Bishkek. It was followed by the inception of the India-Central Asia Dialogue at the Foreign Ministers’ level, the third meeting of which was held in New Delhi in December 2021.For three decades, Central Asia remained a cauldron of outside actors, leaped into the fray using various instruments — from economic, military and ethnic to religion — to carve out their zone of influence. An intensified foreign rivalry also served Central Asia’s own economic and domestic purpose — but not anymore.The Kazakh outbreak exposed the limit of their multi-vector balancing act of playing on to everyone’s interest, especially in the face of increasing rivalry among Russia, America and China. The Islamists too have been eyeing to launch their holy jihads to establish new Khilafats there.In fact, no one had a clue that the trouble in Central Asia would ensue so soon after the US forces left Afghanistan overnight — declaring they are not mortal enemies of the Taliban. Regional analysts have estimated that some 8,000 ISIS and Takfiri extremists have been waiting in North Afghanistan to infiltrate across the 2,245 km long porous border.The situation has been alarming for India. But for now, Putin’s action has ensured that Central Asia remains out of bounds for jihadis and ‘coloured’ revolutionaries while China’s ambition is also checkmated.India has been keenly watching Central Asia; maintained excellent diplomatic ties with all the five states where Indian Prime Ministers have visited, including PM Modi in 2015. Yet, India’s commercial success has been negligible at a paltry $1.4 billion trade in 2019.In 2017, India eagerly joined the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) as a means to reach out to the region. But SCO is only a sluice gate to regulate the Russian and Chinese hitherto subliminal rivalry — to prevent either power from overtly dominating the region. India joined the bandwagon with Pakistan. Moscow tends to use it for regulating India-China tensions.The India-Central Asia Dialogue so far resembled more like the US C5+1 format launched in 2015, except that the Indian format includes Afghanistan to cover a broad spectrum of deepening economic, security, connectivity, energy and cultural linkages with the region. Predictably, China too went for a copycat 5+1 format in 2020, ostensibly on the pretext of extending Covid-19 related support to the region.The summit is a huge stride for India’s diplomacy, which so far found itself retrenched, while academically rediscovering its past linkages with the region. To be effective, Delhi first needs to get its big-picture imagination of the region right.Central Asia is undoubtedly a zone of India’s civilisational influence and still enjoys a range of attributes. Let’s not evade that the Ferghana Valley was India’s crossing-point on the Great Silk Road to connect with China and Europe. Buddhism spread to the rest of Asia from here.While Ferghana still connects India with three countries — Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, the Indian icons of the medieval period are being resurrected as their main national figures: Babur in Uzbekistan, Haidar Dulati in Kazakhstan, Bairam Khan in Turkmenistan, and Bedil in Tajikistan.New Delhi needs to clarify its interests, set an enduring policy goal besides pursuing the usual transactional interests.All the while, when others have drawn their respective perspectives for the region: China from economic (BRI), Russia from strategic (CSTO), Turkey from ethnic (Turkic Council), and the Islamic world from religious (OIC), it would be befitting for India to give a poignant cultural and historical perspective to the region through a summit-level annual meet. Afghanistan could be a part of this format to signify the followings: 2022 marks the 30th anniversary of India’s diplomatic relations with these states. We are also close to marking the 500th anniversary of the Mughal empire — invoking the legacy will have a huge international significance. It will contrast Pakistan’s extremist agenda and others in pursuit of expansionist goals.Since the region is a critical lynchpin to India’s security policy, the summit will have a waterfall impact to facilitate India’s multifaceted policy towards the region. Needless to say, a string of cultural events highlighting the facets of medieval culture, art and painting, including Sufi traditions, should be highlighted.Central Asia carries no specific outlook toward any country with the exception of Russia. The current scenario is like multiplayer gambling being played by an assortment of actors on a single chessboard through a mix of bilateral and multilateral approaches while each actor tries to ensure that the threshold of their presence is not faced by a counter flow.While their strategic visions are often opaque, they certainly remain wary of China as compared to closer affinity towards India. But they certainly can’t help without having close economic ties with China compared to little or no economic dependency on India. Compared with a decade ago, the region’s negative attitude towards Pakistan is waning, either due to the gradual Islamisation of the population or perhaps due to Russia’s changed attitude towards Pakistan.The notion of “Hindustan” in the popular imagination and traditional fondness for Bollywood movies and songs are critical factors, but with generational change, attraction for Indian soft power influence is gradually fading that needs to be arrested. Apart from commerce, only a value-driven cultural policy can replace the currently rather ill-defined goals of rebuilding India-Central Asia bonds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/central-asia-summit-needs-right-outlook-364417
26-01-2022||---||Make governance lean & mean||THE key challenge to governance in a modern State is the handling of complexity, which also changes form and colour with rapidity. Complexity arises from a variety of sources. There is the impact of technology, the globalisation of our economies, the disruptions in our societies and the unfamiliar pressures on our individual psyches. The familiar anchors on which governance is based are no longer stable. The structures of a traditional State, its institutions, processes and capacities are unable to deal with complexity. The agility required to keep abreast of change is also missing. The State may try to cope through recourse to some new instruments enabled by modern technology, such as introducing digital delivery of State support to citizens, promoting digital payments and digitising government records to facilitate access to government services. They are welcome but remain at the margins of governance. The basic structure of the Indian State and its mechanisms of governance have remained mostly the same as inherited from the British colonial administration in 1947. The State consists of an aggregation of vertical hierarchies, which sometimes coordinate but rarely collaborate.The basic structure of the Indian State and its mechanisms of governance have remained mostly the same as inherited from the British colonial administration in 1947.Most of the challenges countries confront today are cross-domain in character. State intervention through one hierarchy may either reinforce or even cancel out an intervention in another domain through feedback loops. For example, in order to deliver food security, the State may encourage the use of chemical fertilisers and pesticides. But this has adverse health consequences for the farming population which is constantly exposed to their toxic after-effects. The gain in one domain may result in losses in another. The current State structure has no mechanism to deal with such feedback loops. These examples can be multiplied.A few critical governance reforms for a modern State are vital. One, decision-making must be based on accurate data, its careful analysis and evaluating outcomes against objectives. The professional reputation and credibility of India’s statistical agencies has been diminished. Even if data is reliable, it is not made available in a timely fashion. This may serve some short-term political purpose but does serious damage to effective policy-making.While there is a considerable data flow on economic issues, there is neglect of social sectors, of resource endowments and use and most spheres of governmental activity. Any policy decision requires getting the facts right. This, in turn, requires the setting up of a first-rate data collection, collation and analysis system, which is free of governmental interference. Data collected through such a system and data generated by government ministries and agencies should be treated as public goods to which the general public must have full and easy access. National security exceptions should be limited and justified if they are adduced. This would enable public scrutiny. Several ministries and government agencies routinely label data generated by them as confidential. On occasion, one has found that this label is used to hide either sloppy or even non-existent data collection by them.Data collection and analysis are critical in evaluating the efficacy of government schemes, such as the National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme, the Food Security Bill, the Rural Health Mission and the more recent and laudable initiatives, such as the eradication of open defecation. These are all well-intentioned and involve large financial outlays. However, there are few in-depth and regular surveys to gauge their impact, whether their administrative and regulatory requirements have been met optimally and the ways in which their effectiveness may be improved. In India, the practice is to first launch a scheme and then go about working on its institutional and regulatory requirements, through essentially a hit-and-miss process. This is a huge waste.Two, policy decisions should be careful not to create an ‘arbitrage economy’, which distorts risks and returns in economic activity. Before imposing any control on prices or on any economic activity, the State must consider whether it has the capacity and the legal and regulatory instruments available to achieve the objectives of the control. If businessmen find that they can garner greater profits, with fewer risks, through preferential pricing decisions or subsidised land and other resource allocations by the government, there will be little incentive to take investment decisions that require entrepreneurial ability and risk-taking. Such controls or subsidies must have an early sunset clause since they tend to become virtually permanent and give rise to strong vested interests. The government has been unable to introduce much-needed reform in agriculture as a result of such vested interests. Despite the fact that the current cropping pattern in Punjab, Haryana and western UP has led to mountains of rotting grain in government warehouses and out in the open, it is proving politically difficult to do away with the MSP regime which has given rise to it.Three, effective governance must be based on setting high standards and pursuing excellence in every sphere of government activity. The pursuit of excellence should not be sacrificed for reasons of social equity; the latter should be ensured through appropriate affirmative policies. Egalitarianism should aim at raising standards to the highest level achievable rather than seeking the lowest common denominator. This is particularly important in an era of complexity, of rapid technological change and the rising demand for professionally qualified and well-trained personnel in virtually every domain of government.Let us hope that in this new year, these more fundamental questions are at least acknowledged so that we may begin to adapt our governance system to the complex challenges confronting us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/make-governance-lean-mean-364416
