28-01-2022||The Assembly elections in five states||Test of both voter and party||The outcome of the elections in UP, Punjab and Goa is unpredictable. The Congress, which had a clear opportunity in Punjab and Goa, has lost a lot of ground to AAP.In Goa, where voters number roughly 30,000 per constituency and individuals matter to voters more than parties, the Aaya-Ram-Gaya-Ram factor started quite early. In UP, the actors in similar dramas obviously like the dramatic gesture, the sudden surprise! They kept their cards close to their chest till the list of candidates was to be released. By their unexpected announcements, the two ministers in the Yogi Cabinet, and their six or seven MLA friends who followed them out of the BJP, created quite a flutter. An unexpected exodus would disturb any political party, but specially ‘the party with a difference’ that had poached so many malcontents or ambition-driven leaders of other parties over the past few years. More than the ignominy of seeing it done to itself, it was the challenge to its grand design of social engineering that has the party worried.If the BJP has not impressed its newly minted OBC supporters, who were the key to its social engineering project in the very heartland of the proposed Hindu Rashtra, all that its leaders have strived for and planned so meticulously over the past seven years would be wasted. And that would be much more traumatic than losing a couple of ministers and MLAs and the few votes these worthies would take with them.The outcome of the elections in UP, Punjab and Goa is now unpredictable. The Congress, which had a clear opportunity in Punjab and Goa, has lost a lot of ground to the AAP. In Goa, for instance, the less affluent, like taxi drivers, electricians, plumbers and restaurant employees, seem to have gravitated to the AAP. The party is likely to open its account there this time around. The locals feel that the AAP is popular in the bigger towns.Arvind Kejriwal has capped his efforts by introducing the caste factor into the equations. The reference to the Bhandari community, which is the most numerous among all castes, both among Hindus and Christians, is perhaps the first time in Goa’s elections. It did exist, of course, even among the Christians but was never mentioned earlier, and that, too, as openly as Kejriwal has done by announcing that his party’s candidate for CM is a Bhandari!The AAP seems to be inching ahead in Punjab also. It may emerge as the single largest party. If the BJP had found traction with the large Hindu population, it could have benefited from the division of votes among the Congress, the AAP and the Akali Dal but that wholesale transfer of loyalty to the BJP does not seem to have happened. And my old friend, Capt Amarinder Singh, does not seem to have made much headway.The RSS-Sangh Parivar has long dreamed of a land that would vote 80:20. That has not happened and I am sure never will. The ranks of my Hindu friends, who disapprove of the hate and divisiveness being spread in society by the present dispensation for electoral gain, are slowly growing in numbers. Voices are being raised not only by the usual suspects — the left-leaning liberals — but also by students, middle class, respected families of right-thinking Hindus and generally those with no axe to grind.The BJP seemed to have had its nose in front in UP but now with OBC leaders unfurling the banner of revolt, and openly calling their followers to open their eyes to reality,  Akhilesh’s Samajwadi Party has stepped forward. The BJP banks on a division of opposition votes among the Congress, the BSP and the SP. That is possible but the social engineering that the Sangh Parivar was banking on to divide the voters 80:20 may have to be abandoned. In Uttarakhand, the BJP has smelled a rat. If it had not, it would not have unleashed the sadhus and sants with their intemperate rhetoric on a helpless minority. How much traction this hate will generate will be known when the results are announced. My view is that a resort to faith at the time of elections may not cut ice with voters who are more concerned with the mundane than with the spiritual. The AAP, like the Congress,  which practices soft Hindutva, seems to be making inroads into this state also.The BJP may succeed in Manipur.  The small states of the Northeast depend largely on the patronage of the Centre for their finances. Local economies do not generate the income required to pay even the salary bills of the administration. So, whichever local party is in power, like in Nagaland, Meghalaya and Mizoram, all three Christian-majority states, has to cosy up to any government ruling at the Centre to shore up its finances.I am no psephologist, and can’t boast of much political sense. My interest was initially kindled by the fact that Goa and Punjab were going to the polls. Goa is where my ancestors settled some thousand years ago, and Punjab is where I left a small remembrance of how terrorism needed to be tackled — winning over the hearts and minds of the common peasants. But these elections are important for another reason — the outcome will answer the question that many citizens ask: Will Muslim-bashing, the spread of hate in our beloved country win elections? For my country’s sake, I hope not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/test-of-both-voter-and-party-364760
28-01-2022||---||Rethink on changes in All-India Services Rules||The Union Government’s proposal to amend the All-India Services (AIS) Rules to take powers to force any AIS officer to come on deputation to the Central government without consulting the state government concerned is fraught with serious consequences for the future of the AIS. This is likely to become yet another flashpoint in the already strained Union-state relations.Let us briefly recall the history of the creation of the AIS. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the first Home Minister of India, was keen that two AIS, namely, the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Police Service, should be created to put India’s administration on a sound footing. The recruitment to these services was to be done by the Union Public Service Commission and the Union Government was to be the cadre-controlling authority. Officers were to be allotted to the states, but they were expected to also work in the Centre.This was a unique experiment for the quasi-federal structure of India which was on the drawing board. Patel wanted these services to uphold the rule of law and give fearless and objective advice to the new political rulers.Several provincial governments were opposed to the creation of the AIS as it would have divested them of control over these vital services. The question was discussed by Patel at length in the Provincial Premiers’ Conference on October 21 and 22, 1946. As I have brought out in my book, India-A Federal Union of States: Fault Lines, Challenges and Opportunities (2021), the creation of the AIS was approved.In his concluding remarks, Patel had stated, ‘Except in the matter of control, we are agreed on all points. There is very little difference and I think that difference will disappear.’ It was also due to the insistence of Patel that constitutional protection was given to these services in Article 312. By the Constitution (42nd Amendment) Act, 1976, a provision was made for creation of more AIS, including the All-India Judicial Service.But due to the resistance of states, other services, except the Indian Forest Service, have not come into being so far. Invoking Article 370 of the Constitution, the J&K had refused to take any AIS officer for a number of years and special efforts had to be made to extend this provision to that state.Admittedly, India has come a long way from the vision of Patel. As I have emphasised in my book, Good Governance Never on India’s Radar (2014), during the last few years, the image and credibility of these services have taken a big hit. I have made a number of suggestions to deal with this deteriorating situation. The concept of a committed civil service ushered in by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi led to the politicisation of the higher civil services. The consequences of this were highlighted by the Justice JC Shah Commission in its reports on the Emergency excesses.All political parties which have come to power after Indira Gandhi have happily encouraged these unhealthy practices. The most striking instances of this are the anti-Sikh riots in Delhi (1984) and the communal riots in Mumbai (1992-93), Godhra (2002) and those over the demolition of the Babri Masjid (1992).The Liberhan Commission has made a series of observations regarding the politicisation of the police and higher civil services. In my book, The Babri Masjid Ram Mandir Dilemma: An Acid Test for India’s Constitution (2019), I have underlined some serious issues and the urgent need to find solutions to them. The role of the All-India Services, which were expected to act as the bridge between the Centre and the states, has also fallen short of expectations. The issues require urgent attention.The issue of the control of the AIS, as mentioned by Patel, has been coming up again and again. The two recent examples are of Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The issuance of transfer orders by the Centre to AIS officers serving in the states, without the approval of the state governments concerned, is rightly being seen as an infringement of the federal spirit. The convenience of the states in releasing officers must not be overlooked.At the same time, the situation which has led to the proposed amendment of the rules also needs attention. The very justification for the creation of the AIS comes into question if there is no rotation of AIS officers between the Centre and the states. In fact, it needs to be scrupulously ensured that all states are equitably represented in the Central deputation quota at various levels.One reason for the increasing reluctance of AIS officers to go on deputation to the Centre is the increasing nexus between political parties and the AIS. Urgent steps must be taken to put a stop to it. The other reasons also need to be examined sympathetically. These include the long wait for getting residential accommodation in Delhi, difficulties in children’s admissions in schools and colleges, change in the medium of instruction and the compulsion of learning Hindi. Without solving these difficulties, merely enforcing the Centre’s mandate to make officers go on deputation to the Centre will not serve any purpose.A dialogue between the Centre and the states, both at the political and administrative levels, can go a long way in resolving these issues.The Justice Sarkaria Commission on Centre-State Relations had recommended in its report submitted in 1988 that the AIS are as much necessary today as they were when the Constitution was framed and continue to be one of the premier institutions for maintaining the unity of the country. Any move to disband the AIS or permit a state government to opt out of the scheme must be regarded as retrograde and harmful to the larger interest of the country. Such a step is sure to encourage parochial tendencies and undermine the integrity, cohesion, efficiency and coordination in the administration of the country as a whole. The commission had advised that the AIS be further strengthened and greater emphasis given to the role expected to be played by them.The contribution of the AIS in the rapid development and stability of the country has been widely recognised and favourably commented upon even by internationalagencies. But the successful working of this unique experimentcalls for maturity and statesmanship. It will be short-sighted to take any hasty or precipitous steps which would jeopardise it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/rethink-on-changes-in-all-india-services-rules-364763
28-01-2022||---||Bishop’s case raises queries over trial procedure||A woman cannot be herself in the  society of the present day which is an exclusively masculine society with laws framed by men, with a judicial system that judges feminine conduct with a masculine point of view — Henrik Ibsen, Norwegian playwrightThis quote sums up what has happened in the judgment of the rape case against Bishop Franco Mulakkal. This misogynist judgment has taken the Indian judiciary 40 years back as it threw out the testimony of the rape victim and other supporting evidences. In fact, the affected here is not the nun-victim alone, but the marginalised, powerless, voiceless, destitute and the downtrodden women in India. It was not a battle between the nun and the bishop, but a battle between the power and the powerless. On January 14, 2022, after 105 days of trial, the Catholic Bishop of the Jalandhar diocese, was set free by the first additional sessions court, Kottayam, Kerala. The rape case against the Bishop was registered in 2018. The victim nun was subjected to rape multiple times by Bishop Franco whom she considered as her spiritual father till then. The rape occurred for the period between 2014 and 2016. The judgment pronounced by the Sessions Court of Kottayam, Kerala, completely exonerated the Bishop. Law experts opine that the judgment is a fabricated thesis deliberately made to disbelieve the victim. More, the judgment itself is self-contradictory on its remarks to disprove the witness of the prosecution without ample evidence. One of the main contentions in the judgment is that the delay happened in lodging the complaint by the victim nun. As alleged, there occurs a delay. When the rape has happened, the victim was not in a position to reveal herself neither to the other fellow nuns nor to the kith and kin. Once a person joins the nunnery, that person undergoes a ‘civil death’. In their formative years, a nun is being trained scrupulously by her superiors to be obedient to priesthood, especially to the bishops. So, a nun is absolutely not in a position to question the supreme authority of the bishop. In the beginning, the victim never intended to go public. Instead, she was trying to find a solution from within. She approached many in the Church hierarchy. She wrote numerous letters, from the Pope to Mother Superior, regarding her ordeal. All the letters and complaints fell on deaf ears. At the same time, Bishop Franco allegedly started taking vengeance on the victim and fellow nuns, lodging fake complaints against them. They reached a dead end and decided to complain to the civil authorities. The finding by the trial court that there is an inordinate delay in filing the FIR is against the standard laid down by the Supreme Court in a plethora of judgments, especially in sexual assault cases.  In Swaran Singh and others vs State of Punjab, the Supreme Court categorically stated: “It is well settled that mere delay in filing of FIR is not a circumstance which can throw out the prosecution case in its entirety.” The court hasn’t considered the context and background of the victim and failed to scrutinise the Bishop’s discretionary power over the nun. In these circumstances, the judgment of the Supreme Court in State of Karnataka vs Manjanna becomes significant. It says: “Other reasons behind the delay in lodging FIR include social context of the victim, community pressure imposed on her, her dependence on the accused…” Again, in a landmark judgment in State of Himachal Pradesh vs Gian Chand, the SC directed that “delay of filing of FIR cannot be used as ritualistic formula to doubt the authenticity of the prosecution evidence…” Unfortunately, none of these decisions found their way into the judgment.The present case has some unique features as the victim nun came out in public. The state’s ruling Left and the Congress-led Opposition maintained silence. It is at this juncture that the fellow nuns with the support of civil right activists came out and began the historic protest at Vanchi square near the High Court of Kerala. As a result, the state was forced to arrest and jail the accused. Paradoxically, the agitation was viewed in the judgment as a malicious act to implicate the accused. The judgment completely forgets the fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution to agitate and register dissent. The entire trial procedure is a harrowing experience. In this case, the trial of the victim alone lasted for 13 days. Even after this, the judgment rejected her witness statement as not credible. From 1983 till date, there is an array of judgments which shed light on criminal law jurisprudence. These judgments have increased faith in the judicial system though there has to be a radical change in the perception of the victim and procedure of the trial. But this particular judgment took us back to the 70s. The judgment has spent a lot of space for the character assassination of the victim, unheard of in recent legal history, especially after the Nirbhaya case. One may wonder from the judgment that the court has put the rape victim on trial instead of the accused. The response of the Church to the Bishop Franco case has been disappointing. When the nun came out with a complaint, instead of appointing a commission of inquiry and asking the accused to step down from his post, the hierarchy kept supporting the accused through silence. The effort to paint the assault as a case of consensual sex was also not a pleasant scenario for the church. The existence of the Church is not constitutional, but moral and ethical. It has meaning only as long as it acts as the conscience of the society. But the response of the Church authorities to the case has been a disappointment. Pope Francis, in his speech at the historic Vatican summit on sexual abuse, said: “Here again, I would state clearly: if in the Church, there should emerge even a single case of abuse — which already in itself represents an atrocity — that case will be faced with the utmost seriousness... Brothers and Sisters, in people’s justified anger, the Church sees the reflection of the wrath of God, betrayed and insulted by these deceitful consecrated persons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bishops-case-raises-queries-over-trial-procedure-364767
