30-01-2022||DECEMBER 31||Decline ahead, tread with caution, BCCI||India beat South Africa in the first Test on December 30, bowling the home team out for 197 and 191 in Centurion. The turnaround was swift and unexpected.The next day, December 31, was the day Virat Kohli got the message that he was going to be judged very sternly henceforth — on that day, Chetan Sharma, the chief selector, gave the lie to Kohli’s claim that no one from the Indian cricket board (BCCI) tried to persuade him to remain captain of the T20 team. “I wasn’t told you don’t leave the T20 captaincy. Instead, it was received well; I was told it’s a very progressive step and in the right direction,” Kohli had said on December 15.The chief selector dismissed this claim on December 31 by saying: “Everyone who was present in the (selection) meeting asked him to reconsider, to rethink... It was told to Virat for the sake of Indian cricket to please continue as captain.”Kohli missed the second Test due to back trouble. The South Africans raised their game, both bowling and batting, and India’s bowling lost its effectiveness in the fourth innings — in 56 overs of pace, the quartet of Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Shami, Shardul Thakur and Mohammed Siraj could pick up only two wickets. Bumrah, the leader of the pack, went for over four an over without taking a single wicket.Kohli returned for the third Test in Cape Town, and got some hard-fought runs — 108 in two innings off 344 balls — but India lost again, by the same margin of seven wickets, as Bumrah, Shami, Umesh Yadav and Thakur got only three wickets in 52 overs of pace. The bowling attack, cited by some as the world’s best, let the opposition score a combined 455 runs for six wickets in two fourth innings in the two defeats.Kohli, who had got into a war of words with BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly, essentially calling him a liar — publicly! — over the captaincy issue, resigned as Test captain. His position had become untenable — not because he’s suddenly a bad player and captain, but because in a battle with the BCCI, there’s only one winner, and it’s never the player. This was true when Ganguly was the captain, and this is true when Ganguly is the president of the BCCI.Ganguly might wish to recall what happened to him in Nagpur in October 2004: As home captain, he didn’t want grass on the wicket in the Test against Australia — his will was crushed by the local hegemon, Shashank Manohar of the Vidarbha Cricket Association. Ganguly didn’t play — injured, dubiously — and Rahul Dravid was given the honour of presiding over India’s defeat. With such an experience, you’d wish for Ganguly to be pro-player as president.But Ganguly’s salvo, fired through the chief selector on December 31, was aggressive and ill-timed. This team will soon slip into a phase of transition, never easy to manage. Empathy and tact and a bit of kindness is the need of the time — Kohli often acts as an aggressive teen on the turf, but he needed to be handled with care. He’s built an aggressive outfit in his own image — and racked up 40 wins in Test cricket — and there’s no point in splintering it.The wheels of time, though, are whirring — the likes of Pujara, Rahane, Rohit Sharma and even Kohli don’t have much playing time ahead. This team will suddenly turn old. Pujara is 34, Rahane will be 34 in June and Kohli in November. Rohit Sharma turns 35 in April, and he’s become more and more injury-prone. Shami is 31 and Ishant Sharma is 33. Pujara’s yearly averages since 2019 have been 46.09, 20.37, 28.08 and 27.00. The corresponding numbers for Rahane are 71.33, 38.85, 20.82 and 17.00.Just for reference, the average of the great Dravid dropped from 57.33 to 43.76 in the days after he turned 34; for Tendulkar, the drop was from 54.70 to 52 after he turned 34. Kohli, Pujara, Rahane and Sharma confront the inevitability of the ageing process — creaking joints, longer recovery time, flagging intensity. Few come out of it with enhanced numbers.Bumrah, often the difference between India and the opposition, has produced remarkable spells even after a return from a stress fracture he suffered in 2020, but his performance in the two Test defeats in South Africa was disappointing — at times, even Shardul Thakur looked more effective than him in Johannesburg. The swing has diminished, the pace has flagged — and this affects everything, the bouncer has lost its sting.In short, all things point to an impending decline for the team. Hope the transition is managed judiciously by the BCCI — more judiciously than the Kohli captaincy issue was handled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/decline-ahead-tread-with-caution-bcci-365355
30-01-2022||MY daughter||When words ruin everything we are trying to say||“I wonder if it is exhaustingto be a tree.To lose something,year after year,only to trust that it willsomeday grow back.”This is a quote from American author Jasmine Warga’s lyrical, life-affirming story of a Syrian teenager dealing with the sudden loss of her home and relocation in America. I replied with a ‘hug’ emoji to acknowledge receiving the message.These minimal words had made Sahar pause when they appeared in the book she is reading. By sending them to me, my teenager was letting me know what speaks to her. She is hurting about something. She is seeking to heal. She is tired, but she knows she will recover. She is sharing a part of her with me, using someone else’s poetry.Talking is not always a reliable way to communicate. It is indispensable, of course. It is also over-rated.I know I struggle to not sound bitter and frustrated when I am trying to juggle the everyday roles of parent, householder, team leader, pet-carer and a person whose phone and door-bell ring a lot. The endless pandemic months have only exacerbated matters by dismantling boundaries and confining our multiple selves in the same time zone and space. We are collectively exhausted, and it is not the fault of the person closest to us.When the sun came out after many grim winter days in Delhi this week, my daughters and I found ourselves moving out towards pools of sunlight to thaw our bones and souls. I took a photo of Sahar and our dog in the park next door and sent it to my husband, Afzal. I captioned it, ‘Dhoop, daughter and dog’.Afzal was driving towards his home in a village in east Uttar Pradesh and replied with a photo of the wide expressway stretched ahead of him. ‘Dhoop, road aur tanhai,’ he typed. I sent him the YouTube link of ‘Tu Jhoom’ from Coke Studio’s Season 14. I felt reassured that the transcendent voices of Abida Parveen and Naseebo Lal will elevate the quality of his solitude. I felt lucky to have something other than spoken words that help us talk to each other.In our family, we often relish the time when we are away from each other, because it is also a time when we manage to connect with each other a lot more tenderly and with deeper humour. We feel safer sharing our moods, conflicts and challenges. We take each other’s issues a lot less personally. We are able to care for the other without feeling overwhelmed ourselves.In her book, ‘Reviving Ophelia — Saving the Selves of Adolescent Girls’, psychotherapist Mary Pipher makes a distinction between the intellectual abilities of teenagers and their emotional needs. “Often because they are so bright, adults expect them to be mature emotionally. They are, but they aren’t. They react to global tragedies with the emotional intensity of adolescents. They may be able to see through the empty values and shallow culture of their peers, but they have the social needs of adolescents. They feel utterly alone in their suffering.”Before I saw my daughters in these lines, I saw my own adolescent self. I was hyper-aware about international events and injustice in the world around me, but unable to imagine a solution and lacking agency, my response would often veer towards self-harm and abject despair. The gap between my intuitive morality and my inability to regulate my emotions was vast. It was hard to tell whether I was ahead of my peers, or hopelessly lagging behind. Perhaps, because both where accurate at different times.A younger friend recently confided in me with these words: “I feel like a villain, like a totally useless person. Everyone hates me, no one trusts me.”“That’s not true,” I said to him.“But there is a term for your feelings — emotional dysregulation”.I stopped myself from over-speaking. I just wanted him to know that the same feeling that seemed to isolate and trap him was also so surprisingly universal that psychologists have a phrase for it. I wanted to help him create a separation between himself and the emotion. To understand that, however nagging the feeling may be, it is an exaggerated response. It will deflate. It will be replaced with self-worth and joy.“Jo bhi mai kehna chahoon, barbaad karey alfaaz mere,” sings Jordan, the lead character played by Ranbir Kapoor in Imtiaz Ali’s ‘Rockstar’.“Whatever I am trying to say gets ruined by the words I use.” It is a useful line to remind us of the limitations of discussions, debates and arguments. To take our intellectual prowess less seriously in our relationships and park it aside for significant periods of time.“What should I write about,” I had lamented in my usual way just before I started typing this column. “Mamma, write about your children lurking around in strange corners,” our youngest child said quickly. “You mean my strange children lurking in corners,” I responded. They laughed and laughed as if it was the funniest thing I had ever said.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/when-words-ruin-everything-we-are-trying-to-say-365354
30-01-2022||LAST month||Tribute to Hussainiwala battle heroes||He said, “This event is being proudly hosted only by the officers who fought this battle and are still surviving.” This handful of officers had also refused any support from the battalion which the serving Commanding Officer and the unit had generously offered. I was floored by the camaraderie and the esprit-de-corps of these veterans. It reminded me about the high-calibre, quality officers of yore of the Manekshaw era.The two-day event was organised with an exceptionally unique flavour. It encompassed informal narration of first-hand accounts of their experiences of the battle of Hussainiwala (near Ferozepur) on the night of December 3-4, 1971.At around 1800 hours on December 3, the enemy artillery had started shelling the company localities of ‘Perimeter’ and Samadhi ‘Bundh’ commanded by Maj Kanwaljit Singh Sandhu and Maj SPS Waraich, who were able to beat back repeated attacks by a full Pakistan brigade and one squadron of enemy tanks.The same night, around 2200 hours, Maj Sandhu captured 12 Pakistani soldiers, disarmed them, and locked them up in a hut with clear instructions that they will not be killed despite the din of the battle. We need to salute his chivalry. Havildar Surjit Singh was tasked to deploy a medium machine gun atop the tower in the Samadhi area. His impregnable defence of this tower turned the tables of the battle and caused several fatal casualties in the attacking Pakistani brigade, thereby preventing the enemy to reach the Hussainiwala headworks.This bullet-ridden tower with the gaping holes caused by several tank rounds fired by a Pakistani tank still holds testimony to the courageous deeds of Hav Surjit Singh. He valiantly achieved his mission, but not without his supreme sacrifice.During this commemorative event, we were quite privileged and honoured when we found amongst ourselves five graceful women — Rupinder Waraich, wife of Maj SPS Waraich, and Simmi Waraich, his daughter; Jasbir Kaur, wife of Maj Kanwaljit Singh Sandhu; Minnoo Singh, daughter of the then Commanding Officer, Lt Col GBVL Sastry; and Minnie Singh, daughter of Maj Hardyal Singh.What moved me, during the entire event, was the poise and equanimity displayed by these ladies during the entire function. They had undertaken a lot of efforts to attend this event and had travelled from all corners of India. The pride which glittered in their eyes was unmistakable. Unfortunately, following this historic battle, both Maj Waraich and Maj Sandhu were declared ‘Missing in Action’ immediately after the war.The entire event was conducted at the memorial constructed by 15 Punjab at the battleground itself in March 2006 by my team during my command tenure. I felt proud and privileged to be a small part of the rich history of this great paltan. The battalion was awarded the much-deserved ‘Theatre Honour of Punjab’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/tribute-to-hussainiwala-battle-heroes-365353
30-01-2022||THE partition of India into two nations was a great tragedy for the subcontinent. The Quit India Movement saw participation from people of all faiths. They fearlessly fought against the British rule||The past still haunts||Jammu and Kashmir was divided too. We lived in the beautiful Udhampur town in the present Udhampur district. Ours was a large family — grandfather, my parents, uncles, aunts and siblings, including two elder brothers and a sister. When ‘trouble’ began, my father, who was headmaster at a high school, sent us children, along with my mother, to a nearby village under the protection of one of his close Hindu friends, Lala Amar Nath Vakeel. His village was called Jagaoon. He entrusted us to one of his reliable men who looked after his farms. He was told to keep our presence at the farm confidential. We were hidden inside a cattle shed. My mother was in the family way. She had already completed her term and the birth of her baby was overdue. It was in the cattle shed that she delivered a baby boy.While we were leaving our home, my father’s sister had handed over all the girls of our family to a few Dalit households we knew well. Should none of us return alive to reclaim them, they were requested to raise the girls as they deemed fit.The marauders got our scent as hunting dogs sense the presence of prey. In no time, they were upon us, demanding that my mother hand over the boys to them. My mother, even as she was suffering the rigors of childbirth, resisted the fanatics with all her might and declared that she would prefer to lay down her life as well as the lives of her children than part with them. The marauders went away threatening to return. They knew that my mother had just delivered the baby and could not undertake any travel to escape from there.But my mother and aunt decided to abandon the shelter that very evening. My mother put tilak, vermillion, on our foreheads so that we could pass off as Hindus. She also gave us Hindu names and told us to reply with those names should someone ask us on the way. We walked through the night and finally reached a forest known as Barta. For the next 10 days, we remained hidden in the jungle.In the meantime, things began to change. Sheikh Abdullah was released from prison and Maharaja Hari Singh appointed him the administrator. A search for the surviving families was ordered and one team reached us in the forest and rescued us. We were shifted to a refugee camp in Jammu where we came to know that all the male members of our family, which included my grandfather, father and three uncles and two brothers, had been gunned down. At the time, my elder sister, who had rejoined us upon our return, was nine, my elder brother was seven and I was three.After some time, we were shifted from the refugee camp in Jammu to a refugee camp in Srinagar, along with about 20,000 Punjabi and Dogri-speaking Muslim women and children. We spent seven years at that camp.Since my father was a government functionary, we received his pension and moved to a rented accommodation in Srinagar. My mother began stitching clothes and struggled to make both ends meet. The sense of abandonment grew stronger with each passing day. The trauma of having lived through those horrific times and loss of dear kith and kin, coupled with poverty and helplessness, became part of my childhood. All this contributed in making me a writer. Writing was the only refuge that I could find. It kept me afloat amid the sea of sorrows surrounding my existence.My sister passed her matriculation and got appointed as a teacher. And when I completed my matriculation, I landed a job as a clerk. I had to work very hard to come up in life. The struggles paid off and I now lead a comfortable and contented life. But a fear always nudges my heart — fear of the past coming back to the present and destroying the future. I do not want another uprooting. Not for me, not for anyone else. The present times often frighten me.Our ancestors had betrayed their own and I am ashamed of their savagery. Today, I apologise to all who were targeted, uprooted and destroyed due to the actions of our elders. These elders were Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, but certainly not humans, because they let loose hell upon innocents. I wish we all apologised to our own as it was us who destroyed each other’s lives.In the 75th year of India’s freedom, I want all of us to pledge that we will not pass on the poison of hatred, fundamentalism and extremism to our coming generations. We will have to stop the storms that seem to be gathering on the horizon and save our land from destruction. Instead, we must work day and night for establishing a cohesive, peaceful society where our children and their children live in peace and prosper as good and caring human beings.— The Jammu-based Punjabi and Urdu writer is the recipient of the Sahitya Akademi Award for 2021||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-past-still-haunts-365352
