02-01-2022||Srinagar||Covid-19: Both UTs see 180 new cases||J&K on Saturday recorded 169 fresh Covid cases which took the UT’s infection count to 3,41,459, while two more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,530, officials said. Ladakh saw 11 new cases.Of the fresh cases in J&K, 68 were reported from the Jammu division and 101 from the Kashmir division. The active cases stand at 1,397. So far, 3,35,532 patients have recovered from the viral disease.Ladakh’s caseload increased to 22,184 on Saturday as 11 more people tested positive for the viral disease. While seven cases were detected in Leh, four were reported from Kargil. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/covid-19-both-uts-see-180-new-cases-357069
02-01-2022||Leh||MoS, L-G discuss early nod for Ladakh IDS||Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Anupriya Patel on Saturday met Ladakh Lieutenant Governor (L-G) RK Mathur here and discussed early approval of the Industrial Development Scheme (IDS) for the Union Territory, an official spokesperson said. Patel informed that the Ministry of Industries and Commerce has agreed to help Ladakh develop export strategies.According to the spokesperson, the minister agreed to advise export councils, such as the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), CHEMEXCIL (Basic Chemicals, Cosmetics and Dyes Export Promotion Council), CAPEXIL and SHEFEXIL (Shellac & Forest Products Export Promotion Council), to help Ladakh.The other points discussed during the meeting included the involvement of various boards like Spices Boards, setting up of extension office of SIDBI (Small Industries Development Bank of India), branding Ladakh through India Brand Equity Foundation (IBEF) and participation of entrepreneurs in international trade fairs and exhibitions. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/mos-l-g-discuss-early-nod-for-ladakh-ids-357070
02-01-2022||---||Pulwama connect: DNA test to verify slain ultra's identity||New Delhi, January 1The J&K Police today said a DNA test would be conducted on the mortal remains of a terrorist killed in the Anantnag encounter as his picture resembled with that of the last surviving ultra involved in the 2019 Pulwama attack in which 40 CRPF personnel lost their lives. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir zone, Vijay Kumar said the picture of the slain ultra matched with that of Jaish-e-Mohammad’s (JeM) top commander Samir Dar. “The picture of one of the killed #terrorists in #AnantnagEncounter on Dec 30 matches with JeM top commander Samir Dar, who was the last surviving terrorist involved in Lethpora #Pulwama #TerrorAttack. We are going for DNA sample matching (sic),” Kashmir Zone Police said on Twitter quoting IGP Kumar. The police had said that three JeM terrorists were killed and their bodies retrieved from the site of the encounter that took place in the Nowgam Dooru area on Thursday.They were identified as Sultan, alias Rayees, alias Mavia, (a foreign terrorist), Nisar Ahmad Khanday of Dudwangan Kapran and Altaf Ahmad Shah of Nathipora Dooru.The IGP said Shah, Sultan and another terrorist Suhail Rather were involved in an attack at Zewan Srinagar in which three cops were killed. Rather was killed in an encounter on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/pulwama-connect-dna-test-to-verify-slain-ultras-identity-357111
02-01-2022||Srinagar||Kin demand release of 'terror operative'||Family members of Arsalan Feroz, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged involvement in radicalising and recruiting youngsters in terror ranks, on Saturday held a protest here claiming that he was innocent. They demanded his release.The NIA had on Friday stated said Feroz was an operative of a terror group. However, the family members denied the charge.“He is innocent. First, they (NIA) declared him a stone-pelter. The next day, they declared him a TRF operative. Can a 19-year-old, Class XII student, be a TRF operative?” Feroz’s sister asked while talking to reporters at the Press Enclave where the family staged the protest.She said the team of the NIA raided their Zaldagar residence in the city and conducted searches.“They told us that they want to take Arsalan only for questioning. Then they told us they will take him for questioning to Delhi. Later, they labeled him a TRF operative,” she said.The family appealed to J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and Director General of Police Dilbag Singh to intervene. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/kin-demand-release-of-terror-operative-357071
02-01-2022||---||PAGD leaders detained ahead of march against delimitation plan||New Delhi, January 1Political leaders, including three ex-CMs, have been put under house detention ahead of a march of the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) to protest against the draft proposals of the Delimitation Commission.Protest scuttledTrucks parked outside our gates to scuttle peaceful protest. Some things never change. Omar Abdullah, NC leaderAdmn scaredIt is sad that the J&K administration is scared even to allow a peaceful demonstration. MY Tarigami, CPM leaderIt’s undemocraticThe house arrest of NC president Farooq Abdullah is unethical and undemocratic. Ghulam Ahmad Mir, Congress’ J&K Chief“Good morning and welcome to 2022. A new year with the same J&K police illegally locking people in their homes and an administration so terrified of normal democratic activity,” National Conference vice-president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted. “Trucks parked outside our gates to scuttle the peaceful @JKPAGD sit-in protest. Some things never change,” he said.Senior CPM leader MY Tarigami, who is also the PAGD spokesperson, said it was sad that the administration was “scared even to allow a peaceful protest”.PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti stated, “A truck is parked outside my house too.” The PAGD had proposed to hold a peaceful demonstration in Srinagar on Saturday against the proposal of the Delimitation Commission of increasing six seats in Jammu division and one in Kashmir.Meanwhile, NC and the PDP workers took out separate protest marches here after the detention of their top leaders. NC activists, including party spokesperson Imran Nabi Dar and youth wing president Salman Sagar, took out a protest march from NC headquarters Nawa-i-Subah here. The party activists tried to move towards Gupkar Road but were stopped by the police outside the party office.PDP activists also took out a protest march demanding restoration of Articles 370 and 35-A which were revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019. Stopped near the GPO, theydispersed later.Congress’ J&K chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir said the “house arrest” of NC president Farooq Abdullah was “unethical and undemocratic”. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/pagd-leaders-detained-ahead-of-march-against-delimitation-plan-357072
02-01-2022||---||Stampede at Vaishno Devi, 12 dead||New Delhi, January 1At least 12 persons were killed and 20 injured in a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir in the early hours during a heavy rush of devotees on New Year.Officials said the incident took place between 2.30 am and 2.45 am on Saturday near a relatively narrow passage at gate number 3 outside the shrine’s sanctum sanctorum where devotees usually arrive round the clock after trekking from the Katra base camp, a distance of nearly 13 km. Relief for kin‘Sheer neglect’Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha ordered a high-level inquiry which is to be headed by Principal Secretary (Home) Shaleen Kabra with Jammu Divisional Commissioner Rajiv Langar and ADGP Mukesh Singh as its members.Condolences poured in from all quarters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Sinha and asked Union Minister Jitendra Singh to rush to the shrine and take stock of the situation.According to eyewitnesses, Covid norms were blatantly violated and the number of devotees was beyond thepermitted limit. Some of the survivors reportedly accused the J&K administration of “mismanagement”.The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board denied the charges, saying all necessary arrangements had been made in view of the expected New Year rush. The J&K Police claimed most of the deaths had occurred due to suffocation. They said among the deceased were seven were from Uttar Pradesh, three from Delhi and one each from Haryana and J&K. Director General of Police Dilbag Singh said the incident took place due to confusion or “probably somebody at the site acted funny leading to some altercation”. He said preliminary information suggested there was a minor altercation among some boys and within seconds there was a stampede.“All these things are being looked into. That area is a little narrow and people ran helter-skelter without knowing the reason,” he said.The deceased were identified as Arun Pratab Singh (30), Dharam Veer Singh (35), Vineet Kumar (38), Shewata Singh (35), Mohinder Gour (26), Narinder Kashap (40) and Monu Sharma (32) of Uttar Pradesh; Vinay Kumar (24), Sonu Panday (24) and Akash Kumar (29) of Delhi; Mamta (38) of Haryana; and Desraj Kumar (26) of Rajouri district of J&K, the officials said. The condition of two of the injured was stated to be critical.PM Modi announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from the PM National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who lost their lives. The injured would be given Rs 50,000 each, he added.The J&K administration announced a relief of Rs 10 lakh each to the victims’ families and Rs 2 lakh each to the injured which will be paid by the shrine board.Union Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted, “I have spoken to the Lieutenant Governor. The administration is working continuously to provide treatment to the injured.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, “The stampede is tragic. I extend my condolences to the families of the deceased.” Political parties in Kashmir, including the National Conference, PDP and the People’s Conference, also expressed grief over the incident.Tragedies after 2000Aug 27, 2003: 39 killed and 140 injured in a stampede during Kumbh Mela in Maha’s NashikJan 25, 2005: More than 340 devotees trampled to death at Mandhardevi temple in SataraAug 3, 2008: 162 dead in stampede at Naina Devi temple in Bilaspur district of HimachalSept 30, 2008: 250 devotees killed in stampede at Chamunda Devi temple in Rajasthan’s JodhpurMarch 4, 2010: 63 killed in a stampede at Ram Janki Temple of Kripalu Maharaj in UP’s PratapgarhNov 8, 2011: 20 people dead in stampede at Har-ki-Pauri ghat, Haridwar, on the banks of the GangaNov 9, 2012: 20 killed in Patna as makeshift bridge caves in, triggering stampede during Chhath PujaOct 13, 2013: 115 killed, over 100 hurt in stampede during Navratri festivities at a temple in MP’s DatiaOctober 3, 2014: 32 killed in a stampede at Gandhi Maidan in Patna post Dasehra celebrationsJuly 14, 2015: 27 dead in a stampede on the banks of Godavari on ‘Pushkaram’ festival in AP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/stampede-at-vaishno-devi-12-dead-357028
02-01-2022||Jammu||Scuffle between 2 groups caused stampede: Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board||The Saturday stampede that killed 12 people occurred “due to a scuffle between two groups of pilgrims”, the Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board said in a statement, emphasising only 35,000 pilgrims were allowed to proceed for the yatra against the normal capacity of 50,000 in view of the pandemic.Also read: 12 die in stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine in J-K; inquiry orderedSurvivors blame 'mismanagement' for Vaishno Devi stampede; shrine board refutes chargeThe board said Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, who is also the Chairman of the Board, was informed about the stampede at 3 am and he has been continuously monitoring the situation since then.“National Green Tribunal has capped the normal capacity of Yatra per day to 50000. Pertinently, keeping in view the COVID-19 Pandemic, 35000 pilgrims were allowed to proceed for yatra on 31st December 2021 and for 1st Jan. 2022,” SMVDSB said in a detailed statement on the tragic incident.It said around 2:15 am on January 1, the stampede occurred near Gate No. 3 at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Bhavan.“The unfortunate incident, due to a scuffle between two groups of pilgrims, resulted in the stampede. In this ill-fated incident, a total of 12 pilgrims lost their lives and 16 others were injured,” it said.The statement said the board as well as the Reasi District Administration promptly shifted the injured pilgrims immediately to Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, Kakryal, after providing first aid at the Medical Unit Bhawa.The bodies of the deceased, which include 10 men and two women pilgrims, were shifted to the Community Health Centre Katra for identification and further legal formalities, the statement said.“Of the 12 deceased pilgrims, two have been shifted by Air and nine by Road to their native destinations by the Shrine Board Administration with the assistance of UT Administration. The lone left-out dead body will be shifted tomorrow morning by Air from GMC, Jammu,” the SMVDSB said.Amongst the injured, who were hospitalised at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Hospital, Kakryal, nine have been discharged, whereas seven pilgrims are still under treatment there, it said.The board said the Lt Governor has extended his condolences to the aggrieved families and also constituted an inquiry committee headed by Principal Secretary (Home) to probe the incident.The LG said he briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the incident.“The Hon’ble Prime Minister has assured all the help. Ex-gratia of Rs.10 lakh each would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to stampede and Rs 2 lakh to injured. Shrine Board to bear the cost of treatment of injured,” he was quoted as saying in the statement.Later, he also visited the Narayana Superspecialty Hospital to meet the injured.“According to doctors, they are stable & being monitored by senior health staff. Directed Doctors & senior admin officials to provide the best possible care to the patients. Out of 16 injured brought to Narayana Hospital, 9 have been discharged and 7 are being treated by the doctors. Praying for their speedy recovery,” the Lieutenant Governor said in a tweet.The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board has established a dedicated helpline, which can be approached at Phone No. 01991-234804 and 01991-234053.The helplines established by the district administration are: DC Reasi Control Room: 01991- 245763/9419839557, PCR Katra: 01991-232010/9419145182, and PCR Reasi: 01991245076/9622856295, the statement said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/scuffle-between-2-groups-caused-stampede-mata-vaishno-devi-shrine-board-356956
02-01-2022||Katra||Survivors blame 'mismanagement' for Vaishno Devi stampede; shrine board refutes charge||A sudden rush of devotees at the Vaishno Devi shrine here to mark the beginning of the New Year triggered the stampede that resulted in the death of 12 people, some of the survivors said, blaming "mismanagement" for the tragedy.The Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, however, denied the charge, saying all necessary arrangements were made in view of the expected rush, while Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh blamed a minor altercation for the “unfortunate” incident."Nothing but mismanagement was the cause for this tragic accident. They were aware about the possible rush but allowed the people in unhindered," a pilgrim from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh said while waiting outside a mortuary to identify a dead body.The man, who did not wish to be named, said this situation could have been avoided if the authorities concerned had managed the pilgrimage better."A similar situation had happened minutes earlier but luckily none was hurt and the situation was controlled. We were part of a group of 10 devotees – all neighbours. A heavy rush triggered the stampede as people were going in and out, and everyone was in a hurry," he said.Many people were resting on the floor, instead of heading back, and it caused more rush at the bhawan, he added.Another man, who lost his friend, Arun Pratab Singh (30), said they had come from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. The bhawan was overcrowded, he added."I had visited the shrine about 10 years ago but was surprised by the heavy rush this time. After the tragedy, we found ourselves helpless and got no help till 6 am," he alleged.Rani Devi of Bihar's Muzaffarpur said they were fortunate to have escaped death."I saw many people dead on the floor and was heartbroken," she said, blaming it on the "uncontrolled rush" of pilgrims at the bhawan.Aditya Sharma, another devotee, said some people who were sleeping on the floor got crushed in the stampede.Following the incident, many pilgrims were seen leaving Katra, the base camp for the shrine, without paying obeisance."We are from Pathankot. We returned from the bhawan without 'darshan' due to the stampede," said Rekha, who was accompanied by five other family members, including three children.Prem Singh, from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, said there was a complete mess as neither was the number of pilgrims restricted nor Covid guidelines were in force."It was a free-for-all-like situation. Many people were without mandatory face masks," he said, claiming that police personnel on duty at the X-ray checking point surrendered to the heavy rush and were warning people about the possibility of such an accident.However, many people were seen waiting in long queues to visit the shrine as the pilgrimage continued unaffected."We have been waiting for five hours but nothing is moving," said Navdeep of Karnal in Haryana.Chief executive officer of the shrine board Ramesh Kumar, who was among the first to reach the scene to take stock of the situation and visit the injured at the Narayana hospital, could not be contacted for comment.Another official of the board, who wished not to be named, said adequate arrangements, including security, were in place due to the expected rush of pilgrims.The DGP said preliminary information from the scene suggests there was an altercation among some young boys, and within seconds, there was a stampede situation."Police and officials from the civil administration were quick to respond, and the order within the crowd was immediately restored, but by that time, the damage had been done," he told PTI.Senior BJP leader and former legislator Devender Singh Rana, who interacted with the pilgrims here to take stock of the situation, said the incident was the first of its kind to take place at the shrine."It is a tragic incident and a sad moment for all of us. The whole administration is working to ensure the bodies of the deceased are returned to their families and those injured are given adequate treatment," he said.Rana said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also taken note of the incident and the Lieutenant Governor-led administration is doing its best."This is no time for allegations or counter-allegations. It is a tragedy that has happened and nobody should play politics over it," he added.At least 12 people died and over a dozen were injured in the stampede that occurred around 2.30 am near Gate 3 outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine atop the Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/vaishno-devi-stampede-survivors-blame-mismanagement-shrine-board-refutes-charge-356909
02-01-2022||Jammu||12 die in stampede at Vaishno Devi shrine in J-K; inquiry ordered||At least 12 people died and over a dozen were injured in a stampede at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir triggered by a heavy rush of devotees, officials said on Saturday, as L-G Manoj Sinha ordered an inquiry. A three-member panel has been asked to submit its report to the Jammu and Kashmir government within a week.The stampede occurred around 2.30 am near Gate 3 outside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine located atop the Trikuta hills, about 50 km from Jammu.Also read: L-G Manoj Sinha orders probe into stampede at Vaishno DeviMinor altercation led to stampede situation at Vaishno Devi shrine: DGP Dilbag SinghSenior officials present at the scene said 12 people died in the stampede and their bodies had been taken to a hospital in the Katra base camp.Fifteen injured were undergoing treatment at the Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Superspecialty Hospital, and the condition of two of them was stated to be critical. Some were discharged after first-aid, they added.Aditya Sharma, a pilgrim, said there was a heavy rush of devotees and some people who were sleeping on the floor got crushed.The deceased were identified as Arun Pratab Singh (30), Dharam Veer Singh (35), Vineet Kumar (38), Shewata Singh (35), Mohinder Gour (26), Narinder Kashap (40) and Monu Sharma (32) of Uttar Pradesh, Vinay Kumar (24), Sonu Panday (24) and Akash Kumar (29) of Delhi, Mamta (38) of Haryana and Desraj Kumar (26) of Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said.They said the shrine was open, and as per last reports, devotees were paying obeisance.Condolences poured in from all quarters with Prime Minister Narendra Modi talking to Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Sinha and Union ministers Jitendra Singh and Nityanand Rai to take stock of the situation."Extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon," Modi tweeted.Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board Helpline nos:01991-23480401991-234053Other Helpline nos:PCR Katra 01991232010/ 9419145182PCR Reasi 0199145076/ 9622856295DC Office Reasi Control room01991245763/ 9419839557  Extremely saddened by the loss of lives due to a stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover soon. Spoke to JK LG Shri @manojsinha_ Ji, Ministers Shri @DrJitendraSingh Ji, @nityanandraibjp Ji and took stock of the situation.  The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) announced an ex gratia grant for the victims."An ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi Bhawan. The injured would be given Rs 50,000: PM @narendramodi," the PMO tweeted.In a series of tweets, the office of the Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor said, "Deeply pained at the loss of lives due to stampede at Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine. My condolences to the families of the deceased & prayers with the injured.""Spoke to Hon'ble Home Minister Shri Amit Shah Ji. Briefed him about the incident. A high level inquiry has been ordered into today's stampede. The Inquiry Committee will be headed by Principal Secretary (Home) with ADGP, Jammu and Divisional Commissioner, Jammu as members," Sinha said."Spoke to Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Ji. Briefed him about the incident. Hon'ble Prime Minister has assured all the help. Ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh each would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to stampede and Rs 2 lakh to injured. Shrine board to bear the cost of treatment of injured," he added.President Ram Nath Kovind said he was distressed to know about the stampede and offered condolences to the bereaved families. "I wish speedy recovery to those injured," he said.माता वैष्णोदेवी मंदिर में हुई भगदड़ की दुर्घटना दुखद है।मृतकों के परिवारजनों को मेरी शोक संवेदनाएँ। घायलों के जल्द स्वस्थ होने की कामना है।🙏  Union Home Minister Amit Shah said he was deeply pained by the tragic accident."Deeply pained by the tragic accident at Mata Vaishno Devi temple. In this regard, I have spoken to Lieutenant Governor of J&K Shri Manoj Sinha. The administration is working continuously to provide treatment to the injured. I express my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in this accident," Shah tweeted in Hindi.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "The stampede at Mata Vaishno Devi temple is tragic. I extend my condolences to the families of the deceased."Political parties in Kashmir, including the National Conference and the People’s Conference, expressed grief over the incident.The PDP said such “mismanagement” has been unheard of in recent times. “Our heartfelt condolences go out to the families who lost their loved ones and pray for speedy recovery of the injured,” it said in a tweet.Meanwhile, Union Minister Jitendra Singh took stock of the situation at Katra.Officials at the spot said the incident was triggered by a heavy rush of devotees who came to pay their obeisance to mark the beginning of the New Year.Devotees usually trek to the hilltop shrine from the Katra base camp, a distance of nearly 13 km, while some reach there by helicopter. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/6-dead-26-injured-in-stampede-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-in-jk-356839
