22-01-2022||New Delhi||Delimitation has started, elections soon in Jammu and Kashmir: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday that elections will soon be held in J&K since the delimitation process has already started.Speaking at the virtual launch of the district good governance index in Jammu and Kashmir, Shah said, "Delimitation has started and elections will soon be held." He reiterated that he has given assurance in the Lok Sabha that as soon as the situation becomes normal in Jammu and Kashmir, statehood will be given back.He slammed some leaders for spreading false propaganda and alleged that they are doing so for their own political benefits."Many leaders have been doing false propaganda. I want the youth to ask them, crores of investment have been coming, tourists have been coming and they are doing propaganda for their own political benefits. Democracy has reached grassroots level and that is why they do this propaganda and youth should not listen to them." "Today is an important day also for the country as what has started from Jammu and Kashmir will be going to other parts of the country. I want to say to the people of Jammu and Kashmir that the Union Territory is going through a transformation that Prime Minister, Narendra Modi has always thought of. Hail PM Modi's vision for the Union Territory."There has been a change after 2019, there were 87 MLAs in Union Territory and only three families were ruling, but today there is 30,000 public representatives. These families said that after the abrogation of Article 370, the situation in Jammu and Kashmir has worsened, but I want to tell them there has been a 40 per cent decrease in terror related incidents and 87 per cent decrease in killings."I want to ask these three families why they were not able to do so in the last so many years. Why are they misinforming people," Shah said.Shah attacked former chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir, Dr Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti.He said now the people are receiving direct benefits from the government schemes in the Union Territory.Shah said Jammu and Kashmir is among the top five States and UTs in India in implementing Centre Schemes and congratulated Lt governor Manoj Sinha for making the UT a top performer."Several development works are being done. Record number of tourists visited Jammu and Kashmir this year. People are receiving direct benefits from the government scheme."After the launch of the district good governance index there will be a healthy competition within the districts which will help the development of the area and this will benefit the people."With the Prime Minister's initiative tourism has been boosted as 1,13,000 tourists have visited the UT."This year record number of tourists have come but these leaders are doing propaganda so that the tourists should not come to Jammu and Kashmir."I want to tell those who forced the youth to go to Pakistan for MBBS that nine Medical Colleges have come up in the UT and 1,100 seats have been added. I appeal to the youth of the Valley to come and walk on the path of development and don't listen to the propaganda being spread", he said.He released the District Good Governance Index for 20 districts of Jammu and Kashmir, a move that will make Jammu and Kashmir the first Union Territory in the country to have an index of this kind.The District Good Governance Index of Jammu and Kashmir was prepared by DARPG in collaboration with the government of Jammu and Kashmir in pursuance of the announcements made in the "Behtar e-Hukumat - Kashmir Aelamia" resolution adopted on July 2, 2021, in the Regional Conference on Replication of Good Governance Practices held in Srinagar. IANS                                     #AmitShah                                     #LokSabha||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/delimitation-has-started-elections-soon-in-jk-amit-shah-363522
22-01-2022||Srinagar||2 LeT terrorists killed in J&K||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were killed in an encounter between the terrorists and the security forces at Kilbal area in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district, officials said on Saturday."One more terrorist killed... incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered. Search going on," a police officer said.The firefight between terrorists and security forces took place after a joint team of the police and the security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation on the basis of specific information about presence of terrorists.As the security forces zeroed in on the spot where terrorists were hiding they came under a heavy volume of fire that triggered the encounter.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-militants-in-shopian-363499
22-01-2022||Jammu||Curbs imposed across Kashmir as Covid cases rise||District-based governance index to be releasedNew Delhi: In a unique joint initiative, the government for the first time will tomorrow release Good Governance Index for 20 districts of J&K. Union Home Minister Amit Shah will release it in presence of Union Minister Jitendra Singh and Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. TNSLadakh women’s team wins ice hockey championshipJammu: Ladakh has won the 9th National Women Ice Hockey Championship, held at Kaza, Himachal Pradesh, from January 15 to 20. The teams of Delhi, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, ITBP and Telangana had participated in it. OCMPs condemn attack on students in PunjabJammu: NC MPs Muhammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi on Friday condemned the attack on Kashmiri students by a mob in Mohali, Punjab. They demanded stern action against those responsible. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/curbs-imposed-across-kashmir-as-cases-rise-363309
22-01-2022||Jammu||Civil, Army officials discuss security situation in Kashmir||The core group, comprising top officials of the administration, intelligence agencies and security forces in J&K, met today at Badami Bagh Cantonment in Srinagar to review the security situation. The meeting was co-chaired by the General Officer Commanding, Chinar Corps, Lt Gen DP Pandey and DGP Dilbag Singh.At the same time, BSF officials said additional troops along with anti-fog surveillance equipment on border had been deployed as part of its “winter strategy” to foil infiltration bids and terror plans ahead of Republic Day celebrations.An Army spokesperson said, “Year 2021 witnessed a reduction in terrorist recruitment, infiltration, increased operations and reduced collateral damage. There has been increased neutralisation of Pakistani terrorists.”“On the LoC, late snow has kept the infiltration routes open for longer time, however effective domination has ensured decrease in overall infiltration,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/civil-army-officials-discuss-security-situation-in-kashmir-363307
22-01-2022||Jammu||Himayat scheme poorly implemented in J&K: CAG||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has flagged poor implementation of the livelihood mission Himayat in J&K. It said only 4,494 aspirants were given skill training under the scheme as against a target of 53,547 between 2016 and 2019.In its latest report, the federal auditor said Rs 134.84 crore had been spent from the sanctioned amount of Rs 237.74 crore between 2016 and 2019. “A target number of 53,547 youth were to be trained during the period from 2016 to 2019, the achievement was only 4,494 (8%). Further, out of a total of 4,494 youth trained, only 732 youth were placed in jobs during the period,” it stated.The Union Ministry of Rural Development launched the ‘Himayat’ mission, which subsequently functioned as a separate vertical under the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana.The training was to be imparted for computer-oriented skills, soft and English communication skills as well as technical skills, it said. Though during the years 2016-17 and 2017-18, only 123 youth were trained, no placements were made during these years, the report said. — PTIWhat all they did||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/himayat-scheme-poorly-implemented-cag-363306
22-01-2022||---||Narco-terror on the rise, security officials on toes in J&K||Arjun SharmaJammu, January 21The increased recovery of drugs smuggled from Pakistan into J&K has rung alarm bells among security establishments, leaving them on toes as these consignments are being diverted towards narco-terrorism.On Friday, the Army seized 31 kg of narcotics along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district. Defense PRO, Lt Col Devender Anand said, “The Army along with the police launched a relentless operations in the area that were backed up with a well integrated surveillance grid coupled with extensive domination of the areas close to the LoC. On the intervening night of January 19 and 20, narcotics weighing approximately 31 kg was found near the LoC.”In November last year, the police had seized 52 kg heroin worth Rs 100 crore (according to international market) from a Punjab-bound truck. As per investigation, heroin was smuggled into Kashmir from Pakistan and was being sent to Punjab for sale. The sale of drugs was supposed to be used to fuel terrorism.DGP Dilbag Singh had recently appealed to the villagers along the LoC to keep vigil on smuggling of narcotics, especially in border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, from Pakistan.A top level meeting of the Army and the police was also held in 6th Sector Brigade headquarters Potha, Surankot, in Poonch last month where detailed presentation regarding narco-terrorism and smuggling of drugs was made. Top Army brass and police officials, including the DGP, were present in the meeting.On January 7, the police found a drone in Gujral village in Akhnoor in Jammu. It is suspected that the drone was used to smuggle contraband and weapons from Pakistan.Zorawar Singh Jamwal, who is the chairman of Team Jammu, an organisation that works against drug abuse in J&K, says the recovery of drugs from highways and borders has increased. “While Pakistan has failed in succeeding against India through proxy war, it is now targeting the youth of our country with drugs terrorism.”Reasi SSP Shailender Singh said the police in his district achieved a major success and crossed the mark of 254 arrests with the registration of 208 FIRs regarding drug abuse since March 2021. The district police on January 19 found 4.70-kg charas worth Rs 15 lakh and heroin worth Rs 50,000 from peddlers.In April 2019, the Ministry of Home Affairs had suspended the cross LoC trade between India and Pakistan following incidents of seizure of arms, ammunition, narcotics and fake currency that was being smuggled in Pakistani trucks at the two trade points in Uri and Poonch.Recent seizures||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/j-k/narco-terror-on-the-rise-security-officials-on-toes-in-jk-363305
