01-12-2021||West Bengal|| Bengal asks schools to give cooked mid-day meals to junior students||The West Bengal government has asked schools to complete the preparatory work for providing cooked mid-day meals to students of classes 1-8. While schools have reopened for students of classes 9-12, physical classes for the junior standards are yet to recommence due to the pandemic situation. mid-day meal's project director's office issued a letter to the district magistrates, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, and the Kolkata Primary School Council, asking them to prepare a check-list on Google Forms, listing the preparatory work needed to be done before physical classes reopen for students of standards 1-8, and make a school-wise entry at the block level. "School-wise entry to be done at block level keeping in view the AMS portal data (school name, U-DISE code) entries to be filled in within the suggestive time plan as mentioned in the checklist," the letter dated November 29 said. The Google Form, the link of which was given in the letter, is to be submitted by December 3, it said. A School Education Department official said that in the Google Forms, the educational institutions have to list the steps they will take to ensure the provision of cooked mid-day meals to the students. After submission of the form, they have to complete the sanitisation process in a full-proof manner, ensure that the infrastructure is ready for cooking mid-day meals with strict adherence to COVID restrictions, and also complete the full vaccination of their staffers by the last week of December, the official told PTI. "We are taking these steps with an eye on the recommencement of physical classes for the junior standards. However, when that will happen is not yet known. The chief minister and education minister in consultation with health experts will take a call," he said. Despite the closure of schools on March 16, 2020 due to the pandemic, the state government continued the mid-day meal scheme by providing uncooked food items to guardians of children on designated days. Education Minister Bratya Basu had said in November that the state government wants to restart classes for standards 1-8 in a phased manner. "As of now, we would like to review the situation after recommencing classes for standards 9-12, and take a call accordingly," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
01-12-2021||West Bengal||HC transfers Abhishek Banerjee's defamation suit against Suvendu to Kolkata court||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday ordered the transfer of a defamation suit filed by Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee against Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly Suvendu Adhikari from Burdwan court to a court in Kolkata. Adhikari, a BJP leader, had prayed for transfer of the suit from Burdwan court to a court in Purba Medinipur district. After hearing both sides, Justice Subhasish Dasgupta directed that the defamation suit will be heard before the City Civil Court here from January 14. Abhishek had filed the defamation suit against Adhikari before the Burdwan court in connection with some alleged derogatory comments made by the BJP leader while addressing a public meeting at Khejuri in Purba Medinipur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
01-12-2021||West Bengal||HC asks to Bengal govt, poll panel to inform court about civic polls||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday directed the West Bengal government and the State Election Commission (SEC) to inform it by next Monday about plans on conducting polls to all the municipal bodies Elections to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation are scheduled to be held on December 19, even as the state BJP moved the high court seeking direction to the SEC and the state government to conduct polls to all municipalities on a single date. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice R Bharadwaj directed the SEC and the West Bengal government to inform it by next Monday, elaborating about the plan to hold elections to the municipal bodies where polls are due. The matter will be taken up for hearing again on Monday. BJP's counsel had earlier argued that the schedule for the KMC election on December 19 was announced despite its petition before the high court, which was pending. The SEC had on November 25 announced the schedule for the polls on the basis of a state government notification declaring the date for the KMC election. The BJP claimed it amounted to disregard of the proceedings before the court, in which hearing was first held on November 16. The saffron party has prayed that elections to more than 100 municipal bodies in the state, where they are due, be held on a single date for the sake of free and fair polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
01-12-2021||West Bengal||TMC will sweep Kolkata municipal polls, says Firhad Hakim||The ruling TMC will tide over the challenges that come its way during the upcoming KMC polls by using the momentum of its victory in assembly elections, said former Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim, while sharing his vision for the city's development in the next few years. Hakim, who is confident of winning the elections from ward number 82, also stated that a master plan will be prepared soon to help the city cope better with the effects of cyclone. The state transport minister further said that his 10-point vision for the city will improve waste management and ensure supply of drinking water to every household, besides addressing the environment-related issues. "The development that the TMC board (in the civic body) has brought about since 2010 and the state government since 2011 is enough to ensure our victory in the KMC polls. After our success in the assembly polls, under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee, the party's victory in the KMC polls is a foregone conclusion," he maintained. In an interview with PTI, Hakim said the party is confident of bagging at least 135-140 wards in the 144-member civic body. He asserted that BJP's "communal politics will not yield any result", as was the case during the state elections, held earlier in the year. "The BJP has a habit of promoting communal narratives during elections. In the assembly polls, too, we had seen how it had tried to flare up communal tension. But let me make this clear, this time, too, the saffron party will be defeated," the minister contended. "I am known for the work I have done and not because of my identity. I celebrate Eid and also conduct Durga Puja. That's how people have been living in Kolkata for centuries; the BJP won't be able to change that," the first Muslim mayor of the city said. Hakim, considered one of the trusted aides of Mamata Banerjee, took over as the mayor of Kolkata in December 2018 after Sovan Chatterjee resigned from the post and other ministerial positions due to personal reasons. Asked why the TMC did not put forth a mayoral face, unlike the 2015 KMC polls, he said it is a call taken by the party's top leadership. "I have been assigned a job by Mamata Banerjee and will do my best to deliver it," he said. Talking about his 10-point plan, Hakim further explained, "From beautification, ease of taxation, better management of waste products to ensuring more greenery and improvement of the drainage system, a master plan will be prepared to help Kolkata cope better with the devastation that accompanies a cyclone." A team of workers will be trained to clear the destruction left behind by the cyclones in the smartest way possible -- much like what NDRF and SDRF personnel do, Hakim said. "Modern equipment will either be hired or purchased to clear roads as early as possible. The drainage system will be upgraded through the process of desilting, and high-powered machines will be installed at the pumping stations to prevent waterlogging," he said. The KMC had faced public ire in May 2020 after Cyclone Amphan left behind a trail of destruction, blocking several thoroughfares in the city that had plunged into darkness owing to a power cut. Hakim, however, stated that the "KMC had done a good job" and it was the private power supply provider that was "ill-equipped" to tackle the effects of a cyclone. "Post Amphan, we cleared the roads in three days. People were angry as the power supply remained disrupted for several days and that, too, in May," he said. The minister also said that the civic body has plans to lay underground cables. "Steps will be taken to ensure that all the cables run underground or there will be a sort of a cable train... so that it neither causes visual pollution nor get affected by cyclones," he explained. The senior TMC leader said that the KMC is mulling the possibilities of building a waste management factory in the city for better handling of dry and wet garbage. "We will come up with more garbage compactors. We have plans to develop a waste management factory in the city, where there will be different segments for better management of solid and wet waste. For example, the building material waste will be crushed into sand and used to build roads. "Also, measures would be taken to increase green cover, and fogging systems will be put in place in areas where pollution levels are generally high," he underlined. To a question about the apparent divide between Bengalis and non-Bengalis in Kolkata, Hakim replied that it was best to not to make a remark on issues that could polarise people. "Look, I can't comment on the Bengali-non-Bengali issue. If I do that, there will be no difference between me and the communal BJP. But yes, steps are being taken to ensure that Kolkata residents don't leave the city. For this, we are easing taxation rules and doling out land deeds, he said. In an effort to provide clean drinking water to every household, Hakim said, the water reservoir capacity will be enhanced from 30 million gallons to 50 million gallons in the next few years. "We will come up with a treatment plant that will increase the production of purified drinking water from 30 million gallons to 50 million gallons. We are still providing deep tube well water. If the new project is implemented, there won't be any problem in supplying drinking water to households, at least for the next 50 years," he said. As part of the city's beautification process, street hawkers would be provided with small kiosks to sell their wares, he added. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls will be held on December 19, and votes will be counted two days later, on December 21. Elections to KMC, along with 112 other municipal bodies, are due since April-May 2020. Polls were postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As of now, state-appointed boards of administrators are running the civic bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri civic body carries out drive against encroachment ||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation, along with city police, carried out a drive on Tuesday against encroachment on certain stretches along the Mahananda river. The drive was carried out in wards 2 and 3 of the SMC and over 20 illegal huts and shanties, which had mushroomed on the riverbank, were cleared. The occupants of the illegal structures had been served notices before the crackdown. Extensive police deployments were made at localities like South Baghajatin Colony, Gurungbusty and Nayabusty during the drive. The National Green Tribunal had issued specific instructions to the state administration and the SMC to keep the Mahananda clean and free from encroachments. The drive was a part of the initiative to keep the river clean, civic sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Police seize four firearms, magazines and live bullets in Malda||Police seized four firearms, some magazines and live bullets from Mothabari in Malda district on Tuesday and arrested a person in this connection. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, said a police team posed as potential buyers and contacted Safikul Islam, a resident of Rajnagar area of Mothabari, who was carrying the arms and ammunitions and intends to sell those. Later, the 21-year-old youth was arrested. “Three seven mm pistols, an improvised pipe gun, seven magazines and 20 rounds of live bullets have been seized from him. We are interrogating him to know from where he had obtained the firearms,” said Rajoria. Travel restriction The state home department of Sikkim has issued a notification mentioning that no inner line permit, restricted area permit and protected area permit will be issued to foreign nationals in the state from December 1 to December 15. Such permits are necessary for foreigners to travel in the Himalayan state. “This means, there is complete restriction over entry of foreign tourists into Sikkim during this period,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Steps to avert accidents on Eastern Bypass in Siliguri||Authorities have taken a number of initiatives like removal of illegal shanties and installation of reflectors and direction boards to avert accidents on the Eastern Bypass in Siliguri. The steps were prompted by an accident that claimed four lives at Jaleswari last week. The 9km-long Eastern Bypass connects northern and southern ends of Siliguri. It is one of the arterial routes used by vehicles moving towards the New Jalpaiguri station from the Darjeeling hills and from Salugara and other areas in the northeast of Siliguri. Last week, a truck carrying boulders had lost control and rammed into shops along the bypass at Jaleswari. Four persons were killed in the accident. After the accident, the traffic wing of Siliguri Metropolitan Police cleared illegal stalls and shanties which had come up on either side of the bypass. “Illegal structures were removed from both sides of the bypass in areas like Kankata More, Naresh More and Jaleshwari. Our men are constantly keeping vigil along the entire stretch of the bypass to prevent any encroachment,” said a police officer. Besides, traffic police have been deployed at important intersections. The police have also installed reflectors, raised pavement markers (RPMs) and direction boards at a number of important crossings and in crowded areas like Ashighar More, Jaleshwari Bridge, Jaleshwari Bazar, Bhavesh More and Gora More for vehicles. “The display boards also mention parking and speed restrictions. The vehicles should maintain a speed of 40km per hour on crowded stretches. Boards have been put up along the bypass to help the drivers with directions. We will also deploy more men at the intersections for smooth and safe movement of traffic and people,” the officer said. After the accident, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed concern over the movement of vehicles along the bypass and passed specific instructions to launch the “safe drive, save life” campaign of the state government in the route. She had also called up Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, to monitor the initiatives which would be taken by the police and agencies like the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority, on the bypass. “I will soon hold a meeting with the police and administration of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri on the Eastern Bypass issue. The police have already taken certain initiatives and some more plans would be drawn to ensure that road safety is maintained throughout the bypass,” said Deb. The accident had also made locals point out the lack of street lights in most stretches of the bypass. This has made the SJDA – the agency that had built the road years back – to plan installation of lights in the road. “We have inspected the road along with engineers. We are waiting for their reports and would then take the initiative to install lights across Eastern Bypass so that the road remains properly lit,” said Sourav Chakraborty, the SJDA chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Durga Puja committee donates hi-tech cardiac ICU ambulance||A Durga Puja committee in Nadia’s Kalyani has pooled funds to procure and donate a hi-tech cardiac ICU ambulance to a local non-profit, responding to a need for emergency medical support services in the area for the last couple of years. The ITI Durga Utsav Committee has spent Rs 45.25 lakh to arrange the ambulance, which in medical parlance is as an “Advance Mobile Medical Life Support Van” and is fitted with equipment including a ventilator, a patient monitor, temporary pacemaker support, syringes, pumps, a biphasic defibrillator, Bi-PAP, DFiB-AED, a suction machine, a spine board, an ABG analysis machine, a biphasic defibrillator, a patient monitor, a pulse oximeter, and other systems. The ambulance was formally handed over to emergency medical support service provider, Apanjan, by minister Partha Chatterjee at a programme in Kalyani town on Tuesday afternoon. “I was surprised to see such life support systems in an ambulance with so many facilities, that too at such a low cost or cost to cost basis,” the minister said. Medical superintendent of the College of Medicine & JNM Hospital in Kalyani, Avijit Mukherjee, checked all machinery inside the van and termed it the “best” in the state. “There are a number of life support ambulances in the state. But as far as I know, none of those ambulances has such a wide range of life-support systems. This can be easily termed as an ICU on wheels. Moreover, all such available ambulance services provided by private organisations and hospitals are very expensive. But I am surprised to learn that Apanjan will offer services not for profit,” said Mukherjee. Speaking to The Telegraph, ITI Durga Utsav Committee secretary Amit Kumar Biswas said: “It is like a dream come true. Our objective was to do something significant for people. We noticed that for the last two years, Apanjan members have been doing a commendable job providing support to patients. Once we began planning to buy an advanced ambulance, we decided to hand it over to Apanjan. This turned into a reality today.” "To materialise our dreams, we decided to curtail our Puja expenses. Usually, we organise a big Puja and attract many viewers. But over the last two years, it was comparatively a low-key affair. In the last years we saved a big amount that has been used to buy this advanced ambulance," Biswas said. Two years ago, Trinamul’s Kalyani town committee played an instrumental role in forming Apanjan as an outreach programme to help elderly people in the town deal with health-related incidents, especially at night. To operate this advanced ambulance, Apanjan has created a pool of doctors, technicians, drivers, patients and nursing personnel who will render their services on rotation. Apanjan's chief mentor and Trinamul's Kalyani town committee president Arup Mukherjee said: "We have engaged professional staff for this advanced ambulance service. We have to pay them. So, we will charge only the amount that we need to pay them. We have drawn up a cost-to-cost charge for those who will want to avail of the ambulance. For example, we will charge around Rs 6,000 only for transporting a patient from Kalyani to Calcutta. This is a special service for the people in distress. We would have been happier if we could offer it free of cost."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
01-12-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal: Six tea gardens to reopen soon, says Becharam Manna||Six tea estates which have been shut for months will reopen soon, state labour minister Becharam Manna said on Tuesday. Manna, who was at Madarihat in Alipurduar district — located around 50km from here —  held a meeting with officials of different departments at the local tourist lodge. He was apprised of the works like the Cha Sundari (free housing scheme for tea workers), linking of Aadhaar card of tea workers with their provident fund accounts and identification of unused land in plantations which can be used for tourism. “In north Bengal, 14 of 282 tea estates are shut. We are making all efforts to facilitate their reopening. Six tea estates will reopen soon,” said Manna. The gardens include Madhi and Bundapani of Alipurduar, Surendranagar of Jalpaiguri and three in the hills, said sources in the state labour department. As of now, around 8,500 workers of these gardens receive Rs 1,500 each monthly from the state under FAWLOI (Financial Assistance to Workers of Locked Out Industries) scheme. At the meeting, Manna also emphasised the need to provide drinking water supply to residents of some of the gardens who are still dependant on natural sources. “It has been found out that there are 37 gardens where drinking water facility is not available now. The state PHE department has already taken the initiative to develop drinking water projects for each of these gardens and has prepared detailed project reports. They will soon start the work on these projects,” the minister said. He also said officials of the land and land reforms departments of the tea growing districts of Bengal — Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and North Dinajpur — had been asked to start identifying unused land on tea estates where  tourism facilities could be developed. The state government had in 2019 increased ceiling of the land that can be used for tourism purposes in tea gardens from 5 per cent to 15 per cent. Manna will attend another meeting at the same venue on Wednesday to discuss the minimum wage issue in the tea sector. In 2015, the state government had  formed an advisory committee to recommend the minimum wage rate to the state but no decision has been made yet. “Representatives of tea planters’ associations, trade unions and officials of the labour department will be present at the meeting. We are expecting some positive development tomorrow,” said a source in the labour department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 705 cases, 694 recoveries and 13 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday logged 705 Covid-19 cases, 694 recoveries and 13 deaths, resulting in a drop by two in its total of active cases to 7,731. A minister said Tuesday’s fresh cases were indicative of people who had got infected during the period from November 21 (eight days after Jagaddhatri Puja) to 25. Calcutta reported 192 infections and North 24-Parganas 137 on Tuesday. These are the only two districts in Bengal to log three-digit figures of fresh infections. Ten districts recorded single-digit figures. Fourteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta logged two fatalities and North 24-Parganas four. Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 513 — 72.77 per cent — of the new infections detected on Tuesday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.93 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, below the national rate of 98.35. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.16 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.89 lakh recoveries and 19,486 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista seeks national law for granting land rights to tea workers||Raju Bista, the Darjeeling BJP MP, on Tuesday demanded in the Lok Sabha a national law for granting land rights to tea and cinchona plantation workers, literally snatching a topic from pro-Trinamul Congress parties in the hills. In a media release, the MP said: “Today, I have raised the demand for developing a National Law for granting Parja Patta land rights to the tea garden and cinchona garden workers from Darjeeling hills, Terai, and Dooars region under the Rule 377 of the Parliament.” The tea gardens in the Darjeeling hills had been set up from the 1850s, but workers have been without land rights but for more than 170 years even though jobs in tea plantations are automatically transferred to the next of their kin upon retirement. Bista said: “I informed the house that despite 75-years since Independence, these tea and cinchona garden workers are denied the right to Parja Patta of their ancestral land. The British denied our worker Parja Patta rights, and the succeeding West Bengal government has continued to do the same.” While hill parties have been demanding the land rights for the dwellers of the tea and cinchona plantations, former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang had made the issue a major plank of his campaign while he was contesting the Darjeeling Assembly byelection in 2019. Leaders of his faction in the Morcha had then claimed that nearly 80 per cent of the hill population did not have land rights. “Land in the hills either belongs to tea garden lessees or the forest department,” said a retired land and land reforms official in Darjeeling. Even though Tamang had prominently raised the land rights issue, the same did not resonate with the Bengal government. “Bista’s decision to demand a national law on the lines of the forest act that grants land rights to residents of forest villages will find traction among hill people. Trinamul and its allies have probably lost the plot on this issue,” said a resident. Not just the Darjeeling hills, tea gardens dominate the Terai and the Dooars as well. “In 2019, the West Bengal Govt granted 15 percent of tea gardens lands to tea estate owners, yet the TMC Govt has refused to give Parja Patta rights to the tea and cinchona garden workers,” said Bista. DBT scheme Bista said, according to a reply by Pankay Choudhary, minister of state for finance, Bengal had received Rs 75,233 crore under direct benefit transfer (DBT) schemes from April 1, 2020, till date. The DBT schemes include old age pension, national widow pension, 100-day work and Kisan Samman Nidhi among others. Darjeeling and Kalimpong district have received Rs 1,0964.40 crore during the same period under the same scheme, said Bista. “Today, the people are getting 100% benefit directly accredited into their accounts, without any involvement of the middleman, thanks to the DBT scheme started by the Central Government,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Husband of former BJP councillor Tista Biswas in CMC fray ||Gaurav Biswas, the husband of former BJP councillor Tista Biswas who died in a road accident in October, threw his hat in the ring as an independent candidate from ward 86 for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls. The nomination has come as an embarrassment for the BJP that named Rajarshi Lahiri as the candidate from ward 86 on Monday. “I’m very very hurt. I had sent my resume to the party for the nomination. Everything was almost sure. Then at the last moment, my name was replaced,” Gaurav told The Telegraph. “I don’t even wish to stay as a councillor forever. I just want to finish the unfinished work of my wife and hence, I’ve filed my nomination,” he added. Tista had represented ward 86 at the CMC. She was one of the seven councillors who had won in the 2015 CMC polls on BJP tickets. Sources in the BJP said Gaurav was the first choice for nomination and they were surprised when Lahiri’s name had been announced on Monday. Asked why Gaurav wasn’t fielded, state BJP vice-president and the in-charge of the committee to oversee the CMC polls, Pratap Banerjee, said he was unwell. “If I was unwell, why would I send my CV to them? The change has been done by a few persons who want to help the Trinamul Congress win from the ward,” Gaurav said. State BJP leaders have, however, tried to put up a brave face. Chief spokesperson of the party, Samik Bhattacharya, said: “He (Gaurav) is traumatised by the personal loss.… He is too emotional at the moment. Everything will be sorted out in a few days and we are with him.” Chandra Sekhar Basotia, a BJP worker for 27 years, was expelled from the party on Tuesday. Basotia was an aspirant for a ticket from ward 41 of the CMC, but the party didn’t field him. However, according to Basotia, he had sent his resignation to the state general secretary (organisation), Amitava Chakraborty, through WhatsApp on Monday itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to visit north Bengal next week||Mamata Banerjee will be in north Bengal on a three-day trip next week to attend administrative review meetings of Malda, North and South Dinajpur districts. After assuming the chief minister’s office for the third time in a row, this will be her first visit to these districts. The visit, Trinamul insiders said, is significant for a number of reasons, which include the advocacy for separate statehood by a section of BJP leaders, including some legislators during the past few months, a recent notification issued by the Centre that extends jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 to 50km within the Indian territory from international borders and the upcoming civic polls which are also due in a number of civic bodies of these three districts. A senior Trinamul leader in Malda said ahead of the Assembly elections, Mamata had sought support from people and for the first time, Trinamul could win eight of 12 Assembly seats in Malda. “The party’s performance has also remained good in North Dinajpur (seven of nine seats). It is because of the seats in these districts that the party could bag 23 of 54 seats in north Bengal. With such results, we are expecting some important announcements from her,” said the leader. After the polls, as the saffron camp had to take a beating — BJP ended with 77 seats — the demand for conferment of separate statehood status to north Bengal was voiced by a number of leaders of the party, including some MPs. The demand had also earned support from some organisations and political forces which are known to have considerable clout among the Rajbanshi population. The demand however, has led to a rift within the BJP and two MLAs of the party from North Dinajpur who have quitted and joined Trinamul, have mentioned that it is one of the reasons for their decision. “The chief minister has always played the development card to address such situations and to garner support for her party. There is a high possibility that she will pass the message to residents of these districts against this demand,” said an observer. Also, the Centre’s decision to extend BSF’s jurisdiction is yet another issue that the Trinamul has been underscoring at different quarters. During her earlier visit to north Bengal (in Darjeeling district), the chief minister had referred to the issue. “This issue is working for us, especially in the bordering areas, as was evident from the results of the Assembly by poll of Dinhata (in Cooch Behar). All these three districts (Malda, North and South Dinajpurs) share borders with Bangladesh. It is yet another issue which is likely to be discussed at the review meetings,” said a Trinamul leader in Raiganj. Also, out of the nine municipalities of these three districts, elections are due in seven civic bodies, including two civic bodies of South Dinajpur, the backyard of Sukanta Majumdar, the state BJP chief. “It is evident that Trinamul will desperately try to secure these civic bodies to give yet another jolt to the BJP, particularly in north Bengal where the saffron party has come up with better results than rest of the state, ahead of the 2023 rural polls,” the observer added. According to sources, Mamata will reach Malda on December 6. On the next day, she will hold the review meetings of North and South Dinajpur districts in Raiganj and Gangarampur respectively. The review meeting of Malda district would be held on December 8 from where she would leave for Murshidabad. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda & Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to interact with industrialists in Mumbai||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will engage with industrialists on Wednesday during her first outreach programme outside Bengal in her third term in office when she attends a meeting of Young Presidents’ Organisation in Mumbai. The afternoon meeting at Four Seasons Hotel in Mumbai is expected to be attended by at least 100 business leaders from the financial capital of the country. The 90-odd minute meeting will comprise a presentation from senior bureaucrats of the Bengal administration, sharing of experience by top industrialists from the state and an interaction with the chief minister. Mamata, who landed in Mumbai on Tuesday, is being accompanied by the chief secretary, HK Dwivedi, industry secretary and West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation managing director Vandana Yadav, WBIDC chairman Rajiva Sinha and other senior bureaucrats from MSME and tourism department. A flock of Calcutta-headquartered industry leaders will also be present at the event. Those who have already confirmed their participation include RPSG chairman Sanjiv Goenka, Ambuja Neotia Group chairman Harsh Neotia, Dhunseri Group owner Chandra Kumar Dhanuka, Luxmi Group managing director Rudra Chatterjee, Patton India MD Sanjay Budhia, Bengal Aerotropolis director Utsav Parekh and RIL executive Tarun Jhunjhunwala. Sources said they were likely to share their experience of working in Bengal. “This is the chief minister’s first visit outside Bengal to engage with industrialists and showcase the opportunities that exist in her state. She will also invite industrialists to visit the state and participate in the Bengal Global Business Summit in April 2022,” said a source privy to the development. The Bengal brigade is expected to showcase some of the important opportunities in the state. The proposed sea port at Tajpur and coal block development at Deocha-Pachami are going to get special mention, sources added. On reaching Mumbai, Mamata visited the Siddhivinayak Temple in the evening and then had a meeting with Shiv Sena leaders Aaditya Thackeray and Sanjay Raut. The Bengal chief minister is likely to meet NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on Wednesday. Before leaving for Mumbai, the chief minister expressed hope that her visit would be a fruitful one. “Bengal is now the new destination for business. Many people are looking at the state. We will hold Bengal Global Business Summit next year and expect a large participation there,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
01-12-2021||West Bengal||World Bank approves Rs 1,000-crore loan for Bengal power sector||The World Bank has approved a $135 million loan to improve electricity distribution and grid modernisation infrastructure in Bengal in view of the state’s rapid economic growth and the damage caused to the power infrastructure by Cyclone Amphan. The loan of about Rs 1,000 crore was approved by the bank’s board of directors on Tuesday after an appraisal conducted last February. It has a maturity period of 17 years, including a grace period of seven years. “The ‘West Bengal Electricity Distribution and Grid Modernisation Project’ will strengthen distribution networks, invest in smart-grid technologies and ensure financial sustainability of West Bengal State Electricity Development Corporation Limited (WBSEDCL),” said Junaid Ahmad, the World Bank’s country director in India. The official said the Covid-19 pandemic had adversely affected the financial health of electricity distribution companies in India and in turn the financial health of electricity generation companies and expressed hope that the support to the WBSEDCL could serve as an example for other public distribution utilities across India. The loan from the World Bank is significant because the lender has highlighted that rapid economic growth in Bengal has resulted in growing electricity demand at a rate of 4.5 per cent in the past five years (and) the number of consumers served by the WBSEDCL has more than doubled in the past six years to almost 20 million consumers. The project information document of the World Bank has also mentioned that Bengal can play an important role in facilitating and promoting regional power trade besides noting that “the state is already facilitating electricity trade with Bangladesh”. The observations from the bank will surely be music to the ears of Mamata Banerjee as the report has mentioned that the main increase in consumers has taken place in rural areas, a focus area of the Trinamul government. The report has noted that Bengal has reached close to universal electricity access; which, in turn, has also put a strain on the finances of electricity distribution companies, particularly during the period of Covid-19, as the electricity demand from commercial and industrial sectors has plummeted in recent times. The assessment also recognised the damage from Cyclone Amphan in May 2020, vindicating the repeated claim of chief minister Mamata Banerjee on the issue. “In May 2020, Amphan caused significant damage to the electricity infrastructure in West Bengal,” said the bank. “The project will support network investments to improve operational efficiency and reduce losses”, said Rohit Mittal, the project task team leader from World Bank. A source in the state power department clarified how the department suffered due to Amphan and other recent cyclones. “This support will be handy for us as repeated extreme weather events; from Bulbul to Amphan and then Yaas, have severely damaged electrical infrastructure in Sunderbans as well as other coastal areas of the state." According to estimates as per national disaster response norms, the cost of electrical infrastructure repair and restoration during Amphan was Rs 1345 crore; while state government assessment was about Rs 3230 crore, explained a state government official. The project document claims that the environmental risk of the project is “moderate” as the most extensive activities will happen mainly along existing alignments and would involve cable replacement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
01-12-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri basks in Wriddhiman Saha’s feat  in Kanpur test||Cricket enthusiasts of Siliguri which bred Team India’s wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha came out with huge applause after his innings (61 not out) in the Kanpur test on Sunday. “Many cricket pundits had already written his (Saha’s) cricket obituary after his cheap dismissal in the first innings and he could not stand behind the stumps because of pain on the shoulder. But he has proved his critics wrong by playing a match saving 50 plus score in the second innings and braving his pain, standing behind the stumps,” said Jayanta Bhowmik, the childhood coach of Saha. As the Siliguri boy went to bat at Green Park, the Indian batters were literally struggling against the Kiwi bowlers and had been reduced to 151 for 6. At that crucial stage of the game, Saha cemented the innings by making a 64-run partnership with Sreyas Iyer in the seventh wicket and made an unbeaten stand with Axar Patel of 67 runs that ultimately guided India to get the lead of 280-odd runs. “He (Saha) has once again proved that in test cricket, it is the temperament of a batter that always matters,” said Bhowmik. Saha’s feat has also earned appreciation from budding cricketers of Siliguri, including those who practise at Bhowmik’s coaching centre. Many of them, who idolise their very own “Papali da” (Saha’s nick name) want to follow in his footsteps to join the national squad. “He is our idol and we want to play like him for the country,” said Yuvraj Saha, one of the students of Bhowmik. Senior cricketers of Siliguri are equally elated over the performance of Saha who, in recent times, was out of the team. Manoj Verma, the cricket secretary of the Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad, the subdivisional sports body of Siliguri, said of late, questions were raised about Saha’s performance but he had shown that he still had the capacity and could stand for the team during critical hours. “We need good infrastructure for cricket here so that more promising players can excel to the highest level of cricket like him,” said Verma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
