02-12-2021||West Bengal||Civic polls should not be held in a way that will benefit a particular party, Cal HC tells State Election Commission||Directing the West Bengal State Election Commission to explore the possibility of holding the counting of votes of municipal elections after completion of polling in all civic bodies in the state, the Calcutta High Court has said the SEC is expected not to declare election to municipal bodies in a manner which will benefit one particular party. The court also directed the state and the SEC to submit before it a plan in the form of affidavits disclosing the tentative time schedule for conducting election of all municipal corporations and municipalities in the state in a phased manner by the next date of hearing. The order, which was made available on Thursday, was passed a day before on a petition by the BJP seeking that elections to all municipal bodies in the state be held on a single day. The petitioner also prayed that if this is not possible, then simultaneous counting of elections to all municipal bodies be held so that the result of one municipality may not affect the election of another. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice R Bharadwaj directed the SEC "to explore the possibility and feasibility of doing counting of votes of the municipal corporations/municipal elections after the polling is completed in all the municipalities." The court said the SEC is "expected not to declare the election of the municipal bodies in the state in such a manner which will give benefit to one particular party." The bench directed that the matter will be taken up for hearing again on December 6. The petitioner alleged that the state government is trying to hold at first the elections of the municipal corporations/bodies in the areas where it has a stronghold so that the result of those areas can affect subsequent polls in other municipal bodies. The court observed that it expects that the SEC will "duly keep in mind while preparing the plan for holding the election in a phased manner to ensure that fair, impartial and independent elections take place." The SEC earlier declared that the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) poll will be conducted on December 19. It had told the court that elections of remaining municipal bodies/corporations will be held phase-wise keeping in view the availability of EVM machines. The BJP's counsel had earlier argued before the court that the schedule for the KMC election on December 19 was announced despite the petition being pending before the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Adani meets Mamata, discusses investment scenario in Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday held a meeting with Gautam Adani, the chairman and founder of Adani Group, at state secretariat 'Nabanna'. Adani later tweeted "Delighted to meet @MamataOfficial,Hon'ble Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Discussed different investment scenarios and the tremendous potential of West Bengal. I look forward to attending the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS) in April 2022." Nabanna sources said the meeting continued for one-and-half hours. Mamata visited Nabanna shortly after returning from Mumbai earlier in the day. TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was also present at the meeting, the sources added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
02-12-2021||India||Congress accuses Mamata of helping 'fascist' forces, political opportunism||In a scathing attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the Congress on Thursday accused her of political opportunism and helping "fascist" forces by fighting against the grand old party. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said there is a difference between political opportunism and the fight for the truth, which the Congress is fighting and parties should understand this. "You cannot by sheer political opportunism proceed to strengthen the very fascist forces, represented by the RSS and the BJP, that you are pretending to fight," he told reporters. "Political opportunism may be good for some people or parties, but for us Indianness and our country, democracy and brotherhood, and our compassion and article of faith are the ones on which the Congress has never compromised," Surjewala said. The Congress leader also accused Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Banerjee of speaking different languages at different times, and recalled how she had sided with the BJP and switched sides between the United Progressive Alliance and the National Democratic Alliance several times in the past. "For her it can be political expediency, but for us fighting the BJP and the RSS is close to us," he said. Surjewala recalled Banerjee's statement on August 20 that all political forces have to come together to save democracy in the country and it would not be possible when one stands in support of the BJP. The Congress leader hit out at the TMC for fighting against the Congress in Goa and Uttarakhand. The assembly polls in these states are slated early next year. The Congress is large-hearted and sacrifices to take other parties along with it, Surejwala said, adding that political parties should think if they are not supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi with their actions. "Is Mamata not doing the same as Modi ji is doing. Modi ji is buying legislators and so is Mamata ji. Modi ji is breaking parties and so is Mamata ji doing in breaking parties. The inspiration that Mamata ji once had from Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, it seems she has made fascism her inspiration now. Hope she has not taken on the same path," Surjewala asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Two Trinamul rebels in fray as independent candidates||Trinamul Congress leaders Tanima Bhattacharya and Ratan Malakar filed their nominations on Wednesday as independent candidates for Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls. While the party nominated Bhattacharya from ward 68 only to be replaced later, Malakar was a sitting councillor of ward 73. Trinamul has nominated Kajari Banerjee, the wife of Mamata Banerjee’s brother Kartik Banerjee, in ward 73. Bhattacharya, the sister of deceased minister Subrata Mukherjee, was the original choice for ward 68. Sitting councillor Sudarshana Mukherjee was dropped to field Bhattacharya. However, Mukherjee later replaced Bhattacharya in the list since several members of Subrata Mukherjee’s family had expressed their wish to contest from the same ward, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: 14-year-old girl’s body found in well, kin allege murder ||A 14-year-old girl was found dead in a well near her house in the Falakata block of Alipurduar district on Wednesday early morning. She had been missing since Tuesday evening. Family members alleged that the girl had been murdered and shoved into the well. . When police started a search for the Class X student, they found her body in a covered well near her house around 2am. Her neck was tied with a dupatta, police said. “We suspect someone has killed my daughter. Otherwise, how can she fall into a well that is covered? There is no reason why she should go near the well. We want police to arrest the culprits,” said the girl’s father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Explosion kills three at firecracker unit in South 24-Parganas||Three persons, including two women, were killed on Wednesday morning when a firecracker factory caught fire in the Mohanpur-Sonaria area of South 24-Parganas’ Nodakhali. The incident near Budge Budge reportedly took place following an accidental explosion at the unit. Police said the blast took place around 7.30am when workers were stacking packs of crackers in a storage room. “An investigation is on but no conclusive cause has been ascertained as of yet, ” said an official on Wednesday afternoon. Eyewitnesses said they heard a “huge explosion”, which was followed by “rushing” balls of fire engulfing a section of the factory. A few persons were reportedly trapped in this area of the factory, but were rescued by fire brigade. “A Budge Budge fire tender reached the spot not long after the breakout,” said an official. The deceased were Ashim Mondal, Atithi Haldar and Kakali Midye. All victims were residents of Mohanpur, the police said. Atithi Halder was reportedly one of the “expert” cracker makers in the facility and was a close relative of the owner, Ashim Mondal, who also died in the incident. “A group of workers was late to report today, but that saved them,” said a source. Budge Budge is a major production-base for fireworks in the state and sees heightened activities during winter festivities. Around 100 families live in the area and are involved in the unorganised fireworks trade, most of which operate without safety rules or equipment. Police sources said a few years ago, Ashim Mondal had set up the fireworks factory at his home in the face of objections raised by local residents. Thereafter, Ashim reportedly used to roll out sizable stocks of inflammable chemicals and gun powders for manufacturing and supply. “We had been apprehensive of such an incident for a long time. Since he set up the factory, we had been in a state of panic. The impact of the blast was so strong that the roof of the room where the chemicals and crackers were stockpiled was blown off, ” a neighbour said. Speaking to The Telegraph, superintendent of police, Diamond Harbour police district, Avijit Banerjee said: “Prima facie, it appears the raw material stacked inside the room accidentally caught fire and caused the blast. We have begun a probe and are examining other issues involved in the incident.” Asked whether the factory had proper manufacturing licenses or authorisation, the SP said: “No such authorisation has so far been found. It appears that the factory was an illegal one.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal|| Paddy set ablaze in North Dinajpur, farmers accuse BJP for the act||Two farmers in North Dinajpur district have accused BJP workers of setting afire paddy which was ready for harvest in their field as the duo recently deserted the saffron party and joined the Trinamul Congress. Jangu Sheikh and Bishu Sheikh, residents of Songram village in Raiganj block, filed a complaint at Raiganj police station. Police officers have visited the spot and are probing the case. BJP leaders have denied the allegation. Sources said a group of BJP supporters at Songram and some neighbouring villages had on Monday joined Trinamul at a programme in the presence of the party’s district president Kanaialal Agarwala and Raiganj MLA Krishna Kalyani who had left the BJP earlier. “After we joined Trinamul, BJP workers have become furious and some of them set fire on our field we jointly own last night. We have lost around 2,400 quintals of paddy that was ready for harvest,” said one of the farmers. According to him, they had planned to sell a portion of the harvest and keep the remaining with themselves for their own consumption. Altogether, the duo have to bear a loss of around Rs 50,000, said their neighbours. Local BJP leader Ajit Kumar Pal said: “BJP workers might switch to other parties but that does not mean we will damage the crop of farmers. It was an unfortunate incident. The charges against the BJP are baseless. We believe police will unearth the truth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Govt keen to finalise minimum tea wage by December-end||Labour minister Becharam Manna on Wednesday said the government wanted the minimum daily wage of tea garden workers to be finalised by the end of December. He attended a meeting convened by the state labour department at Madarihat in Alipurduar district on Wednesday to discuss the minimum wage. “We want the minimum wage to be finalised within this month so that it can be enforced from January next year. Elaborate discussions were held today and we are inching closer to a decision. Another meeting will be held in a fortnight,” Manna said after the meeting. Sources said trade union leaders who spoke at the meeting demanded that the minimum wage be fixed at Rs 350 per day. They said tea garden workers should continue to receive fringe benefits as mandated by the Plantation Labour Act. As of now, a tea worker in Bengal receives Rs 202 a day. “We have proposed an amount along with fringe benefits. But from the planters’ side, no such proposal came today. The minister has asked planters’ associations to submit to him in writing the amount they can offer,” said Gopal Prodhan, the president of the Dooars Cha Bagan Workers’ Union The planters said they had objected to the demand raised by the unions. “We have specifically informed the minister that the rate proposed by trade unions is beyond our capacity. If it is fixed as the minimum wage, a number of gardens will fall sick because of stark disparity between earnings and expenditure,” said Amitangshu Chakroborty, the principal advisor to the Indian Tea Planters’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Govt move to introduce Rajbanshi as a medium in five districts ||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to initiate the process of introducing Rajbanshi language as a medium of instruction in five districts of north Bengal and ordered regularisation of around 200 private primary schools in the region. Officials of the state education department posted in the five districts received an order on Tuesday mentioning that two para-teachers should be recruited to each of these schools. The order also said the private schools would receive grants from the state government from now onwards, for which the land on which those institutions stood would be acquired by the district primary school councils (DPSCs). “Students would be taught in Rajbanshi language at 120 primary schools in Cooch Behar district. Two para-teachers would be posted at each school and the land has to be handed over to the DPSC,” said Kanailal Dey, the district inspector of schools (primary) of Cooch Behar. The Rajbanshi community had been demanding for long the introduction of their language as a medium of instruction at primary schools. While placing the state budget in the Assembly earlier this year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said her government would regularise private Rajbanshi medium primary schools. “Altogether, approval has been given for 200 schools. Of them, 198 are Rajbanshi medium schools while the remaining two are Kamtapuri (a variant of Rajbanshi) medium schools. Along with Cooch Behar, these schools will come up in Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur districts,” said a source. The decision, political observers said, is yet another attempt by Mamata to woo the Rajbanshi population. In north Bengal, support of Rajbanshis determines the results of 30 Assembly constituencies and at least four Lok Sabha seats. Earlier, the chief minister had constituted a development and welfare board and two language academies for the Rajbanshis. “The decision is vital at a time when the demand for separate statehood, which was earlier raised by different associations of Rajbanshis, has been renewed by various quarters. Through this move, the chief minister and her party managed to drive home the point that the state government is giving due importance to the Rajbanshi language,” said a political observer. Bangshibadan Barman, who heads a faction of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association, said there should be four permanent teachers at each of these schools. “We welcome the state’s decision to recruit teachers to Rajbanshi schools. But we want four permanent teachers, not two, for each school. Otherwise, the schools will not hand over their land to the DPSCs,” Barman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati University’s NAAC  score comes down||Visva-Bharati was awarded a B grade by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and its failure to achieve the desired ‘A’ category led those associated with the varsity to blame the present regime headed by vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for the falling academic standards. The NAAC has uploaded its ranking on its website after their team’s three-day visit to the campus beginning November 26. Though the varsity got a B+ grade, Visva-Bharati’s score this time has dropped to 2.65 points from 2.82 it had achieved in its first assessment in 2015. Apart from academic issues, the varsity score also suffered because of administrative reasons. A senior official said the NAAC team had repeatedly questioned varsity officials for not having a permanent registrar or a finance officer despite Chakrabarty having joined the varsity three years ago. Officials said lower grades in NAAC means less funding and curtailed freedom to introduce new courses. The grade would be approved when the NAAC executive council holds its next meeting. “The grade and score will be approved in the next executive council meeting. There is an option for the varsity to appeal for a review of the score and grade but such changes rarely happen,” said a varsity official. Responding to the NAAC performance, Somnath Sow, a suspended student of the varsity who took part in most of the protest against Chakrabarty, said: “All through the VC was busy punishing students and the teachers. The VC should take responsibility publicly for the varsity’s poor grade for which the varsity will suffer over the next five years.” Visva-Bharati's acting public relations officer Atig Ghosh, however, did not respond to queries about the poor NAAC grade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: 668 new cases, 675 recoveries and a dozen deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 668 Covid-19 cases, 675 recoveries and a dozen deaths, resulting in a drop by 19 in its total of active cases to 7,712. A minister said the number of new cases reported on Wednesday was indicative of people who had got infected in the period from November 22 (nine days after Jagaddhatri Puja) to 26. Calcutta reported 172 infections and North 24-Parganas 131 on Wednesday. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logged four each. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 487 — 72.9 per cent — of the new infections. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.79 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, below the national rate of 98.36. Bengal now has over 16.16 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.89 lakh recoveries and 19,498 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal||High Court issues directive to govt and panel on civic polls||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday asked the Bengal government and the State Election Commission to inform it by Monday about its plans to conduct polls pending in 112 civic bodies. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava was hearing a petition moved by the BJP seeking the court’s direction to the government and the commission to hold the civic polls in a single phase. Appearing for the commission, lawyer Jayanta Mitra told the court that since the rate of vaccination in Calcutta was higher than other municipal areas, his client had decided to hold a civic poll first in the city as a test case. Mitra also said logistic issues had prompted the commission not to hold polls to the 112 civic bodies in a single phase. “Due to shortage of EVMs and other logistic support, elections in the other municipalities would have to be conducted in phases,” Mitra said. Mitra said the commission required 30,073 EVMs to hold polls in a single phase but it had only 15,600 voting machines at its disposal. The bench asked in that case, why wasn’t the commission holding the civic polls in two phases. Responding to the query from the bench, Mitra said even that was not possible because issues of manpower were involved in holding the polls. This apart, unlike Calcutta the rate of vaccination was low in the districts and the Covid situation had to be kept in mind by the CEC while planning the civic polls, Mitra told the court. After hearing the arguments, the court asked both the government and the commission to inform on Monday in how many phases they wanted to conduct the civic elections. Suvendu case The high Court on Wednesday shifted the venue of a defamation case moved by Trinamul MP Abhishek Banerjee against BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari from a Burdwan court to the Calcutta City Civil Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Roopa's sudden outburst on ticket distribution adds to BJP’s civic ache||Rajya Sabha member Roopa Ganguly abruptly logged out of a virtual meeting chaired by Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar and his predecessor Dilip Ghosh after she alleged irregularities by the state leadership in the distribution of tickets for Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls. “Before quitting the online session, Ganguly said she shouldn’t be called to “such meetings,” said a BJP insider. She later took to social media to proclaim her support for Gaurav Biswas, an independent candidate from ward 86 of the CMC. Biswas is the husband of Tista Biswas, the deceased BJP councillor from the same ward, and was an aspirant for a BJP ticket. However, the party named Rajarshi Halder from ward 86, which led Biswas to file his nomination as an Independent. In her post Ganguly, who is the former state chief of the BJP’s women wing, wrote: “Today my belief got confirmed that Tista death was not a mere accident but a murder. Sorry BJP4Bengal, I am with Gaurav in my little capacity”. Tista died in a car accident in October near Tamluk in East Midnapore while she was returning from Digha. Her husband, Gaurav, was also in that car, but he survived with injuries. Sources in the BJP said Ganguly was unhappy over the fact that she wasn’t consulted before distributing civic poll tickets in south Calcutta. “She is also upset over the fact that Tistadi’s husband was denied a ticket. Both Tistadi and Gauravda are close to her,” a BJP leader said. Barrackpore MP and BJP’s CMC polls committee observer, Arjun Singh, said Ganguly must resign as an MP before pledging her support for someone other than the party’s candidate. In at least three wards, the BJP struggled to find proposers for their candidates. While some sources have said those wards are minority-dominated and no one would propose a BJP candidate, others said Trinamul Congress goons stopped the proposers from signing the candidates’ forms. “After a lot of struggles, we managed new proposers at the last hour. We are not sure if these candidates would pass the scrutiny,” a BJP state functionary said. In ward 6, two candidates have filed nominations for the BJP. Sources said Pramila Singh, the original nominee of the party, is physically unwell. Another person has been given the party symbol. Wednesday was the last day to file nomination for the Calcutta civic polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
02-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata plea to like-minded forces for throwing BJP out of power||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the civil society to come forward and show the way, advise the political leadership of the country on the way forward, in her plea for all like-minded forces to close the ranks against the BJP in their common quest for ousting the right-wing force from the Centre, in order “to save the country, save the democracy”. During an interactive session with civil society members at the Y.B. Chavan Centre in Mumbai’s Nariman Point, organised by the likes of poet Javed Akhtar and columnist Sudheendra Kulkarni, the Bengal chief minister asked the civil society to do its bit in saving the country. “Unfortunately, we are facing the cruel attitude and undemocratic attitude… unethical. I do not know how we are being tortured… in the name of right-wing, one political party, the BJP. I am sorry to mention the name,” said Mamata in response to a question from filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, who lauded her as “a face of hope”. “If we want to really fight them, let us be united. Wherever you are, speak out. Bowl them out. You can bowl them out. We can fight it out. Never say no. Never say we cannot,” she added to loud cheers from the audience. “That’s why, instead of political parties… political parties will do their job. But you are the main pillar of society. You do your job.” The event had in attendance scores of civil society members known for speaking out against the saffron regime in recent years, such as actors Swara Bhaskar, Richa Chadha, Kubbra Sait, author Shobhaa De, comedians Munawar Faruqui, Aditi Mittal, Agrima Joshua, activist Medha Patkar, and actor-politician Shatrughan Sinha. The Trinamul Congress chief, felicitated by the gathering for her resounding victory against the BJP in Bengal this summer, said she believed there ought to be an advisory body of eminent civil society members to guide the political parties – presumably, those currently in the national Opposition – to get their act together. “Such civil society meetings, do it in every state. Unite everyone. If you can do it, then these people (the right-wing) will get scared,” she said, adding that she had suggested a group of experts or an advisory council from the civil society to the Congress on a number of occasions, but her advice remained unheeded. She said the likes of Mahatma Gandhi’s grandson Gopalkrishna Gandhi, former Chief Election Commissioner of India S.Y. Quraishi, Kulkarni and Akhtar should be in such a body. “That (body) will advise us…. People like you, together, without our interference…. You give us direction, what we should do, what we should not do,” said Mamata during the 90-mminute event. “You advise us, you people guide us, you give us the suggestion. So that you control the political parties, that you (the parties) have to do like this and you have to save the country. Our motto is to save the country, to save the democracy. If you want to save the democracy, then we have to work together… means, your society is a big society, it cannot be left out,” she added. When Bhaskar lauded her because “khyala hoye gyachhey (the game is over)”, congratulating her for the resounding victory against the BJP in Bengal, Mamata said the khyala had only just begun. Addressing Bhaskar, and referring to the likes of her, Chadha and Sait, Mamata asked: “Why don’t you join politics? Tough ladies and strong ladies….” Asked specifically by De if Mamata was willing to throw her hat in the ring as an answer to the question – often pitched by the saffron camp as the principal logic for keeping the BJP in power – “if not (Narendra) Modi, then who”, the chief minister asked: “Why don’t you try for yourself? Why only politicians?” “The matter is not for Prime Minister. The main aim should be wiping out the BJP… and saving the democracy…. Automatically, the situation will decide all this…. But first, khyala hobey (the game is on),” said the Trinamul chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
