03-12-2021||West Bengal|| Two run over by SUV in sequel to Gangtok spat||Two persons were mowed down by an SUV taxi driver allegedly in rage following a spat between two groups at MG Marg in Gangtok in the small hours of Thursday. Two persons were injured also. The deceased were Chopel Bhutia and Dhan Kumar Chettri, both from Sikkim. The injured duo are being treated at STNM Hospital in Gangtok. Police arrested three persons in connection with the incident, including Pawan Subba, the main accused and a driver by profession who hails from Bijanbari in Darjeeling. They have also impounded the vehicle. According to police, the incident happened between 12:30am and 1am on Thursday. A group of six hotel workers on their way home were taking pictures in front of a statue of a panda at MG Marg, the Gangtok’s main promenade, when they got into an altercation with a group of four drivers. Two from the drivers’ group went up to Children’s Park , a stone’s throw from MG Marg, where their car was parked and drove the SUV down Tibet Road and entered MG Marg, strictly a no-vehicle zone, and ran over the group engaged in the spat. Chettri, one of the deceased, was a part of the drivers’ group. Asked if the accused were drunk, additional superintendent of police, East Sikkim, Sonam Dechu, said the matter was under investigation. “We have registered a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC against the accused,” said Siva Prasad Yellasari, East Sikkim SP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
03-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 657 new Covid cases, 667 recoveries and a dozen deaths||Bengal on Thursday reported 657 new Covid-19 infections, 667 recoveries and a dozen deaths, resulting in a drop by 22 in its total of active cases to 7,690. A minister said new infections reported on Thursday meant those infected between November 23 and 27. Calcutta reported 153 fresh cases and three deaths. North 24 Parganas reported 122 fresh cases and five deaths. These were the only two districts with a threedigit figure of new cases found in a day. Seven districts reported a single digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 438 or 66.67 per cent of the new infections detected on Thursday. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. Over the 68 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day fall in active cases or Covid patients under treatment, there has been a net rise of 16 in that total. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.76 per cent on Thursday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, below the national rate of 98.35 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.17 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.9 lakh recoveries and 19,510 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
03-12-2021||West Bengal|| Straying Himalayan black bears prompt head count||Recent incidents of Himalayan black bears straying to the lower reaches of the hills and foothills of North Bengal have prompted the state forest department to plan a survey to estimate the population of the species that usually dwells in the upper reaches of the hills. In the past few weeks, a number of bears have been sighted in Kalimpong, the Dooars and the neighbouring state of Sikkim. While most have been rescued by the forest departments of both states and released in the wild, one of the bears, which reached a tea estate in Jalpaiguri and killed an onlooker who ventured too close, was beaten to death by some people in the crowd. Bears have been sighted in Darjeeling town and in a number of locations of Kalimpong during the past few weeks. “A number of incidents (bears entering human habitations) have been reported in the Dooars, Darjeeling and Kalimpong. In recent years, we have never come across such cases. That is why we are planning a census of the species to have a clear idea about their population, habitat and food,” said Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forest (wildlife, north). Initially, this exercise to estimate the bear population will be carried out in Senchal, Neora Valley and Buxa, the forester said. In north Bengal, the Himalayan black bears dwell in the Neora Valley, National Park of Kalimpong, Senchal Wildlife Sanctuary and Singalila National Park in Darjeeling and in the upper reaches of the Buxa Tiger Reserve, Alipurduar. Sources in the state forest department said in 2012 a similar estimation of the bear population was done at Senchal Wildlife Sanctuary. At that time, the presence of around 15 bears was found in the sanctuary located on the outskirts of Darjeeling town. “The animal usually stays in high altitudes, which means  12,000 feet and above. During winter, it goes into hibernation. Our initial observation suggests that changes in climatic conditions, the increase in population and food shortage may be some of the reasons for the straying of bears in lower areas (human habitations),” Jakhar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
03-12-2021||West Bengal||Balason bridge opens to traffic today||Vehicular movement will resume on Balason river bridge on NH31, northwest of Siliguri, from Friday afternoon, senior officials of Siliguri Metropolitan Police said here on Thursday. Since October 20, traffic on the bridge has been disrupted as one of its pillars tilted and a part of the concrete plank of the bridge subsided in the impact of the swollen Balason river. For the past 43 days, vehicles bound for Siliguri and beyond and moving in from western sides and vice-versa, had to take a longer detour via Asian Highway II. “The Bailey bridge installed by the state PWD on the Balason bridge], is ready. At our end, we have made all necessary arrangements for safer and smoother movement of traffic through the bridge. From 12.30pm tomorrow (Friday), we will allow vehicles to ply on the bridge,” Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of Siliguri Metropolitan Police, said. He added the Bailey bridge has a weight limit and hence some categories of vehicles will not be allowed to ply on the bridge. “We will allow vehicles weighing up to 15 tonnes. Among these include two and three wheelers, school buses, cars and other passenger vehicles. E-rickshaws, rickshaws and rickshaw vans however, will not be allowed,” said Sharma. The senior police officer said that movement of all goods vehicles will be restricted on the bridge. “Trucks, buses which have capacities of over 42 seats, Volvos, and even trucks of defence and other security forces can’t move on this bridge. Other vehicles of defence and other forces can use the bridge,” the commissioner added. According to him, as the width of the Bailey bridge is 4.25 metres, vehicles will move in one-a-side manner on the bridge. The police, sources said, have installed signals on both ends of the bridge, along with guard rails and height barriers. “We have also raised a traffic outpost at Balason. A sub-inspector is in charge of the outpost and he will monitor traffic movement through the bridge round the clock. Also, we will keep vigil on the site through six CCTV cameras and a watchtower,” said an officer. The state PWD, sources said, has put around 20 halogen lights in the spot for traffic ease after sundown. The announcement has come as a major relief for thousands of commuters. “It is good that the route is finally reopening. We hope the state government also takes up necessary initiatives with the Centre for a new bridge parallel to this one, keeping in mind the amount of traffic in and around Siliguri,” said Sisir Das, a bank employee and daily commuter along this route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
03-12-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar cop goes missing, search on to trace him||An assistant sub-inspector of police posted at Jaigaon police station of Alipurduar district has gone missing since Wednesday noon. Police have launched a search to trace ASI Ratan Kar. Sources said that Kar, the ASI posted in the traffic wing of the police station, had left the bordering town of Jaigaon around 12pm on Wednesday on a two-wheeler. He was supposed to reach the checkpoint raised by the police on Asian Highway 48 at Hasimara, but did not. Worried police officers later on Wednesday evening inspected the CCTV camera footage available along the route and came to know that Kar had crossed Dalsinghpara, around 6km away from Jaigaon, but then had gone missing. The police officer hails from Dinhata of neighbouring Cooch Behar district. “We contacted his family members but they also have no clue about his whereabouts. We are also trying to find his two-wheeler,” said an officer of Jaigaon police station. Senior police officers are perturbed about Kar’s disappearance. “It is indeed surprising that a police officer went missing while being on duty. The traffic DSP traffic has been instructed to probe the incident and find the officer,” said Bholanath Pandey, Alipurduar superintendent of police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
03-12-2021||West Bengal|| ‘Peddler’ from Murshidabad held with brown sugar in Siliguri||The special operation group of Siliguri Metropolitan Police held a joint raid with Bagdogra police on Wednesday to seize brown sugar (a derivative of heroin) worth around Rs 55 lakh from a resident of Murshidabad. Police said the arrested person, Md Hasibul Sheikh, is a drug peddler. “We have seized 270 grams of brown sugar worth around 55 lakhs from him,” said a police officer. Troops of 61 battalion of the Border Security Force deployed at the outpost in Bhimpur on India-Bangladesh border in South Dinajpur nabbed an Indian resident, allegedly a smuggler, trying to cross the international border on Tuesday. Prasenjit Mahato, a resident of Srikrishnapur village, was later handed over to the Hilli police station. The BSF personnel of the north Bengal frontier seized various items including cattle and cough syrups worth Rs 4.27 lakh from different locations from November 30 to December 2. Those items were about to be smuggled to Bangladesh, BSF sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
03-12-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul rebels vow to stay in fray as Independent candidates||The Trinamul Congress is facing resistance from three of its leaders who filed nomination as Independent candidates after being denied tickets by the party. Sachhidanda Banerjee, Tanima Chatterjee and Ratan Malakar have nominated themselves as Independent candidates from wards 72, 68 and 73, respectively. Banerjee had unsuccessfully contested the 2015 civic polls as a Trinamul candidate from Ward 70. He lost then to the BJP’s Asim Basu, who later defected to Trinamul and is the ruling party’s candidate from the ward this time. Banerjee was upset with Basu’s induction and has been inactive in the party since then. He has now filed his nomination against Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi’s brother Sandipranjan Bakshi from Ward 72. Sources close to Banerjee said he has spoken to senior leaders Debashis Kumar, Firhad Hakim and to the offices of state president Bakshi and national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee. Kamarhati MLA Madan Mitra was sent to convince Banerjee to change his decision, but he has clarified his position in all his conversations and said he would contest the election. “I am not part of Trinamul. They cannot suspend or expel me. I have decided to fight because the local Trinamul workers want me to. If I withdraw now it would be betraying them,” said Banerjee, who was the chairman of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation between 2010 and 2015. Malakar, who filed his nomination against Mamata’s sister-in-law Kajari Banerjee, was the councillor of the ward and was denied a ticket. Malakar has said he hasn’t decided on whether he would withdraw the nomination. Chatterjee said there was no question of withdrawal. A sister of deceased stalwart Subrata Mukherjee, she was nominated by the party, but was soon replaced to accommodate former councillor Sudarshana Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
03-12-2021||West Bengal||In a first, Chhau artistes wow audience with  Tagore opera||A group of Chhau dancers on Wednesday night staged Balmiki Pratibha, the dance drama by Rabindranath Tagore, through the traditional folk art at Barabazar Rajbari complex in Purulia. Giasuddin Ansari, the mentor of the Chhau team from Barabazar associated with Barnali Ghosh, a former Visva-Bharati student, staged the iconic dance drama in the folk dance form. Ansari, who has travelled across the country with his Chhau troupe, said it was first time Tagore’s Balmiki Pratibha was staged in the Chhau form. Barnali said she trained around two dozens of Chhau dancers in past the six months. Masud Raihan, Barabazar block development officer, said: “The performance attracted all and Tagore’s Balmiki Pratibha got a new form of expression. We will promote those who come up with other works of Tagore in the Chhau form.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
03-12-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista protests call for GTA elections move by CM Mamata||Local BJP MP Raju Bista has demanded the dissolution of the Gorkhland Territorial Administration (GTA) in Parliament while the party’s ally Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) has shot off a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah for the second round of tripartite meeting on the hill solution as fast as possible. The trigger behind these developments seems to be chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s recent announcement that her government would soon hold elections to the GTA, due since 2017. With both BJP and GNLF opposed to GTA, Mamata’s announcement put the saffron party and its ally in the hills in a spot. “It will be difficult for them to contest the elections (as they publicly are opposed the GTA) but if they don’t contest it would be akin to their handing power to their rivals on a platter,” said an observer from the hills. On Wednesday, Bista, speaking on the hill issue at the Lok Sabha, demanded dissolution of GTA and also expressed his displeasure over Mamata’s decision “….recently the West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee ji said that she will call for elections to the GTA.I informed the house (Lok Sabha), that by trying to impose elections for GTA, the TMC government in West Bengal is once again going against the will of the people, and they are trying to undermine the ongoing tripartite talks to find Permanent Political Solution,” said Bista in a written statement. “I have therefore requested the Central Govt to dissolve GTA altogether so that together we can arrive at the Permanent Political Solution at the earliest.” Although Bista demanded dissolution of GTA in Parliament, the hill body has been formed under a state Act passed by the Bengal Assembly. The Union home minister convened a meeting “for resolution of issues related to Gorkhas” in Delhi on October 12. The delegates had then said that the next round of meetings would be held soon after Diwali, preferably by November. The GNLF, which met on Thursday, sought from Shah a second round of meeting as soon as possible. “The earnest request to fix the date for holding second Tripartite Meeting urgently is compelling and arises out the apparent eagerness of the State Government to conduct GTA elections soon,” wrote Mann Ghisingh, president, GNLF, adding that “the uncalled haste” to hold the GTA election is “baffling and confusing especially in the midst of the tripartite meeting” on permanent political solution. The Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatrantrik Morcha, a Trinamul ally in favour of holding the GTA election, issued a statement attacking Bista. “If Raju Bista wants to dissolve GTA, he should first create a separate state of Gorkhaland,” said Keshav Raj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
03-12-2021||West Bengal||Fertiliser shortfall hits potato crop, farmers accuse govt of supply bias||Around 15 lakh potato farmers in Bengal, facing a severe fertiliser crisis in the sowing season, are compelled to buy it at higher prices from the open market because of shortage in supply through government channels fed by the Centre. Sources said hundreds of farmers are visiting agriculture offices across the state to register complaints on the fertiliser shortage, particularly in Hooghly, East Burdwan, West Midnapore and Bankura districts. Farmers are also complaining about retailers making the most of the crisis and charging Rs 800-1,000 over and above the retail price for a quintal of a fertiliser. “The state government has already written to the Centre informing it about the requirement of fertilisers but there is huge shortage of MoP (muriate of potash) and DAP (diammonium phosphate). After the shortfall was reported, the Centre promised us to provide sufficient DAP in December but only one-third of the MoP required in Bengal. These fertilisers are crucial in this peak season of sowing potatoes,” said Pradip Majumdar, agriculture adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Sources said there was around 10-20 per cent deficit in the supply of DAP and 40 per cent deficit in the supply of MoP in Bengal in November. According to the latest communication from Delhi, it promised to provide 33,000 tonnes of DAP in December to meet the demand. However, the Centre said it would supply only 8,500 tonnes of MoP against the demand of 30,000 tonnes. Potato, sown in November and December and harvested from March, is considered as one of the economically viable crops. According to farmers, while they earn Rs 10,000 by cultivating paddy on an acre of land, the return from potato from the same plot can be around Rs 50,000. Bengal produces around 90-100 lakh tonnes of potatoes every year. However, last year production was higher. Bengal produced around 115 lakh tonnes of potatoes.  Agriculture department officials said earnings from potato helped many farmers run their families. The central government supplies subsidised fertilisers to thousands of retailers through private agencies to reach farmers across India. Senior agriculture officials in the state said the fertiliser shortage was nationwide as the Centre had imported fertilisers fewer than requirement following a sharp spike in prices in the international market. States like Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana have the highest demand for fertilisers in this winter sowing season. Amal Haldar, the state secretary of the CPM-affiliated All India Kisan Sabha, however, accused the Centre of supplying more fertilisers to Uttar Pradesh where elections are due next year. “The central government has taken a policy to deprive Bengal. It is supplying extra fertilisers to Uttar Pradesh where election is due. As a result, farmers in Bengal are forced to buy fertilisers at higher prices,” said Haldar. Sources said as soon as retailers sensed shortage in supply, they hiked up the selling price of fertilisers. Many retailers with old stocks of fertilisers sold them in the black market. “The state government should form a task force to stop black-marketing of fertilisers,” Haldar said. Anup Chowdhury, a potato farmer from Bankura’s Katulpur who grows the crop on three acres, said he had to pay Rs 20,000 extra to buy DAP and MoP from the open market.  Farmers of Katulpur of Bishnupur in Bankura and Goghat of Hooghly had been staging demonstrations in front of retail shops and have submitted memorandums to agriculture offices accusing retailers of selling fertilisers in the black market. “Fertilisers like DAP is usually sold at Rs 1,200 per bag (50 kg) but we are now forced to buy it for Rs 1,700. We don’t have any option as this sowing season and we cannot do without the fertiliser. We have filed complaints with the agriculture office in our area,” said Chowdhury. The state government had already asked its officials to conduct raids on fertiliser shops in potato producing Hooghly, Bankura and East Burdwan to crack the whip on those fertiolisers at higher prices. “Raids are on in all districts to stop black marketing. We are trying to supply liquid potash to farmers as a substitute of MoP,” said a senior agriculture official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
03-12-2021||West Bengal||Sikkim bars entry of foreigners, deals a blow to Bangladesh visitors||A decision made by the Sikkim state government to stop issuing permits to foreign nationals has come as a fresh jolt for the tourism industry of the entire region. On Tuesday, the state home department of Sikkim came up with a notification stating that from December 1 to 15, the ILP (Inner Line Permit), RAP (Restricted Area Permit) and PAP (Protected Area Permit) would not be issued to any foreign national. As Sikkim sits on the India-China border, foreigners traveling to the state had to carry such permits, depending on their itinerary. Since last year, the tourism sector in north Bengal and the neighbouring state of Sikkim had taken a beating amid the Covid 19 pandemic, with thousands associated with the industry rendered jobless. The fresh notification by the Sikkim government had come as a fresh jolt, they said. “Things had just started improving from September and onwards this year as restrictions were relaxed and people were allowed to travel to other states and countries. The inflow of tourists increased from October and we were expecting a good winter season, considering the trend of bookings. However, this sudden decision has left us concerned as several Bangladeshi tourists had booked trips to the region,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network. A senior hotelier in Siliguri who runs hotels in Sikkim said that till 2018, Bangladeshi residents were not allowed in Sikkim. But after that restriction was withdrawn, thousands of residents from the neighbouring country enthusiastically started to visit the Himalayan state. “(After this notification by the Sikkim government), Bangladeshi residents can still visit Darjeeling, Kalimpong and the Dooars (which are in Bengal) but we have seen that foreign tourists always prefer to cover an entire circuit, and this Himalayan circuit includes Sikkim. The recent decision of the Sikkim government has made several Banglaeshi tourists cancel their trips. At a time we were thinking of recovering from the losses, this (notification) has come as a fresh jolt for us,” the hotelier added. According to Sikkim tourism department’s numbers, in 2019, a year before restrictions were imposed because of Covid-19, 1,33,388 foreigners had visited the state. In 2018, the number of foreign tourists in Sikkim was 71,172. “Out of these 1.33 lakh foreign tourists, as many as 60,542 were from Bangladesh and 56,781 were from Nepal. Last year, and even during the first six-seven months of this year, people could not travel because of the pandemic. But in the winter this year, we were expecting a steady inflow of tourists, especially from Bangladesh,” said a travel house owner in Sikkim. Those associated with the tourism sector also said the Centre should intervene in this matter because only a couple of days back, coinciding with the day the Sikkim government  issued this notification, India had removed Bangladesh from the list of “countries at risk”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
03-12-2021||West Bengal|| Cyclone Jawad: Nabanna asks districts to be on alert||The state government has alerted Bengal’s three coastal districts and 12 others, on “maximum preparedness” in the run-up to possible “intense low-pressure” formations associated with Cyclone Jawad that will potentially make landfall on the coasts of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh this week. While advising necessary evacuation of people from vulnerable areas, checking rescue shelters and other methods of preparedness, Nabanna has also asked farmers to see if early harvest if possible. The latest weather update issued by the Alipore Met office on Thursday afternoon indicates concentrated well-marked low pressure over the Southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman sea, likely to cause very heavy rainfall (7-20 cm) in all coastal districts as well as in North 24-Parganas, Bankura, Jhargram, and Howrah starting Saturday and carrying over to Sunday. In addition, heavy rainfall is likely to occur in parts of Purulia, Bankura, Hooghly, Nadia, Birbhum, Murshidabad, East Burdwan, West Burdwan and Malda districts. The IMD has also apprehended that thunderstorm, accompanied by lightning and gusty winds with an average speed of 40-50kmph, are likely to batter parts of North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, East and West Midnapore, Calcutta, Jhargram and Howrah. Bankura, Purulia, Birbhum, Hooghly, Nadia, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Murshidabad and Malda are likely to face 30-40kmph windspeed during the weekend. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday reviewed the situation and held talks with several district magistrates, conveying her concern and asking authorities to prevent the loss of property and human life by ensuring best practices. In this connection, control rooms will be set up at the DM, SDO and BDO offices. She also advised the WBSEDCL, PWD, PHE, health, agriculture and allied departments to be prepared. Earlier on Thursday, the administration of coastal districts responded to weather alerts and began awareness campaigns on loudspeakers, asking all fishermen to return from the deep sea. Authorities also undertook precautionary evacuation drives in the area. Districts administration have advised farmers to carry out early harvesting of mature crops and to complete threshing by Friday afternoon, since the heavy rainfall might cause damage over the weekend. “We have ADOs conveying the message to farmers”, said an official of the agriculture department in Calcutta. The agriculture department at the same time has advised farmers to delay the sowing of potato seeds by a week to avoid possible washing-out. Additional Director of fisheries (marine), South 24-Parganas, Jayanta Pradhan, explained: “The weather updates indicate that seawind might turn squally over the weekend days and might reach a speed of 70kmph starting on Saturday. Apprehending volatile conditions in the sea, we have called back the fishermen and are hopeful that they will return by Friday afternoon.” At the same time, the administration has informally advised hoteliers in East Midnapore to discourage tourists from visiting Digha, Sankarpur, Mandarmani, and Tajpur owing to the threat of the incessant rain. However, the district administration will take a final call on Friday morning. The irrigation department too has alerted its officials to be prepared for repair work on earthen dams, which might possibly be damaged by high tidal waves. Irrigation officials also advised monitoring of the situation during Sunday’s slated high tide, which might cause damage to the weaker stretches of dams. South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “As a precautionary step, we have deployed two NDRF teams in Namkhana and Kakdwip, while we have also deployed two SDRF teams at Patherpratima and Sagar to ensure fast rescue operations. At the same time, we have undertaken alertness campaigning in coastal areas and are planning to evacuate around 11,000 residents from low-lying areas.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
03-12-2021||West Bengal||Adani calls on Mamata, discusses investment scenario in Bengal||Gautam Adani, the country’s second-richest industrialist, blew into town on Thursday for a pow-wow with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, creating a flutter in industry circles and promising to provide a coruscating edge to the state’s global investment summit in April. Details of the meeting, which was held in secrecy at Nabanna, were kept tightly under the wraps. After the meeting, Adani tweeted: “Delighted to meet @MamataOfficial, Hon'ble Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Discussed different investment scenarios and the tremendous potential of West Bengal. I look forward to attending the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS) in April 2022.” He also posted a photograph with the Chief Minister. The meeting came just a day after Banerjee told the audience at Infocom 2021, the flagship B2B conference of the ABP Group: “My next target is industrial growth.” Adani, who has a net worth of $ 74.3 billion networth and is ranked 13th on the Bloomberg Billionaire’s Index, straddles the infrastructure swathe with interests in ports, airports, power, mining, oil and gas, transportation, food processing and real estate. The Adani group has a market capitalization of $130.94 billion. The industrialist has been eyeing opportunities in Bengal for quite some time – and is expected to articulate the full scale of his ambitions for the state at the global business summit. The sudden unexpected meeting with Banerjee dispelled the mood of disappointment that had crept in after a fairly low-key meeting with just a handful of industrialists during the Chief Minister’s two-day trip to Mumbai earlier in the week. The meeting with Adani also came a week after Banerjee met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi and invited him to attend the Global Business Summit on April 22. Abhishek Banerjee, national general secretary of All India Trinamul Congress, was also present at the meeting. However, the state government did not come out with any official communication after the talks. Corporate observers were quick to point out how the signature projects of Mamata Banerjee government would fit in with Adani’s expanding business plans. The Group, which has often drawn flak from the Opposition for its presumed proximity with Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party, has had a limited presence in the state. Apart from Adani Wilmar, the edible oil arm of the Group, which operates one of its largest plants at Haldia and city-gas distribution licence in partnership with Indian Oil Corporation, the Gujarat-based Group does not have a large business footprint here. But all that may soon change. Adani Ports, India’s largest private sector operator, has emerged as the highest bidder to operate a bulk cargo handling berth at Haldia. It has also qualified as a bidder to mechanise and develop a container terminal at Kidderpore in Calcutta. The company also evinced interest in developing the Tajpur greenfield port in East Midnapur district, one of Banerjee’s flagship projects, by participating in a pre-bid meeting organised by the government. “Adani is keen to develop Tajpur and is reported to be seriously evaluating the proposal,” said a port and shipping source who is aware of the developments. The Telegraph had reported Adani’s interest in the Haldia, Kidderpore and Tajpur projects. Corporate mavens wondered whether Adani’s ambitions would be confined to the port sector alone. It is also expanding its operations in mining, especially coal. Bengal has plans for a major project in this area. Banerjee’s government is keen to develop the Deocha-Pachami coal block, which is reported to have 2.1 billion tonnes of reserves in the Birbhum district. The distance between the mine and the Tajpur port can be covered in no more than six hours. The industrial corridor coming up at Jangalmahal could house Adani’s renewable energy project sources suggested, adding that the group could also explore opportunities in Bengal’s food processing sector. “The Adani Group’s business ambitions mesh well with the opportunities that Bengal has started to throw up. This development could not have been better timed: Banerjee plans to focus on the industrialization of the state in her third term in office, and the Gujarat-based group is looking to expand its operations across the country,” corporate observers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
