04-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government readies to-do list on Omicron||The Bengal government is planning to set up a separate wing at the Beliaghata ID hospital here for  treatment of all Omicron positive cases, if found, in the state. During a meeting at Nabanna on Friday, senior state government officials identified the Beliaghata ID hospital as the centre where patients of the new Covid-19 variant could be treated. From the very beginning of Covid-19 pandemic, Beliaghata ID hospital remained as the centre of excellence in Bengal. The first few hundred cases in the state were all treated here as no other hospital had the facilities to treat such an infectious disease. “In case of Omicron too, we will rely on the Beliaghata ID hospital till we develop some additional facilities in other Covid hospitals. A separate wing will be developed for all suspected Omicron infections,” said an official. During the meeting at Nabanna, state government and Calcutta airport officials chalked out a detailed plan on how to screen international passengers and the steps thereafter to prevent the spread of the Omicron variant. Under the plan, all passengers flying in from countries “at risk" (for Omicron) will have to undergo RT-PCR test on arrival. If anyone tests positive, his or her sample has to be sent for genomic testing and the person concerned should be admitted at a separate isolation facility for treatment till the genomic report comes. If the report is negative for Omicron variant, the person would be released according to the doctor’s discretion. In case the genomic report is Omicron positive, strict isolation and treatment protocol is to be followed till the person tests negative. If the passengers coming in from countries ”at risk” test negative, they would have to be home quarantined for seven days and undergo retest on eighth day. If the report is negative, self health monitoring is advised for another seven days. If the passenger tests positive in the repeat test, his or her samples have to be sent for genomic testing. He or she has to follow the same procedures applicable for those who tested positive at the airport. In case of passengers arriving from the countries which are not “at risk”, RT-PCR test would be conducted on 5 per cent of passengers based on random sampling. If anybody is found positive, samples have to be sent for genomic testing and treatment should be carried out according to protocol till the genome testing report comes. The rest of the passengers are advised self health monitoring for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
04-12-2021||West Bengal||608 new Covid cases, 615 recoveries and 13 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday reported 608 new Covid19 infections, 615 recoveries and 13 deaths, resulting in a drop by 20 in its active cases to 7,670. A minister said new infections reported on Friday meant those infected between November 24 and 28. Calcutta reported 158 new infections and three deaths on Friday. North 24 Parganas reported 127 new cases and five deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three digit figure of new cases found in a day. Calcutta, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 437 or 71.88 per cent of the new infections detected on Friday. Eight districts reported a single digit figure of fresh cases. Nineteen districts reported zero deaths. Over the past 69 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day streak of constant fall in the number of active cases or Covid patients under treatment, there has been a net fall of four in that total. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.51 per cent on Friday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, below the national rate of 98.35. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.18 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.91 lakh recoveries and 19,523 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
04-12-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: One arrested with cannabis worth Rs 80 lakh ||Police in Alipurduar intercepted a truck that entered Bengal from Assam on Thursday night and seized around 500 kilos of cannabis worth around Rs 80 lakh concealed inside the vehicle’s cabin. Police also arrested Harjinder Singh, the truck’s owner who was also driving the vehicle. He hails from Kapurthala district of Punjab. According to police sources, officers of Kumargram police station had prior information that an illegal consignment of cannabis was on its way from Assam in a truck. Accordingly, as the truck reached the interstate border, policemen intercepted it. “Our men searched the truck but initially found it empty. However, as they searched the cabin's roof, they found it loaded with packets of cannabis. Altogether, 50 packets, each containing 10 kilos of cannabis, have been seized. The cost of the seized items is around Rs 80 lakh,” said a police officer. Arrests The detective department of Siliguri Metropolitan Police arrested three persons from Pradhannagar of Siliguri on Thursday night and seized an automatic pistol loaded with live ammunition from them. Those arrested were Rakesh Chawla, a resident of East Vivekanandapally, Amit Sharma of Ashrampara and Mithun Barman of Champasari, various localities of Siliguri. Troops of Border Security Force (BSF) posted in north Bengal arrested three alleged smugglers. Sources said in a joint operation with the police, the 61 battalion of BSF arrested Abas Ali Sekh, a suspected narcotics smuggler from South Dinajpur district, on Thursday, and recovered tablets and cough syrups worth over Rs 4 lakh from him. He was allegedly trying to smuggle those items to Bangladesh. Also, BSF troops of the 15 battalion apprehended alleged Bangladeshi smuggler Kishore Kumar Roy hailing from Thakurgaon of Bangladesh while he was trying to cross the border on Thursday. Chanchal Sarkar from Panchagarh of the neighbouring country was nabbed by the 176 battalion of BSF on Friday while allegedly trying to smuggle cattle from India to Bangladesh. All the three persons have been handed over to the police, BSF officers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
04-12-2021||West Bengal||Balason river bridge reopens amid sloganeering, BJP-TMC high drama||Politics took the centre stage at the reopening of the Balason river bridge on northwest Siliguri on Friday as rival Trinamul and BJP leaders and supporters sought credit for the installation of the Bailey bridge that facilitated the resumption of traffic along the route. The drama unfolded at the site as Darjeeling DM S. Ponnambalam reached the bridge with senior policemen to formally reopen it. A number of Trinamul leaders and hundreds of party supporters reached the spot. So did a group of BJP supporters led by Anandamoy Barman, the BJP MLA of Matigara- Naxalbari, the Assembly constituency in Darjeeling district where the bridge is located. Both sides started shouting slogans in support of the state and central government, respectively, as the DM and policemen stood on the spot. As some Trinamul leaders walked towards the bridge with the DM, the MLA objected. Police asked him and his supporters to move to the side of the road. An agitated Barman said being the MLA, he had every right to be at the spot. He said central agency NHAI, not the state government, paid for the Bailey bridge and that NHAI funds are being used for the diversion, the work of which is on. “The Centre has also allotted funds for two new bridges, each of which would have three lanes, over Balason river. Funds to the tune of Rs 1,200 crore have been sanctioned for widening this stretch of NH31. Trinamul leaders, who are not even elected representatives, have no business here,” said the MLA. The district magistrate invited the MLA to join the bridge reopening event to which Barman conceded after some time. Trinamul leaders also stood with the DM and police. Eventually, the ribbon was cut and the bridge was opened for traffic. Both sides, however, continued shouting slogans. Later, district Trinamul leaders took a dig at the BJP.  “It is unfortunate that they tried to create tension. Reopening of the bridge for traffic left thousands relieved. It is because of the chief minister’s instructions and initiatives of the state PWD that the Bailey bridge has been readied within one-and-a-half months,” said Alok Chakraborty, chairman of the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul. Since October 20, vehicular movement along the bridge on NH31, one of the important highways that connect parts of north Bengal and the northeast with the rest of the country, was disrupted after one of the pillars of the bridge tilted under the impact of the swollen Balason river. It prompted  both the NH-IX division of the state PWD and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to act. It was decided that a Bailey bridge would be installed along the damaged portion of the bridge and a diversion created through the river bed, parallel to the bridge for movement of more vehicles. After almost one-and-a-half months, on Thursday evening, Siliguri Metropolitan Police commissioner Gaurav Sharma announced traffic on the bridge would resume from Friday afternoon, excluding heavy passenger vehicles, goods vehicles and slow-moving vehicles such as rickshaws, e-rickshaws and rickshaw vans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
04-12-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: Himalayan black bear rescued from tea garden||A Himalayan black bear that strayed into a tea estate on the outskirts of Alipurduar town was tranquillised and rescued by foresters on Friday morning. In the past 10 days, this is the third time that a bear has been sighted in the Dooars. Sources said early in the morning, the bear was seen near Cheko, a village close to the Majherdabri tea estate. From there, it entered the plantations of the tea estate. Some tea workers spotted the animal and raised an alert. The garden’s manager informed foresters of nearby Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR). Foresters rushed to the spot with vets and tranquillising experts. Two pet elephants were also brought to the site to search the area and rescue the animal. As the news spread, hundreds started swarming in the area, prompting the SDO of Alipurduar to impose prohibitory orders on the tea estate and adjoining Cheko and Panialguri villages. On November 24, another bear sneaked into a locality in neighbouring Jalpaiguri district and as people crowded around the animal, it attacked and killed a youth who had ventured too close and was in turn beaten to death. “We didn’t want to take any risk today (Friday) and hence clamped prohibitory orders to prevent people from crowding near the animal,” said an administrative source. Around 12.15pm, foresters spotted the bear in the plantations. One of the foresters shot a dart to tranquillise the bear. It was put in a cage and taken away to the BTR area. “We often see leopards and elephants entering our tea estate near the forest. But this is the first time in recent years that a black bear has been sighted in the garden,” said Chinmoy Dhar, the garden’s manager. At BTR, the bear was examined by vets and released into the wild after primary treatment, Prabin Kaswan, the deputy field director (west) of BTR, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
04-12-2021||West Bengal||Omicron test for Bangladeshis entering through land ports ||The state health department has begun collecting two swab samples each from people who are entering India from Bangladesh through the Petrapole and Ghojadanga land ports to track the possible carriers of the Omicron variant. The health officials posted at the ports have begun collecting two swab samples each of Bangladeshi nationals according to the protocol prescribed by the Union health ministry. Bangladesh is one of the countries that have been identified by the Centre as “at risk” nation following the outbreak of the omicron variant of Covid-19. While one of the two swab samples is being sent for RTPCR test, the other is preserved for carrying out Omicron test in case the person tests Covid positive. The Omicron variant is identified as more contagious than previous variants and the medical experts apprehend that it can reduce the efficacy of the vaccine against Covid-19. Rajib Sana, medical officer at Sibhati Block Primary Health Centre near Ghojadanga landport in North 24-Parganas, said: “We are scanning everyone entering Indian territory according to a government order and they include general people and drivers associated with export and import. There is no question of complacency. We are collecting two samples. One for immediate RTPCR test and the other for subsequent Omicron test, if required.” A senior official of the state health department in Calcutta said in case any Bangladeshi entering India tested positive, his swab would be sent for “genomic sequencing” to Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), an endeavour jointly initiated by Union health ministry, department of biotechnology with CSIR and ICMR. This consortium consists of 28 national laboratories that conduct genomic sequencing. Both in Ghojadanga and Petrapole, the health officials, with support of BSF personnel, are recording all details, including the entrants’ contact number, so that they can be traced in case of reporting Omicron positive. “The initiative is to record the whereabouts of the people so that they can be easily traced in case of becoming Omicron positive,” Sana said. In case of Omicron positive, the patient as per the protocol will be sent for institutional quarantine. Similar initiatives are being taken at Petrapole land port in Bongaon sub division of North 24-Parganas. "We are in touch with the customs and BSF officials who are guiding us and taking an active role to ensure the dual swab collection and test," said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
04-12-2021||West Bengal||Deocha-Pachami helplines to counter negative picture||Opposition parties, including a few social organisations, have started arriving in Birbhum’s Deocha-Pachami to reach out to the villagers and read their pulse on the coal mine project. To counter any negative perception, the Birbhum district administration from Friday started helpline centres at three gram panchayat offices where officials are explaining the compensation package offered to villagers by the state government. Apart from starting helplines, the administration has started a campaign in over two dozen villages asking people to contact panchayat offices and not to listen to “outsiders trying to create a misunderstanding about the government’s rehabilitation package”. “We have asked the panchayats to post a dedicated official at each of the camps and copies of the package in Bengali and Ol-Chiki scripts will be made available there. We have started a public awareness campaign among villagers and asked them to meet panchayat officials to clear queries related to the rehabilitation package,” said Bidhan Ray, the Birbhum district magistrate who visited the coal mine project site on Friday afternoon. Ray also held a meeting with representatives of local bodies and other officials. He directed officials to ensure that the villagers were rehabilitated in a manner that they could in the same environment even after vacating the site for the coal mine. “We are conducting a survey to map each household and their neighbours in an effort to rehabilitate them in nearby places in the same order. The move will help the villagers of the hamlet or para not to feel that they are living in a completely new place,” said Ray. The state government is keeping a close watch on the Deocha-Pachami coal mine project as it is a dream project of chief minister Mamata Banerjee who announced the rehabilitation package on November 9 with a promise of a government job to each affected family and a land price three times the present market rate. With the government in a hurry to start the project in the coming year, Opposition parties have started visiting Deocha-Pachami with an eye on villagers who have expressed their opposition to the mine. A team headed by BJP leaders visited Pachami recently and claimed that most people were unwilling to part with their land. On Thursday, a group of leaders of the CPI-ML visited at least three villages and made similar claims. “We spoke to the villagers and most of them said they didn’t want a coal mine there and we assured them to support their cause,” said Sailen Mishra, the CPI-ML’s Birbhum district secretary. The CPM leaders are conducting a survey in the Deocha-Pachami area to know how many people were opposed to the project and wanted to remain on their land. “We are conducting a study and have received negative responses to the project from tribal villagers and those belonging to other communities in the area. We are not against industry but we will definitely be with those people who do not want to be affected by the project. The government also has the duty to answer questions being raised by the villagers,” said Ram Chandra Dom, a CPM leader and party’s central committee member. Government officials said they had taken at least a dozen steps to stop Opposition parties from misleading villagers. “We know Opposition parties and other organisations are trying to mislead the people living in the Deocha-Pachami area and we will not allow that to happen. The government has offered a very good package and we have started to reach out to villagers from Friday,” said a senior official. Trinamul leaders have also planned to visit houses in the project area to explain how villagers would benefit from the coal mine project. “All are coming to mislead people as their goal is to harass the government and stop the CM’s dream project. We will start a door-to-door visit from next week,” said Kali Banerjee, Trinamul youth president in Mohammedbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
04-12-2021||West Bengal||Rebel pulls out of fray  in ward of Mamata's sister-in-law||Trinamul Congress dissident Ratan Malakar on Friday withdrew his nomination as an Independent candidate from ward 73 of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, where Mamata Banerjee’s sister-in-law Kajari Banerjee is the party’s official candidate. Malakar, a councillor for two decades, attributed his decision to his commitment to the party and requests from the top-tier leadership. Sources in the party said Malakar decided to withdraw after discussion with Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee, a nephew of candidate Kajari Banerjee. “I was, am and will forever remain a loyal foot-soldier of the party. I had taken the decision to contest on account of overwhelming emotion. But after five-six senior leaders of the party explained why I should withdraw, I did not want to continue in the fray,” said Malakar. Kajari Banerjee, whom Malakar visited later in the day, said there was no scope of misunderstanding with him. “We have all grown up here together. He has been like a brother to me. For so many things, every now and then over the years, I went to him. He is an emotional man, and these things can happen,” said Kajari, wife of Kartik Banerjee, one of the chief minister’s brothers. Trinamul sources said back-channel parleys were also underway with two other dissidents from the party who entered the contest as Independents — Sachhidanda Banerjee from ward 72 and Tanima Chatterjee from ward 68. Banerjee — the chairman of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation between 2010 and 2015 — had unsuccessfully contested the 2015 civic polls as a Trinamul candidate from ward 70. He lost then to the BJP’s Asim Basu, who later defected to Trinamul and is the ruling party’s candidate from the ward this time. Banerjee was upset with Basu’s induction and has been inactive in the party since then. He has now filed his nomination against Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi’s brother Sandipranjan Bakshi. Chatterjee, the Independent candidate from ward 68, is a sister of deceased stalwart Subrata Mukherjee. “Saturday is the last day for withdrawal of candidature. If those from Trinamul contesting as Independents do not withdraw, the party will consider stern action against them,” said Trinamul’s south Calcutta organisational district chief Debashis Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
04-12-2021||West Bengal||Himanta Biswa Sarma's KLO tweet ruffles Trinamul Congress||A recent tweet by Himanta Biswa Sarma, chief minister of the BJP ruled Assam, hinting that leaders of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), a banned terror outfit, is willing to return to the mainstream, has prised open a debate in Bengal on whether the Assam chief minister has crossed his brief. Biswa Sarma, charged by the BJP to look after the party's growth in the Northeast, broached the KLO issue in his official twitter handle, “In continuation with (the) Govt of India’s efforts to bring lasting peace in the region, I welcome the desire of KLO leadership to join mainstream at an early date to resolve all issues through political dialogues. (The) Govt of Assam would fully reciprocate this goodwill measure. @ Amit Shah (sic),” he had tweeted.  It triggered sharp response from Trinamul leaders in the state, especially in north Bengal, which is fast emerging as the new battleground between the BJP and Trinamul. The Trinamul line of argument is, if any conciliation has to be done with the outfit or its leadership — involved in various subversive activities and hence charged under various sections in the state —  the Bengal government should also be in the loop. “It is good if the KLO leaders want to return to the mainstream. But simultaneously, the Bengal government should be involved in the process. No such terms should be set for their surrender that can affect the interests and integrity of Bengal. If it happens, we will oppose it tooth and nail,” said Partha Pratim Roy, a former Trinamul MP and former district president of the party in Cooch Behar. A few months back, Jeevan Singha, the self-styled exiled chief of KLO, issued threats to Roy and to Binoy Krishna Barman, another Trinamul leader and a former state minister from Cooch Behar, accusing them of not working “in the interest of the Rajbanshis”. Roy on Friday added Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee rehabilitated hundreds of former KLO militants and linkmen as special home guards to serve in various districts of north Bengal. “The KLO was formed in Bengal and during the past two-and-half decades, people have lost their lives in the hands of these militants. The chief minister of Assam has welcomed their desire to be in the mainstream but it is the same outfit (and Singha) that had labelled our chief minister as an outsider... They had even termed Bengal and the central government as foreign governments (in July). It is important to include the Bengal government in the negotiations,” Roy pointed out. Singha’s comments had not gone down well with Nabanna and a case under UAPA was filed against him, along with charges of sedition. In 1995, KLO was formed by a group of Rajbanshi youths, who resorted to armed struggle for Kamtapur state comprising all the districts of north Bengal and four contiguous districts of Assam. The outfit turned inactive in the early years of the last decade after the Royal Bhutan Army carried out operation flush out in Bhutan. Most KLO leaders were arrested but Singha a.k.a. Tamir Das managed to evade arrest. Singha is suspected to be staying in Myanmar, resurfaced a few months back with videos, renewing the demand for Kamtapur. He was also heard backing the separate statehood demand that was raised by John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar who is the Union minister of state for minority affairs now. A political observer pointed out that in the coming days, this issue is likely to gain ground in the political arena of north Bengal. “If the KLO leaders progress further for negotiations with the Biswa Sarma government, it is but natural that BJP will flag this development to draw support from the Rajbanshi community of Bengal. Trinamul, on the other hand, has started reviving its support base. The civic and rural polls are ahead and it would not let the saffron camp march ahead,” said an observer. Former KLO militants, when asked about the Assam CM’s tweet, said they want a political solution. “It seems that Jeevan Singha has finally understood the reality. It is good if they return to the mainstream like us. We want a political solution to our demand,” said Pulastya Barman, a former militant now staying in Cooch Behar. In Malda, a group of former KLO linkmen walked up to the district magistrate’s office on Friday, seeking an appointment with chief minister who is scheduled to reach the district on December 6. “Around 150 of us in this district are yet to get government jobs. We want to meet the chief minister and place a request before her (for jobs,” said Sanat Kumar Sarkar, a former KLO linkman.  Additional reporting by Main Uddin Chisti and Soumya De Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
04-12-2021||West Bengal||Fishermen safety alert ahead of cyclone Jawad||The state fisheries department has directed officials in coastal districts to ensure that no fisherman stays overnight on boats anchored to river banks, in a bid to avoid accidents during the upcoming Cyclone Jawad. Officials of the state fisheries department have alleged that the “bad habit” of fishermen of sleeping on boats during storms for a “wait and watch approach” on the next day's catch proved risky in the recent past.  “We have told officials to make renewed campaigns among fishermen and their associations so that nobody stays on boat during the upcoming cyclone” a senior official of the state fisheries department said. On November 10, 2019, at least nine fishermen were killed in South 24-Parganas, apart from over a dozen in Bangladesh, when moored boats capsized and were swept away by tidal waves at Namkhana and Raidighi harbours. Additional director of fisheries (marine), South 24-Parganas, Jayanta Pradhan, said: “We began campaigning in all fishing harbours along with the fishermen’s organisations so that no one stays on boats. We have appealed to them not to risk their lives.” The Bengal government asked all district administrations to ensure maximum preparedness for the weekend, and has mobilised allied departments and disaster management wings ahead of the “intensified deep depression” that Jawad is slated to bring. The Indian Meteorological Department stated that low pressure over the Bay of Bengal  intensified into a deep depression on Friday morning and was likely to turn into a “severe cyclonic storm” by Saturday morning. Sources said the cyclone is likely to reach the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coasts on Saturday, and thereafter recurve and move along Odisha to reach Puri with wind speed of 80-90kmph (up to 100 kmph). The cyclone will supposedly then move north-northwest towards Bengal, triggering heavy rainfall (7-20 cm) in East and West Midnapore. North and South 24-Parganas, Jhargram, Howrah, and Hooghly districts are slated to get heavy rainfall (7-11cm). On Sunday, North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Midnapore, Jhargram, Howrah, Calcutta, and Hooghly are likely to get “very heavy rainfall”. Purulia, Bankura, Nadia, Murshidabad, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, and Birbhum are likely to get “heavy rainfall”. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee reviewed the situation on Friday and asked district administrations to arrange relief materials and be ready for “unforeseen situations”. The government has also issued a renewed notification on Friday to caution residents in these districts, many of whom will be witnessing such an incident for the second time within six months this year, against venturing outdoors and has reiterated its concern about mature crops that might be damaged unless harvested immediately. South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “We  stand prepared with sufficient boats, civil defence volunteers, and JCBs (earthmovers) to face the situation. At the same time, we have advised the WBSEDCL, PWD, PHE, health, agriculture departments to be prepared as well.” In East Midnapore, the district administration has shifted 10,000 persons from low lying areas including Digha, Contai, Ramnagar, Khejuri and Nandigram. The administration has asked tourists visiting spots including Digha, Tajpur and Mandarmoni not to venture onto the beaches or into the sea. “We have instructed hoteliers to convey the restrictions to their guests. Any adventurous attempts is likely to land them in jail,” an official of the East Midnapore administration said. To ensure the clampdown, police have deployed nearly 500 civic volunteers as well as NDRF personnel in Digha, Mandarmoni and Tajpur. All 20 block administrations in East Midnapore have also been equipped with tree-loppers and portable saw-cutting machines for early road clearance in the event of possible uprooting. East Midnapore ADM (general) Souvik Chattopadhyay said: “We have taken up all possible precautionary measures and are hopeful of handling any type of adverse situations caused by the cyclone.” Most of the district administrations in South Bengal including in the coastal district have geared up to ensure the early harvesting of crops on Friday, particularly of the ‘Aman’ paddy variety. The South 24-Parganas district magistrate said that around 11,000 people had been evacuated till Friday evening and all boats that had gone to the sea have returned. He added that the Coast Guards were doing an aerial survey to avert any untoward incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
