05-12-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Jawad: Calcutta and other parts of south Bengal receive heavy rainfall||The West Bengal government stopped ferry services on the Hooghly River and urged tourists not to visit seaside resorts, as rain lashed Calcutta and other southern parts of the state on Sunday with cyclonic storm Jawad laying centred 180 km from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh.  The India Meteorological Department forecast that the cyclonic storm will move north-northeastwards towards the West Bengal coast before weakening into a deep depression during the day.  "With the system likely to move north-northeastwards along the Odisha coast towards West Bengal and develop into a well-marked low pressure area, light to moderate rainfall has begun in Calcutta, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas, and Purba and Paschim Medinipur districts," an official said.  Heavy rain will occur in some isolated parts of south Bengal, including coastal areas of South 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur districts, and parts of Purba Bardhaman, he said.  The state administration asked tourists not to visit seaside resorts such as Digha, Mandarmani, Bakkhali, Frazerganj, and other coastal areas on the weekend.  However, with the MeT Department forecasting that there won't be a cyclonic storm in West Bengal, tourists were seen wading into waters and taking photographs of the choppy sea in Digha in Purba Medinipur district and Bakkhali in South 24 Parganas, ignoring the warnings of disaster management personnel camping there.  Regular ferry services on Hooghly connecting North 24 Parganas and Hooghly districts have been suspended, an official said.  The IMD predicted that wind speed will not exceed 55 kmph in coastal areas as the system approaches West Bengal.  The West Bengal government has evacuated around 17,900 people from coastal areas of South 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur and opened 48 relief centres in the two districts, another official said.  The administration has also opened 115 multipurpose cyclone shelters and 135 additional temporary relief shelters to deal with any "emergency-like situation", he said.  "We have kept everything ready to face any problem due to heavy rain in the next couple of days. Weekly offs and other holidays of all staffers have been cancelled," he said.  Nineteen National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have been deployed in West Bengal and quick response teams of the state power and public works departments and West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company (WBSEDCL) have been posted at crucial points, the official said.  While almost all fishermen have returned to Kakdwip, Digha and other coastal areas, the authorities are coordinating with fishermen associations to find out if anyone is still in the deep sea.  Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is constantly monitoring the situation and officials of the municipal bodies are on guard, state minister Firhad Hakim said.  In the last two years, West Bengal has witnessed three devastating cyclones -- Bulbul in November 2019, Amphan in May 2020 and Yaas in May 2021 that left behind a trail of death and destruction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
05-12-2021||West Bengal||Centre, state fast-track widening of strategic National Highway 31 ||The Bengal government and the Centre have come together to take up the task of widening a stretch of a national highway that is a lifeline for the Northeast and passes through the strategic Siliguri corridor or the “chicken’s neck”. On Friday, officials of the state public works department, Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) met virtually to explore ways to expedite work on developing the stretch of NH31 that passes through the northern end of Siliguri and connects the Northeast to the rest of India via the Dooars. “The detailed project report to widen the two-lane stretch of NH31 to six lanes from the Balason river bridge to Sevoke is ready. At the meeting, we said the land required for the project has been acquired. Recently, the MoRTH announced that it would spend around Rs 1,200 crore for the project. It is their call now and we believe the work will start soon along this stretch,” a source in the Bengal PWD said. NH31, which converges with NH27 and runs through the chicken’s neck area — the slimmest stretch of the Indian sub-continent, perched between Nepal and Bangladesh to its north and south — is of paramount importance to the country because of security reasons. Widening is also needed to ease traffic congestion. “Considering the heightened activities of China at the Bhutan border and in areas like the Chumbi Valley at the border of Sikkim and Bhutan, it is necessary to have a robust highway infrastructure throughout north Bengal, especially along the Siliguri Corridor, for seamless movement of defence forces and equipment,” a retired army officer said. At Friday’s meeting, the officials also discussed the widening and improvement of NH10, which too originates from NH 31. NH10 is the principal highway that connects the Himalayan state of Sikkim, which sits on the India-China border, with the rest of the country. A Bengal PWD official said the landslide-prone zones along the highway, which passes through Kalimpong district and enters Sikkim, have been identified. “The Union ministry is focusing on a third project — building a bridge at Sevoke over the Teesta river to connect the Dooars with NH31,” he said. The state PWD has for now installed a bailey bridge over a damaged portion of the Balason river bridge to the northwest of Siliguri. From Friday, vehicles are being allowed on the bridge after a gap of almost one and a half months. Vehicle movement had been stopped on October 20 on the bridge, which is part of NH31, after one of its pillars tilted from the impact of a swollen river. “The state PWD has spent from its pocket to build the bailey bridge. There is a plan to build two three-lane bridges on the Balason river as the highway (NH31) will be a six-lane road from here,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
05-12-2021||West Bengal|| Bengal logs 621 new Covid cases, 624 recoveries, 11 deaths||Bengal on Saturday reported 621 new Covid19 infections, 624 recoveries and 11 deaths, resulting in a drop by 14 in its active cases to 7,656. A minister said Saturday’s cases indicated those infected between November 25 and 29. Calcutta reported 185 new infections and four deaths. It was also Bengal’s only district with a three digit figure of fresh cases detected in a day. Seven districts logged single digit figures during the 24 hour window. Calcutta, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 445, or 71.66 per cent, of the new infections. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate is 1.54 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
05-12-2021||West Bengal||Multi-crore coal theft case: ED summons four aides of key accused||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), probing the alleged multi-crore coal theft case in Bengal, has summoned four aides of Anup Majhi a.k.a Lala, the key accused, to its Delhi office for questioning next week. Jaydeb Mondal, Narayan Nanda, Gurupada Majhi and Nirad Baran Mondal will be asked about the money trail in the case, ED officers said. The ED is probing the alleged theft under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Majhi has not yet been arrested. In September, the CBI had arrested the four accused in connection with its probe into the coal pilferage case, which had reverberations in political waters during the Assembly polls this summer. All of them obtained bail recently. While arresting the four accused, the CBI had claimed they had assisted Majhi “in engaging miners, arranging transporters and selling illegally excavated coal”. The investigators suspect that over Rs 1,300 crore was illegally generated and the amount was reportedly distributed among politicians, police officers and other influential persons. The ED has already questioned Abhishek Banerjee, the all-India general secretary of the Trinamul Congress, in connection with the case. The agency has also questioned his wife Rujira.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
05-12-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek asks party workers to ensure free and fair civic polls||Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday directed party workers to ensure free and fair Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections on December 19 so that rivals do not get an opportunity to discredit the party, sources said. Diamond harbour MP Abhishek, along with other senior leaders of Trinamul, held a meeting with the party’s 144 candidates here. “He said anybody who prevents people from casting votes will be thrown out of the party, irrespective of their allegiance to any top leader,” party candidate and former mayor-in-council Tarak Singh said. According to the sources, Abhishek said Trinamul was in expansion mode outside Bengal and he did not want to give the Opposition any chance to “discredit” the party. “He was very serious on this point. He clearly said the Opposition, primarily the BJP, should not get any chance to discredit us. This is why he has spoken strictly against intimidating voters on poll day,” a candidate who was present at the meeting said. Trinamul candidates have also been asked to focus on door-to-door campaign rather than on big public meetings or rallies. Abhishek said families supporting other ideologies or parties, such as the CPM or the BJP, must also be reached out to. If necessary, the candidate must visit households to showcase the work Trinamul has done in 11 years of running the CMC, the candidate added. Opposition parties tore into Abhishek. CPM leader Sujan Chakraborty said: “Firstly, it is an admission that Trinamul has so far conducted polls forcibly. Secondly, if he actually wants to enforce what he has said, he must throw out those who didn’t allow fair polls in 2019 in the 1,800 booths of his own constituency. Otherwise, it is just another attempt at image makeover for his party.” State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said that if the polls were held fairly, Trinamul would lose. “The electorate is not with Trinamul because of its corrupt ways,” he added. A Trinamul source said chief minister Mamata Banerjee would hit the streets soon to campaign and would cover four Assembly constituencies —Tollygunge, Jadavpur, Behala East and Behala West — through two public meetings on December 16. The first will be at Baghajatin, followed by another at Behala Chowrasta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
05-12-2021||West Bengal||Pheasant species spotted in Darjeeling, enthusiasts excited||The satyr tragopan, a pheasant species, has been spotted at Senchel Wildlife Sanctuary in Darjeeling after 179 years. DFO (Darjeeling wildlife division) S.S.S.S. Sherpa said they had clicked three male satyr tragopans at the sanctuary, the first such photographic evidence of the species at the site since 1842. The birds were spotted at the Sonada beat on 10 occasions between August 12 and 29, 2021. These avian omnivores are listed as “near threatened” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
05-12-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Jawad weakens, heavy rain likely to affect life till Monday||Heavy rain is likely to affect normal life in the state till Monday with the cyclonic storm Jawad weakening on Saturday. The India Meteorological Department said the cyclonic storm currently blowing over the west-central Bay of Bengal was likely to turn into a “deep depression” before making landfall near Puri along Odisha’s coast on Sunday afternoon. Weathermen predicted the cyclonic circulation of wind to move towards the Bengal coast, triggering “enhanced rainfall”, the early impact of which has already become visible from Saturday across the state, particularly its coast. Officials in coastal areas of South 24-Parganas district took up awareness drives and shifted people to safer places. “We have so far evacuated 14,375 persons and opened 43 relief camps, 20 relief shelters and 115 additional special relief shelters. There will be more evacuations if needed,” said South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan, adding that quick response teams of the WBSEDCL, PWD and civil defence were deputed at strategic locations. Several places in East Midnapore saw rain since Saturday morning. Sea resorts Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur saw high tide. Tourists were not allowed to venture towards the beaches. Police and civil defence personnel used the public address system to alert people about the risks. The East Midnapore district administration has deployed around 500 civic volunteers along the beaches at the three popular tourist spots. Roads leading to the beaches have been cordoned off and cops deployed to stop tourists from heading towards the rough sea. “Any adventure by tourists will land them in jail. This has been made clear to them,” a police officer said in Digha. State fisheries minister Akhil Giri visited the coastal areas in Digha and adjacent areas to take stock of the situation. “Our officials are alert and prepared to handle any emergency. The administration is also keeping tabs on tourists to ensure their safety. Our officials are working in coordination with police, civic defence personnel and the coast guard to respond to any emerging situation,” Giri said. Officials expressed concern about possible damage to standing crops in case of heavy rainfall as some farmers refused to harvest “premature” crops. “We are in a dilemma. We have cultivated the Dudhersaar variety of rice, which is too premature to harvest now. We have decided to wait to see the trend of the cyclone till the last minute. If we harvest the crop now and the cyclone changes its path, we will incur heavy losses,” a farmer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
