06-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt proposed elections to municipalities be held in phases by May: State Election Commission to Cal HC||The West Bengal State Election Commission (SEC) on Monday said before the Calcutta High Court that the state government has proposed that elections to 111 municipal bodies be held by May, 2022 in six to eight phases. The SEC in an affidavit submitted before a division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice R Bharadwaj also stated that owing to paucity of EVMs, counting of votes cannot be held together. The SEC affidavit said "the state government has proposed that the municipal elections may be held in 6 - 8 phases by May, 2022" and that the exact schedule will depend upon the COVID-19 situation and the schedule of secondary and higher secondary examinations. It said that the state government has also cited the uncertain impact of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 as a reason for not being able to finalise the schedule of elections to the 111 municipal bodies. Election to Calcutta Municipal Corporation will be held on December 19. Maintaining that it has a limited number of EVMs at its disposal, the SEC said that since the elections to other municipalities would have to be held in phases, the results, too, will have to be declared in phases for securing use of maximum number of EVMs. As EVMs employed in one phase will have to be re-used in subsequent phases, counting needs to be completed stage-wise, it said. The SEC said that the West Bengal State Election Commission Act, 1994 provides that "the state government shall, in consultation with the commission, by notification, fix the date or dates on which, and the hours during which, the polls will be taken". The bench presided by the chief justice had on December 1 directed the SEC and the state to submit before it a plan disclosing the tentative schedule for conducting the election to the municipal bodies of the state by the next date of hearing. The order was passed on a petition by the BJP seeking polls to all municipal bodies in a single day. The petitioner also prayed that if this was not possible, then simultaneous counting of votes to all municipal bodies be held so that the result of one does not affect the election of another. The SEC and the state had submitted that it plans to hold the elections in a phased manner. The division bench had also directed the SEC to explore the possibility and feasibility of counting votes after the polling is completed in all municipalities. The court had in its December 1 order said that the SEC is "expected not to declare the election of the municipal bodies in the state in such a manner which will give benefit to one particular party". The SEC underlined that it is an independent constitutional authority and therefore, immune to any political interest. "The commission has always made sincere endeavour to conduct free and fair elections and impartiality of the commission may not be doubted on the basis of baseless allegations," it submitted. The bench directed that the matter will be heard again on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Mortal remains of migrant worker arrive from Saudi Arabia||The mortal remains of migrant worker Rajibur Rahaman, 45, killed in a road accident in October this year in Saudi Arabia, reached Calcutta airport on Sunday morning following the initiative of a social worker and IT professional Sadekul Islam. The body was received by Rahaman’s family members along with Sadekul. They conducted his last rites at his home in Howrah’s Bagnan. Family members said Rahaman used to work as a driver of a household in Saudi Arabia's Buraydah. He died in a road accident on October 16. Sadekul, who has helped many migrant workers in different states of India and abroad during the pandemicinduced lockdowns to come home, had been requested by Rahaman's family to help them get back his mortal remains. “I contacted a senior official in the external affairs ministry of our country and the Indian embassy in Riyadh and office of the vice consul general in Jeddah. The interior ministry (home) in Saudi Arabia helped us get the body back, with Rahaman's employer bearing the cost of transit,” said Sadekul. “We have also claimed his insurance money and any compensation the family can get," he added. Mokiur Rahaman, the deceased’s younger brother, profusely thanked Sadekul. “We have also claimed his insurance money and any compensation the family can get," he added. Mokiur Rahaman, the deceased’s younger brother, profusely thanked Sadekul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: 620 new Covid cases, 627 recoveries, 10 deaths ||Bengal on Sunday reported 620 new Covid19 infections, 627 recoveries and 10 deaths, resulting in a drop by 17 in active cases to 7,639. A minister said Saturday’s fresh Covid cases indicated those infected between November 26 and 30. Calcutta reported 177 new infections and one death on Sunday. North 24Parganas reported 107 new infections and four deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three digit figure of new cases found in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 438 or 70.65 per cent of the new infections detected on Sunday. Nineteen districts reported zero deaths. In the past 71 days since Bengal broke 97day streak of dip in active cases, there has been a net fall of 35 in that total. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent in the peak of the second wave, was 1.54 per cent on Sunday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.32 per cent, below the national rate of 98.35 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.19 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.92 lakh recoveries and 19,544 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
06-12-2021||West Bengal||North Dinajpur school students reach dropouts’ homes||Students between Classes IX and XII at a school located in Chakulia block of North Dinajpur have taken up a unique initiative to reach out to their less fortunate batch mates who have been compelled to drop out. As state-run schools have opened across Bengal from November 16 for students from Classes IX to XII, it has been found that many students have had to stop studying amid the pandemic lockdown owing to financial issues to take up odd jobs and help their families. “Similar is the situation in Chakulia block. There are 17 secondary and higher secondary schools in this block with students between Classes IX to XII around 13,000. However, after schools reopened, we found hardly 10 per cent students resumed classes,” said a source in the district education department. This abysmal rate of attendance, particularly in the rural areas, prompted school authorities to bring back to the dropouts to schools. However, in Ramakrishnapur PDGM High School of Chakulia, students have come up with a new outreach initiative. Every day, once classes are over, they accompanied by teachers visit homes of every absentee batch mate. Here, students and teachers try to convince the dropout to continue with studies, often entering into a dialogue with other family members. Vicky Dutta, the headmaster of the school, said that they had all been surprised at the low turnout of students. “For example, last Tuesday, of the 685 students of Classes IX and X, only 85 students were present in school.  Students who came were disappointed not to see their friends. It is then that they planned to reach out to their absentee batch mates. The effort has started yielding results and the turnout has started increasing,” Dutta said. A girl in Class IX actively participating in this initiative added: “We want all our friends back in school.” Another student said that they had come to know that many of their friends have migrated to other states for jobs in the course of the 20 months that the schools were closed owing  to the pandemic.  “We collected their phone numbers and plan to call them, asking them to return and resume their studies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Missing police officer found dead in Alipurduar tea estate ||An assistant sub-inspector of police, Ratan Kar, who had gone missing on Wednesday afternoon was found dead at a tea estate in Alipurduar district on Sunday. Police, who suspect he was murdered, have also found his motorcycle and are trying to locate his cell phone. Kar, 52, who is from Dinhata of neighbouring Cooch Behar district, was posted at the traffic wing of Jaigaon police station. On Wednesday, he started from Jaigaon on his motorcycle and was supposed to report at a checkpoint raised by the police on Asian Highway 48. He went missing along the way. Police could trace him till Dalsinghpara, which is around 6km away from Jaigaon. Police continued to search for him in private accommodations and tea estates but to no avail. His family members in Cooch Behar were contacted but they could shed no light on his disappearance. According to police sources, around 6.30am on Sunday, some people spotted a sack near the Beech tea estate close to Hasimara off AH48, around 300 metres away from the checkpoint where ASI Kar was supposed to report last Wednesday. The location is around 44km from Alipurduar town. “Foul smell was emanating from the sack and people informed us about it. Soon, teams from different police stations and from the district headquarters reached the site. The sack was opened and the ASI’s body was recovered from  it,” said a police officer. Police found his bike but not his phone. Bholanath Pandey, the district police chief, who reached the spot from where the body was recovered, said: “He (Kar) was a responsible officer. We are waiting for the post-mortem and forensic test reports to know the cause of his death. Our officers are trying to gather more information about him.” Some police officers suspect that Kar was murdered elsewhere and his body and his bike were dumped near the tea estate later. “The circumstances of the case left us suspecting that he was murdered away from the spot where his body was found,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
06-12-2021||West Bengal||North Dinajpur: 14-year-old school boy killed, friend confesses||A 14-year-old boy of a village under Chakulia police station of North Dinajpur district was murdered on Saturday allegedly by his friend who is also a minor. Police found his body and arrested the accused who admitted to the murder as the victim was “blackmailing” him. Sources said the victim, a Class VII student, went out of his home on Saturday afternoon. As he did not return home by evening, his family members started a search.. At night, they spotted him in a deserted area near the house, with serious injuries on his wrists. They rushed him to the hospital in Kishanganj, a neighbouring town in Bihar, where doctors pronounced him dead. A police team from Kanki outpost in Chakulia started a probe and came to know the victim had met a friend. The friend was brought to the police station. “During interrogation, he admitted to the murder. He told us the victim used to blackmail him over an issue. On Saturday, he took the victim to a deserted place, strangled him and cut off the veins of the boy’s wrists. Our officers are trying to find out if anybody else was involved,” said Sachin Makkar, SP, Islampur police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Ex-student of Sargachi Ramkrishna Mission thanks school with award||Upendranath Nandi, a professor of physics at Scottish Church College in Calcutta, had a humble start, but did not forget his roots. The 1983 Madhyamki graduate from Sargachi Ramkrishna Mission School, the charity’s first formal institute of education, returned to his alma mater at the alumni association’s behest to donate a cash award of Rs. 50,000 that he won  from the Indian National Science Academy. “The school nominated Nandi for the INSA Teacher's Award 2021, which offers a cash prize of Rs 50,000 in addition to an academic grant of Rs 20,000. Touched, Nandi decided to donate the cash prize to his alma mater,” said a member of the alumni association. On Sunday morning, Nandi was felicitated by school officials and Ramkrishna Mission monks on-stage. He named Swami Debaraj Nanda Maharaj as his inspiration. “I am grateful to my school for its education, and for nominating me for this award. By giving my award back, I hope the school can produce a great teacher in turn,” said the 56-year-old, who stood second in Murshidabad in the 1983 Madhyamik and went on to do an MSc and a PhD. According to an official of the INSA, the award honours teachers who “inspire students to take up careers in science and technology”. Nandi, whose ancestral home is in Daherdhar village 3km away from the school, recalled how he walked to and fro school. “In Class VI, we became boarders or ashramiks,” explained the “farmer’s son”. Because of his modest means, he had no option but to focus on studies, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Medal for BSF’s north Bengal frontier inspector-general||Ravi Gandhi, the inspector-general of the north Bengal frontier of the Border Security Force (BSF), was conferred with the President’s police medal for distinguished service. Union home minister Amit Shah awarded the medal to Gandhi in Jaisalmer during the 57th raising day parade of the force. Pankaj Kumar Singh, the director general of the BSF, was present at the event with other dignitaries. In June this year, Gandhi had taken charge of the NB frontier. Since then, troops posted at the Indo-Bangla border under the frontier have seized various contraband  ranging from cattle to narcotics worth Rs 74.06 crore.  This apart, 133 smugglers and 125 illegal entrants have been apprehended by the BSF from the bordering areas of the frontier under his tenure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Deb asks workers to put in every effort to secure majority in SMC||Former minister and veteran Trinamul leader Gautam Deb told party leaders and workers here on Sunday to put in every effort to secure a majority at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) and the three-tier rural bodies under the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad. In Siliguri sub division, the elections of the SMC, a 72 ward civic body, and panchayat elections of the SMP are due since last year. The SMP is spread over rural areas of the subdivision, which include four blocks and 22 panchayats. “The popularity of our party chief Mamata Banerjee is increasing every day and she is gaining prominence in national politics. This is the time when we have to prove ourselves and secure the civic body and rural bodies. We have to start consolidating our base at booth levels immediately and we don’t want to witness failure like in previous years. The youth wing of the party has a major role to play here,” said Deb, who is a member of Trinamul’s national working committee. He was speaking at the fifth conference of Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul Youth Congress that was held at Baghajatin Park here. According to party insiders, there are around 1,000 booths spread across Siliguri subdivision and in the added wards of the SMC under Jalpaiguri district. “We have formed booth level committees in most booths. Party leaders and workers serving at different levels have been asked to initiate political activities. At a time the party has managed to build a base in states like Tripura and Goa, there is no reason why we can’t win the civic and the rural polls here,” said a Trinamul leader. In Darjeeling district, Trinamul’s performance has been dismal so far in the civic and rural elections. Although the party has been in power in Bengal  since 2011, it could manage to secure a majority only in the tiny Mirik municipality in 2017. Political observers pointed out that the civic and rural polls of Siliguri were an acid test for Deb. They said despite him losing in the Assembly polls, the party reposed faith in him and made him the chairperson of the board of administrators of SMC. “He is the most prominent face of the party in north Bengal. But he has to show results at these local elections. Otherwise, questions will arise on his organisational abilities,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Hellish road: potholed highway keeps tourists away||A popular destination for birdwatchers in Cooch Behar district hardly sees any footfall owing to its potholed connecting road, a 9km-long stretch of the state highway. Every year in winter, Rashik Beel, the water body at the location on the Bengal-Assam border, sees migrant birds of various species. Near it is a mini zoo, which houses deer, leopards, snakes, peacocks and wild cats. “People from different locations of north Bengal and neighbouring Assam would formerly visit Rashik Beel in large numbers during winter to see migrant birds and the zoo animals. But this year, hardly two or three groups can be seen. People simply avoid the bad highway to come here,” said Bikram Barman, a resident. Restaurants nearby, which cater to tourists,  are feeling the pinch. “We hardly find any customers even on weekends. The dilapidated road has doomed us. We don’t know how visitors will turn up unless the road is repaired,” said Nitai Roy, who runs an eatery near the site. According to them, the state highway that connects Rashik Beel with NH31 at Tufanganj of Cooch Behar and heads towards Kamakhyaguri of Alipurduar, has been in a bad state for the past three-four years. Around five years back, the road was last repaired.  During the past couple of years, the bitumen layer has peeled off. The entire stretch is dusty and dotted with potholes, they said. “We have staged roadblocks a number of times, but to no avail. It is tough for everyone to use this road. If one takes out his bicycle or two-wheeler on this road, he returns home with dust all over him. Many, including children and senior citizens, are facing breathing problems owing to the dust,” said Samir Chakraborty, a trader. Sources in the district administration said the state PWD is supposed to repair the road. “A number of roads in the district, including this stretch, has been identified by the PWD. Extensive repair will be taken up soon,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Statehood demand: A dharna in Kalimpong & meeting in Delhi ||A dharna for Gorkhaland was organised in Delhi while another meeting to discuss the same issue was held in Kalimpong on Sunday, slowly reviving the demand for statehood that had largely gone silent in these last four years. Gorkhaland Activist Samuha, a newly formed group, started its three-day dharna on Gorkhaland at the Jantar Mantar from Sunday.  The Statehood Demand Coordination Committee, an apolitical body formed in 2020, held a seminar on the issue in Kalimpong. After the violent statehood agitation of 2017 in which 13 people were killed including two police personnel, was crushed by the Bengal state government, the demand for Gorkhaland went largely silent. The then splinter group of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha formed by Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa then decided to join hands with Trinamul which has always been opposed to any further division of Bengal. In October 2020, Bimal Gurung, the founder president of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, resurfaced for the first time after 2017 and also joined hands with Trinamul. “Such was the situation that during the Assembly election earlier this year, no prominent hill party could raise the statehood issue during the campaign,” said a hill observer. The situation seems to have been changing. Many in the hills believe that the Centre’s decision to start tripartite talks on “Gorkha issues” provided a new lease of life to the demand. The first round of meeting was held on October 12. The BJP had promised a “permanent political solution” for the region in their 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto. Recently, even Mamata Banerjee promised the same for the hills. Neither the BJP not Mamata, however, defined what the solution etails. Prabhakar Dewan, the spokesman of the SDCC, voiced the uncetainty many in the hills are feeling.  “We are increasingly feeling that the permanent political solutionpromised by both the Centre and state is not separate statehood. This is why we decided to call representative of various organszations to understand the views on the current situation,” Dewan said on Sunday. The leader believes that the SDCC can play a pivotal role in coordinating with various pro-Gorkhaland groups to push forward the statehood demand.  In Delhi, the Gorkhaland Activist Samuha members said that they had come together to question the Centre over the delay in granting statehood. Bindhya Dukpa, a leader of the activist group, said: “Narendra Modiji had said that the Gorkhas’ dream is his dream, another senior BJP leader Rajiv Pratap Rudy had promised Gorkhaland nearly a decade back. Despite the BJP led Centre having understood our demand, why are they not creating Gorkhaland?” For now, the demand is being raised by fledgling organisations. Prominent parties in the hills, including the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajantrik Morcha, the Gorkha Jannmukti Morcha and the BJP  are not explicitly raising the statehood demand at the moment. “It needs to be seen whether these new organisations can really take forward the Gorkhaland demand given the current stand of political parties in the hills,” said an observer from the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata won't travel in chopper, take train to reach Malda||Jawad, the cyclonic storm that would hit the east coast on Sunday and onwards, has made the Bengal government change the travel plan of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Mamata, who is scheduled to attend review meetings of five districts, will take a train from Calcutta to reach Malda on Monday. “Jawad has weakened before its landfall but it would surely have some impact on the weather conditions. That is why, it has been decided that the chief minister will not travel in a chopper to Malda but will take a train to reach here,” said a source in Nabanna. After reaching Malda, Mamata will head for Raiganj on Tuesday to attend the administrative review meetings of North and South Dinajpur districts. She will return to Malda after the meetings. Earlier, there was a plan to organize the meeting of South Dinajpur district at Gangarampur. “Arrangements were in progress. However, we received a fresh communication from the chief minister’s office where it was told that the meetings would be held together in Raiganj. Also, in Raiganj, the venue of the meeting has been changed,” said a source in South Dinajpur district administration. Initially, it was planned to hold the meeting at Raiganj stadium but now, it will be held at the sports complex in Karnajora, where there is also an auditorium. “There is a forecast of rainfall as an aftereffect of the cyclone. That is why, it seems, these changes have been made,” the source added. On Wednesday, Mamata will attend the review meeting of Malda district. From there, she will head for Murshidabad via road. “She will also hold review meetings of Murshidabad and Nadia districts. From Nadia, she will head for Calcutta on Thursday. If the weather improves by then, she might take a chopper to Calcutta,” an official said. Meanwhile, in Malda, district Trinamul leaders have readied certain issues which they intend to raise before the chief minister during her visit. There are indications that she might hold a meeting with party functionaries ahead of the administrative meeting, said Trinamul sources. “Post of the sabhadhipati of (Trinamul run) Malda Zilla Parishad is vacant for the past six months (the former sabhadhipati had defected to BJP ahead of the Assembly elections). To expedite rural development, we should have an elected member in the post. We would request the chief minister to select the person who should be put in the post,” said Abdur Rahim Boxi, the Malda district Trinamul chief. Sabina Yeasmin, a Trinamul MLA from Malda who is also the minister of state for irrigation and NB development, is also making preparations for the review meeting. Last Friday, she held a meeting with officials of different departments posted in these three districts. “Discussions have also been held over utilization of a corpus of 100 crores that the state has sanctioned to carry out anti-erosion works in Malda. We are waiting for the review meeting and will act as per instructions of the chief minister,” said Yeasmin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone still triggers a collapse in Mousuni embankment||Cyclone Jawad, despite losing steam, was still strong enough to trigger a collapse in an embankment at Mousuni island, sandwiched between Gangasagar and Bakkhali, on the western fringes of the Sunderbans, marooning thousands. Jawad is expected to hit Sunderbans between Sunday midnight and early Monday morning with a wind speed of 50kmph and enhanced rainfall, pointed out G.K. Das of IMD Alipore, and may cause greater damage to Mousuni, if it overlaps with major high tides in the range of 16 to 18 feet as predicted by the Calcutta Port Trust. “About 50 metres of the embankment near the confluence of Chinai river with Bay of Bengal has been damaged in the Baliara mouza because of the combined impact of Jawad and high tide,” pointed out Mousuni block development officer (BDO) Santanu Sinha Roy. He admitted the damage may deepen with more high tides, rain and strong wind. Close to 5,000 people over two mouzas, Baliara and Mousuni, have been affected. Many have been shifted to a flood shelter and a high school. Mousuni island, comprising four mouzas, has been severely hit by cyclones, from Bulbul to Amphan and  Yaas. It is held up as an example of the increasing impact of climate change in the Sunderbans. Residents claim poor construction of a sluice gate in the Chinai caused Sunday’s damage. “Part of a sluice gate, constructed after Amphan in the eastern part of Chinai, has given way. There should be an enquiry on its construction,” said resident Sahadeb Maity. Another resident, Probhonjon Mondal, pointed out on Sunday evening that “over 100 metres of the embankment had  already collapsed. Sinha Roy admitted to “an issue with the sluice gate” but added that the irrigation department would quickly do the repairs. “The embankment was already weak” said the official. Mondal expressed concern that major high tides, during Sunday late night and Monday, may further damage the embankment. An official claimed “the damage could be minimised as tourists have not been allowed in Mousuni as a precaution against Jawad”. Innumerable hotels have come up in Baliara mouza, near the sea beach, at Mousuni, flouting environment norm, in recent years, close to the area the embankment was breached. “It is bizarre why we can’t put up strong embankments at the earliest in islands like Mousuni , already known as extremely vulnerable to extreme weather events because of climate change,” said an environmental expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Jawad limits impact to rain, spares havoc||Moderate to heavy rainfall lashed several parts of the state’s three coastal districts and parts of south Bengal starting Sunday morning, with remnants of the weakened Cyclone Jawad visible across parts of the state. The weather office has stated that rainfall will continue on Monday too. The cyclonic storm is slated to reach the Bengal coastal region early on Monday in the form of a “well-marked low pressure”. The Alipore weather office has since indicated that moderate to heavy rainfall was likely to continue across the districts of North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Jhargram  as well as in Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly, Birbhum, Nadia, Bankura, Murshidabad, East Burdwan and West Burdwan.   The early impact of the depression, incessant rain, became visible from Saturday afternoon and continued throughout Sunday in the coastal areas and Gangetic regions but with no major damage to life or property. South 24-Parganas, however, witnessed a  breaches to earthen dams in at least three places including Mousuni Island. A vessel also capsized on Muriganga river near Sagar Island in the district. The district also reported several cases of inundation.  Baliara village in Mousuni became flooded on Sunday after water infiltrated a 100-metre stretch of an earthen dyke along the Chinai river owing to morning high tide. Local residents claimed the dyke had been damaged last month, but no repair work had been taken up. As a result, large areas comprising agricultural fields, fishing bheris and homes were inundated. Many people were left homeless. Asked, Namkhana BDO Santanu Sinha Thakur, who is in charge of the area, said: “Irrigation department authorities have been informed about the breach and have begun necessary repair work immediately so as to avoid any further damage.” Sources said several other low-lying areas such as Poilagheri in Mousuni, Nadabhanga in Namkhana, and Dwarikanagar were inundated by the high tides.  South 24-Parganas district administration sources stated on Sunday that earthen embankments had been breached in Namkhana and Kumirmari in Gosaba, where immediate repairs were being done by the irrigation department. On Saturday morning, a vessel pulling a barge laden with concrete posts capsized near Kachuberia ghat on Muriganga river after the boatmen failed to control the vessel during high tide and rammed into a jetty. Four persons were rescued by police. South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “The situation is under control across the district. So far we have opened 82 relief camps, 115 multipurpose community centres and 20 relief shelters. Apart from this, 225 additional relief shelters have also been kept prepared for emergency evacuations if needed”. Amid incessant rains, irrigation officials on Sunday were repairing a major earthen dam along the Dasha river in Sandeshkhali of North 24-Parganas. Asked about this initiative amid this inclement weather, an official said: “We have continued to carry out the repairs since the area stands to be more vulnerable during high tides and heavy rains.” Tourist curbs In Bakkhali and Fraserganj of South 24-Parganas, tourists were prohibited from accessing the sea beaches, where officials of civil defence and general administration continued surveillance throughout the day using public address systems. Similar scenes were noticed in Digha, Shankarpur, Tajpur and other tourist attractions close to the coastal zone in East Midnapore.  In Digha, East Midnapore  district magistrate Purnendu Majhi visited the beaches to ensure people did not venture there. In all the three major tourist spots of the district, the roads leading up to beaches were cordoned off and officials of the civil defence continued surveillance efforts since the sea had become turbulent and water levels had risen to dangerous levels. “We are indeed thankful to the tourists since they cooperated with the administration,” DM Majhi said. A handful of low-lying areas in East Midnapore district were badly inundated on Sunday, damaging crops. “We have begun an assessment of the losses so that due compensation may be paid,” the DM added. Fishermen  Officials of the fisheries department in Calcutta said that all the fishermen who had ventured out for deep-marine fishing from harbours across South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore had returned.  However, some small boats were seen on the sea near Digha on Sunday. These were alerted by the Indian Coast Guards to be brought back to the shore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-12-2021||West Bengal||Nutrition of children hit during pandemic, says survey||A recent survey by the women and child development department has revealed that the number of children suffering from malnutrition has increased twofold during the closure of ICDS (Integrated Child Development Scheme) centres following Covid-19, prompting the Bengal government to take urgent measures to ensure food supply to the doorsteps of mothers. The survey, conducted throughout Bengal in September this year, found that the total number of children suffering from malnutrition stood at 6.70 lakh. The figure was 3.5 lakh in August 2020. “The government has two categories of measuring children with malnutrition: severe and moderate. According to the recent survey report, there are 18,162 children with severe malnutrition and 6.52 lakh children with moderate malnutrition,” said a source. “In February 2020, just before the pandemic broke out in our state, the number of severely malnourished children was 14,934 and there were 26.68 lakh children in the moderate category,” added a senior official in the ICDS department. The Bengal government has come up with several initiatives to reach out to malnourishedchildren with nutritious food and instructed district magistrates to take up special initiatives to focus on children with malnutrition. “It was expected that the number of children with malnutrition will increase during the pandemic as all ICDS centers were closed. Hence, as soon as we went through the data (of the survey), we immediately started special measures like supplying ready-to-eat food on doorsteps…  we are expecting  good results soon,” said Sashi Panja, the women and child development and social welfare minister. There are 1,17,120 ICDS centers in Bengal and a total of 73.45 lakh children between 0-6 years of age are covered through those centres. The ICDS centres also take care of the nutrition of pregnant women and lactating mothers. Sources said the children who are suffering from malnutrition are mainly from poor families living in remote sites. During the lockdown, many among their parents  lost their jobs. To add to their woes, the ICDS centres were shut down at the same time. The government had made provisions for dry ration for such families but those were not distributed properly, an official explained. Purulia district administration on Saturday started an outreach drive for the families of 2,658 severely malnourished children with 10 ducklings, few fruit saplings and the proposal to dig a small tank in their land where they could breed fish high in protein. “We have named the drive Utthan (emergence). Families of severely malnourished children can generate a source of protein on their own. The ducks will provide eggs and the tank will provide fish. Fruit trees like papaya and guava will help them get nutrition,” said Rahul Majumdar, Purulia district magistrate. In Bankura, the district administration has launched Operation Pushti (nutrition) in which they are providing an egg and a nutritious drink on the spot to  malnourished children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
