07-12-2021||West Bengal|| Mamata asks district police not to allow BSF in villages without prior consent||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who was in Gangarampur to address administrative meetings pertaining to North and South Dinajpur on Tuesday, instructed inspectors-in-charge and block development officers to not allow Border Security Forces personnel to enter villages without prior permission. Mamata referred to the killing of civilians in Nagaland and also the killings in Sitalkuchi during the Assembly polls and again in Cooch Behar recently. “There is one problem in your area,” Mamata said addressing the South Dinajpur district police officers. “BSF personnel enter villages, threaten villagers. They are even seen in voting queues. See what happened in Nagaland. Sitalkuchi happened, recently three people were killed in Cooch Behar. This should be taken up DGP to DGP,” she added. The acting director general of police Manoj Malviya told the chief minister, “I had recently met the DG (BSF). They are writing to us. We are not giving permissions.” Mamata said BSF personnel often transgressed their jurisdiction and interfered in law and order. On Sunday, 13 civilians were gunned down by the 21st Para Special Force of the Army, while 14 others were seriously injured and eight suffered minor injuries in Mon town in the northern reaches of Nagaland. The killing has raised a furore across the nation with questions being raised on the "excesses" committed by the Indian Army under the Armed Forces Special Protection Act. Since the killings of Sunday, chief ministers of Nagaland and Meghalaya have demanded repeal of AFSPA in their respective states. Mamata’s next question was addressed to the inspector-in-charge of police stations in the border district. “Ke ke chhere den (How many of you allow them)? If outsiders enter your area… law and order is your jurisdiction. Whenever there is a complaint from any village about BSF personnel entering, the ICs should visit along with the BDOs to assuage the villagers,” Mamata said. She was in Gangarampur to address administrative meetings for the twin districts of North and South Dinajpur. "On the evening of 4th December around 1610 hours, when eight villagers were returning home from coal mining work at Tiru in a pick-up truck, they were ambushed and killed by Security Forces (reportedly, 21st Para Special Force based in Assam) at random, apparently without any attempt for identification," a joint report by Nagaland DGP T John Longkumer and Commissioner Rovilatuo Mor has said. The officials said the victims were all unarmed civilians working in coalmines. Of them, six were killed on the spot and two critically injured. The report was submitted to the state government on Sunday, PTI reported. On hearing gunshots, the villagers went to the spot. "On reaching the spot, they found the pick-up truck and the special forces personnel trying to hide the dead bodies of the six villagers by wrapping and loading them in another pick-up truck (Tata Mobile) apparently with the intention of taking the dead bodies to their base camp," the officials have said in the report. "Violence broke out between the villagers and security forces when they discovered the bodies covered with tarpaulin sheets. Angry people then set on fire three vehicles of the security forces," the report said. In the melee, the security personnel again opened fire against the villagers which led to the death of seven more villagers and eyewitnesses have confirmed that the special forces personnel opened fire indiscriminately as they fled from the scene towards Assam side even firing in the coal mine hutments on the way, they said. Acknowledging that the first incident was a "case of mistaken identity", Union Home Minister Amit Shah had told Parliament on Monday, "The Government of India sincerely regrets this unfortunate incident in Nagaland and offers its deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
07-12-2021||West Bengal|| Rain from Jawad cleans Kolkata's air pollution by 80- 90 per cent||Kolkata's air quality improved by around 80-90 per cent, after 'Jawad' induced rain. The cyclone lashed the city in the last couple of days, however, pollution control board officials and environmentalists are glad about the air quality improvement as stated on Tuesday. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of 20 (good) was registered at Victoria Memorial, 43 (good) at Ballygunge, 33 (good) at Rabindra Sarobar, and 51 (satisfactory) at Rabindra Bharati University at 7 AM on Tuesday, as per data provided by the Central Pollution Control Board. In accordance with the air quality report of Dec 3rd, the AQI was 185 (moderate) at Victoria Memorial, 212 (poor) at Ballygunge, 163 (moderate) at Rabindra Sarobar, and 307 (very poor) at Rabindra Bharati University at 9 AM, which was before the rain washed the city. "A maximum of 90 per cent and a minimum of 80 per cent improvement in the AQI of Kolkata was reported after the cyclone-induced rain lashed the city. This was one of the lowest records for the city in the month of December, in the last 40 years," Environmentalist S M Ghosh told PTI. West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) Chairman, Kalyan Rudra said that the improvement in AQI was very encouraging and air pollution was certainly lower than usual, creaditing the unseasonal rains for it. He, however, also said there was no mechanism to monitor real-time air quality four decades ago. The average PM 2.5 level was at 19 mg per cubic meter, which is one of the lowest in the air pollution history of the eastern metropolis, the WBPCB stated. Even Howrah's Ghusuri, which normally records heavy air pollution due to the presence of several foundries where junk metals are processed, the AQI was 40 (good). The AQI at Victoria Memorial monitoring station on December 6 last year was 254, and 175 in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Demolition drive takes on political colour||A recent demolition drive by the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) to clear illegal encroachments on the banks of the Mahananda river that flows through the city has fanned political interest. Last week, civic authorities and the police razed around 30 hutments in South Bagha Jatin Colony. Three months ago, residents got notices to vacate their places. As none did, their homes were demolished. The initiative was taken on specific directives of the National Green Tribunal that ordered the SMC, the district administration and other agencies to keep the Mahananda free of encroachments and pollution. Homeless families blamed a section of political leaders who they claimed had helped them settle on the riverbank. The Left and the BJP accused the civic body, run by a board of administrators comprising Trinamul leaders headed by former minister Gautam Deb, of cruelty. “It was inhuman to demolish hutments that left families homeless. Officials involved in the drive should be removed from their posts. Compensation should be paid to victims,” said CPM veteran Asok Bhattacharya, Siliguri’s former mayor and MLA. On December 15, they will take out a march against the civic body on the issue, he added. The BJP also questioned the drive. “The civic authorities should have acted leniently. They should have allowed the families to shift. It is unfortunate that the drive was suddenly carried out... Most (victims) are poor and will find it tough to buy a plot to build a house,” said a BJP leader. With the Opposition keeping the issue alive, it is evident that this demolition drive would figure in the SMC elections likely next year. Trinamul leaders are countering the charges and planning to help the families. On Monday, Gautam Deb, who heads the board of administrators in SMC, with several former councillors of the party, visited the area and spoke to the affected families. “In all, 28 structures have been removed and nine were partially affected in the drive done according to directives of the NGT. The previous (Left-run) board of the civic body did nothing to stop encroachment of the Mahananda, else we need not have taken such steps,” said Deb, adding they were looking for government plots for the affected residents. “We are concerned about their rehabilitation and will give some aid to them. A decision will be made at a meeting of the board of administrators. Some people are trying to play politics on the issue but such tactics won’t work,” Deb added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
07-12-2021||West Bengal||After leaving Bengal flooded, cyclone heads for Bangladesh ||The Bengal government heaved a sigh of relief as the well-marked depression caused by cyclonic storm Jawad weakened further and moved towards Bangladesh by Monday evening. The day was marked by heavy to moderate rain in several parts of the state. The Alipore weather office predicted that normal weather was likely from Tuesday. Heavy rain that began from Sunday morning, has, however, left its mark on the state, with inundation, breaches of earthen dykes and damage to agriculture in coastal districts and some Gangetic stretches of south Bengal. Heavy rain that began from Sunday morning after cyclonic storm Jawad weakened and turned into a deep depression continued till Monday afternoon mostly in Hooghly, Nadia, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Calcutta and East Burdwan . In south Bengal, Tarakeswar recorded the maximum rainfall, 17cm on Monday, followed by Bagati and Burdwan (13cm), Kalyani (12cm), Barrackpore, Mohanpur, Kharagpur (11cm) and Calcutta airport (10cm). Kakdwip, Krishnagar, Mongalkote, Bankura recorded only 2cm rainfall, the lowest in the state. Incessant rainfall raised the water level in several rivers in the Sunderbans delta spanning North and South 24-Parganas districts. Sources said rivers Goureswar, Kalindi, Dasha, Roymangal in North Dinajpur were flowing at danger level. On Monday morning, the water at Goureshwar river began flowing over the earthen dam and inundated Haulipara village of Rupmari gram panchayat under Hingalganj block. Large stretches of farmland and fishing bheris were flooded.  A team of NDRF reached the village and rescued the residents taking them to a flood relief centre. An official of the Basirhat subdivision said  irrigation authorities had been asked to repair the washed-away stretch of the earthen dam. Mousuni island’s Baliara village was inundated after floodwater damaged an earthen dyke along the Chinai river during high tide on Sunday. Irrigation authorities began repairs, which, however, are not complete. Residents alleged that the dyke was damaged last month during a high tide, but no repair was done then. Similar breaches in earthen dams were reported from Mahishamari, Poilagherai-Ramkarchak, Chakphuldubri, Bankimnagar, Shridham in Sagar, as well as in Nadabhanga area of Namkhana where a stretch of Hatania-Doania River was damaged causing inundation in adjacent areas. In Namkhana block’s Narayanganj-Debnagar, a dam became vulnerable following a crack developed whereas a dam was washed away in Shibrampur area. In East Midnapore, rainfall stopped late on Monday morning, but the sky was cloudy. The administration relaxed curbs for tourists and allowed them to access areas close to the beaches. But the ban on venturing into the sea remains. Hoteliers said the number of tourists coming to sea resorts in the district went up. BDO Ramnagar-I in East Midnapore Bishnupada Roy said: “Weather has improved a lot and it is a big relief. However, as a precautionary measure owing to the vagaries of nature, we continued to put certain restrictions on tourists and have asked fishermen not to venture into the sea.” Sources in the East Midnapore district administration claimed earthen dams were safe  till Monday evening. However, some low-lying areas were inundated causing heavy damage to farms, an officer of district agriculture department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Amit Malviya pulls up Bengal BJP leaders for poll ‘blues’||BJP’s commander for Bengal Amit Malviya on Monday pulled up state party leaders for “conceding defeat” even before Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls began, said sources in the organisation. Malviya reportedly told a group of leaders — whom he met at the BJP’s state headquarters here — from the party’s Calcutta organisational district that they weren’t doing enough to help candidates put up a good fight. Sources in the party said during the meeting, Malviya asked his colleagues to get details of polling agents for all booths in the Calcutta corporation area by December 10. He wants all the agents to fill up their forms by that date and share them with the party. “However, one local leader stood up and said if that was done, Trinamul Congress would get an idea of who our agents were and might create trouble for them. This way on the polling day we would not have any agents,” a source present at the meeting said. “Amitji got angry at this and said we were not doing enough to put up a good fight and had conceded defeat even before the polls,” the leader added. Several leaders, while speaking to this correspondent later, said Malviya’s comment showed how detached he was from the party’s affairs in Bengal as well as in Calcutta. He reportedly said after the Assembly polls he had visited several districts but nobody came up with any complaints. “Does he (Malviya) think we are making up stories of violence against our workers? He said no one complained to him.… My question, who does even know him? A grassroots worker will come up to us with his complaints and not Amit Malviya, who is far removed from the politics of Bengal,” a state BJP functionary said. At the meeting, CPM turncoat and BJP's Assembly poll candidate from Jadavpur Rinku Naskar said that it was unfair to expect workers at the grassroots to turn up to campaign for the candidates in the civic polls. She said the party had promised financial support to the workers who had suffered in the postpoll results violence, but nobody has received any such help. "How can we expect these workers to turn up and then be attacked for fighting for the party even though the party provides them with no help," Naskar said. However, the party's general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty asked Naskar not to bring up such issues in the meeting. In another development, Rajkamal Pathak, a state BJP vicepresident, issued a video on Monday where he accused the party of not consulting him while deciding the candidates of south Calcutta. "I received a call from the party's call centre and was asked to take charge for ward 86. I've refused. Why would I when I wasn't consulted before deciding the candidates?" Pathak told The Telegraph. BJP has fielded Rajashri Lahiri from ward 86. However, the husband of former BJP councillor of that ward, Gaurav Biswas, has filed a nomination as an independent candidate from there and party MP Roopa Ganguly has pledged her support to Biswas. "What am I supposed to do? Fight against the Trinamul candidate or our own MP?" Pathak questioned. Malviya chaired two meetings on Monday. The one at the BJP headquarters was attended by state leaders who have been allotted responsibilities to oversee the Calcutta civic polls. The next one was at ICCR and was attended by 73 candidates of the party. Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari was also present at this meeting. Almost every candidate who attended this meeting has complained that campaigning has become an issue for them. Most workers are unwilling to come out of their houses for the campaign. While some candidates blamed the postpoll violence for the unavailability of workers, others said cited the discontent amongst a section of the grassroots workers with several candidates. Adhikari is said to have admitted the crisis in the meeting. To address this issue party leaders will meet the 56 mandal presidents of the two organisational districts of Calcutta on Tuesday. A mandal is BJP's smallest organisational unit. The remaining 69 candidates have also been called for a meeting on Tuesday. Significantly, state BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar wasn't present in either of the meetings. MP Arjun Singh and state vicepresident Raju Banerjee, the observer and coobserver of the Calcutta civic polls for the party, were also not present in the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Demolition drive by Siliguri civic body assumes political colour||A recent demolition drive by the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) to clear illegal encroachments on the banks of the Mahananda river that flows through the city has fanned political interest. Last week, civic authorities and the police razed around 30 hutments in South Bagha Jatin Colony. Three months ago, residents got notices to vacate their places. As none did, their homes were demolished. The initiative was taken on specific directives of the National Green Tribunal that ordered the SMC, the district administration and other agencies to keep the Mahananda free of encroachments and pollution. Homeless families blamed a section of political leaders who they claimed had helped them settle on the riverbank. The Left and the BJP accused the civic body, run by a board of administrators comprising Trinamul leaders headed by former minister Gautam Deb, of cruelty. “It was inhuman to demolish hutments that left families homeless. Officials involved in the drive should be removed from their posts. Compensation should be paid to victims,” said CPM veteran Asok Bhattacharya, Siliguri’s former mayor and MLA. On December 15, they will take out a march against the civic body on the issue, he added. The BJP also questioned the drive. “The civic authorities should have acted leniently. They should have allowed the families to shift. It is unfortunate that the drive was suddenly carried out... Most (victims) are poor and will find it tough to buy a plot to build a house,” said a BJP leader. With the Opposition keeping the issue alive, it is evident that this demolition drive would figure in the SMC elections likely next year. Trinamul leaders are countering the charges and planning to help the families. On Monday, Gautam Deb, who heads the board of administrators in SMC, with several former councillors of the party, visited the area and spoke to the affected families. “In all, 28 structures have been removed and nine were partially affected in the drive done according to directives of the NGT. The previous (Left-run) board of the civic body did nothing to stop encroachment of the Mahananda, else we need not have taken such steps,” said Deb, adding they were looking for government plots for the affected residents. “We are concerned about their rehabilitation and will give some aid to them. A decision will be made at a meeting of the board of administrators. Some people are trying to play politics on the issue but such tactics won’t work,” Deb added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Buyer-seller meet: business body provides help to cultivators||The north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has taken up the task to help cardamom cultivators across the hills properly merchandise their produce in the regional market. On Saturday, a buyer-seller meet was hosted by the trade body at a community hall here where prominent cardamom buyers of north Bengal interacted with growers who came from the hills. “We have been consistently putting in efforts to help hill residents who are into various types of cultivation or produce ranging from handicraft to honey to brooms. The idea is to evolve a mechanism that can facilitate proper merchandising of their produce.  Large cardamom is a unique product that has steady demand across the region. That is why the meet was held,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, the chairman of the NB zonal council of the CII. In the hills, cardamom is cultivated in Bijanbari, Sukhiapokhri, Mirik, Sitong and also in parts of Kalimpong district. It is a cash crop that fetches around Rs 1,000 per kilo. In all, the crop is cultivated over an area of around 3,500 hectares with an annual production of over 1,000 metric tonnes. Almost 10,000 families are engaged in this cultivation. In the course of the meet, sellers spoke of the need to upgrade the technique of cultivation and harvest. “Also, there was a proposal to form co-operative societies of (cardamom) cultivators and to open the main wholesale market of Khalpara in Siliguri for the crop. The buyers have also said they want the traditional format of smoky cardamom since its demand is high in the country and across the world. The drying process needs to be systematic for which farmers need training. We are looking into it,” added Tibrewal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Middle-aged couple, daughter hacked to death over land dispute||A middle-aged couple and their 16-year-old girl were hacked to death allegedly by two relatives following a land dispute on Monday morning in Hooghly’s Chanditala. Police sources said, Sanjay Ghosh (47), his wife Mitali (39) and daughter Shila (16) were hacked to death by Sanjay’s cousins Srikanta and Tapan, who are in their early 30s. Sanjay used to sell cosmetics, while his daughter Shilpa was a Class XI student of a high school in Chanditala. “We have arrested one Tapan Ghosh and a raid is on to catch his sibling Srikanta, who is the main accused. The murder was fall out of a land-related dispute among cousins,” said Amandeep, the Hooghly rural superintendent of police. According to villagers and the police, Srikanta had returned from Maharashtra seven months ago. He used to work as a gold ornament artisan and had accused Sanjay of grabbing his share of land. The police said that Srikanta recently had bought a chopper from the local market and used to sharpen it in front of Sanjay and his family members with a threat to kill them. “On Monday morning, Srikanta entered inside Sanjay’s house and hit him with the chopper on the neck. As he fell down in pool of blood, the assailant used the chopper to attack Mitali. When Shilpi tried to flee from the spot, the assailants caught and killed her,” said a villager. The angry villagers pelted stones on the house of Srikanta and his brothers. The police said Srikanta fled after murdering the trio. Minors rescued Railway police in Birbhum’s Sainthia rescued eight minors from Guwahati-Bangalore Express late on Sunday evening. Police said they were being taken to Bangalore by a tout to work as migrant labourers at a construction site. The police said all the minors were aged between 12 and 17 years and hailed from villages in Malda. Pritam Das, the officer in charge of Sainthia GRP, said that all the minors had been handed over to Birbhum childline for safe custody. “We raided the train at Rampurhat station following a tip-off and rescued the children. Primarily all of them have been sent to Birbhum childline. We are keeping an eye to intercept rackets supplying minors to different states as migrant workers,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Malda: Didi with ‘return gift’,  funds worth around Rs 770 crore in offing ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will inaugurate a slew of projects and also lay the foundation of a number projects worth around Rs 770 crore prior to her administrative review meeting in Malda scheduled on Wednesday. This is being seen as Mamata’s “return gift” to the residents of Malda, a district that has overwhelmingly responded to her request to provide her with both “aam  and aamsatwa” (mango and mango candy) in the summer Assembly elections. For the first time, Trinamul could bag eight of 12 Assembly seats in Malda in the Bengal elections held this summer. After assuming the chief minister’s office for the third consecutive time, this is Mamata’s first visit to Malda. On Monday evening, she reached Malda Town station by train and will visit Raiganj on Tuesday to attend the review meetings of North and South Dinajpur districts. On Wednesday, she will attend the review meeting in Malda and will then head for Murshidabad. “Before the meeting, she will virtually inaugurate 37 projects for which a sum of Rs 298.77 crore has been spent. The chief minister will also lay foundation stones of 59 new projects, the estimated cost of which is a whopping Rs 469.65 crore,” said a source in the Malda district administration. Among these projects are schemes taken up by state departments like public health engineering, health, irrigation and waterways, public works department, power, municipal affairs, panchayat and rural development. “Most of the new schemes which have been listed are of the PHE. Among these are arsenic-free drinking water supply and projects pertaining to drinking water infrastructure,” the source added. Malda, a district with a minority vote bank of nearly 60 per cent and an erstwhile Congress bastion, has always been a focus of Trinamul. However, the Congress kept on winning most of the Assembly seats till 2021. In fact, during the past three-four years, even the saffron camp managed to emerge as a new political force in the district by playing the polarisation card. But the Assembly polls held this year  changed the scenario in favour of Trinamul. The party secured eight seats and the BJP the remaining four seats. The Congress drew a blank. “In Malda, elections are due in two civic bodies, and in both these civic areas, the BJP has won. We have managed to win eight seats but simultaneously need to retain the municipalities to consolidate our support base in the urban areas of the district. At such a time, the chief minister’s visit is significant,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Malda Trinamul leaders are also waiting for Mamata’s instructions on the post of the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad. Trinamul is in power in the rural body but the post is vacant for almost six months as Gour Chandra Mandal, the former sabhadhipati, has stepped down after defecting to BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-12-2021||West Bengal|| ‘Gorkha state’ nudge to Nadda, BJP MLA voices support for statehood||BJP legislator from Kurseong B.P. Bajgain has written to his national party president J.P. Nadda demanding the Gorkhaland state and has expressed hope that the tripartite meeting called by the Centre “will be instrumental in achieving a system outside WB (West Bengal) government clutches”. “The long pending demand of Gorkhas means separation in any form of our land from the state of West Bengal in appropriate political manner, taking into context the concerned historical and majoritarian political landscape,” Bajgain wrote. The Kurseong MLA reminded Nadda that Darjeeling voted for three BJP MPs and supported the saffron party because of its promise in its election manifesto. The BJP promised a “permanent political solution” in its 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto but not yet defined it. Even though there was not much headway on the permanent political solution issue since 2019, the Centre did call a tripartite meeting on October 12 to resolve “Gorkha issues.”  Bajgain was one of the leaders invited to the meeting. The MLA said he welcomed the “party’s” decision to initiate talks. “I am of the belief that the upcoming editions of talks that started on October 12 will be instrumental in achieving a system outside WB government clutches. This is also the one and only significance behind writing you this letter,” he wrote. Observers believe that Bajgain’s assertion is a significant reminder to the saffron party that patience is running thin even among its own leaders from the region. Although the BJP gave the impression that it is sympathetic to the demands of the Gorkhas, many believe that things are not easy for the party given its interest in the rest of Bengal, which is opposed to Gorkhaland. Asked for the reason for the letter, the Kurseong MLA said he was aiming for clarity. “I wanted to thank him for the talks. In the talks, the state will also be there, there could be attempts to dilly dally, derail talks but I wanted to be clear on our issue and request him that their focus should be on this issue,” Bajgain told The Telegraph on Monday. On the state BJP leadership’s opposition to the Gorkhaland issue, Bajgain said it was not his concern. “If we are to think of state BJP how are we to work in the hills. We are not bothered... Let us see how they (central leadership) respond (to this letter),” said Bajgain. Recently, BJP MP from Alipurduar John Barla had also raised the issue of a state of north Bengal. In his letter to Nadda, Bajgain, too, raised the issue of other communities living in north Bengal. “…other ethnic tribes of north Bengal like Rajbanshi, Koch, Toto, Rava, Meche, Adiviasis and others have suffered at the hands of the state’s internal colonial approach. It is of utmost importance that along with Gorkhas, these aforesaid ethnic tribes should also gain a political lift,” Bajgain wrote. The other issues raised by Kurseong MLA are construction of AIIMS in north Bengal, setting up an exclusive Nepali language TV and raising tea garden workers wages. “Doing our addresses in the last election, we promised tea labourers that daily wages will be raised to Rs 350,” he wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Poll panel: Government wants civic elections in six phases||The state election commission on Monday informed Calcutta High Court through an affidavit that the Bengal government proposed that polls to 111 civic bodies “may be held in 6 to 8 phases” by May next year. The affidavit attributed the decision to the likelihood of all major board examinations taking place in February, March and April, and to apprehensions of deterioration in the Covid-19 situation in the near future. “The state government has proposed that the municipal elections may be held in 6 to 8 phases by May, 2022, and exact schedule shall depend upon the Covid situation, the Madhyamik examination, which is scheduled in March 2022, the Higher Secondary examination in April 2022 and the ICSE/ISC/CBSE final board examinations schedules, which are yet to be published, and festivals,” read the affidavit. The affidavit said the state government further stated that the omicron variant of Covid-19 was classed as one of concern by the World Health Organisation, the impact of which in India remains uncertain. The commission dismissed the feasibility of publication of all civic poll results on a single day, as demanded by the BJP and the CPM. It also stated that because of a lack of electronic voting machines in the state, the polls needed to be held in phases. “It has been already brought on record that about 15,687 EVMs are available for use. In the election of Calcutta Municipal Corporation, which will be held on December 19, 2021, 7,210 EVMs will be used. If the results of the election of Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections are not declared on the notified date, then all these EVMs will have be securely stored till the conclusion of the municipalities/municipal corporations,” stated the commission. “Consequently, the answering respondent (the commission) would be left with lesser number of EVMs (about 8,477) for use in elections to other municipalities/municipal corporations,” it added. The affidavit filed by a joint secretary of the commission has said according to the rules, municipal election dates are declared after consultation with the respective state government. The division bench headed by Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava fixed the next hearing on Tuesday when all parties to the case would state their views on the commission’s affidavit. A petition was moved before the high court seeking an order directing immediate elections to 112 municipal bodies in Bengal. Later, the BJP and the CPM joined the case, demanding elections to all the civic bodies on a single date, not in phases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-12-2021||West Bengal||465 fresh Covid infections, 505 recoveries and 9 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Monday logged 465 Covid-19 cases, 505 recoveries and nine deaths, resulting in a drop by 49 in its total of active cases to 7,590. Over the past 72 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the state recorded a rise in the number of patients under treatment for 33 days and a drop for 38 days. In these 72 days, there has been a net fall of 84 in that total. Calcutta recorded 154 infections and was the only district in the state with a three-digit figure. A dozen districts reported single-digit figures of fresh infections. Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 362 – 77.85 per cent – of the new infections detected on Monday. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta logged four fatalities and North 24-Parganas two. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 16.2 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.92 lakh recoveries and 19,553 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Former militants of Kamtapur Liberation Organisation seek Didi||A group of former militants of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation met a senior Trinamul leader here on Monday and requested him to approach chief minister Mamata Banerjee so that the Bengal government could initiate a move to bring back Jeevan Singha, the self-styled chief of the banned terror outfit, into the mainstream. The BJP-led government in Assam has already initiated a similar process and any delay on the part of the Bengal government can help the saffron camp earn an extra edge over Trinamul, former militants Pulastya Barman and Anowar Hossain told Trinamul leader Partha Pratim Roy. “We told him (Roy) that he should request Mamata Banerjee to take some initiative so that the Assam government and the central government can’t make any decision with regard to the statehood demand that the KLO has been raising for years. The chief minister of Assam has claimed that the peace process has been initiated but we believe that it can’t be done without involving Bengal,” said Pulastya. The former militants of the KLO also said they wanted to meet Mamata, under whose tenure hundreds of former militants and linkmen of the outfit were rehabilitated and provided jobs of home guards, and speak on the issue. “We have full faith in the chief minister and feel that if the Bengal government stays silent now, it would be tough to stop the BJP from playing politics over the issue. A number of leaders of the BJP have already advocated in favour of a separate state and we suspect they are now trying to play the card again, this time on the pretext of the so-called peace process,” Hossain, who had been a trained militant with the KLO, said. A few days back, Assam chief minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma took to twitter to say that the KLO militants have expressed willingness to join the mainstream and his government will take all steps to facilitate the process. Biswa Sarma, tasked by the BJP to look after the party’s growth in the Northeast, broached the KLO issue with this tweet last week: “In continuation with (the) Govt of India’s efforts to bring lasting peace in the region, I welcome the desire of KLO leadership to join mainstream at an early date to resolve all issues through political dialogues. (The) Govt of Assam would fully reciprocate this goodwill measure. @ Amit Shah” Former MP Roy, who is also the chairman of North Bengal State Transport Corporation, confirmed that former militants met him. “All I can say is that our party is principally against any further partition of Bengal. The chief minister has done a lot for the Rajbanshi community. As far as this issue is concerned (bringing Singha to the mainstream and joining in peace talks), it is beyond my purview and I cannot comment on it,” he said. Sources in the state government however, said they were keeping close watch over the developments in Assam. Singha, they said, is wanted in Bengal in a number of cases. Last year, charges under the UAPA were clamped against him for his remarks against the chief minister and the state and central governments. “It is evident that the state government will not accept any proposal that affects the interest of Bengal. We are closely monitoring the developments in the neighbouring state (Assa) and also gathering information (on the KLO issue) from various sources,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rainfall leaves a trail of damage; potato, veg bear the brunt||Heavy rainfall triggered by Cyclone Jawad lashed south Bengal since Saturday, leaving a trail of damage to potatoes, vegetables and paddy. The state government asked officials to assess the loss even as the authorities apprehended an increase in the price of these crops in coming days. Officials said potato-producing districts like Bankura, West Midnapore, Hooghly and East Burdwan would be the worst-affected as the region did not experience such heavy rainfall during December in recent memory. The state government had already asked its officials in agriculture and horticulture departments to assess the loss and take initiative to drain out water from fields. The rain was the result of a depression triggered by Cyclone Jawad that lost its strength and turned into a low-pressure wind. “The heavy rainfall will certainly have an impact but we have taken several measures to mitigate the loss of crops. Our officials have been visiting districts to assess the loss and helping farmers drain out the water in the field,” said Pradip Majumdar, the agriculture advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. In the past 24 hours, districts like Bankura, East Burdwan, Hooghly and West Midnapore witnessed around 100-130mm of rainfall. Officials in various districts said potatoes suffered most because the rain had left fields waterlogged. Over 15 lakh potato farmers had cultivated the crop on 4.16 lakh hectares of land across the state. “We apprehend major damage to potatoes and it will create a shortage of the crop in the coming season. The farmers now have to re-cultivate the crop at many places as draining out water is a major challenge. It will lead farmers to take an additional financial burden of around Rs 60,000 per an acre,” said a senior agriculture department official in East Burdwan. Farmers said they would be ruined if the government didn’t help them with proper compensation. “It is for the first time in my memory that we witnessed such huge rainfall in December and we were not prepared for it. The field and saplings have gone under water and all potatoes I had sown on three acres of land have been damaged. Now, I have to sow again and it is nearly impossible for me to bear the cost,” said Anil Kundu, a potato farmer in Hooghly’s Goghat. Government officials said they held an emergency meeting with the crop insurance companies to intimated them about the loss. “We had a meeting with crop insurance companies and informed them about the predicted damage to crops because of heavy rainfall. Those with insurance cover would be compensated soon. However, the loss to paddy production will not be higher as 80-90 per cent of the produce has been harvested,” said Majumdar. Officials in East Midnapore and West Midnapore said they were apprehending damage to crops on at least 1.2 lakh hectares. Apart from flowers, crops like potatoes and vegetables have been damaged. However, the final assessment is yet to be done. In Bankura, officials said they were apprehending damage to potatoes in 28,000 hectares of land where potatoes had been cultivated. Apart from potatoes, around 10-20 per cent of paddy, which were yet to be harvested in the field, were also damaged and the flower production has taken a big hit. Jayanta Parui, the deputy director of agriculture in Hooghly, said: “The damage will be huge on potatoes and vegetables. We are assessing the damage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-12-2021||West Bengal||Compensation for land revised, bridge work to resume today||A major hurdle that had halted the construction of a four-lane road over bridge (ROB) along NH27 over a railway crossing in Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri district for around four years was removed on Monday at a meeting convened by the district administration. From Tuesday, work on the ROB and the approach road will commence , administrative officials said. In 2017, construction of the ROB had started at Ulladabri of Maynaguri, through which the rail track that connects New Mal station with Changrabandha, passes. However, local residents, who had parted with their land for the four-lane road — the east west corridor that connects Porbandar of Gujarat with Silchar of Assam — resorted to protests and halted the work, demanding an increase in compensation. The aggrieved land owners also filed a case against the National Highways Authority of India, prompting the agency to file another case against them. “For many years now, we have been discussing the issue. Altogether, 186 people provided 22 acres of land for the construction of the ROB and the approach roads. Today, we had a meeting where it was decided that every land owner would receive compensation ranging from Rs 1.09 lakh to Rs 1.63 lakh per decimal of land, depending on the land’s nature. We have agreed to it and from tomorrow, work  will start,” said Pradip Roy, a representative of an association of the land owners of Ulladabri. He said the case was pending with Calcutta High Court where a decision would be made on the interest that they would receive on the compensation and the amount of solatium. In Jalpaiguri district, work on the four-lane highway has completed in most of the stretches, barring some locations in Maynaguri and Dhupguri blocks. Sources in the administration said from Tuesday, the compensation would be transferred to the bank accounts of the land owners. “It is good that the issue has been resolved. The NHAI will resume construction work from tomorrow. The land owners have promised complete cooperation for early completion of  the project,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
