08-12-2021||West Bengal||Knowledge of local language must for Bengal govt jobs: Mamata Banerjee||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asserted that priority must be given to locals and those knowing the local language during recruitment in state government jobs. Banerjee said that this practice would ease administrative affairs. "I am telling this to all the states. In West Bengal, if a person is from the state, he/she must get priority during recruitment to state government jobs even if his/her mother tongue is not Bengali. I have no objection to that. "But that person must know Bengali and should be a resident of the state. If he/she knows more languages, it's good. But knowledge of the local language is a must," Banerjee said during an administrative review meeting here. To further her argument, she cited the examples of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, where she said that residents of the state take up the matter with their respective governments if locals are not recruited in state government jobs. "In every state, we must ensure that locals get jobs," she said. Banerjee said that in many cases, candidates from other states are selected over the local ones because of their better performance in the examination, but they face problems in communicating with locals due to their lack of knowledge of Bengali, as a result of which they fail to solve the problems. "SDOs and BDOs are unable to read letters written in Bengali or reply to those. So, knowledge of the local language is a must otherwise they can't solve people's problems," Banerjee said. She directed Chief Secretary H K Dwivedi to look into the matter and work out a solution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata stops review meet midway after learning about Tamil Nadu chopper crash||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee ended an administrative review meeting midway on Monday as soon as she came to know that an army chopper, with Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat on board, crashed in Tamil Nadu. "We have received sad news. I am shocked. I have no words to express my grief. I am ending this meeting," she said and left the venue of the meeting. An Indian Air Force helicopter with Gen Rawat on board met with an accident on Wednesday near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Four bodies are known to have been retrieved from the site of the incident. There is no immediate information on the condition of General Rawat. Taking to Twitter, the CM said, "Extremely tragic news coming in from Coonoor. Today, the entire nation prays for the safety of those who were onboard including CDS Bipin Rawat and his family members. Also praying for the speedy recovery of everyone who was injured." Banerjee, on a four-day administrative tour of the state, is scheduled to conduct several review meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court for counter-affidavit on civic elections||Calcutta High Court has asked a litigant, who filed a petition seeking an order for polls to 111 civic bodies in Bengal, to submit an affidavit-in-opposition on Wednesday in response to an affidavit filed by the State Election Commission. “Thereafter two days, the State Election Commission (SEC) will have to submit an affidavit giving reply to the affidavit-in-Opposition,” a division bench headed by Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava said on Tuesday. On Monday, the SEC had in its affidavit said the Bengal government proposed that polls to 111 civic bodies “may be held in 6 to 8 phases” by May next year. The BJP, a party to the case, had demanded polls to the 111 civic bodies on a single day. The bench directed the party to place the demand in writing, which will be considered by the court during the course of hearing. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said all pending municipal elections would be held within two to three months. She was speaking at an administrative review meeting for North and South Dinajpur districts. Mamata made the announcement when she asked Trinamul’s Gangarampur MLA Biplab Mitra if they were prepared for the civic polls. Mitra said the party would fare well in the two civic bodies of South Dinajpur district. Mamata then said: “We will hold the polls to all civic bodies within two to three months.” She has asked government officials to share the dates of Madhyamik, higher secondary and joint entrance examinations with her. “The Gangasagar mela is there (apart from the exams). Dol and Holi are also there. We will check the dates and hold the polls,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata inaugurates projects for North and South Dinajpur||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurated a slew of projects and laid foundation stones of new ones in North and South Dinajpur districts on Tuesday. In North Dinajpur, she inaugurated 30 projects and laid foundation stones of 15 schemes, the estimated cost of which is around Rs 240 crore. In the neighbouring district of South Dinajpur, foundation stones of 23 projects were laid and 42 were inaugurated for which a sum of Rs 250 crore has been allotted. In recent years, this is the first time that such a huge sum — altogether a whooping Rs 490 crore — has been spent in the two districts at one go. The move, observers feel, is a part of Mamata’s strategy to play the development card to cement the Trinamul Congress’s support base in the districts which have a minority vote bank and a considerable population of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. In 2019, the BJP had won the Lok Sabha seats of Raiganj and Balurghat which comprise the Assembly seats of these districts. Altogether, there are 15 Assembly constituencies in the two Dinajpurs and according to the Parliament election results, the BJP was ahead of Trinamul in most of these constituencies. But in the Assembly elections this year, Trinamul managed to win 10 of 15 seats. Also, two BJP MLAs defected to Mamata Banerjee’s party, which has increased the party’s tally to 12. It is because of the results of these two districts and Malda (where Trinamul could bag eight of 12 seats) that the party, despite BJP’s emergence (the saffron party had won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats of the region) in 2019, could secure 23 seats, which is equal to the number of seats which the party had won in 2016. Trinamul insiders, when asked about the new projects and announcements, said they do not want to lose the vote bank, particularly because the civic and rural elections are ahead. “Also, we are focusing on the 2024 Lok Sabha polls and need to wrest the Parliament seats of north Bengal from BJP,” said a Trinamul leader. At the administrative meeting, Mamata reiterated that her focus is on employment generation and passed instructions to expedite the process of setting up a textile park on the land of a state-run spinning mill in North Dinajpur and an industrial park in another site of South Dinajpur. “The local trade bodies should come forward and open textile and other units here. We will extend all possible assistance to them,” she said. The chief minister also addressed a number of infrastructural issues, which include construction of a bridge that can connect Raiganj with Barsoi, a town in the neighbouring state of Bihar and its adjoining areas, but simultaneously underscored that the state government is facing crisis over funds. “We are coming up with 46 new colleges and can consider new proposals only after these are established. The state is spending hundreds of crores for Laxmir Bhandar (the monthly assistance scheme for women) and for other social projects. We do not get funds from the Centre and the public representatives will have to understand it,” she said. In course of the meeting, Abdul Karim Choudhury, a Trinamul veteran and the MLA of Islampur, came in her line of fire as he raised the demand for a separate Islampur district. “We cannot do it now….. we do not have adequate officers. Also, a lot needs to be done if a new district is created,” Mamata rebutted as the MLA went on harping on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Shot of Trinamul Congress leader with ‘gun’ stokes row in Malda||Mrinalini Mandal Maiti, the district president of the women’s wing of Trinamul in Malda, who is also the head of the Old Malda panchayat samiti, is in the eye of a storm with a photograph of her seated in her official chamber with a “pistol” in her hand surfacing on social media. Mrinalini, however, has claimed the “pistol” is actually a gas lighter that a Trinamul leader had given her about a year ago and she had merely posed with the “fake weapon”. The paper has not independently  verified the authenticity of the picture. However, the picture has left district Trinamul leaders red-faced, because chief minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee is on a visit Malda and staying at Mahananda Bhavan located in Old Malda. Mrinalini said she did not understand why an “old photograph” was brought to the fore when the chief minister was in Malda. “I believe Mukleshar Rahaman, husband of a member of the panchayat samiti which I head, has played a role in making the photograph reach social media because he had clicked my photograph with the pistol-like lighter in my hand,” she said. She filed a complaint at Maldaha police station and accused Rahaman of plotting against her. Police confirmed the complaint and said they were probing the allegations. The BJP, however, lost no time to highlight the picture as an example of Trinamul’s “gun culture”. “She (Mrinalini) is not the only example. A few days back, another local Trinamul leader was arrested for practising shooting in public. These people know only the language of arms and violence. We believe that the chief minister will understand how these leaders are exploiting their chairs,” said Gobinda Chandra Mandal, the district BJP president A section of Trinamul leaders are also disappointed with Mrinalini’s “unseemly” photograph. A public representative should act responsibly, particularly while sitting in office, they said. “It is up to the police to probe if it was an original or a fake firearm. But the message that is being conveyed through the photograph is undesirable,” said Krishnendu Choudhury, a state general secretary of Trinamul. Mrinalini had been earlier caught in another controversy, her party colleagues said. “Her husband had been accused of assaulting a government employee. He was also seen taking money from a contractor too, using his wife’s official position,” added a Trinamul leader. The controversy, sources said, might lead to deletion of Mrinalini’s name from the list of people who will attend the chief minister’s district administrative review meeting on Wednesday. Mamata, who is scheduled hold the review meeting for Malda district, will later on Wednesday head to Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Gangadhar Pramanik finally gets voter identity card||A team headed by Bankura’s Bishnupur sub-divisional officer Anup Kumar Dutta on Tuesday handed over the voter identity card to Gangadhar Pramanik, who had till recently been kept in a detention centre in Assam for over three years as a “foreigner”. “We handed over the EPIC (electoral photo identity card) to Gangadhar Pramanik. He was visibly happy after getting the document that made him a voter. It will be easier for him now to get documents like Aadhaar,” said Anup Kumar Dutta, the SDO of Bishnupur under which Gangadhar’s village Radhanagar falls. In December 2017, while working at a roadside eatery in Assam, he was declared a foreigner and sent to a detention centre in Goalpara. This September, he got bail after volunteers of Citizens for Peace and Justice brought him to his Radhanagar home. “For all of us at CJP, especially CJP’s Team Assam, this gives us hope that there is always light at the end of the tunnel,” said Teesta Setalvad, CJP secretary. “It will help Gangadharji in renewing his faith and rebuilding his life brick by brick. The authorities must realise how cruel this citizenship exclusion process is with arbitrary actions leading to innocents being incarcerated,” she added. Soon after Gangadhar reached home in September, the Bengal government took immediate steps to confirm his Indian citizenship and started the process to prepare the required documents without he had been labelled a “foreigner”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||East Midnapore: Govt schools shut over zero rate of attendance||Seven government-run junior high schools in East Midnapore have been shut down after district officials conducted reopening surveys this month and found that attendance rates had plummeted to zero. Following the reopening of government high schools in November this year, district education officials in East Midnapore had begun gearing up for the reopening of junior-high schools in the near future. “To our amazement, in nearly 50 such schools, the attendance has dropped by over 80 per cent. We were able to discern this when we compared midday meal statistics over the last 20 months with that of the pre-lockdown period. Parents and their wards have lost interest in collecting even the meals, much less education,” said an official. As of this week, seven junior high schools have been closed “but not de-recognised”, according to one official, who explained that the “handful” of students remaining in these schools had been temporarily shifted to others. Teachers of these seven schools have been transferred to other institutions. District inspector of school (secondary) Subhasish Mitra said: “The state government notified closure of schools that had zero attendance. The teachers of these schools have been transferred. Though these schools have been shut, they have not been derecognised.” Among the closed schools are the Dakshin Daudpur State Plan Junior High School and the Brahmanchowk Junior High School in Contai, both of which have zero students remaining on their rolls. The others include junior high schools in Egra, Nandigram, Moyna, Khejuri and Bhagabanpur. State education department sources said schools with a roster of less than 10 students were being considered closed for the time being. “These schools have all been given instructions to increase their intake if they are to reopen,” said a source. At the Daudpur State Plan School, inaugurated by the Trinamul dispensation in 2012, teacher-in-charge Snehasish Kar said the decline started shortly before the pandemic set in. “In that year, we still had 30 students. That halved by last year, and went to zero this year,” he said. “We had taken up campaigning efforts amid the parents after the first unlock, but that is not possible anymore,” he said. At the nearby Brahmanchowk High School, teacher-in-charge Subhas Bera said his school’s policy of admission tests for high school had “contributed directly” to the outflow of students starting in 2019. “Covid-19 was the death knell for all of this,” he said, explaining that most students from modest means were opting to join their parents in vocation instead. The son of Chandrasekhar Das, who is a Daudpur resident in Contai (South) and a farmer by profession, was a student of Class V when schools shut down because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. As the number of students at Dakshin Daudpur State Plan Junior High School began to plummet during the lockdown, Chandrasekhar got his admitted to a school a few kilometres from their home. “Over the last 20 months the school saw a drastic drop in students. At the beginning of this year, I was left with no other option but to shift him to a new institution,” Chandrasekhar said. The matter of students dropping out of several schools has been taken up by panchayat officials in the Contai area, where deputy sabhapati Bikash Bej said on Tuesday that the panchayat's education units had been instructed to undertake awareness campaigns for re-enrolment. "We will have an idea of the newest numbers in this regard by January," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee for Delhi role on Bangladesh rivers||The Bengal government will urge the Narendra Modi-led Centre to engage with Dhaka on the issue of reduced water flow in the Atreyee and the Punarbhaba — which pour into South Dinajpur district from Bangladesh before entering the neighbouring country again — because of construction of dams on the rivers on the Bangladesh side. “This is a matter involving two countries…. We have already written to the Centre about the Atreyee. We will again write to the Centre about the two rivers so that they can take it up with the Bangladesh authorities,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at an administrative review meeting for North and South Dinajpur districts in Raiganj on Tuesday. During the meeting, both South Dinajpur district magistrate Ayesha Rani A. and state agricultural marketing minister Biplab Mitra, who is from the same district, informed Mamata about the reduced water flow in the rivers and the consequent impact on the livelihood of farmers and fishermen. “The fishermen are having a lot of difficulty as water level in the rivers is going down steadily…. Irrigation by using river water is also getting affected and hence, farmers are suffering,” said Rani when the chief minister asked her about water scarcity in the district. Sources in the district administration said at least 50 per cent of the district’s 17-lakh odd population was suffering because of reduced water flow in the two main rivers of South Dinajpur. The sharing of river water between India and Bangladesh, two friendly neighbours, has often been a controversial issue. Dhaka has been complaining since 2011 that Bangladesh is not getting its due share of water from the Teesta, which flows into Bangladesh from north Bengal. “The Teesta water sharing agreement between the two countries cannot be sealed because of Mamata’s resistance. Now, she is complaining that Bengal is not getting water because of construction of dams by Bangladesh upstream the Atreyee and the Punarbhaba. The issue of sharing water in the trans-national rivers is likely to become more complicated in coming days,” said a source in Delhi. Aware that the issue is Delhi’s domain, Mamata hasn’t made any adverse comments about Bangladesh. But the chief minister stressed that she would persuade the Centre to take up the matter with the Sheikh Hasina government. While the state government has decided to make reduced water flow in the two rivers an issue, officials could not give details of the dams that Bangladesh allegedly constructed upstream. “We have come to know about the existence of the dams, which has gradually reduced water flow over the last few years…. But we cannot give specifics as the dams are not visible on Google map,” said a source. The fact that the state government was not expecting an immediate resolution to the water sharing impasse became clear when Mamata said her government was trying to find a solution by laying the foundation stone for a Rs 32 crore project to retain water in the Atreyee during the rainy season to ensure that water was available for residents of the district during lean months. “This will help fishermen and farmers alike. We have to complete the project as soon as possible so that people don’t suffer,” said Mamata. She also instructed chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to write to Delhi to bear the cost of the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 507 new cases, 512 recoveries and nine deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported 507 new Covid-19 infections, 512 recoveries and nine deaths, with a drop by 14 in its active cases to 7,576. A minister said new cases reported on Tuesday indicated infections between November 28 and December 2. Calcutta reported 137 new cases and two deaths. North 24-Parganas logged 121 new cases and four deaths. They were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections found in a day. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 386 or 76.13 per cent of new infections detected. Ten districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. Over the past 73 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 33 days and a fall for 39 days. In these 73 days, there has been a net fall of 98 in active cases or Covid patients under treatment. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.44 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.36. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 16.2 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.93 lakh recoveries and 19,562 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta Medical College doctor ‘thrashed’ for mask-up request||A doctor attached to the Calcutta Medical College was allegedly beaten up by a co-passenger for requesting the latter to wear a mask when they were aboard a Krishnagar-bound local train on Tuesday afternoon. Dr Jayanta Sarkar, 44, a resident of Nadia district’s Chakdah, and associated with the department of pathology of the Calcutta Medical College, suffered injuries on his face, neck and shoulders. The doctor had been on his way to a relative’s home in Krishnagar when the incident occurred. Once the train reached Krishnagar station, he reportedly contacted GRP personnel who sent him to Nadia district hospital for treatment. At the Krishnagar GRP office later, the doctor filed a complaint against his co-passenger, Samar Bhattacharyya, 59, a state government employee in Krishnagar. The accused lodged a counter complaint, alleging the doctor’s behaviour had been abusive, GRP sources said. Both the allegations are being probed. Sources said the row started when Bhattacharyya boarded the Krishnagar-bound train at Taherpur station without wearing a mask. “The elderly man was part of a group of daily passengers and was talking without wearing a mask. He was seated close to me. I humbly asked him several times since there is still a strong Covid threat with a new variant of the virus (omicron). But he began abusing me. When I protested, he attacked me, tore my mask and thrashed me. Some of his co-passengers also indulged his behaviour,” the doctor alleged. He added, however, that some other passengers supported him and rescued him from the passenger’s blows. “They also helped me to draw the attention of the GRP and gave their statement to police when the train reached Krishnagar,” the doctor added. The accused refused to speak. A Krishnagar GRP officer said they had received both the complaints and were probing them.. “The investigation is at a preliminary stage. No case has been started so far,” he said. When asked if the GRP did enough to book train passengers who did not wear masks, the officer said: “Police can do little unless people become aware of the need to wear masks in public places.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Border row: Mamata Banerjee ups ante on BSF ambit||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday stopped short of asking police and civil administration officials in North and South Dinajpur districts to confront BSF personnel in case they entered more than 15km from the boundary between India and Bangladesh. The chief minister’s directive was mainly for inspectors-in-charge and block development officers in the two border districts. “Do you visit the bordering areas to check what they (BSF) are doing?” Mamata asked the civil and police administration officials at an administrative review meeting for North and South Dinajpur districts in Raiganj. Then, she took care to explain how BSF jawans were allegedly threatening villagers and interfering in areas that came under the jurisdiction of state police frequently. The chief minister also recalled the “dubious role” of the BSF personnel during Assembly polls. “The BDOs and ICs should visit the areas along the borders regularly.… In case you see that the BSF officials have come more than 15 kilometres from the international borders, tell them that it’s not their jurisdiction,” she added, passing an instruction that was likely to deepen the chasm between the Centre and the state on the issue of BSF’s jurisdiction along international borders. The Centre had on October 11 issued a notification allowing the BSF to carry out searches, seizures and arrests up to 50km within the Indian territory from the international borders. Earlier, the force had the jurisdiction up to 15km. The decision of New Delhi drew sharp protests from Nabanna and Mamata had dashed off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 24, urging him to revoke the notification and calling it an infringement on the state’s powers and an assault on the federal structure. At the review meeting, Mamata sought to embarrass the Centre by referring to the recent carnage in Nagaland in which 14 innocent civilians died in firing by Assam Rifles jawans. The issue has already become a thorn for the Modi government as the demand for the repeal of the AFSPA, which gives sweeping powers to armed forces, has gained momentum in different parts of the country, especially in the Northeast. “You saw what happened in Nagaland recently.… You may also remember the Sitalkuchi incident (that had occurred in Cooch Behar district during the Assembly polls, in which four people died in CISF firing). Recently, three people died in BSF firing in Cooch Behar,” said Mamata. “They (BSF) are bound to take permission of the state police to come into areas beyond their jurisdiction. But they don’t seek permission and enter areas beyond their jurisdiction in bordering districts like the two Dinajpurs, Malda and Murshidabad. Our police don’t confront them on most of the occasions. This can’t be allowed as law and order is a state subject,” she added. Then, she asked Manoj Malaviya, DG (police), to take up the matter with senior BSF officers. MPs to meet Shah A team of Trinamul Congress MPs will meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday in the Parliament to present a memorandum on the Nagaland incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Woman, daughter held on charges of chopping off youth’s tongue||Police on Tuesday arrested a 50-year-old woman and her daughter on charges of chopping off the tongue of a youth near Prantik in Santiniketan. “We have arrested two women on charges of cutting off the tongue of a youth. A probe has begun,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, the Birbhum police chief. The police and local sources said Somai Soren, 22, and his friend Mukul Murmu had gone to the house of one Paku Soren, 50, of Fuldanga village near Santiniketan on Monday and consumed liquor together. “I went to the toilet and when I came back, I found Paku sitting on Somai and cutting off his tongue with a blade. Before I could stop her, she cut down a portion of his tongue. I don’t know what happened during my absence that provoked her to become so cruel,” said Mukul. Somai was admitted to Bolpur hospital initially and later transferred to Calcutta. The police are yet to find out the missing portion of his tongue. Paku and daughter Rani, 28, were arrested on Tuesday. A section of villagers accused the woman of practising black magic and the injury was a result of that. The police denied the allegation. “There is no connection with black magic or any such practice. We will find out the actual motive shortly,” said Tripathi. Accused ‘suicide’ Srikanta Ghosh, who was accused of murdering a middle-aged couple and their 16-year-old daughter on Monday morning, allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a running train near Gobra station in Hooghly district on Tuesday. Government railway police in Kamarkundu seized the body from the tracks shortly after the incident. “We don’t know yet which train ran over the youth,” said Apu Das, the Kamarkundu GRP OC. Srikanta had allegedly killed his cousin Sanjay Ghosh, the latter’s wife Mitali and daughter Shilpa over a property-related dispute on Monday morning. His brother Tapan was also arrested after he had initially gone missing. “Prime accused Srikanta has committed suicide. We have arrested his brother Tapan and he was remanded in police custody for four days by a court. Investigations are on,” said Amandeep, the Hooghly rural police chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Foresters and police join hands to catch royal Bengal tiger||Foresters and police of Maipith coastal area in South 24-Parganas fence an acre of paddy field with nets and set up two cages to catch a royal Bengal tiger hiding there since Tuesday morning. To capture the tiger, foresters put up fencing around the paddy field and built two cages with a goat inside it as bait. “Right now, the tiger is inside the net and we are waiting till it comes to catch the goat in the cage. Then, forest officials will rehabilitate the animal at a proper place,” said Madhusudan Pal, the officer-in-charge of Maipith coastal police station area. In the past few days, a tiger of the Sunderbans in all likelihood has been roaming the villages of Maipith coastal police station areas such as Bhubaneshwari and Debipur. Villagers, who spotted several pugmarks and heard roars, informed foresters and police. Foresters initially thought the tiger had come to the villages but disappeared in the core forest area. But they were mistaken. Prabir Mishra, a social worker and resident of Bhubaneshwari village, said: “Finally on Tuesday morning, a farmer saw the animal crossing a field and he  quickly informed others. The tiger had taken shelter in  the paddy field.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Health department to launch integrated cancer hub at NBMCH||The state health department will soon launch an integrated cancer treatment facility at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) and is working on the plan to set up a state-of-the-art cancer hospital here in association with the Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai. The NBMCH at Sushrutanagar on the outskirts of Siliguri is the main state-run referral hospital in north Bengal. “The oncology department of the NBMCH will get services like medicine, surgery, paediatrics, orthopaedics and ENT under one roof. Rooms have been identified for such departments at the oncology department. We will have 30 beds for surgical oncology (including orthopaedics), 15 beds for medical oncology, 15 beds for paediatrics and 15 beds for ENT,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty of the state health department in north Bengal. The facility will be ready by mid-January and start from February, he added. “To run this integrated facility, we are sending physicians, paediatricians and some other specialist doctors, around 10 nurses and some assistant superintendents to Mumbai for training. Their training will start from December 12,” Roy added. As of now, there is a cancer treatment facility at the NBMCH but patients have to visit different departments, depending on the case. The hospital, sources said, will also receive 13 new senior resident doctors and two faculty members. “Among these doctors, five each would be posted under medical oncology and surgical medicine while the rest three will work under radiation oncology,” said a source. At the MJN Medical College and Hospital in Cooch Behar, some new outpatient departments were opened on Tuesday. Sources said specialist doctors like cardiologists, nephrologists, neurosurgeons and radio oncologists will attend the OPDs. Surgical urology and rheumatology services were introduced at the hospital from Tuesday too. Civic projects The board of administrators (BoA) of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, carrying out 270 infrastructure projects in the civic area across 47 wards, has finished almost half of them, said Gautam Deb, chairperson of the BoA here on Tuesday “We have taken up around 270 projects with an estimated cost of Rs 37.56 crore. Of these, 125 projects have been completed while work of the remaining projects is on,” said Deb. These include construction and repairing of roads, sewerage, culverts and health centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Madhu tea estate to reopen soon in Alipurduar district||Madhu tea estate in Kalchini block of Alipurduar district, closed for around seven years, is likely to reopen soon as an entrepreneur has expressed interest in acquiring and running it. Shyam Sundar Goyal, who owns another tea estate in the Dooars, visited the garden on  Sunday to take stock of the situation, much to the elation of workers jobless for years now. Located around 3km away from Jalpaiguri town, the garden was shut by its erstwhile management on September 23, 2014, following disagreement with workers over bonus. Since then, repeated initiatives taken by the state to facilitate the reopening of the garden proved unsuccessful. The state land and land reforms department cancelled the garden’s lease four years ago. All 951 permanent workers of the garden became jobless. Around 200 of them have since migrated elsewhere for jobs, local sources said. Last week, state labour minister Becharam Manna, on a visit to north Bengal asserted that the state government taken up the onus to reopen six closed tea estates. “A tender was floated by the state government where investors were invited to take over Madhu tea estate. On December 3, the bids were opened and Shyam Sundar Goyal, who also owns the Nimati tea estate, was selected” said a source in the administration. Goyal who on Sunday met with workers and trade union leaders of the garden, said: “I have received information about the selection via tender and am waiting for the formal written communication and will then fix a day when the garden will reopen”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-12-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung to write to Mamata Banerjee on hill fix||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha president Bimal Gurung will write to chief minister Mamata Banerjee for a permanent political solution of Darjeeling hills, the Terai and the Dooars, as suggested by her party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, the hill leader said. Gurung, who toured Calcutta with some of his associates and met a number of state ministers as well as Abhishek during the past few days, returned here on Tuesday. The Morcha chief told newspersons at New Jalpaiguri Junction that his visit to Calcutta was “effective”. “We met Abhishek Banerjee to discuss various issues pertaining to the hills, the Terai and the Dooars regions. He suggested I send a letter to the chief minister with our proposals for a permanent political solution. We will send the letter soon,” Gurung said. Last month, Mamata, while attending an administrative review meeting in Kurseong, had said that her government will work on a permanent political solution for the hills. She had also asked representatives of the hill parties to come up with suggestions on it. Gurung’s decision to send a letter comes at a time the BJP camp and its allies in the hills have started pushing the issue of Gorkhaland again, pointed out political observers. “The Centre held a tripartite meeting in October and plans to hold more rounds of talks. The BJP MP of Darjeeling raised the issue in Parliament and the BJP MLA of Kurseong wrote to the party’s national president J.P. Nadda on it. It seems Bimal Gurung and his party colleagues, who are allies of Trinamul, also want to prove to the hill residents that they are working on the issue too,” said a hill observer. Gurung, who had left for Calcutta on November 23, on Tuesday said he held talks with state ministers on a number of issues ranging from reopening closed tea estates to bettering agriculture and floriculture practices in the hills and jobs for hill youths. “The state government is carrying out development work across the state, including the hills. The chief minister is fast emerging as a national leader because of her progressive vision and performance. At the Lok Sabha elections in 2024, we will extend complete support to her,” the Morcha leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
