09-12-2021||West Bengal||Rawat death: Mamata expresses condolences||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday condoled the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu. “It’s a great loss.… We respect the armed forces. This is indeed an unfortunate incident or accident,” said Mamata, who cut short an administrative review meeting in Murshidabad after the Indian Air Force confirmed that Rawat was among the 13 who had died in the crash. “Soon, there will be a meeting of the cabinet committee on security in Delhi. There may be some announcements later in the evening. I extend my condolences to the family of General Rawat and all others who lost their lives,” she added. Earlier in the day, Mamata had called off another administrative review meeting midway in Malda when she learnt about the crash. “What a tragic incident…. The chopper carrying General Bipin Rawat has crashed. I feel so sad,” the Bengal chief minister said as she wrapped up the first review meeting before the scheduled end. Sources close to her said she was upset when one of her aides sent her a text message about the crash. “The chief minister, however, could not believe that the Chief of Defence Staff could die in a crash like this as the weather was apparently suitable for flying,” a source close to Mamata said. She tweeted in the evening: “Pained by the untimely demise of CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other Armed Forces personnel in the tragic accident in Coonoor today. The entire nation mourns this irreparable loss. We will always remember the courage and devotion with which he served our nation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
09-12-2021||West Bengal||‘Palanquin ambulance’ facility introduced in Buxa hills||The Alipurduar district administration launched a “palanquin ambulance” service on Wednesday to ferry patients from the remote areas of Buxa hills. There are 13 villages in the Buxa hills which are on the India-Bhutan border. Around 5,000 people reside at these hilly hamlets. So far, any patient who needed medical treatment had been brought by local people on bamboo-made stretchers till the zero point (the location till where vehicles can reach). From there, the patient was carried to the Kalchini block health centre or the district hospital in Alipurduar, located around 40km away. “It was precarious for a patient to be taken on a bamboo stretcher as there was always a risk that the person might slip from it. Besides, it was inconvenient for those who would carry the patient. The ‘palanquin ambulance’ is a much better alternative. The patient will be safe and locals will find it easy to carry,” Alipurduar district magistrate Surendra Kumar Meena said. The service has been introduced in association with Family Planning Association of India, a social organisation that works for public health. On Wednesday, the “palki” or the palanquin was introduced in Buxa. A group of locals carried the “palanquin, an enclosed box fitted with wooden handles and a vent where a person can sit or lie, to the hills. Meena launched the facility. “A patient can be provided with saline and oxygen inside the palanquin. Also, there is a separate space for newborns and infants. One palanquin was introduced today and if required, more would be provided to the residents of the remote villages,” said a representative of the social organisation. Residents of the hamlets have appreciated the administration’s initiatives. “It is good that a ‘palki ambulance’ facility has been launched here. Patients can be carried now with much comfort and if required, oxygen can be provided to them en route. We hope the administration will introduce more facilities at the new health centre,” said a resident of Lepchakha, one of the hamlets in the Buxa hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Bolpur Girls’ High School students agitate for exam delay||A section of higher secondary examinees of Bolpur Girls’ High School on Wednesday agitated on the school campus for over three hours demanding that exams —scheduled from December 13 — be delayed by a week. The protesting students said they needed more time, explaining that the school had reopened for less than a month and that there was “a possibility” that this examination could be considered a substitute to board examinations if the pandemic worsens. “The new strain of Covid-19 has become a threat and if the situation turns worse, then the result of this exam may be used to evaluate us for our final examination. We demand at least a week’s time for preparation and special suggestions from the school,” said an agitating examinee from the humanities stream. Bolpur Girls’ High school is one of the oldest schools in Bolpur. Around 225 students from science and humanities stream will sit for higher secondary examination this year. School authorities said they had met the guardians twice already and had informed them about the exam date earlier with no objections recorded. “We are also concerned about the results of the students and have assured them that we will provide suggestions for each subject. But it is the direction from the council that we have to finish the examinations within time,” said Bhaswati Lala Nag, teacher-in-charge of the school. The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education has set a December 24 date whereas the Higher Secondary council has put in a deadline to finish the same within December 31. Government schools teaching Classes IX, X, XI and XII were reopened on November 16 across the state. Sources said in the selection tests, full marks for each subject would be 50 for higher secondary examinees and 90 for madhyamik. A senior teacher of the school said students who agitated on Wednesday had given a written demand to authorities where they claimed that they needed precise question papers and referred to local schools that are reportedly providing such. “It is impossible for us to provide an exact question paper. We have told all the teachers to provide a good suggestion for the students but it is not ethical to hand over a question paper before the exams,” said the teacher. Also, headmasters of other schools in the town said that they were also receiving several letters from guardians asking for more time for exams. Demonstration Over a hundred final-year students studying in various distance post-graduate courses under Burdwan University on Wednesday demonstrated for over five hours at the administrative office of the varsity accusing the authorities of delaying examination and providing mark sheets. The students closed the main gate of the administrative block in Rajbati of Burdwan and said they were facing hurdles to get admission in B.Ed courses due to delay by the varsity. “Our final-year examination had to be completed before September but the varsity did not notify us about the exams even today. On the other hand, B.Ed colleges had given us a deadline of December 14 to submit the final year marksheet. We met the pro-vice chancellor who assured us of complying with our demands. A notification has been published already that our examinations will be held in December and the results will be published in January. The VC will contact the government to increase the deadline of B.Ed colleges,” said an agitating student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Audit of relief distribution reveals 1,400 wrong Amphan beneficiaries  in East Midnapore||A recent audit by the state government into the 2020 Cyclone Amphan dole disbursements resulted on Wednesday in the issuance of return orders to 1,400 wrongful beneficiaries across 17 blocks of East Midnapore. Of these, 380 persons are reportedly residents of Nandigram, which in June and July last year had become the epicentre of dole-related malfeasance, much of which was traced back to grassroots level Trinamul workers. "The phenomenon was unfortunately widespread across this district, with several average citizens as well as politically-connected ones claiming doles in poor faith. Only eight of 25 blocks were spared," said a district official, explaining that postal orders had gone out starting this week mandating that wrongful doles be returned by December 15. "Else, those who do not return the money will be named in FIR(s)," the official added. District officials said state secretariat Nabanna had asked for files relating to dole disbursement last month, in connection with the uproar that had been caused last year when it was learned that Trinamul-connected panchayat officials had been propagating wrongful dole claims, which at the time were Rs. 20,000 for a fully-damaged home and Rs. 5,000 for a partially-damaged one. Sources said several people had claimed wrongful doles -- in the absence of real damages -- either against their own name whereas others had claimed subsequent damages against names of family members. In July 2020, 200 Trinamul panchayat members in Nandigram-I and II, including five chiefs, had been show caused in this connection after their names were found to have been on a reimbursement list. The incident has embarrassed the ruling Trinamul. Vice-president of Nandigram panchayat samity and block Trinamul leader Abu Taher admitted that there had been irregularities in claiming and distribution of doles. “There have been a lot of irregularities in Nandigram. While drawing up the list of beneficiaries, errors at the panchayat level led to people whose houses had not been damaged getting doles. Among such illegal claimants are several people who are leaders and supporters. After the party cracked the whip, many of them had returned the money,” Taher said. Asked if there were Trinamul members who had claimed the dole twice, Taher said: “We have asked such people to return the money. If they don’t, the administration has been asked to take necessary action against them.” In September 2020, the district administration had named two persons in FIRs claiming they had not returned wrongful doles. The duo, however, were not prosecuted and had claimed at the time that they had returned the money. There were 498 other civilians at the time who reportedly went unprosecuted for the same offence. “Over Rs 300 crore had been disbursed by the state coffers in May for the victims of actual damage, but so much money went into the wrong hands,” said a surveying official this week. “Rs 1 crore was made in return collections as of last year, in this district. Nabanna has made it clear this figure will have to go up following the most recent notices,” they added. Asked, district magistrate Purnendu Majhi concurred that several dubious dole recipients remained at large in the district. "We have issued them due notices. If they do not respond and act, legal action will follow," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Trap laid on Teesta bank to capture bear||The state forest department has laid a trap at Jubilee Park on the Teesta river bank here to capture the Himalayan black bear that is suspected to have sneaked into Jalpaiguri town on Tuesday. Sources said teams from four-five wildlife squads had been deployed to trap the bear that seems to be hiding somewhere in the vegetation cover of the town. A cage has been placed at Jubilee Park on the Teesta river bank near Collectorate Avenue, a prominent thoroughfare of the town, and officials are monitoring CCTV cameras across Jalpaiguri to locate the animal. On Tuesday, employees of Teesta Udyan — a park located on the Karala river bank and run by the forest department — noticed pugmarks of the animal. In the evening, the bear’s movement was caught on a CCTV camera at the park. The foresters alerted the police and the local civic body, and residents of the town were warned through public distribution system. “We have asked people to stay indoors. Also, morning walkers should be alert and it is better that they abstain from moving out in the wee hours,” said Saikat Chatterjee, a member of the board of administrators of Jalpaiguri municipality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Dental students of NBDCH protest against ‘negligence’||Students of North Bengal Dental College & Hospital (NBDCH) have launched a protest under the banner of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad (TMCP) since Tuesday, alleging lack of facilities and negligence on the part of the authorities. The junior doctors at the hospital, located in Sushrutanagar on the outskirts of Siliguri, have also joined the students in the demonstration. “A section of faculty members are irregular in conducting classes. Such irregularity is affecting our studies. There is a crisis of various materials which we need for practical classes and those available are of inferior quality. Also, the authorities are ignorant of the college premises and there is dirt and filth everywhere. We have to attend classes in an unhygienic environment. These issues have to be addressed,” said one of the demonstrators. The junior doctors, who observed a symbolic hunger strike at the college on Tuesday, said the dental college lacks a prominent operation theatre. “We are disappointed with the lackadaisical attitude of the authorities and doubt their sincerity in running this college and hospital. The Orthopantomogram (OPG), which is an important equipment used to scan dental x-rays, is lying unused and has not been made functional so far. This is depriving the patients. Also, the auditorium that was built long back has not been opened yet,” said Pushpendu Sarkar, president of the NBDCH unit of house staff that is affiliated to the TMCP. Their movement, he said, will continue unless the demands are met. Sanjay Dutta, the NBDCH principal, said they were looking into the issues. “Some faculty members could not attend classes because of certain problems. Also, materials for practical classes are supplied regularly despite a fund crunch.” The local panchayat under which the NBDCH is located has been asked to clean the college premises on a regular basis, Dutta added. Varsity conference A three-day international conference on “Mechanistic & Therapeutic Approaches in Human & Animal Health,” which was organised by the zoology department of Cooch Behar Panchanan Barma University (CBPBU), concluded at the varsity on Wednesday. Several aspects like the mechanism of disease pathogenesis of infectious diseases, including SARS CoV-2, HIV and parasitic diseases, drug synthesis and metabolism in inflammatory and stress related disorders, cancer and stem cell therapy, vaccination strategies and efficacy and use of bioinformatics in vaccine development, were highlighted at the. Additional reporting by our Cooch Behar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal reports 574 cases, 568 recoveries and six deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 574 Covid-19 infections, 568 recoveries and six deaths. Wednesday was the second day in the past 74 days when active cases neither rose nor fell. Calcutta recorded 183 new cases and North 24-Parganas 102. Twenty districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Calcutta logged three deaths and North 24-Parganas two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress sacks dissidents Sachhidananda Banerjee and Tanima Chatterjee in Calcutta civic polls||The Trinamul Congress on Wednesday expelled dissidents Sachhidananda Banerjee and Tanima Chatterjee who had filed nominations as Independents for the polls to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Trinamul sources said while multiple rounds of back-channel parleys with Banerjee had failed, no such attempts were made with Chatterjee, a sister of deceased stalwart Subrata Mukherjee. “The tone had to be set with the Calcutta civic polls. Elections to 110-odd civic bodies lie ahead of us. We cannot afford proliferation of Trinamul dissidents contesting as Independents, thereby helping the Opposition through division of pro-Trinamul votes,” said a Trinamul vice-president. Banerjee — the chairman of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation between 2010 and 2015 — had unsuccessfully contested the 2015 civic polls as a Trinamul candidate from ward 70. Chatterjee was initially nominated by the party in ward 68, but was soon replaced to accommodate the outgoing councillor Sudarshana Mukherjee. Ratan Malakar, the third dissident — who had filed nominations as an Independent from ward 73, where Mamata Banerjee’s sister-in-law Kajari Banerjee is the party’s official candidate — withdrew his candidature last week and reaffirmed his commitment to the party. Malakar, a councillor for two decades, attributed his decision to requests from the top-tier leadership. Sources in the party said Malakar decided to withdraw after discussion with Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee, a nephew of candidate Kajari Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt plans drive to deliver ration cards||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to initiate a special drive to deliver ration cards to nearly three lakh beneficiaries who didn’t receive the same in the past few months. The drive has been planned ahead of the next Duare Sarkar camps scheduled for January next year. Earlier this year, the food and supplies department had tried to deliver 3,08,471 ration cards to the beneficiaries after the postal department returned those cards saying those could not be provided because of faulty addresses. “In the first phase, the food and supplies department had sent 1,95,321 cards to districts to distribute those through ration shops. But only 9,266 cards could be delivered. In the second phase, another 1,13,150 cards were sent to the districts in October. The officials are yet to start the process for the cards sent in the second phase,” said a senior government official. In such a situation, the food and supplies department is trying to complete the process of distribution of the cards to the beneficiaries as the next Duare Sarkar camps are to be held in January next year. “If the cards are not distributed before the camps, the beneficiaries who are yet to receive the cards would visit the camps and apply for fresh cards once again. This will make the situation critical as the application for new cards would go up and it would indicate the department’s failure in issuing new cards,” said another official. According to sources, majority of the undelivered cards were printed when the state started converting old paper-based cards to digital ration cards. But these could not be delivered because of reasons like incomplete address and wrong phone numbers given while filling up the forms. Delivering the new cards before January is also important as the Centre has fixed the deadline to link the cards with Aadhaar on December 31. "Once the new cards reach the beneficiaries, their biometric data has to be entered through the PoS machines at the ration shops, which will be authenticated by the food and supplies department. So, it is a lengthy process that has to be completed by December 31, otherwise the beneficiaries can be deprived of their food grains," said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Illegal resorts on forest land demolished in Alipurduar||The forest department on Wednesday demolished three illegal private resorts which were coming up in the core area of the Buxa Tiger Reserve in Alipurduar district. According to sources, all the accommodations were raised on forest land. While construction of one of the resorts had finished, work was in progress on two other sites. Earlier, on November 26, a team of foresters had been to the area that is on the bank of the Jainti river under the east division of the BTR for inspection. They, however, had to return as a section of people dwelling in adjoining areas resisted. This made the department issue notices to the owners of the resorts, asking them to vacate the land within the next seven days. “As they did not act on the notice, we went there today and demolished the establishments. Those were built in the core area of the forest which is a complete violation of the Indian Forest Act. It has been clearly mentioned that no such construction work can be carried out in a reserve forest,” said Budhwaraj Sewa, the field director of the BTR. Sources in the department said Subhash Datta, a Kolkata-based environmentalist, had already flagged the issue before the National Green Tribunal. “Also, a status report of the BTR has to be sent to the National Tiger Conservation Authority. That is why the demolition was necessary. Existence of such accommodations in the core area is unacceptable,” said a source. Since morning, police personnel, along with foresters, had been deployed on the spot to prevent any untoward incident. An excavator was engaged to pull down the structures. The drive continued till the evening and there was no resistance from the locals. “We believe residents of adjoining areas will understand that the step was needed for conservation of nature and wildlife. The department is vigilant and is in the process of checking out the locations of all such accommodations which have come up in different locations across the forests of north Bengal. Any resort or lodge that has come up on forest land will be demolished. It has also been mentioned in the Centre’s and state’s policies on eco-tourism that the forest area has to be protected,” a senior forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee ire at Centre over Ganga erosion||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the Narendra Modi government of failing to arrest the erosion of the Ganga in Malda and Murshidabad districts and asked why the “calamity” had not been addressed by the “Namami Gange” project that was launched by the Centre with much fanfare. While Mamata was holding an administrative review meeting of Malda district here, she appeared offended over the Centre’s alleged lackadaisical attitude towards the erosion issue as one MLA after another sought her intervention, referring to the havoc caused by the Ganga in their Assembly constituencies. “Erosion is the prime problem in Malda and Murshidabad districts. The state government can do little to curb this calamity. This has to be addressed by the central government but they are not taking necessary measures. The central government has launched the ‘Namami Gange’ project. Why can’t they include erosion in it?” asked Mamata. She instructed chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to take up the matter with the Centre. “If required, send the state irrigation secretary (to Delhi). He can take up the issue with the officials concerned there,” the chief minister said. In Malda and Murshidabad, acres of land, houses, religious places and educational institutions are gobbled up by the Ganga every year. This year, too, the problem was acute in areas like Baishnabnagar and hundreds became homeless and landless. Mamata asked officials and elected representatives to see that people did not settle in large numbers in erosion-prone areas. “We cannot control the flow of the Ganga. We have to explore alternative options to ensure that the loss is minimal. People should be stopped from settling on the banks of the river and if required, they can be shifted to other places where land is available,” said Mamata. The chief minister also said the process of lengthening the runway of Malda airport by another 1,000 metres had already started. “Once the runway is ready, large airplanes can land here. We want to make the airport operational under the regional connectivity scheme so that the travel time between Malda and Calcutta comes down to 30 minutes. This can largely benefit the people here,” she said. Mamata asked the chief secretary and district administrative officials to explore the opportunity of introducing regular flights from Malda. “We have already developed the airports in South Dinajpur and Cooch Behar. Malda airport should be developed now,” she said. The Malda airport had been built on 144 acres of land in 1962, initially for cargo flights. The Vayudoot service was launched in the 1980s but did not last for long. At present, the airport is used only for helicopter service for VIPs. “Once the airport is made functional, flights with 80 to 90 seats can land here,” Malda district magistrate Rajarshi Mitra said. During the meeting, the chief minister also took stock of law and order in Malda, a district that shares borders with neighbouring country Bangladesh and states Bihar and Jharkhand. “We are posting a subdivisional police officer in Kaliachak. All of you should be on alert because the district shares borders with Bangladesh and some neighbouring states,” she told police officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
09-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee kicks off projects worth Rs 1,300 crore in Malda and Murshidabad ||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday laid foundation stones of and inaugurated projects worth over Rs 1,300 crore for Malda and Mushidabad, two districts that were once known as Congress bastions. The loosening of purse strings captured the chief minister’s gratitude for the voters of the two districts that gave the Trinamul Congress 28 out of 34 seats in the recent Assembly polls. “You have given us so much of your love and blessings.... I thank you for your unflinching support,” Mamata said at one of the administrative review meetings she held in Malda and Murshidabad. The thanks giving assumed significance as she had said several times in the past that although people of the two districts had always attended her political rallies in large numbers, they had not voted for her. In 2011, when Trinamul had allied with the Congress, the party had bagged three seats from these two districts, while the Congress had won in 21 constituencies. The Left had got the remaining 10 seats. Five years later, in 2016, when the Left and the Congress joined hands, Trinamul could win four seats in Malda and Murshidabad, while the Congress’s tally increased to 22 seats. The Left secured six seats, while one seat each went to the BJP and Independent. “But there hasn’t been any discrimination since we came to power.... We will work harder for your development,’’ Mamata said as she launched projects related to water supply, road and sports complexes . The chief minister added that she would be visiting the two districts more often in the next five years. “I would even go to the subdivisional headquarters and hold review meetings there,’’ she said to a round of applause in Murshidabad. In her first visit to the districts after assuming the office of the chief minister for the third time in a row, Mamata made it clear that she would lay special emphasis on the development of Malda and Murshidabad, which have been deprived of any organised industry. While addressing the elected people’s representatives of the districts and officials, Mamata said the government had tried its best to deliver benefits to the people despite the financial constraints facing the state exchequer. ‘‘We have done almost everything in terms of creating physical infrastructure or rolling our social welfare schemes.... Now, my focus is on creation of job opportunities,” she said. In both the meetings, she told the elected representatives not to seek new projects and urged them to devote their energies in ensuring proper delivery of the welfare schemes that the Trinamul government had launched. She prodded the local businessmen into grabbing opportunities in sectors like textiles, food processing, animal husbandry, especially in poultry and dairy sectors, agri businesses and tourism, besides explaining how the government would help ventures in these sectors.” “You get in touch with district officials if you have project plans and they will take it up with the departments concerned,” she said during her interactions with representatives of local trade bodies. Unlike the administrative review meetings she used to hold in her first and second terms in office, Mamata has been allowing more time to local businessmen in the interactive sessions of such sessions in the third term. “Our focus is industry and that is why I am inviting you to attend the Bengal Global Business Summit in next April, ” said Mamata. In both the meetings, she told district Trinamul leaderships that they should work together, keeping aside mutual differences. “Have you people stopped quarrelling with each other? You should abstain from such acts, join hands and work together for development of people,” Mamata said, addressing party leaders Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury and Nihar Ranjan Ghosh at the meeting in Malda. Mamata also asked veteran leader and former minister Sabitri Mitra to work jointly with all the leaders, including the new office-bearers of the district party and the elected representatives. In Murshidabad, she told the MLAs to work in tandem with local panchayat representatives to deliver on development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
