10-12-2021||West Bengal||Mahua Moitra trends for rebuke, in video, by Mamata Banerjee||Trinamul Congress MP Mahua Moitra, known for her fiery speeches and savage swipes at rivals, has been trending over a clip in which she does not say a word. In the video that is being widely circulated, her party boss Mamata Banerjee appears to sternly address her at a meeting on Thursday. According to NDTV reports, the Bengal chief minister was upset about infighting ahead of civic polls and used what was an administrative review meeting at Krishnanagar in Nadia district to send out a message. Mahua Moitra, the Lok Sabha MP from Krishnanagar, was on stage when the Chief Minister turned to her. "Mahua, let me give a clear message here. I don't need to see who is against whom. If someone does not like a person, he or she puts up some news on YouTube or in newspapers. This kind of politics can go for one day but not forever. And for only one person to be in the same place forever, that is also not right," Mamata Banerjee says in the video. "When there is an election, the party will decide who will contest and who won't. There should be no difference of opinion. I am telling you, everyone should work together," she adds. The video shows Mahua Moitra nodding silently. When NDTV contacted the MP for a reaction to the clip, she said it was a "local fight and not worth it". The clip has been widely shared on social media; Mahua Moitra has been among top trends since yesterday. While some have taken swipes at Mahua Moitra over what appears to be a public reprimand, others have come out in her support, accusing Mamata Banerjee of "humiliating" one of her most articulate and prominent party leaders. In the same video, Mamata Banerjee also questions another leader about videos posted on YouTube of a protest by a rival faction that accuses him of corruption in a housing scheme. "I know who is behind this game. It was set up and planted in the media. I have cross-checked it through the CID (Criminal Investigation Department)," she says. Mahua Moitra was in August removed as the Trinamul district chief of Nadia. In the Bengal election earlier this year, the party's performance in Nadia was not as spectacular as in the rest of the state. Of 17 seats in the district, nine were won by the BJP. Factionalism has been a big factor in the Trinamul's weak show in Nadia, according to party leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Omicron in Calcutta? Patient isolated at private clinic ||The city's first suspected Omicron patient was quarantined on Friday at a private hospital  after testing positive for Covid-19 upon arrival from UK. Health department sources said the specimen for genome sequencing had been sent and that the patient was in a stable condition. The Omicron variant of Covid first flagged by South Africa on November 25 was assessed by the World Health Organisation on Sunday as a global high risk. Preliminary data indicates the infection rate of Omicron variant is higher than the other variants and could breach the immune system, bypassing previous infection and vaccination. The first two cases of Omicron were reported from Karnataka earlier this month. Since then, six members of a family in Pune and nine others from the same family in Jaipur who had travelled from Nigeria had also tested positive for the variant. Another man who arrived from Finland to Delhi had also tested positive with the new variant. Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary in the Union health ministry said on Friday, the total number of confirmed Omicron variant Covid patients in the country was 25. The Calcutta patient was initially kept at Beliaghata’s Infectious Diseases hospital and later moved to a private facility on the family’s insistence. Till December 9, 567 new Covid cases and seven deaths were reported from Bengal, according to the figures released by the state health department. Genome sequencing is crucial for conclusive evidence for the Omicron variant, which can also be detected by the conventional RTPCR test route. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for Covid-19 is a molecular test that analyzes the upper respiratory specimen, looking for genetic material (ribonucleic acid or RNA) of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Patients who test negative for spike protein, yet found to be Covid positive is an indication of the presence of the Omicron variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
10-12-2021||West Bengal||UK returnee tests positive for COVID-19 in Kolkata, genome sequencing underway for Omicron ||A woman, who returned from the UK, tested positive for COVID-19 here on Friday, a senior official of the West Bengal Health Department said on Friday. The required specimens were collected and sent for genome sequencing to ascertain whether she had contracted the new omicron variant, which has been classified as a highly transmissible virus of concern, he said. "A patient from the UK is found positive for COVID-19. She was initially sent to the Beliaghata IDBG Hospital Later she chose to get admitted at a private hospital for institutional quarantine, the official said. Her condition is stable, he added. Top officials of the health ministry had on Thursday informed a parliamentary panel that there are 23 cases of the omicron variant across the country, and authorities are closely monitoring the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal an example of human rights violations, says governor Dhankhar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar Friday fired a fresh salvo at the Trinamul Congress government, alleging that the state has set a precedent for human rights violations. The governor, in a videographed address on Human Rights Day, said upholding people's rights is necessary for a democratic system to flourish. "West Bengal has set an example of human rights violations... fear among the people is such that they cannot even discuss this openly," he said in the address posted on Twitter. "Worrisome HUMAN RIGHTS violations @MamataOfficial. Only Rule of Ruler and not of law' @India_NHRC. Need for massive uplift," he said in another tweet. Dhankhar, who has been at loggerheads with the TMC government over several issues since taking over as governor in July, 2019, also alleged that the administration and officials in the state are behaving like political workers. Situation @MamataOfficial far distanced from where the mind is without fear and the head is held high'. Governance is distancing from Constitution and rule of law, he said. The governor urged the officials to work within the provisions of the Constitution.  Meanwhile, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, in a message on Human Rights Day posted on Twitter around the same time as that of Dhankhar's address, called for unity among people to defeat forces that abuse fundamental rights.  Let us pledge to rise above hate and inequality. Let us come together and fight for each other, stand by each other. Together, we can defeat all forces that dare to abuse our fundamental rights," she wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri: Himalayan black bear sneaks into marriage hall ||A Himalayan black bear sneaked into a marriage hall at Malbazar town in Jalpaiguri on Thursday. The bear was tranquilised and taken away by a team of foresters. Sources said workers cleaning the hall after an event on Wednesday spotted the bear inside a room and locked it immediately. Hundreds gathered to catch a glimpse of the animal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
10-12-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal: Trade bodies come up with Rs 200-cr investment plan||A number of trade bodies in north Bengal have come up with investment proposals worth around Rs 200 crore and have also disclosed that several entrepreneurs are ready to set up industrial parks across the region. The trade bodies said the floodgates had opened because of the Bengal government’s decision to reduce the land ceiling for setting up such parks. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been highlighting the decision at her administrative meetings. Mamata has declared that her next aim is the industrialisation of Bengal. At a recent meeting organised by the Jalpaiguri district administration to prepare for the district-level Synergy — a business conclave hosted by the Bengal government — members of the trade bodies have come up with business proposals. “A sum of around Rs 100 crore will be invested to create warehousing and other industrial facilities on a 30-acre plot in Fulbari (at the southern end of Siliguri). A number of prominent e-commerce companies have planned to open offices and stores at the site,” said Kishore Marodia, joint secretary of the North Bengal National Chamber of Commerce & Industries. Representatives of the small tea sector, who were also present at the preparatory meeting, said fresh investments would be made soon. “A number of new bought-leaf factories will be developed in the district by self-help groups of small tea growers. We are expecting a cumulative investment of Rs 80 crore,” said Rajat Karji, president of the Jalpaiguri District Small Tea Growers’ Association. The trade bodies representing private entrepreneurs said the state’s decision to reduce the minimum land ceiling from 15 acres to five acres for setting up an industrial park on government and private land had encouraged fresh investments in north Bengal. “A number of proposals for industrial parks and MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) are ready with us and some more are in progress. The state government has set a target to set up 100 such parks across Bengal and we believe around half of these will come up in the northern districts of the state,” said Surajit Paul, secretary of the North Bengal Industries Association. That the state is keen to developing the MSME sector, which can generate employment, is also evident from Mamata’s emphasis on the issue. During the past three days, as she attended administrative review meetings in different districts of the state, she has time and again mentioned the decision. “We have reduced the land ceiling…. It can facilitate investment to set up industrial parks as well as different units.  You have to take a proactive role to bring in investments. The state government is there to extend all support to you. We are also organising Synergy where you can speak about your issues and new proposals. These days, our principal focus is on generation of employment,” the chief minister said while addressing representatives of local trade bodies of Nadia district where she held an administrative review meeting on Thursday. During the past few years, the Mamata government has been hosting Synergy, a district-level business event where the state reaches out to entrepreneurs to address the issues they face and also to encourage investments, especially in the MSME sector. “The next district-level Synergy will be held at 11 places across the state. They will start on December 11 and continue till February 18. Officials of different state departments will be present at the events and they will sit together for one-to-one interactions with entrepreneurs so that solutions can be provided to their business needs,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Water supply services to be disrupted in Siliguri||Drinking water will not be supplied by the Siliguri Municipal Corporation in the city for two and a half days as the state irrigation department will carry out repair and cleaning work of the lock gate of the Teesta canal from where water is supplied to the treatment plant of the PHE at Fulbari. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators of the SMC, said here on Thursday that water would not be supplied from the afternoon of December 13 till December 15. “There is a large pile of debris, including timber logs and other materials, at the lock gate of the barrage at Fulbari. These were dumped for years but no initiative was taken to clear them for smooth flow of water through the lock gate. That is why it has been decided that the state irrigation department will carry out cleaning and repair work. So it will not be possible for us to supply drinking water to people during this period,” Deb said. He said that to reduce people’s inconvenience, the SMC is arranging water supply from tanks. The water will be carried to different localities. Also, water pouches will be distributed across the city. “Forty-five vehicles and 65 people will be engaged for the distribution. Also, around one and half lakh water pouches will be kept ready for these days,” Deb added. In Siliguri, around 50 million litres of drinking water is supplied to around 10 lakh people who reside in 47 wards of the city through a distribution network comprising four overhead and 16 underground reservoirs. The civic body, sources said, has also submitted a plan with an estimated cost of Rs 6.9 crore to the state PHE department for construction of an intake well at the site of the plant. “We are waiting for approval. The intake well can be used as an alternative source of water during maintenance work of the existing plant,” said a source. Deb announced a new facility through which residents across Siliguri can directly interact with him once a week on civic issues. “I will be available for an hour every Saturday. People can call up the toll free number (18003453350) and talk to me about civic issues, come up with suggestions and report problems to me. Officials of the SMC will be there with me and they will take note of every call,” said Deb. On Saturday, people can call him from 11.30am to 12.30pm. “If I am not available at that time due to some other engagement, I will attend to calls at the same time the next Wednesday,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Tea estate closed for three years set to reopen||A tea estate located in the hills in the Darjeeling sub-division that was closed for around three years will reopen on Friday. The decision was taken at a tripartite meeting held at the office of the additional labour commissioner here on Thursday. “The Kalej Valley Tea Estate, which had been abandoned by the management on January 1, 2019, will reopen on Friday. A tripartite meeting was held today (Thursday) where representatives of a new company that will take over the garden were present along with trade union leaders. The meeting has turned out to be a successful one,” said labour minister Becharam Manna. Manna, who was on an official visit to north Bengal last week, had said that six-odd closed tea estates in the Dooars and in the hills would reopen soon. The decision to reopen Kalej Valley has brought smiles on the faces of around 600 workers, who were jobless during the past three years and were struggling to make ends meet by doing odd jobs. It was also decided that the new company would pay the entire arrear wages and salaries in three instalments, starting Saturday. The other two instalments will be paid by March and June next year, said a source. “The gratuity dues will be cleared in six instalments by May next year. Also, as the garden reopens, the workers will be provided with a portion of the food grains they were supposed to receive in the 2015-16 fiscal,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Solar power ends school steep electricity bill darkness||Recurring woes of paying a fat electricity bill are over for the Masat Girls’ High school authorities at Diamond Harbour-I block of South 24-Parganas. The school recently installed a 10MW mini solar power plant to meet its regular electricity needs free of cost. The solar power plant can now also give the school surplus power, with authorities considering a supply line to the WBSEDCL as part of its social responsibility. The Barrackpore division of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), the state-owned aerospace and defence company under the ministry of defence production, had earlier this year given the school a Rs 30.5 lakh grant for a mini solar power plant and a rainwater harvesting system. The school with 1,400 students, which used power supplied by the WBSEDCL, switched to alternative power in October-end to run its ceiling fans, lights, computers, lab equipment and water pumps. The projects will be formally inaugurated soon in the presence of senior HAL officials and South 24-Parganas district administration. Masat Girls’ High School headmistress Aparna Mondal called the solar plant a “big relief”. “We had a average monthly expense of about Rs 12,000 towards the electricity bill. But the alternative source of power helped us get rid of it,” she said. “We are very  thankful to the HAL authorities and to Diamond Harbour-I BDO Milantirtha Samanta who conceptualised the project and approached HAL.” Asked what led him to propose the school project to HAL for a grant, BDO Samanta told The Telegraph: “I visited the school for its golden jubilee celebrations recently. It seemed the school located in a backward area needed support. I came to know about its recurring electricity bill. I thought, why not save this amount so that the money can be used for other purposes. I approached HAL authorities and what they offered was more than our expectations.” HAL authorities released the funds to the BDO by virtue of his being the project’s executing authority. The BDO invited tenders to set up the mini solar power plant. “The mini solar plant has 10MW capacity, but the school needs only 4MW. So we are mulling export of the surplus to the WBSEDCL,” Samanta added. An official of the WBSEDCL in Calcutta explained the benefits of the system. “There is a provision of such export from solar plants. Any surplus power generated through solar plants can be fed into the grid, which can be adjusted with what schools take from the grid when solar systems do not meet their needs, particularly during monsoon,” he said. HAL’s Barrackpore division’s manager (HR) Pradip Kumar Ganguly said schools in urban areas get support from many sources. “Hence, we decided to support a school in an area where sustainable development is sustainable. So when the Diamond Harbour-I BDO requested us to support the Masat Girls’ School, our authorities chose it for obvious reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Teachers asked to start attending primary schools from Thursday||The Birbhum District Primary School Council (DPSC) has directed teachers to start attending primary schools regularly from Thursday amid a buzz that the Bengal government may resume classes for students below Class IX at the start of 2022, ending the pandemic-induced gap since March 2020. An order issued by the district DPSC chairman Pralay Nayek instructs teachers to start attending their respective campuses and assess the infrastructure at schools, visit homes of students to re-admit them and start the process for new admissions. Birbhum has 2,401 primary schools and nearly 9,500 teachers who look after around 2.60 lakh students. After Nayek issued the order on Wednesday evening, teachers of many schools visited their respective campuses on Thursday. “All the teachers have to attend their schools as they used to before the pandemic. They will finish all the required work, including progress reports… and look after the infrastructure. If the government announces the reopening of schools in January, requisite work would have been done in advance,” said  Nayek. Teachers must report to the officials concerned if any school infrastructure was found damaged or needed replacement, Nayek added. Sources in the primary school education department hinted all government primary schools could resume classes in January. “The schools should be opened within January next year as the new academic session will be afoot. If schools are closed, senior students may face problems in getting transfer certificates. Many students could not be admitted to Class I last year owing to the harsh phase of the pandemic then. now, it is important to admit all such students into primary courses,” said an official of the department based in Calcutta. Nayek said December was an important month for the admissions process and that if schools stayed shut now,there was no way to bring back dropouts to the education system. “Our teachers will visit the homes of students and talk to guardians,” Nayek added. The decision of the Birbhum DPSC was welcomed by several teachers’ organisations, who said such orders bode well for students and teachers eagerly waiting for schools to reopen. “We welcome the move that the DPSC has taken,” said Bharat Pal, central committee member of the All Bengal Primary Teachers’ Association. Arindam Bose, president of the West Bengal Trinamul Primary Teachers’ Association, echoed Pal. “A sizeable section of the teachers told us that they want to start attending school. We are hopeful that the government will reopen primary schools across the state very soon,” said Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Wet December blow to dry fish trade in coastal districts||Around one lakh fishermen and businessmen involved in the trade of dry fish in the coastal districts of South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore are staring at huge losses owing to the untimely December downpour triggered by Cyclone Jawad, prompting the state government to assess the damage and work out a compensation plan. “Dry fish traders have faced huge losses because of the heavy rainfall, which is uncommon in December. We have directed our officials to be on the ground to assess the losses. We have called a meeting on December 14 to discuss the role of the government to help the affected fishermen and traders and find ways to compensate them,” fisheries minister Akhil Giri said on Thursday. Dry fish trade is a major driver of the economy in the two coastal districts. There are some 40 large units in South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, catering to the livelihood of around one lakh fishermen and traders. People involved in the trade said tonnes of fish kept to dry had gone bad in the rain between December 5 and Thursday afternoon. “We usually dry fish from November as the chance of rain recedes by then. We did not expect such heavy rain in December, the peak time for our business. We had to throw away rotten fish. I will incur losses of no less than Rs 10 lakh,” said Rabiul Islam Shah, a trader of Baliara, South 24-Parganas. An official in the state fisheries department said the process to assess the losses began although rain continued to lash coastal districts on Thursday. He said the estimated loss to the dry fish trade would be no less than Rs 200 crore. Amin Sohel, president of a dry fish traders’ association in Contai, East Midnapore, said they desperately needed government help as the losses were “too heavy”. Officials in the fisheries department said the annual volume of the dry fish business in Bengal was Rs 800 crore. South 24-Parganas has 15 official dry fish units at Sagar, Kakdwip and Namkhana, and at least 20 more without official permits. East Midnapore has 25 dry fish units in Shankarpur, Contai, Khejuri and Mandarmani. Fishermen dry the produce under the open sky on sea beaches for up to 12 days at a stretch before they are packed for export to Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. Traders in South 24-Parganas also sell their produce to Assam, Mizoram and Manipur. “December rain has hit the dry fish business hard. We plan to set up a permanent storehouse in Sagar and Kakdwip and will take up the issue with higher-ups,” said Jayanta Pradhan, additional director of fisheries (marine), South 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Nabadwip: Sanskrit centre will start from Jan 1, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said an exclusive practice-and-research centre on Sanskrit and Indological studies would start functioning from January 1 in Nadia’s Nabadwip. As an extended campus of the Calcutta-based Sanskrit College and University, it is being envisaged as a “centre of excellence” and will be named after Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, Mamata said during an administrative review meeting in Krishnagar. The Mahaprabhu Chaitanya Sanskrit Sanskriti Gobeshona Kendra will focus on higher studies on Indology, Sanskrit and ancient texts in Pali, Prakrit and Apabhramsa, besides research on Indology and culture allied with the history of ancient India and Bengal. Sanskrit, Bengali and English will be the key languages for the new centre. “This is a big project. This is not just associated with education, we will include it in the Nabadwip heritage city project and in Nadia’s circuit tourism,” Mamata said. Soma Bandyopadhyay, the vice-chancellor of Sanskrit College and University and in-charge of the research centre, said: “This is a dream set to become reality as it will be operational from January 1. This has been made possible only because of the chief minister’s sincere efforts.” “The building is ready for inauguration. The naming was done by the chief minister on Thursday. We are now procuring furniture and will make the centre operational from New Year’s Day,” Bandyopadhyay said. An official of the state higher education department said that in 2016, scholars from Nabadwip, once known as the “Oxford of the East” for its rich association with Sanskrit studies, had demanded a research-and-practice centre for the language to be set up, following which Mamata announced the project and requested Indologist Nrisingha Prasad Bhaduri to examine its feasibility and objectives. Bhaduri submitted a report, recommending it as a centre for Indological studies under the Sanskrit College and University. As a result, the centre with a five-storey building and a 1,500-seater auditorium was built on a 7.5-acre plot at a cost of Rs 30 crore in Nabadwip. The campus also has a scholars’ block, a guesthouse, staff quarters, a canteen and a grocery store. “There are many institutions in India that study Sanskrit, but none has such wide scope for research and practice of Indological languages. Hence, we can claim this is the first of its kind in the country,” Bandyopadhyay added. She said the objective was to explore avenues in research activities in Sanskrit, Pali, Prakrit, Apabhramsa languages and in Indological studies that often face hurdles for various reasons. The centre will also uphold Sanskrit as the language of modernity that pervades the realms of science, philosophy, and aesthetics, besides linguistics and religion, with ease, she said. “To materialise this, we will bring together all the Sanskrit education and research units of Nabadwip, and the town library that has old and rare manuscripts, under a single umbrella,” she added. An official of the higher education department said the research centre would provide opportunities to researchers, academics from India and abroad. It will also help teachers of the Sanskrit College and University to harvest the traditional Indic knowledge base already present in university’s repository, and also explore new avenues for Indological and Sanskrit studies, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 567 new cases, 571 recoveries and 11 deaths||Bengal on Thursday logged 567 new Covid-19 infections, 571 recoveries and 11 deaths, with active cases falling by 11 to 7,565. Calcutta logged 165 new cases and one death. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
10-12-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling mourns untimely demise of its braveheart Satpal Rai||Satpal Rai, 41, had called up his wife and son early on Wednesday to tell them about his plans for the day and promised to call back when work ended. The promise will remain unfulfilled. Rai, a Darjeeling resident and personal security officer of General Bipin Rawat, died in the Indian Air Force chopper crash on Wednesday afternoon that killed India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, his wife Madhulika and 10 others. Rai had called up his son Bickal, 20, and wife Mandira, in her 30s, around 8.30am on Wednesday morning, hours before the crash in the Nilgiri Hills in Tamil Nadu that killed 13 occupants of the chopper with only one surviving member. Given the Rai family’s association with the armed forces, Mandira was always aware of the occupational hazards involved in his profession but has not yet been able to come in terms with the reality of her husband’s sudden death. Her son Bickal is also a serving jawan, in the same regiment as his father, the 5/11 Gorkha Rifles. Rai’s father, the late Bahadur Singh Rai had, served in Punjab police. “My husband called me around 8.30am on Wednesday and told me about the day’s duty, the (chopper) ride he was taking, and said he would call again after the day’s work is over,” Mandira told The Telegraph on Thursday at her home at Manaydara, Takdah tea garden, some 25km from Darjeeling. Rai also made a short video call to his son Bickal, currently posted in Delhi, around the same time and spoke about his day’s work, Mandira said. “They were normal, routine calls,” said Mandira. “I know what to expect, coming from a family associated with the armed forces. But what followed was unexpected, not normal.” Rai, who had joined the army in 2001, was to retire in 2024. The family had through the years built a two-storey house at the village and still had many dreams to realise. “He had come home this Diwali and left only a fortnight ago. I can’t believe that my son will be bringing his body now,” Mandira said. Rai is survived by his aged mother, wife, son Bickal and daughter Muskan. “Our daughter is only 16,” Mandira added. Their neighbour Padam Gurung said they first came to know about the incident on TV. “We have come to know that his wife kept trying to reach him. It was around 6pm that the news (of the deaths) got confirmed through his son.” Villagers remembered Rai as “well-mannered and helpful”. Hill leaders cutting across political lines, from the BJP’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and GNLF chief Mann Ghisingh to Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung and Bharatiya Gorkha Prajantrantik Morcha president Anit Thapa, have expressed their condolences. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her deep condolences to Rai’s family. “Satpal Rai has dedicated his life to the motherland. The demise of this brave son of the hills is an irreparable loss,” she said. Rai’s body is expected to reach his Darjeeling home on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
