11-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal governor accuses TMC government of not providing information sought on bill||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday accused the Mamata Banerjee-led government of not providing information he sought on Howrah Municipal Corporation amendment bill sent to him for his assent. The Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that proposed to separate Bally Municipality from the jurisdiction of the HMC, was passed by the state assembly recently. The governor also alleged that assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee blamed him for not signing the bill and withholding it, which he termed as "unfortunate". "I had sought information on the bill on November 24, but since then I have not received that. The assembly speaker chose to blame me for not signing the bill and withholding it. His comment is unfortunate. I urge him to maintain dignity of the chair," Dhankhar said after visiting Padma Shri awardee cartoonist Narayan Debnath at his residence in Howrah. The governor had earlier made the same allegation and returned the bill to the state government for reconsideration. Dhankhar had also said that he is yet to receive information sought from the speaker on other issues, too, since 2019. The speaker, however, had claimed that full cooperation was provided whenever any information was sought for. "The allegations that the honourable governor has made are baseless. Whenever he has asked for anything or has made any queries, we have fully cooperated with him. But he has a habit of finding flaws in everything," Banerjee had said on December 6. Replying to Dhankhar's allegations, state minister Firhad Hakim said, "When a bill is passed in the assembly, it is for the good of people as we have been elected by them. The governor is not elected but nominated. Withholding the bill is akin to suppressing the voice of people", he added. Bally Municipality was a part of the Howrah Municipal Corporation since 2015. Minister of State for Urban and Municipal Affairs Chandrima Bhattacharya had said the idea behind the bifurcation is to provide improved service to people. Opposition BJP, however, had claimed that Bally Municipality was separated from HMC because of political reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
11-12-2021||West Bengal||KMC elections: TMC manifesto stresses on better civic, health services||The ruling Trinamul Congress (TMC) on Saturday released its manifesto for the upcoming Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections, stressing on providing better civic and health services to the residents. The TMC leadership cautioned party workers against being "over-confident" and urged all the candidates to take everybody along in the polls, scheduled on December 19. The TMC, which has been in power in KMC for the last two tenures since 2010, stressed on providing a better drainage system and fast redressal of civic issues. "There is no scope for being overconfident. I would request all the candidates to take everybody along in the polls. I urge Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to allow us to take out a victory rally after winning the KMC board for the third consecutive term," TMC Lok Sabha party leader Sudip Bandopadhyay said at the manifesto release programme. TMC state chief Subrata Bakshi, while speaking at the function, said that special stress will be given to improving the drainage system of the city. "Special stress will be given on improving the drainage system. In every ward, we would set up a grievance address cell. For better management of the menace of dengue, 30 dengue control centres would come up in the city," he said. Elections to the 144-ward-strong KMC will be held on December 19 and the results will be declared on December 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Time sought on dates for polls to 111 civic bodies in Bengal||A hearing on a petition seeking elections to 111 civic bodies in Bengal ended before a division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj is likely to deliver its verdict early next week. The court, however, made no mention of the December 19 Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections. During the hearing of the case on Friday, the bench asked both the state government and the state election commission to inform it when and in how many phases would they hold elections to the 111 civic bodies. State advocate-general S.N. Mukherjee sought time till December 29. He said fear about the possible spread of the omicron variant of Covid-19 had been preventing the government from planning the dates for the pending 111 civic polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
11-12-2021||West Bengal||GOC of Trishakti Corps inaugurates oxygen generation plant  in Siliguri ||A new oxygen generation plant with the capacity to generate 400 litres oxygen per minute has been inaugurated by Lt Gen Tarun Kumar Aich, the GOC of Trishakti Corps based in Sukna on the outskirts of Siliguri, at the base hospital in Bengdubi near Bagdogra. The plant will generate oxygen directly from the atmosphere and augment the medical oxygen generation capacity. It can fill 45 to 50 cylinders per day, army sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
11-12-2021||West Bengal|| Contractual workers spend from their pockets to paint queen bust||Three civic contractual workers in Cooch Behar town have cleaned years of dust from a statue of Suniti Devi, a queen of the Cooch Behar royal family, and painted its pedestal by spending from their own meagre means. Kishore Dutta, Swapan Saha and Bishnupada Dutta, who earn around Rs 8,000 a month, have been working at the Brahmo Mandir complex from 6am to 9am everyday to paint the statue and also clean the surroundings. Then they join their duties at the civic body. The Brahmo temple, a heritage structure that is under the civic body, is also in a dilapidated condition. The trio said they bought paint, brushes and other items on their own.  “We don’t have the means to clean and paint the temple, which too needs immediate attention. Also, it is a heritage property and we do not have the authority to carry out restoration work,” Kishore Dutta said. The 141-year-old Brahmo temple is one of the important shrines of the Brahmo Samaj in Asia. It is located on Suniti Road in the town. Suniti Devi was the eldest daughter of Keshab Chandra Sen, a social reformer and founder of the Nababidhan Brahmo Samaj. She married Nripendra Narayan, a king of the then princely state of Cooch Behar, and is the grandmother of Gayatri Devi, the princess of Cooch Behar and erstwhile queen of Jaipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Active Covid cases up in Bengal after three weeks||Bengal on Friday reported 567 new Covid-19 infections, 571 recoveries and 11 deaths, resulting in a rise in the state total of active cases for the first time in three weeks by nine, to 7,574. In the past 76 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases or Covid patients under treatment, the total rose on 34 days and fell on 40 days. In these 76 days, there has been a net fall of 100 in the total. A minister said that the fresh Covid cases reported on Friday indicated people infected between December and 5. Calcutta logged 206 new infections and North 24-Parganas 107, the only two of the state's 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in 24 hours. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 468 or 74.52 per cent of the new infections. Twelve districts logged a single-digit figure. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported three deaths each. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.64 per cent on Friday. Its recovery rate was 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.36. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent and that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal in all has nearly 16.22 lakh Covid-19 cases, including close to 15.95 lakh recoveries and 19,584 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Time sought on dates for polls to 111 civic bodies in Bengal||A hearing on a petition seeking elections to 111 civic bodies in Bengal ended before a division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj is likely to deliver its verdict early next week. The court, however, made no mention of the December 19 Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections. During the hearing of the case on Friday, the bench asked both the state government and the state election commission to inform it when and in how many phases would they hold elections to the 111 civic bodies. State advocate-general S.N. Mukherjee sought time till December 29. He said fear about the possible spread of the omicron variant of Covid-19 had been preventing the state government from planning the dates for the pending 111 civic polls. The issue of the pending polls had come up before the high court after a public interest litigation was moved by an individual who accused the Bengal government of not holding polls even after the expiry of the tenure of elected civic bodies. The state units of the BJP and the CPM also joined the case and demanded civic elections on one day. They also said that poll results should be declared on a single day. On December 6, the state election commission informed the court that it would like to hold civic elections in six to eight phases by May next year and underlined that fears about the possible spread of Covid-19 was the main reason for the main reason for delaying the elections so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling tea trade unions turn garden owner scouts||A decision by all major tea trade unions in the Darjeeling hills to propose the name of the new management of a tea estate that has been closed since 2019 has sparked a debate on whether the labour outfits have exceeded their brief by scouting for a fresh owner for the garden instead of focusing on the core issue of workers’ rights. On Wednesday, a bipartite meeting was held in Siliguri between Silicon Agro Tea Company, the new lessee for Kalej Valley tea estate near Rangbul on the outskirts of Darjeeling, and the tea unions affiliated to major hill parties — the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), Trinamul Congress and the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF). The agreement paper said: “The name of the Management was proposed by the Unions themselves.” The mention of this point has raised eyebrows as some veteran trade unionists have asked whether it is the responsibility of the trade unions, which are supposed to uphold the interests of the workers, to scout for new management for closed tea gardens. “We have always known that it’s the government’s job to get a new management for a closed tea garden.… But we witnessed a different story yesterday. Isn’t it a kind of role reversal?” asked a senior trade union leader. “While I understand that the trade unions want the closed tea gardens to reopen for the interest of the workers, the leaders should also remember the pitfalls of their role in getting a new management. In case the new management backs out on its promises, who would be held accountable?” the leader asked. Several other hill residents, who have had worked in the tea industry for decades, said that it would be difficult for the labour department to catch hold of the management in case of any deviation from the agreed terms if its a choice of the trade unions. “The entire philosophy of collective bargaining in the interest of the workers gets defeated if the trade unions start getting new management for closed tea gardens,” said a hill resident. As part of the agreement, the new management for Kalej, which has around 600 workers, has decided to pay 40 per cent of the accrued wages soon after the garden is reopened, while the rest of the amount will be paid in two instalments of 30 per cent by March and June, 2022, respectively. It has also been agreed that gratuities dues will be cleared in six monthly instalments. Half of the bonus for the accounting year 2016-17 will be paid during Durga Puja next year. Amid the debate on whether the trade union leaders had made a cardinal mistake, Milan Pradhan, general secretary of the Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union that is affiliated to the GJM and is one of the signatories to Thursday’s agreement, said: “We were not aware of this point, we seem to have overlooked it. It is not our role to find an owner. We will approach the labour department seeking correction in the agreement.” Kalej Valley was previously owned by the Alchemist Group, whose chairman emeritus K.D. Singh is a former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. The group owned the garden under the Dooteriah & Kalej Valley Tea Estate Pvt Ltd. N.B. Khawash, general secretary of the Trinamul-affiliated Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, too, acknowledged that they had been unmindful of their original role. “A number of owners were interested in running the garden but this company (Silicon Agro) agreed to all our demands and hence we supported them…. We will see what can be done to make corrections in the agreement,” Khawash said. J.B. Tamang, working president of the Hill Terai Dooars Plantation Workers Union that is affiliated to the BGPM said they, too, were unaware of this point. “We will soon sit for a meeting to discuss what needs to be done…. Today we are at the garden reopening event,” Tamang said. An official in the labour department refused to comment on the contents of the agreement. A few days back, another tea company was chosen through a tender process to take over and run Madhu, a tea estate in Alipurduar district that was closed since 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul rushes Anubrata to pacify tribals living in  Deocha site||Trinamul’s Birbhum chief Anubrata Mondal on Friday tried to woo the tribal populace living on the proposed Deocha-Pachami coal mine area where some have started resisting the idea of shifting for the sake of the project. At a public meeting, Mondal assured people that chief minister Mamata Banerjee would not deprive anyone displaced by the project of the promised rehabilitation benefits. “No one will be deprived from the benefits of the proposed coal mine project. Mamata Banerjee has said that the project will benefit the people and she will never deprive anyone. Mamata Banerjee never makes false promises and does what she says,” Mondal said at a rally in Sheorakuri of Mohammedbazar. Trinamul leaders the meeting was necessary as leaders of Opposition parties and a few social organisations were reaching out to villagers at loggerheads over the coal mine project. Trinamul insiders said the party’s rally was significant when many people were openly protesting against the proposed relocation. Many were unsure if they would at all get the government’s rehabilitation package, including government jobs. “I was asked what would happen to three brothers of a family on the same stretch of land (after vacating from the land). I said… all three will get separate houses. The coal mine will yield a lakh of jobs and Mohammedbazar will turn into a golden zone,” Mondal said. “Opposition parties and groups of outsiders are trying to mislead the tribal people and egging them on to launch protests to save their land. That’s why some people are doubting the government’s intentions. Friday’s rally was very important to send a clear message to the people of Deocha-Pachami that the state government’s goal is to help the people benefit from the coal mine,” said Malay Mukherjee, a Trinamul vice-president in Birbhum. Trinamul insiders said the main resistance to vacate land was coming from women in the 18-odd tribal hamlets in Deocha-Pachami. The party plans to invite the chief minister to a rally here to clear their doubts. “Don’t forget, our chief minister launched Lakshmir Bhandar….She won’t deprive you. She will talk to you when she comes,” said Mondal. On Friday, a team of CPM leaders headed by former MLA Sujan Chakraborty and party’s central committee member Ram Chandra Dom visited Deocha-Pachami to speak to people who don’t want to vacate their land. While the CPM delegation headed for Deocha-Pachami, Trinamul workers put up a blockade and showed black flag near Pachchanpur village of Mohammedbazar. However, CPM team moved past the protesters and visited the villages. “We spoke to a section of people who don’t want the coal mine and said they would remain united in their opposition to the project. Trinamul shouts when governments run by the BJP or others grab tribal land in states like Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. But when a similar loot is being planned here (Deocha-Pachami), it is trying to stifle the voices of the people,” Sujan Chakrabarty said. In the backdrop of the Deocha-Pachami project, Chakraborty questioned the “secret meeting” recently between Mamata and industrialist Gautam Adani, known for his closeness to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Speaking to the Left delegation, a tribal woman in Harisingha village questioned why tribal lives are always attacked in the name of development. "The government only finds coal where we tribals live. Why don't they explore other areas," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Over 120 ‘stranded’ Indian truck drivers send SOS from Bangladesh||Over 120 Indian drivers stranded in Bangladesh for around three weeks have sent video messages via social media, urging exporters to arrange for their return along with their trucks at the earliest. These drivers had entered Bangladesh through Hilli in South Dinajpur district with wheat-laden trucks between November 20 and 23. In their video messages, the drivers said that the Bangladeshi importers had not yet unloaded the wheat sacks from their trucks, which is why they have not been able to return to India. “The truck drivers are worried now as many days have gone by and most of them hardly have any money left to buy food or stay near the land port in Bangladesh. Some have fallen ill and want to come home early. We have brought the issue to the notice of the district administration and are also in touch with the Bangladeshi importers,” said Sujan Ghosh, the president of the Hilli Truck Owners’ Welfare Association. Altogether, 128 trucks and their drivers are stranded in Bangladesh now, he added. “In recent years, this is the first time that so many trucks are stranded in Bangladesh owing to the delay in unloading of goods across the border. The absence of so many trucks at a time is affecting border trade as well,” said Dhiraj Adhikari, secretary of the Hilli Exporters and Customs Clearing Agents’ Association. Exporters said that in the case of foodgrains such as rice, wheat and lentils, it usually takes around three days for a truck to return from Bangladesh after unloading the goods. Perishable items such as vegetables and fruits areusually immediately unloaded and the truck returns to India within 24 hours. Adhikari said that an Indian driver had fallen ill on Thursday in Bangladesh. Arrangements had to be made to bring him to this side of the border and admit him to the district hospital in Balurghat. Some exporters said that the stranded drivers were approaching Bangladeshi importers every day. “But for some reason or the other, the importers of the neighbouring country have not yet unloaded the wheat,” one of the exporters said. On Friday afternoon, a meeting was held among Indian exporters and importers of Bangladesh at zero point in Hilli on the issue. “We spoke on the inconveniences faced by our truck drivers. The importers have assured us that they will unload the wheat at the earliest. We hope the drivers are back with the trucks soon,” said an exporter after the meeting. Major commodities exported to Bangladesh via Hilli include onion, wheat, rice and maize. South Dinajpur district Ayesha Rani A, the district magistrate, said they are aware of the issue. “We have passed the information to the state government and to some other authorities concerned. Steps would be taken so that the drivers are able to return early,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Foresters launch camera drone hunt for black bear; tusker kills 2||Foresters engaged a camera drone on Friday at a tea estate in Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri district to trace a Himalayan black bear spotted at the garden on Thursday night, a few hours after another was rescued from a marriage hall of Malbazar town. Anxiety also loomed large in the western Dooars since early Friday as a wild tusker strayed into the fringes of Gorumara National Park for fodder and killed two persons, damaged their houses and a private resort nearby. A resident of Good Hope tea estate on the outskirts of Malbazar spotted the bear in the garden late on Thursday. Her alert prompted teams from the wildlife squad in Malbazar and the local police station to reach the garden but the bear could not be found. Dipen Subba, range officer of the wildlife squad, said that as the bear continued to elude them, on Friday they engaged a drone fitted with cameras to find the bear. "We have not located it yet. Tea workers and their families have been asked to inform us if the animal is spotted again,” he said. Another bear that had sneaked into Jalpaiguri town earlier this week is yet to be traced. Foresters laid a trap in Jubilee Park on the Teesta riverbank, but the bear has not come anywhere near. Some forest officials believe the bear has left town. In the Dooars, sources said the elephant first entered a private resort in North Dhupjhora on the fringes of Gorumara, and damaged it. Then it went to Lal Sukra Para to break the hutment of Bijoy Minz, 32, who was asleep. It lifted Minz with its trunk and flung him on the ground. Minz died on the spot. The tusker then went to nearby North Ingdong Busty and entered 42-year-old Agnu Oraon’s house. Oraon tried to flee but the elephant trampled him to death. After some time, it left the place and headed to the forest. Foresters from Khunia forest range had to confront angry villagers who confined the team for a while and refused to hand over the two bodies. Eventually, they did. Foresters told the family members of the deceased that they will receive compensation under the state’s norms. Raj Kumar Layak, the range officer, said they were monitoring the situation 24/7. “As paddy has been harvested, elephants are entering villages for fodder. We are keeping constant tabs,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Con cases in Malda: Govt official, husband of panchayat head cheated ||Two incidents of cheating surfaced in Malda district on Friday, the victims being a government official and the husband of a panchayat head. The government employee was fleeced of over Rs 1 lakh by a racket that promised a job for her son. In the other case, the husband of the head of a panchayat was asked over phone by someone who claimed to be a “joint BDO” for money for a medical emergency. In the first case, two persons have been arrested. Police are trying to track the caller in the second case. In the first case, Ruma Pandey, a state government employee posted in the office of the BDO of Chanchal-I block in the district, alleged that Kameswar Singh, a resident of Bandel in Hooghly district, had promised her a Group C railway job for her son Jyotirmoy in exchange of money. “He demanded Rs 12 lakh but eventually we came to an agreement at Rs 6 lakh. I paid him Rs 1.15 lakh in advance. He handed over an appointment letter to my son. He said two railway employees would contact my son soon and accompany him on his joining day. However, as he went on deferring the date of joining, we understood we had been duped,” Ruma said, adding she drew up a plan to implicate Singh. She said she called up Singh to say she was ready with the remaining Rs 4.5 lakh. Soon, two persons who said they were Singh’s agents contacted the Pandey family and asked them to meet at the divisional railway manager’s office in Malda on Friday. “We took along some of our friends and relatives with us. As we reached there, the duo met us and told my son that he will have to go to a hotel to sign some papers. We caught them and handed them over to the RPF,” Ruma added. The duo detained by the RPF were identified as Azad Kumar and Mohammad Isha Khan from Patna. Both of them were handed over to Englishbazar police. Jyotirmoy filed a complaint against them, police officers said. “We suspect they are members of a racket that swindles people on the pretext of offering them government jobs. Time and again, advertisements are put up by railways so that people do not fall into such traps but even then these cases crop up and people lose their money,” said a railway official. In the other incident, Afzal Hossain, husband of Rishba Khatun who is the head of Harischandrapur gram panchayat in Malda district transferred Rs 20,000 to a person who called him up and asked for help for a medical emergency on Friday. “The person over the phone claimed to be the joint BDO of Harishchandrapur-I block. This made Hossain believe in the caller and he promptly transferred the money. After some time, he called up the number for a follow-up and found the phone switched off. Suspecting  the caller duped him, Hossain filed a complaint with the police,” a police officer said. Preliminary police probe revealed similar calls from three-four numbers were made to pradhans or heads of five other panchayats in and around Harishchandrapur. They refused to part with any money. “However, a civic volunteer was conned by a caller. The volunteer donated Rs 2,000. We are trying to track the phone numbers from which these calls were made,” the police officer added. TMC worker death A 55-year-old Trinamul worker in Purba Falimari village under Baxirhat police station of Cooch Behar district died on Friday afternoon during a clash of two groups of party supporters. The deceased has been identified as Kasem Ali Sheikh. Police sources said initially a group ransacked the house of Abu Sayed Mondal, a member of Falimari panchayat, prompting a rival lobby to retaliate. Two Trinamul groups attacked each other with sticks and sharp weapons, leaving five persons injured. Sheikh, who sustained a serious head injury, was rushed to Alipurduar district hospital where he succumbed. The other four injured are under treatment, police said. Sumit Kumar, the district police chief, said policemen have been deployed in the area to prevent a recurrence of the clash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Centre ‘disallows’ Mamata’s Nepal visit, TMC at loggerheads with BJP||The Narendra Modi government is said to have disallowed Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee from visiting Nepal, which Trinamul sources said had raised the hackles of the leadership. The Trinamul chief had been invited by the social democrat Nepali Congress, of which Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba is the president, to attend the inaugural session of its 14th national convention on Friday in Kathmandu. The sources said the chief minister’s office had sought clearance from the Union ministry of external affairs but she was denied the permission.  Sources in Nabanna said Deuba’s letter had been forwarded to Delhi, seeking approval for the chief minister’s visit to Kathmandu. “Delhi had sent some queries. We replied to all the questions. But it is still not clear why the permission for the chief minister’s visit  was withheld,” a state official said. The external affairs ministry refused to comment on the allegation. Sources in Nabanna said that in case of chief ministerial visits to foreign countries, the Centre’s approval is needed for several reasons. “First, the relation between the country a chief minister intends to visit and India is considered. As the chief minister of a state represents the country, proper protocol has to be followed by the nation he or she wants to visit. The Centre wants to be sure that bilateral relations are not strained by any means,” an official said. The reason why a chief minister is visiting a foreign country is also important. “If it is a visit to attend an investment summit or a meeting to draw investments, it is easier to get clearance. But in case it is a political programme, the Centre wants to be sure it would not have an impact on the relations with the country in question,” another official said. If a chief minister plans to travel abroad for medical reasons, the Centre grants immediate approval, he said. “We don’t have the details of this (the apparent denial of permission to visit Nepal) yet… but it is clearly it is a discriminatory, spiteful act by the Centre,” said Trinamul state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. “They (the BJP) are not being called anywhere globally. Everywhere in the world, in all major indices, India is falling rapidly under them. The one who is acceptable instead, rising rapidly, being noticed around the world… when that person gets invited, they can’t handle it,” Ghosh added. “This has been happening a bit too frequently now…. This is the political bankruptcy of the BJP,” he said. In the run-up to the September 30 Bhowanipore by-election, Mamata had drawn attention to the Centre’s denial of permission to her for foreign events, calling the BJP “hingshutey (envious)”. Mamata has often dared the BJP to keep trying to stop her from representing Bengal and India, vowing to get her pluralist, inclusive message of harmony across sitting in the state. In September, the Centre had denied the Bengal chief minister permission for a visit to Rome in October for an event that she was invited to by Macro Impagliazzo, the president of Community of Sant’Egidio, a Catholic association based in Rome, to participate in a World Peace Conference. She was the only Indian to be invited to the event. Other invitees included German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Pope Francis, Grand Imam of Egypt Al-Azhar Ahmad al-Tayyib and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. In December last year, a virtual Oxford Union programme got cancelled 40 minutes before it was to take place, which Mamata’s party attributed to “political pressure from the highest levels”. In September 2018, Mamata had blamed an “awshubho chawkranto (unholy conspiracy)” for her not being able to attend a Chicago event commemorating the 125th anniversary of Swami Vivekananda’s address to the World’s Parliament of Religions. After she was invited to attend the Chicago event, Mamata received a letter from the Vivekananda Vedanta Society of Chicago, saying it was being called off. In July 2018, a proposed address by Mamata to students of St. Stephen’s College in New Delhi was cancelled, allegedly under “saffron pressure”. In June 2018, Mamata had cancelled her nine-day trip to China hours before her flight as Beijing could not confirm her meetings with the Communist Party of China’s leadership at an appropriate level. The year before that, she was “advised” by the Centre against going to China to seek investments, because of the border standoff at Doklam. “It happened a lot in 2017-18, before the Lok Sabha polls of 2019. It has been happening again since she trounced the BJP in Bengal in the election that the whole world was watching keenly,” a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member said. Domestic trips The Bengal chief minister plans to visit Guwahati on December 20 after a trip to Goa on Monday. In Guwahati, Mamata is to offer prayers at the Kamakhya Temple, followed by a trip to Shillong in Meghalaya the following day. The trips to Goa and Meghalaya are political exercises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Government announces selective incentives for big industries||The Mamata Banerjee government is set to move towards a selective incentive policy for large industries to meet the twin objectives of optimising outgo from the state coffers and giving encouragement to potential investors. Although there has not been any announcement on the shift from a general incentive policy, applicable for all sectors meeting the criteria, to a selective offering of the benefits, sources aware of the development said the government set the ball rolling on Thursday. “The industries department placed a file in the cabinet on Thursday regarding an expression of interest (EoI) sought for setting up a bicycle manufacturing unit in the state as a mention case,” a source said. The EoI had details of incentives announced for investors interested in setting up a bicycle manufacturing unit in Bengal. “The development is significant as the EoI that was floated and which secured the cabinet’s approval on Thursday includes several incentives for the investors. There is no incentive policy for large industries in the state at the moment. However, it is clear that the government is set to announce incentives for investors on a case-to-case basis,” said a senior government official. The previous incentive policy for large industries expired in September 2019. “At that time, the cabinet had extended the incentive policy for micro, small and medium enterprises for a period of five years, but no such step was taken for large industries. It was clear that the state government didn’t have money at that point to offer such incentives,” a source said. While it is true that incentives offered by a state is not the sole consideration for an industrialist before he or she makes an investment, there is little doubt that companies do consider the sops given by different states before zeroing in on the location for their next venture. “It’s good that the Nabanna top brass is planning to introduce a case-by-case approach as it will optimise resource utilisation at a time the gap between the government’s income and expenditure is growing,” another source said. He, however, added that the new approach should be transparent and based on a proper cost-benefit analysis to rule out any possibility of favouritism. As per the EoI floated seeking proposals for a bicycle manufacturing unit, the Bengal government has proposed to waive land conversion fee, give a 100 per cent waiver on stamp duty and registration, a waiver on the duty on electricity consumption for five years with an upper limit of 20 per cent of the project cost, and an assurance of procurement of 50 per cent of the company’s annual production. According to sources, the state spends nearly Rs 700 crore annually to buy about 20 lakh bicycles to distribute among students of Classes IX and X. “If there is a local manufacturer, the cost would surely go down,” a source said. Besides these financial incentives, the state government will also offer 24X7 uninterrupted power and water supply, skill training for employees, assistance in securing all clearances, including those on environment and forest, and assistance in publicity and marketing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
11-12-2021||West Bengal||TMC's two-pronged development plan to strengthen support base||The Trinamul leadership in Siliguri has adopted a two-fold strategy to revive their support base across the civic area, keeping in mind the elections to the Siliguri Municipal Corporation that is due with many other civic bodies across Bengal and is likely to be held on next year. On one hand, they have taken up the task to improve civic services across the city through the board of administrators (BoA) that comprises party leaders, on the other hand, they are engaging state departments and development agencies to carry out infrastructural development in Siliguri and surroundings. In north Bengal, SMC is the largest and most important civic body where Mamata Banerjee’s party has not been able to secure majority so far. On Friday, former minister Gautam Deb, who is the chairman of the BoA of SMC and is still the most prominent face of the party in the region, reached to the outskirts of the city to lay foundation stones of a number of projects which include construction of roads and sewerage system. The projects, for which a sum of around three crores would be spent, will be executed by the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA), he said. SJDA chairman Sourav Chakraborty accompanied him. All these projects will be carried out in Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly constituency, the seat from which Deb had won twice but lost to the BJP candidate at the Assembly elections this time by a margin of around 28,000 votes. The area includes 17 (of 47) wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation. After Deb’s defeat, he was “rehabilitated” by the party – like some other leaders – by making him the chairperson of the BoA of SMC. Since then, the former minister, along with other members of the BoA, has been putting all efforts to improve civic services across the city. Also, they have come up with a number of new decisions and changes in policies for better functioning of the civic body. “Trinamul is desperate to secure majority of the seats at SMC this time. That is why the party has taken a two-fold strategy, as is evident because agencies like SJDA are being engaged to carry out infrastructural development in and around the city. It is playing the development card on one hand and on the other hand, trying to drive home the point that the BoA is providing the civic services in a much better manner,” said a political observer. The decision to execute projects in Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly is a pointer that Gautam Deb and his party want to repair the damage caused by the saffron camp in the area ahead of the municipal polls, mentioned the observer. Book fair The 11th Siliguri Sub-Divisional Book Fair will be held at Baghajatin Park in Siliguri from December 13 to December 19. There will be 65 stalls at the event and 28 libraries from across the sub-division will participate in the fair, said the organizers on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
11-12-2021||West Bengal||BCCI hikes annual grant to Sikkim cricket outfit||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has enhanced the annual grant to the Sikkim Cricket Association (SICA) from Rs 10.8 crore to Rs 12.5 crore, effective from the coming financial year. Announcing this, SICA president Lobzang G. Tenzing said that this enhanced grant would provide a fillip to cricket activities in the Himalayan state. “I am extremely grateful to the honorary BCCI secretary Jay Shah for showing personal interest in the Northeast states. His policy of integrating the Northeast states through the medium of sports will  go a long way as his contribution in producing incredible cricket players in the years to come,” Tenzing said. The latest announcement comes following a meeting  the SICA president had with Shah along with IPL governing council member Mamon Majumdar, Cricket Association of Bengal president Avishek Dalmia, Nagaland Cricket Association secretary Anilo Khing and Arunachal Cricket Association vice-president Nabam Vivek last week in Calcutta. Tenzing added that during their meeting with Shah, the latter was told that lack of funds had been a major hurdle to the development of cricket in the Northeast. Shah also declared a separate grant of Rs 10 crore as advance infrastructure subsidy to develop cricket facilities in the region.   The BCCI provides annual grants to the state cricket bodies for participation in the 14 BCCI tournaments. These grants are used under various heads such as logistics, professional fee, camps, local tournaments and game development expenses.  Tenzing also appealed to the North East Cricket Development Committee members to sincerely work to promote cricket in the Northeast so that “our work will speak for ourselves and the BCCI will continue to give its unstinting support to the Northeast states”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
11-12-2021||West Bengal||Two idols of Hindu gods recovered from Mahananda river in Malda ||Two idols of Hindu gods purportedly made with red sandstone hundreds of years ago were recovered from the Mahananda river in Malda on Friday morning. Police have collected the idols and have handed over those to the district administration. The administration has sought examination of these idols by archaeologists and has contacted the state archaeology department to find out whether these are antiques. Sources said some children who were bathing at the Mission Ghat of the Mahananda, located near Ramakrishna Mission, found the idols. “One of the idols is of Goddess Durga while the other appears to be of theLlord Shiva or Bhairava,” said Ashu Mandal, a local resident. Suresh Chandra Rano, sub-divisional officer, Malda (Sadar), said: “We have kept the idols at the local museum for now and have contacted the state archaeology department to get details and historical importance of these idols.” The recovery of these idols has also made historians enthusiastic. Satya Ranjan Chowdhury, a former faculty of Malda College and historian, said around 23 years back, some items were recovered from the Jagjibanpur area of Habibpur block which belonged to the Pala dynasty. “It is important to examine these idols and tests should be conducted to ascertain how old the idols are,” Chowdhury added. Moloy Shankar Bhattacharya, a former curator of Malda museum, also feels that the statues could be of the Pala dynasty time. “We need to confirm it but if it is found to be true, it means that the idols are around 900 years old,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
