12-12-2021||West Bengal||Rabindra Sarobar: Dead fish found floating, plan to infuse liquid O2||Almost two months after dead fish were found floating in Rabindra Sarobar -- an artificial lake surrounded by a park in the southern part of the city -- the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA), its custodian, said it was mulling the option of infusing liquid oxygen in the waterbody. Antara Acharya, the CEO of KMDA, said a committee of experts has been formed to explore ways of upping the oxygen level in Rabindra Sarobar home to various species of fish and birds. "We are in the process of holding talks with firms that specialise in infusing liquid oxygen in water. We are also exploring other options in consultation with experts. A decision will be arrived at in due course of time," she told PTI. Over 30 dead fish were found floating in the lake in the third week of October, following which the KMDA carried out an inspection and found out that the oxygen level in the lake has dipped. Three fountains were immediately installed at the waterbody to increase the oxygen level, but the rowing club in the vicinity raised objections, stating that it could lead to hazards for the althletes. The KMDA subsequently removed the fountains. Asked if siltation could be a reason for depletion of the oxygen level in the lake, Acharya said, "It is an old lake, one must remember. Such things happen over a period of time. "We have to keep in mind that a delicate ecosystem has developed in that area over the years. Things have to be done in a calibrated manner, not in haste or overnight." Environmentalist and one of the crusaders of 'Save Rabindra Sarobar' campaign, S M Ghosh, said the depth of lake water has gone down to eight feet from 20 feet. "We suggest the de-siltation be done immediately. The silt should be deposited on the mini island that forms a part of the complex. The silt will make the land there more fertile," Ghosh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
12-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata, Abhishek on two-day visit to poll-bound Goa||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee left for Goa on Sunday on a two-day visit to the western state, where the TMC is trying to gain foothold ahead of the Assembly elections next year. The TMC supremo, on her second visit to Goa in two months, is scheduled to address three public meetings at Benaulim, Panjim and Assanora, a party official said. The chief minister will also hold a meeting with the TMC leaders of Goa and another with the editors of mediahouses, during her visit. The TMC had on Saturday promised Rs 5,000 to the woman head of every household in Goa, if voted to power there. Both the Congress and the BJP have criticised the party over its "dole politics".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
12-12-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s Bengal unit picks Singur for farmers' protest||The BJP’s Bengal unit announced staging a demonstration at Singur in Hooghly for three days from December 14 to protest against the state government’s alleged apathy towards farmers. “The Kisan Morcha (the BJP’s farmers’ wing) will organise this dharna at Singur from next Tuesday. It will happen under the leadership of Kisan Morcha chief Mahadeb Sarkar and all other (party) leaders will visit the protesting farmers by turns,” the party’s Nandigram MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari said on Saturday. Suvendu, along with Sarkar and other party leaders, met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday with a memorandum, requesting him to instruct the government to act for farmers’ welfare. According to Suvendu, three farmers have recently committed suicide in the state — the latest being at Chandrakona in West Midnapore last week — but the Bengal government has shown no signs of assisting the ailing agriculture sector. “Since May 5 this year the chief minister and her party are busy… expanding their base in various other parts of the nation. This is why they have overlooked the needs of the farmers in Bengal,” Suvendu told journalists after his meeting with governor Dhankhar. In its memorandum, the BJP has demanded that fertilisers and seeds be distributed for free to the farmers. It also sought a compensation of Rs 20 lakh each for the families of those farmers who have committed suicide. The party also demanded a VAT cut on petrol and diesel as well as free electricity for farmers. Finally, the party demanded that crops be collected at minimum support price (MSP) from farmers and not from middlemen. Singur has been the seat of one of the most prominent farmer movements in Bengal and has been instrumental in the ascent of Mamata Banerjee to power. BJP sources said the party decided to choose Singur for the protest precisely because of this. The party wishes to ignite a sentiment among farmers that Mamata who came to power with the help of farmers in 2011 and has shown her solidarity to the farmers” movement against the three central farm laws — junked recently — is actually indifferent to their welfare in her own state. Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the BJP, has been given the task to oversee these protests. Basu will be in Singur over the next two days to mobilise farmers for the movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
12-12-2021||West Bengal||Raise grievances over phone with civic body board chairman||Gautam Deb, who chairs the board of administrators (BoA) of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), launched a facility for 10-lakh-odd residents of the city that will enable them to interact with him directly over the phone on civic issues. Titled as “Talk to Chairman,” the facility, which is a first initiative of its kind here, will be available for an hour every Saturday. Senior officials of the civic body and other members of the BoA who look after various departments will also be present at the interaction and take note of the calls made by residents on problems and suggestions related to civic services. On the first day of the session, Deb responded to 29 questions made by residents from various walks of life between 11.30am and 12.30pm. “Most callers underscored they need uninterrupted drinking water supply, an issue on which the civic body has been working for quite some time,” said a source in SMC. Water apart, some callers spoke on the need to repair the roads and construct drains in their localities, others sought simplified processes related to trade licenses and sought more public toilet blocks at prominent thoroughfares of the city. Deb, while replying to them, assured them that the civic body was trying to improve its services across the city. “We have been working hard to regularise drinking water supply in the civic area. I had raised the issue at the administrative review meeting of the chief minister during her last visit in the region,” Deb said. Sources said that Deb will be available for this interaction for an hour from 11.30am every Saturday henceforth. If Deb is away on some work, the interaction will be held on the following Wednesday. The timing will be unchanged. In Siliguri, a new drinking water project is the need of the hour as the existing one set up in the 1990s, is inadequate in meeting the demands of the population that has increased over the past nearly three decades. The state public health engineering (PHE) department has planned a new project at an estimated cost of around Rs 500 crore. The work, however, is yet to start as chief minister Mamata Banerjee, while attending a review meeting in Kurseong where Deb had raised the issue, had said that the state was on an austerity drive currently and it would take some time before funds are allotted for the project. Deb, speaking to newspersons after Saturday’s interaction, said he was consistently pursuing the water project. He said the detailed project report (DPR) of the project is almost ready and he will meet state PHE minister Pulak Roy and Surendra Gupta, principal secretary of the department to discuss the project next week. “Trinamul leaders in Siliguri want the new drinking water project to be launched ahead of the civic polls so that they can refer to it during the campaigns. But considering the austerity drive, it would be interesting to see if they manage to get funds allocated for it,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
12-12-2021||West Bengal||One dead, village blames tube well in Murshidabad district||One person died on Friday and 20 others fell ill from a suspected case of bacterial contamination in a local tube well in Kamalapushparni village in Murshidabad district. The doctor at the nearby Azimganj health centre pronounced Fensi Mondal, 31, a homemaker, brought dead on Friday morning. Her family members reported that she had suffered from diarrhoea the entire night before. Reports of food or water poisoning reportedly started reaching the health centre on Friday, with residents confirming all those who were unwell had consumed water from the local tube well located adjacent to an open drain. “We had no idea that immediate hospitalisation could have saved her life. We thought this was mere food poisoning,” said Sabitri Mondal, 52, the mother of the deceased homemaker. As of Saturday, 13 persons remain admitted to the Azimganj health centre. Four others have been sent to the Lalbagh subdivisional hospital. Two more have been sent to the Behrampore Medical College and Hospital. One of them is reportedly critical. More cases of diarrhoea were reported from across the village shortly after Mondal’s death on Friday, causing “widespread panic”. The tube well has been sealed and samples (of the water) have been sent to FSL in Calcutta for forensic inspection,” said block medical officer (health), Akash Bhowmick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
12-12-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: Two-day crash course to turn girls into ‘tigresses’ ||The Siliguri Metropolitan Police (SMP) has launched Baghini, a unique initiative to train girls aged 17 years and above in self-defence and legal awareness and make them familiar with police units and activities. The SMP teamed up with the north Bengal chapter of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) for this initiative, which literally means tigress, to empower women and combat crimes against women. On Saturday, the initiative was launched in presence of Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of police, Nishant Mittal, chairman of the NB chapter of the ICC, table tennis player and Arjuna awardee Mantu Ghosh and other senior police officers at the SMP grounds of Siliguri’s Mallaguri. “During the two-day training, participants will be trained in yoga, martial arts, physical training, mental health, nutrition, cyber laws, laws and privileges related to women, anti-human trafficking initiatives and social media threats. They will also pay visits to police stations, women’s police stations, traffic guard and control rooms to get familiar with police activities,” said a senior police officer. The first batch has 100 girls from across the city. Another batch will be trained on December 18 and 19. “Participants from educational institutions and social organisations are attending the event. We thank the support provided by the ICC,” said Sharma, the SMP chief who conceptualised the initiative. Mittal, the ICC NB chapter chairman, said the initiative will continue in the coming days. “We will continue to carry out various CSR activities. In the coming months, more such batches would be trained under the Baghini project. We appreciate the initiative taken by police here for women’s empowerment.” “We want every woman to learn self-defence techniques. It will help boost their confidence and curb crimes against women,” a police officer said. Participants sounded enthusiastic. “I hope we learn how to defend ourselves and know about our rights and privileges. It is also important to know how the police function,” said Jaya Kundu, a student of Tarai Tarapada Adarsha Vidyalaya in Siliguri and among the trainees of the first batch. Fellow trainee Supriya Baisnab of Deshbandhupara said she loved the name. “Some people even today  think that we girls are weak. The name Baghini says otherwise. We can act to save ourselves.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
12-12-2021||West Bengal||Helicopter crash: Family to wait for Satpal Rai’s body||The family of Satpal Rai, the Darjeeling soldier who was killed in the chopper crash that claimed General Bipin Rawat on Wednesday, are determined to bring his body home even if it means an excruciating wait. Satpal, the personal security officer of Gen. Rawat, is among the 10 armymen whose bodies have been so badly charred in the crash in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor that DNA tests are being conducted for identification. Mandira, Satpal’s wife, said on Saturday: “My son called me up today to say that it might only be possible to bring the body here after December 13 (Monday) as it might take time (for the DNA result to be available). My son is saying that ‘even if delayed, I will bring papa’s body, and I will wait’.” Satpal’s son Bickal Rai, 20, is an army jawan posted in Delhi, where the deceased have been flown from Tamil Nadu. Mandira, too, is willing to wait. “I hope the government will properly identify his body and send it to us. It has been four days now, we have waited and will wait further,” said Mandira, in her late 30s and a resident of Takdah, around 25km from Darjeeling town. Sources said Bickal could not identify Satpal’s body and had asked for a DNA test. Bickal serves in the same regiment as his father, the 5/11 Gorkha Rifles. DNA samples have been collected from Satpal’s mother Santu Maya, 68, and the armyman’s 16-year-old daughter Muskan and Bickal. Satpal and Bickal used to live about a 15 minutes’ drive from each other in Delhi and had last physically met during a get-together on December 3. Mandira said that while she was finding it difficult to come to terms with reality, she was proud that her husband had sacrificed his life while serving the nation. “The heart will never accept this loss but I consider myself fortunate that he gave his life while serving the nation,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
12-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 610 new cases, 612 recoveries and 10 deaths||Bengal on Saturday reported 610 new Covid-19 infections, 612 recoveries and 10 deaths, with active Covid-19 cases falling by 12 to 7,562. Calcutta reported 205 new infections and two deaths. North 24-Parganas reported 102 fresh cases and five deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 466 or 76.39 per cent of the new infections detected on Saturday. The state’s recovery rate now is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.36.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
12-12-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: Tiger spotted at Buxa reserve after 30 years||A tiger has been sighted in Buxa after a gap of over 30 years, a senior forester said. Although the yellow-and-black stripes seem to leave no room for doubt, the forest department can confirm it officially after a series of tests. Some pugmarks had been spotted at the BTR site recently after which trap cameras were put up, a senior forester added. “On Friday night, this picture was captured by one of these cameras. It is indeed good news. We plan to introduce more tigers in Buxa from Assam and are readying the prey base,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
12-12-2021||West Bengal||Villagers demand 'concrete' dyke in East Midnapore||Delay in repairing a semi-finished 3km stretch of mud embankment between Sankharpur and Tajpur in East Midnapore’s coastal zone has prompted some villagers to demand a “concrete” dyke. Residents and farmers have alleged that damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in May, followed by a squall during Cyclone Jawad, have “endangered” homes along the coast and “salinated” several agricultural ponds and fields. “We are tired of the same routine of being evacuated to a cyclone shelter and then being shifted back. We want assurance of safety, which can only come in the form of a well-constructed, concrete embankment along the coast,” said Sadhan Gorai, 57, a resident of Bashpur village whose home was damaged by Cyclone Yaas. Gorai has been unable to repair his home owing to “constant” flooding “at the slightest spell of rain” and has been staying at a rented accommodation nearby for the past six months. Earlier this week, a section of villagers led a protest march to the Talgachhari-II gram panchayat office to demand a concrete embankment. Among the protesters were several fishermen whose ponds and fish had been ruined by overflowing seawater. Panchayat pradhan Biswajit Jena has now requested the irrigation department to conduct an immediate survey. “Yaas hit our area hard. More than 5,000 homes across 24 villages, and lots of agricultural land.… The villagers’ demand is justified,” he said, adding that the irrigation department had given an “assurance” to address the problems by December-end. The protesters, however, are not convinced. On Friday, residents of the area said this was another attempt by the administration to “buy time”. “We are well aware of how long such a project will take. It seems they are in no rush to build a concrete embankment before next monsoon,” said Purna Maity from Jaldah. Maity lost over 2.5 bighas of farmland to flood waters this month. He was among those evacuated before Cyclone Jawad. “These evacuations are increasingly beginning to look like an eyewash,” he said. Asked, Contai irrigation department executive engineer Uttam Hazra said the blueprints for the embankments were taking time. “The bank is a little irregular in parts, so initially we thought that land reclamation would have to be done. But we have found out that is not the case. We are hopeful of decisive action in December, itself” he said. Fisheries minister and Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri echoed Hazra, saying: “We are aware of the irregularities in this particular beach area. But after those doubts were recently allayed, the irrigation department has been asked to start work immediately.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
12-12-2021||West Bengal||Eco-tourism plan for waterbodies across Bengal||The Bengal government will set up an eco-tourism framework in the form of gardens and cottages amidst 200 fisheries department-owned wetlands across the state. An additional director of fisheries posted in Calcutta sent an order to all district officers and assistant directors on December 9 asking them to list the waterbodies around which land is available and where eco-tourism centres can be set up jointly by the tourism and fisheries departments. Officials said the plan was envisioned after chief minister Mamata Banerjee directed the fisheries department to take initiatives to help increase the government’s revenue inflow. “It is the wish of our chief minister given that we have many large wetlands across the state. People are now willing to explore different tourist locations and stay there. We are focusing on setting up eco-tourism hubs at Digha, Frazerganj and Santiniketan,” said Akhil Giri, the fisheries minister. The fisheries department order has directed officials to give priority to waterbodies located in areas of “historical importance”. “…Prepare a list of wetlands or water bodies where land is available alongside that may be utilised towards promoting eco-tourism, erecting cottages for tourist accommodation and also promote angling among tourists in a joint venture with the tourism department, government of West Bengal. Land areas possessing historical importance should be considered with due importance,” the order says. Sources said the fisheries department had around 300 such wetlands across the state, all of which were primarily used for pisciculture. Officials in the fisheries department said that if such eco-tourism projects came up, those areas would generate more income for the government without hampering the production of fish. According to the sources, the tourism plan was among steps the government was taking to generate additional revenue in light of a reported shortfall caused by recent public-benefit schemes. “The Lakhsmir Bhandar scheme alone will cost the government Rs 16,000 crore a year. In such a situation, the government has no other option but to generate new avenues of revenue,” a senior official said. The order further states that all districts would have to send preliminary data on available options for eco-tourism by December 15. Once this information is received, the government will float tenders and initiate groundwork. The officials said that according to the initial plan, the fisheries department would send specific lists of places fit for setting up tourism facilities. They said the fisheries department planned to grant Rs 100 crore to set up at least five such projects. “Once those projects yield good results, work on the second phase will begin,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
12-12-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: Govt houses under Cha Sundari scheme for tea workers||Houses under the Cha Sundari scheme, the Mamata Banerjee government’s project to give free houses along with land rights to tea workers in north Bengal, have started coming up in a number of estates in Alipurduar and the keys will soon be handed over to the beneficiaries, district officials said on Saturday. The project to provide houses to garden workers who don’t own one was announced by then finance minister Amit Mitra in 2020 while tabling the budget in the Assembly. A sum of Rs 500 crore was allocated. Some tea estates were identified and the housing department was assigned the task of building the houses. The list of beneficiaries was prepared by the labour department. “In the first phase, five tea estates were identified in Alipurduar district and most houses have already been built. We are waiting for the final go ahead from the housing department and then we will distribute the keys,” said Surendra Kumar Meena, the Alipurduar DM. Each dwelling unit has two rooms, a kitchen and a toilet. The construction has been carried out on government land near the tea estates. Land right is a longstanding demand of the tea population as the quarters where they live are located on leasehold land. The estates where the houses are coming up are Torsha, Mujnai and Rahimpur, which are operational, and Lankapara and Dheklapara, which are closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
