13-12-2021||West Bengal||Ozone spike in Kolkata raises concern||The ozone count in central Kolkata was 60 per cent more than the safe levels, raising concerns about public health and the threat it poses to the iconic Victoria Memorial. The eight-hour average was 160 mg/cubic metre in the Victoria Memorial area on Sunday, as per the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB). The eight-hour average of ozone should not exceed 100 mg/cubic metre, as per the World Health Organisation (WHO). The high ozone level was a result of typical wintry conditions and accumulated vehicular emission particles in the lower atmosphere, a WBPCB official said. Once the foggy conditions improve, the ozone count will go down, he said. Environmentalist Somendranath Ghosh said proper monitoring is needed to find the reasons behind the spike in ozone levels in the eco-sensitive zone of the city, often referred to as the 'Lungs of Kolkata' because of the acres of grassland. It is alarming the ozone count even eclipsed the PM 2.5 level of 144 on Sunday noon, he said. "So many old diesel vehicles are plying. Due to this pollution, the white marbles of Victoria Memorial may turn yellow and the plasters will go off in many chamber walls in the future," he cautioned. Ground-level ozone is a colourless and highly irritating gas that forms just above the earth's surface, Ghosh said. It is a secondary pollutant as it is produced when two primary pollutants -- nitrogen oxides (NOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) -- react in sunlight and stagnant air, he said. Ozone can cause the muscles in the airways to constrict, trapping air in the alveoli, leading to wheezing and shortness of breath. "Depending on the level of exposure, ozone can cause coughing and sore or scratchy throat," the WBPCB official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
13-12-2021||West Bengal||After CM prod, Malda growers start work to restore mango glory||A nudge by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to the state horticulture and food processing department and mango growers in Malda on ways to increase the production of the fruit in the district has stirred the department and the local trade body into action ahead of the new season. On December 8, Mamata, while attending an administrative review meeting here, had pointed out that the mango sector in Malda was facing certain problems that needed fixing and had asked stakeholders to work towards improving the quality of the fruit. “We also need to set up multiple mango hubs in the district,” Mamata had added. Malda has mango plantations spread over 30,500 hectares. Annually, around 3.5 lakh tonnes of mangoes are produced in the district. In all, there are 80,000 producers and close to two lakh families earn their living geared around the king of fruits. However, stakeholders admitted to problems. “One of the main problems is the presence of old trees. In many plantations, the trees are 40 to 60 years old which is why the yield and quality of their fruits have declined over the years. It is necessary to replace these trees with new ones,” said Uzzal Saha, the secretary of the Malda Mango Merchants’ Association. He said the state horticulture department had started taking up initiatives to plant new trees. “It is a continuous process and we are getting in touch with growers. Work has started to stop them from using certain pesticides to check pest attacks. This is because once such pesticides is used, it becomes tough to export the fruit to other countries,” Saha added. Rahul Chakraborty, a senior official of the horticulture department, said they are preparing a plan for the next three years to resolve these issues. “The orchards and trees are being classified on the basis of their age. Mango trees that are less than 30 years old need to be nurtured in a better way to enhance production. On the other hand, trees older than 50 years will be gradually replaced by newer ones,” he said. This apart, there is only one mango hub or packaging unit in Malda. “Based on the chief minister’s instructions, we have started scouting for new locations where similar hubs can be set up in Malda for proper packaging of the fruit and help cultivators get in touch with buyers, including exporters,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
13-12-2021||West Bengal||Asok on CPM hill panel, likely to be the main face||Septuagenarian Asok Bhattacharya is a part of the new CPM committee of the Darjeeling district on Sunday as a “special invitee,” hinting that the veteran is still the main face of the party in the district ahead of civic polls. On Sunday, after a two-day district meet of the party, CPM leader Jibesh Sarkar announced the new district committee. “Under age norms (no leader aged 70 and above can be a member of the district committee), four senior members couldn’t find their place in the new district committee. However, we decided to include Asok Bhattacharya and Parimal Bhowmik as special invitees. Saman Pathak is the new district secretary,” Sarkar said. The decision to include Bhattacharya, former state minister and mayor, is a clear indication that the party wants him at the frontlines, said political observers. “It is evident that even today, the CPM leadership considers Asok Bhattacharya to be the most popular face of the party in Siliguri and Darjeeling district as a whole. Civic elections are ahead and also the three-tier panchayat polls of Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad are due. The decision clearly shows that they want the senior leader to be at the frontlines as the party goes ahead to contest these polls,” said an observer. Sarkar said the district committee has 40 members and two special invitees. This includes 13 new faces. “The average age of the new district committee members is 48 years. A number of youths have been included,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
13-12-2021||West Bengal||Forest officials step in to protect Buxa Tiger Reserve’s big cat||The state forest department on Sunday said it had started taking steps to protect nature and wildlife at Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) after a Royal Bengal tiger was sighted at the reserve after around three decades. The foresters released a picture of the tiger clicked on Friday night saying it was “suspected” to be that of a royal Bengal tiger. On Sunday, the department released a second picture of the tiger clicked by another camera around 3km away from the earlier site, confirming the existence and the species. Reacting to this development, state forest minister Jyotipriya Mallick said: “We have stopped the jungle safari for tourists for the conservation and protection of the wildlife, which obviously includes the tiger. We need to find out if there is more than one tiger in the BTR.” Sources in the department said it has also been decided to engage more manpower in the BTR to intensify vigilance across the reserve forest area. A number of experienced employees and officers will be posted in BTR, said the sources. “The location of BTR is  strategic as it shares borders with Bhutan and Assam. That is why we have to give impetus for protection of the tiger and other animals. Some poaching rackets operate in the Northeast. Earlier, we found their involvement in poaching of rhinos at the Jaldapara and Gorumara parks,” said a senior forest official. The car safari, sources said, has initially been cancelled for next five days but may not resume after it, hinted the official. As of now, tourists can only visit Jainti, a popular site on the fringes of the reserve. “We have formed two teams for round-the-clock monitoring of the reserve area. Members of the joint forest management committees have been put on alert. There are around 15 forest villages in the reserve and their dwellers can play a crucial role to protect the tiger. We have developed the prey base required for conservation of tigers,” said Budhwaraj Sewa, the field director of BTR. As of now, there are 150 trap cameras in Buxa and 70 more would be put up here, he said. The reserve had come in for flak as tigers were not sighted here for decades. The National Tiger Conservation Authority a few years back had asked if Buxa should continue with the “tiger reserve" tag. A few years back, it was planned to “reintroduce” tigers in the BTR from Assam. “It is a relief that we have proof now that the tiger is here in Buxa. We have also thought of expediting the process of rehabilitating forest villagers who live in the core area, into fringe areas,” said an official of the department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
13-12-2021||West Bengal||Past haunts party: Bengal BJP plans to shun outsiders in campaign||Bengal BJP has decided against inviting any leader from outside the state to campaign for Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls. The decision, sources said, is directly linked to the BJP’s experience in the campaign for Assembly polls. “The list of star campaigners we have prepared does contain names of some central ministers and leaders from other states. However, we have decided in principle not to call them,” a state BJP functionary said. The names of central ministers Smriti Irani, Giriraj Singh and Ramkripal Yadav and chief of BJP’s Delhi unit Manoj Tiwari feature on the campaigner list. The Bengal unit of the BJP has always fallen back on leaders from outside the state to connect with the people of Bengal, though unsuccessfully. Although state BJP office-bearers didn’t concede that they were unwilling to invite outside leaders to the CMC poll campaign, Bengal party chief Sukanta Majumdar hinted that the campaign would be primarily restricted to state leaders. “We have kept their names on our list of star campaigners. However, we all know that they are all ministers and central leaders who are very busy. We are going to fight this out under the leaders of Bengal. If they come in the future, we will let you know about these plans,” Majumdar said. Ahead of the Bengal Assembly polls, the BJP had brought in hoards of leaders from other states to campaign for its candidates. Eighteen leaders — apart from the likes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers Amit Shah and Smriti Irani and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath — other heavyweight leaders flew into Bengal to campaign against the Trinamul Congress and Mamata Banerjee. However, the regular advent of leaders from other states evidently failed in front of Mamata’s narrative that the BJP is a party with no connection to Bengal and which depends largely on “outsiders”. “What help did outside leaders do? We lost anyway. And when our workers were attacked by Trinamul, none of these leaders was there to stand by us. It is better that we will fight it out on our own,” a BJP leader said. Another state BJP leader held the party’s co-observer for Bengal Amit Malviya for the inclusion of outsider leaders’ names on the list of star campaigners. This person told The Telegraph that initially it had been said that no leader from outside the state would come to campaign for the civic polls. However, later, when the final list of star campaigners came out, the names of three central leaders and a state unit chief were included on the list. “We are still okay with Smriti. She has a connection with Bengal. What help will people like Giriraj Singh and Manoj Tiwari do for us?” this person said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
13-12-2021||West Bengal||Mortal remains of Darjeeling soldier back home in a coffin||The mortal remains of Havildar Satpal Rai, who died in the copter crash along with India’s Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 11 others on Wednesday in Tamil Nadu, arrived at Bagdogra airport on Sunday. Rai, a resident of Takdah of Darjeeling hills, was the personal security officer of India’s top military commander. In the afternoon, his body reached the airport and from there, it was taken to the army base hospital at Bengdubi. Senior officers of the defence forces, Rai’s family members and members of the civil and police administration of Darjeeling paid homage to the deceased soldier. Rai had served the Gorkha Rifles for 21 years His son Bickal, who also serves the 5/11 Gorkha Rifles of the Indian Army and is posted in Delhi, accompanied his father’s coffin. Among others, Raju Bista, the Darjeeling MP of the BJP and Gautam Deb, the chairman of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and a Trinamul veteran, also reached the base hospital to pay homage to Rai. “I have come here on behalf of the state government as instructed by the chief minister to offer our final respects to him. I will also attend the funeral at the late soldier’s residence in Takdah,” said Deb, and spoke with the bereaved family members, assuring them of every possible help from the state. MP Bista also Rai’s family and expressed his condolences. “The entire nation is showing respect…. We are fortunate that our region has bred such brave soldiers who have made our nation proud,” said Bista. His son apart, Rai is survived by his wife Mandira, their 16-year-old daughter Muskan as well as his elderly mother Santu Maya. Later in the afternoon, a convoy with Rai’s mortal remains headed for Takdah, a hilly hamlet in Darjeeling district which is his native home. Hundreds of people lined up on the road, shouting slogans and showering petals on the coffin. On Sunday night, Rai’s mortal remains were kept at his home. His last rites will be conducted on Monday, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
13-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 583 new Covid cases, 591 recoveries, six deaths||Bengal on Sunday reported 583 new Covid-19 infections, 591 recoveries and six deaths, resulting in a drop in active cases by 14, to 7,548. Calcutta reported 227 new infections and North 24-Parganas reported 108. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 456 or 78.22 per cent of new infections detected on Sunday. Calcutta logged two deaths and North 24-Parganas four. Twenty-one districts reported zero deaths. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, almost 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.59 per cent on Sunday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.36 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. In the past 78 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the total rose on 34 days and fell on 42 days. In these 78 days, there has been a net fall of 126 in the total. The number of new cases reported on Sunday indicates people who got infected between December 3 and 7. Bengal now has over 16.23 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.96 lakh recoveries and 19,600 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
13-12-2021||West Bengal||Eye on LS polls: Govt set to supply piped water to 5.77 lakh households||The Bengal government has set a target to supply piped water to around 5.77 lakh households in Bengal’s 10,729 remote rural hamlets facing water shortage within March next year. Sources said the state public health engineering (PHE) department recently held a statewide survey to identify remote hamlets located in forested or hilly areas of the districts and listed them before fixing its target. The goal of the government is to provide piped drinking water to 1.77 crore rural households in the state under the Jal Swapno project by way of small and large-scale water supply plants before the Lok Sabha elections 2024. “We have already reached out to 27.7 lakh households so far and aim to finish the task before the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. According to the directives of our chief minister Mamata Banerjee we have focused on 10,729 hamlets having fewer than 100 families  in remote areas. We will provide drinking water to those pockets within March 2022 and it will be (seen as a) milestone in the country,” said Pulak Roy, the PHE minister. The Jal Swapno project is a part of the central government’s water-supply scheme. Its total project cost for Bengal is Rs 60,000 crore, shared equally between the state and the Centre. At a recent administrative meeting, Mamata asked officials to implement the rural water supply schemes at the earliest under Jal Swapno.  Mamata seeks to make the Jal Swapna project successful and complete the rural pipeline water supply project quickly to highlight it as part of her achievement during the campaign for the 2024 general elections, sources said. “Water supply on doorsteps in rural areas is a challenge for all states. If the Bengal government can finish the task before 2024 polls, we can make it our success story. Our chief minister also wants to implement it as soon as possible,” said a Trinamul leader. PHE minister Roy, also the minister of panchayat and rural development, added: “It is chief minister’s directive to reach out to all households as soon as we can and officials of our department are trying their best to fulfill her wish. It will be a record in the country when we reach out to all households in remote hamlets with drinking water by March next year.” PHE officials said remote villages were located mainly in districts of Jungle Mahal including West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram. In West Midnapore, the number of remote hamlets is 1,039. The number is 618, 442 and 848, respectively, in Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram. Most of these hamlets are in tribal belts of Jungle Mahal, where water is scarce. “We have considered two sources. If there is a river or water body like a dam or barrage, we will use them. Alternatives include setting up deep tube wells,” said a senior PHE official in Calcutta. Officials said the Bengal government had set  an example recently. In November, Bengal topped among all states by providing water supply connections to 2.40 lakh households in a month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
13-12-2021||West Bengal||Cough syrup seized, truck driver arrested from Siliguri||Police seized 14,400 bottles of cough syrup, which were packed in 90 cartons, from a truck at Sitaguri on NH31D near here on Sunday. The illegal consignment was seized by Ambari-Falakata outpost of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police, along with the Special Task Force in Siliguri. The police arrested Jagadish Singh, the owner-cum driver of the truck. He is from Fatehgarh Sahib district of Punjab. The police said Singh had procured the contraband syrup from Uttar Pradesh and was on the way to Assam. The seizure and the arrest were made on the basis of a tip-off. Charges under Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act have been brought against him, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
13-12-2021||West Bengal||Nadia fishermen catch gigantic baghair from Hooghly||Fishermen in Nadia’s Santipur caught a gigantic baghair (Bagarius bagarius) or dwarf goonch from the Hooghly on Saturday evening. Also known as the devil catfish, the species is usually available downstream the Padma and elsewhere in south Asia and is rarely seen in Bengal. The fish weighed around 30 kilos and was sold in a wholesale market of East Burdwan’s Kalna on Sunday morning for Rs 12,000. The huge bony fish was first spotted by fisherman Sakha Burman, a resident of Nrisinhapur of Santipur. He, with the help of other fishermen, trapped the fish. Burman admitted that he was initially a “little scared and reluctant” to catch the fish. “I had earlier read some news reports of attacks on men by the baghair fish. So, I was a little hesitant about attempting to catch one. But this fish appeared to be tired and posed no threat,” the fisherman told the media. “The Bagarius bagarius is rarely seen in Bengal. This particular fish could have entered the Hooghly through branches (tributaries) of the Padma,” an official of the state forest department said. The fish is found in big rivers. The larger variant of the baghair is said to have attacked several people, some of them fatally, in the Mahakali river on Nepal’s western border with India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
