14-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal using drones to spot illegal cannabis and poppy seed farms||The West Bengal CID is using drones to spot areas in the state where cannabis and poppy seeds are being grown illegally, mostly in districts having international borders, a senior state police official said on Tuesday. The drive seeks to end the cultivation of narcotics in West Bengal and the state CID is taking the assistance of Narcotics Control Bureau for it, he said. The drive against illegal cultivation of cannabis and poppy seeds, which is obtained from opium poppy and is a popular food article, was launched recently in the districts of Coochbehar, Malda, Murshidabad and Nadia besides Bankura after inputs of such activity by farmers were unearthed, he said. Cultivation of cannabis, poppy seeds and plants which yield narcotics are illegal and totally banned. The administrations of the districts have been cautioning farmers about the ban and the legal actions that they will attract if they violate it. Despite this, there are farmers who are cultivating such plants secretly in hidden plots. We are now using drones to spot such areas, the official said. In Tufanganj and Dinhata in Coochbehar district over 25 acres were freed from illegal cultivation of cannabis last week, he said. Using drones has proved to be quite helpful as spotting from the top is easy and cutivators cannot see us. Using one drone we can cover at least 5 km in one go," the official said. Cultivation of cannabis and poppy seeds begin in November and end by the last week of February. Hence the CID initiated the drive at this time of the year, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul overwhelming favourite in Calcutta civic polls||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s upcoming elections appears to be a cakewalk for the ruling Trinamul, which has been running the civic body for over 10 years, even though all three of its former mayors have been indicted over corruption charges. While the city has been long painted in Trinamul colours, the Left, despite its seemingly impenetrable 34 years at Writers’ Buildings, was never much favoured by Calcuttans when it came to the Assembly polls. “There were two distinct voting patterns in the Assembly and CMC polls. We had our pockets of strength,” said a CPM central committee member. Adding wards from the adjoining areas, especially Jadavpur which was a CPM stronghold till the Trinamul swept it away 12 years ago, helped the CPM tackle its lack of support in the northern and southern parts of the city. After the 2021 Assembly elections that established the Trinamul’s hegemony across the state, wiping the Left and the Congress altogether and leaving crumbs for the BJP, neither of the Opposition parties are confident of even putting up a fight, leave aside wresting the 145-years old civic body from Bengal’s youngest political party. In 1996 when Mamata Banerjee was still with the Congress, the Grand Old Party bagged the most number of seats in nearly two decades (82), from its lowest (20) in 1977. In between these 19 years the Congress controlled municipalities like Berhampore, Krishnagar, Cooper’s Camp, Ranaghat, Joynagar-Majilpur, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and some others for years together. Even the Trinamul Congress, in a little over two years, had won no less than the Calcutta Municipal Corporation in the year 2000. “During Left rule, while it would indulge in all kinds of electoral malpractices, intimidation of voters, booth agents even candidates, they would leave the elected representatives undistubred once results were declared,” said a veteran Congress leader. “That is the reason why even a Subrata Mukherjee who became mayor on a Trinamul ticket, while he was still a Congress MLA could get the government’s support for the improvement of Calcutta.” That distinction has long been erased. The Trinamul Congress after being voted to power in the state and in panchayats and civic bodies has always attempted to gain complete control, at times by engineering defections. Ahead of Sunday’s polling, the worry for the Trinamul is for the Mamata-loyalists in the party who have been given tickets to contest for the councillor’s post, despite the combined opposition of the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and poll strategist Prashant Kishore. If rejecting the names of candidates proposed by Kishore and his former company was Mamata’s way of showing who the boss is when it comes to party matters in Bengal, a thumping victory will further secure her position. On the other hand, if the decision to field familiar faces backfires, Mamata would come under pressure to leave organisational responsibilities entirely with the Abhishek-PK combination. In the Assembly polls, the Trinamul had won all the 11 seats in Calcutta. The BJP, jolted by voters’ apathy in the Assembly polls and stung by defections since, no longer has the organisational power to take on the Trinamul’s might. The Congress too is only hopeful of retaining two of its councillors Prakash Upadhyay and Santosh Pathak, who have stood their ground against the Trinamul’s money and muscle power. “I am going to win by a record margin. Otherwise, I will quit politics,” said Prakash Upadhyay, the incumbent councillor of ward 28. While the Left and the Congress did not enter into any official alliance in some of the wards, booth level workers of the CPM have been campaigning for Congress nominees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||Ensure CCTV surveillance in every booth for KMC elections, HC tells poll panel||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed the West Bengal State Election Commission that CCTV surveillance be maintained in every booth for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls to be held on December 19. The court also said electronic surveillance should be ensured in strong rooms where EVMs will be stored following the elections. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice R Bharadwaj directed installation of CCTV cameras and maintenance of surveillance in all polling booths during the 144-ward KMC elections. The state election commission said such surveillance will be ensured in all the booths. A petition was moved by a BJP worker before the high court on Tuesday, seeking installation of CCTV cameras in every booth for the December 19 polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||BSF Director General meets Bengal Governor amid ambit tussle||The war of words between West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and the ruling Trinamool Congress over the extension of jurisdiction of the BSF continued on Monday, as the Director General of the force, Pankaj Kumar Singh, called on him in New Delhi. While the TMC accused the governor of trying to create confusion among people by disseminating "factually/legally untenable improper words" on the issue, Dhankhar said all agencies - central and state - need to work in tandem in a federal polity. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recently asked police officers of certain districts that share borders with Bangladesh to bar entry of BSF personnel in villages without permission. "DG @BSF_India Shri Pankaj Kumar Singh today called on Governor WB Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar at New Delhi and indicated that all efforts are being made to generate seamless coordination @WBPolice @MamataOfficial & there will be due focus on its lawful role and security of borders," Dhankhar tweeted. The governor said he has asked state Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi and Home Secretary BP Gopalika to take urgent steps to ensure cooperative coordination between the BSF and the West Bengal Police. In a letter to Dhankhar, TMC Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said, "you have willfully disseminated factually/legally untenable improper words relating to BSF vis-a-vis the statement made recently by the chief minister. This is perceived as less than responsible, aimed at creating confusion among people." The Centre recently amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. According to the Section 139 (1) of the BSF Act, a member of the force can function "within the local limits of such area adjoining the borders of India", the MP said and claimed that this expression restricts any extension of its jurisdiction. Though the state assemblies of West Bengal and Punjab have passed resolutions against the notification extending the jurisdiction of the BSF, Ray said, "yet you preferred to publicly oppose such resolution." "The resolution passed by overwhelming majority of the people's representatives in the assembly cannot invite criticism from the governor who is the nominal head of the state," he said. In his reply to Ray, the governor wrote that in a federal polity, all agencies -- central and state -- need to engage in tandem and togetherness. "On national security issues, there is need to yield to the primacy of national interest and security ignoring partisan considerations," he wrote. "You are aware the issue was raised in high decibel by the hon'ble chief minister in a series of official meetings in sensitive border districts. It was at this stage that December 9 communication was sent to her calling upon her to revisit," he said. Dhankhar had on December 9 written to Banerjee stating that her recent directive to the state police on the BSF is "potentially alarming for federal polity and national security" and not "in sync" with the Centre"s decision of increasing the border guards" jurisdiction. "On national security issues, there is need to yield to the primacy of national interest and security ignoring partisan considerations," he wrote to Ray. Maintaining that the BSF is enjoined by law with the task of ensuring the security of the borders of India, the governor said seamless coordination between BSF and state administration and police would affirmatively contribute to these agencies effectively performing their role. "The situation, as all are aware, at the moment on all these counts needs massive uplift," the letter read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata plays 'son of the soil card', says a local will become CM in Goa ||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she had chosen Goa for her party’s westward foray as the Congress was unable to defeat the BJP and a son of the soil would be the chief minister if Trinamul came to power in the state. “We will not interfere. Goa’s son of the soil will be the chief minister here. Goa will be developed by Goans, we will only help,” said Mamata at a public meeting in Benaulim, Goa. This was her second visit to Goa in less than a month. Goa goes to the polls in February. “We want the church to stay well, the mosque too. We want the temple to stay well, the gurdwara too. So that the administration works well, there is media freedom…. So that the people progress. That is what would please my heart. I did not come here for myself, I came here for you (the people of Goa),” she added. Although the main target of her attack was the BJP, Mamata didn’t spare the Congress either for failing to take on the BJP.  In her address, Mamata accused the Congress of selling out in Goa, referring to the controversial power-grab of 2017, when the BJP had formed the government there, despite securing only 13 seats. The Congress had 17 MLAs when the majority mark was 21. Besides the public meeting at Benaulim, Mamata and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee — the national general-secretary of Trinamul — attended a meeting with prominent editors of media houses and another with the party’s Goa leadership, at the International Centre. Raising her party’s Khela Hobe (the game is on) slogan in Konkani — Khel Jatlo — the Bengal chief minister repeatedly asserted that she was confident of her party’s victory in the 40-seat Goa Assembly. She made it clear that she had no objection to the joining of forces by all likeminded forces with the common objective of defeating the BJP. “I chose Goa because… seeing this all over India, that some political parties think of themselves as feudal lords, neither do anything themselves nor do they allow others to do anything. We waited for so long,” said the Bengal chief minister, referring to the Congress — the principal Opposition in Goa. “I don’t want to speak against the Congress. If the Congress thinks that the work that must be done will be done, to defeat the BJP, I have no objection. We have an alliance here in Goa already…. This is the alternative. If you want to join, join us. No problem,” she added. Mamata has been battling bitter criticism from the Congress and some of its allies over the recent slew of attacks against it and her party’s attempts to make inroads in states where the Grand Old Party is viewed as likely to emerge victorious in the run-up to the general election of 2024. The Congress’s fear -- in the state that it otherwise expected to do rather well in, in the February 2022 election -- is that the likes of Trinamul and the AAP would eat into the crucial chunk of around 34 per cent Christian votes, deemed anti-BJP. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, said Mamata was repeatedly going to Goa as an “agent” of the BJP. “Why is she having to repeatedly state that she would not compromise in this fight against the BJP, in the end? Only because she has sensed that people are realising that she has been making that compromise… to help divide anti-BJP votes to help the BJP’s cause,” said Chowdhury. Former Goa chief minister joined Trinamul: Mamata’s Goa team now has two former chief ministers, as the NCP’s Churchill Alemao joined Trinamul and, as the Benaulim MLA, wrote to the Speaker of the Assembly asking the NCP legislature party there – comprising only Alemao – to be recognised as the Trinamul legislature party. The 72-year-old had, in the Congress in 1990, been chief minister for 18 days and then the South Goa MP for two terms. His daughter, Valanka Alemao, joined Trinamul with him. In 2014, the Benaulim MLA had joined Trinamul for a two-year stint. Former Congress veteran Luizinho Faleiro is another former chief minister of the coastal state who recently joined Trinamul. He is now a national vice-president of the party and a Rajya Sabha member from Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||418 new Covid cases, 439 recoveries and 10 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Monday reported 418 new Covid19 infections, 439 recoveries and 10 deaths, resulting in a drop in active cases by 31, to 7,517. Calcutta reported 135 new infections and two deaths, and was the only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three digit figure of new Covid19 cases detected on Monday. The number of new infections reported on Monday is indicative of people who got infected between December 4 and 8. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.37 per cent. In the past 79 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day streak of fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the total rose on 34 days and fell on 43 days. In these 79 days, there has been a net fall of 157 in the total. Calcutta, North and South 24Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 326 or 77.99 per cent of the new infections detected on Monday. Twelve districts reported a single digit figure. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.87 per cent on Monday. North 24-Parganas reported three deaths. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.23 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.96 lakh recoveries and 19,610 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||STF seizes heroin worth Rs 3 crore from Siliguri suburb, three held||The Special Task Force of Bengal police seized heroin purportedly worth around Rs 3 crore from the outskirts of Siliguri on Sunday night. The STF intercepted the contraband on the basis of a tip-off and arrested two men and a woman who were allegedly tasked with its transportation. Police sources said they had brought in the narcotic from Murshidabad to Kalibari in the Siliguri subdivision with a plan to smuggle the same into Nepal. “Altogether, 28 packets of heroin weighing 2.8 kilos have been seized from them. The seized item costs around Rs 3 crore,” said a police source. The arrested trio were Pintu Sheikh and Alam Sheikh of Murshidabad and Jyotsna Mallick of Kharibari. The 61 battalion of the Border Security Force arrested a man while he was trying to cross into Bangladesh on Sunday. Aminur Sheikh, a resident of Haripokhar village under Hilli police station in South Dinajpur district, was handed over to police. Mothabari police intercepted an autorickshaw at Achintala in Malda on Sunday and seized 150 grams of brown sugar (a derivative of heroin). The drug worth Rs 3.62 lakh was seized from Suresh Mondal of Kaliachak and Roni Sheikh of Mothabari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||Varanasi event hits BJP campaign, top leaders spend energy in rituals||Top Bengal BJP leaders on Monday spent more than half the day at various temples in the state promoting an event featuring Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi with some sections in the party commenting that they could have better devoted the time to the campaign for Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls. Multiple BJP candidates said on condition of anonymity that they “wished” their leaders had set their priority right and spent time campaigning for the CMC polls rather than propagating the party’s Hindutva agenda with an eye on the ensuing Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. “After the party lost the Assembly polls in Bengal, leaders in Delhi are making us feel like stepchildren. What else could be the point of forcing state leaders to spend hours at temples when they should actually be campaigning with us?” a BJP candidate asked. The leader said it appeared that the BJP was so desperate to win the UP polls that it was ready to forsake the Calcutta civic polls. “We understand that it is important for the party to sweep UP. That doesn’t mean the CMC polls aren’t important. We are putting up a fight against the Trinamul Congress’s atrocities. The least the party can do is stand by us,” the candidate added. At a recent virtual meeting of Bengal BJP, senior leaders such as state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty had informed his colleagues about Delhi’s diktat. He sad all prominent BJP leaders would have to be present at local temples on December 13, which was Monday, as Modi inaugurated the newly constructed Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi. While the diktat applied for all BJP state units, several Bengal leaders questioned its need when the beleaguered party faced the civic polls in the city. However, they were told that the “order is from the highest levels” of the party and had to be followed word by word. State BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar, his predecessor and national vice-president Dilip Ghosh and the party’s Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari — the three key leaders of the party in Bengal — were present at the Tarakeshwar temple in Hooghly, the Bhootnath temple in Calcutta and the 108 Shiv temples in Burdwan, respectively, on Monday. Although both Majumdar and Adhikari reached Calcutta by evening and all the three participated in the CMC poll campaign, a section in the BJP couldn’t help but regret that the larger part of the day had been “wasted”. “As it is, Sukantada and Dilipda were largely unavailable for the campaign because they were in Parliament. But when both of them were in Bengal on Monday, shouldn’t they have been seeking votes for us?” another candidate asked. “This event (at Varanasi) marked the unshackling of a thousand years of suppression. This is why it was important to celebrate it nationally. The campaign and this are two different issues,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling bids tearful adieu to dead soldier Satpal Rai||The last rites of Havildar Satpal Rai, who lost his life in the copter crash that killed India’s Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and 11 more on December 8, were held at his native place in Maneydhura, Takdah, on Monday. The site is around 25km from Darjeeling town. His mortal remains had arrived at the Bagdogra airport on Sunday and reached his Takdah home at night. On Monday, hundreds gathered to pay him their last tribute. He was buried at a place in his village. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, MLA Neeraj Zimba, Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha chief Anit Thapa and a number of other political leaders from hills, as well as Trinamul veteran Gautam Deb, who chairs the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, were present at the funeral. Rai is survived by Bickal, his son who is also in the Indian army, wife Mandira, daughter Muskan and mother Santu Maya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||Malda cops take Didi’s advice to fight flab through yoga, exercises||Police in Malda district are working hard to keep themselves fit through yoga and physical exercises, especially after chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s recent instruction to them to not grow overweight. On December 8, Mamata, while attending the administrative review meeting of Malda district here, remarked on overweight officers. Speaking to Hirak Biswas, the inspector-in-charge of Malda police station, Mamata asked if the officer had the habit of regular physical exercise. Biswas, who is visibly chubby, was embarrassed by the chief minister’s question but quickly nodded his head. “You should make it a part of your routine. Exercises and yoga will keep you fit physically and mentally. Do it regularly and it will help you in staying fit,” a smiling Mamata had advised the police personnel. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police of Malda, who had shared the dais with the chief minister, had taken note of her advice, said police sources. Soon after the chief minister's visit, the district police chief issued a notice to all police stations of the district, with an instruction that all personnel, and even the civic volunteers, should start physical exercises every day. “What the chief minister said was for the benefit of the police force. To be fit and fine should be the goal of any individual. But for the police, it is essential. Therefore, they have been asked to take all measures to be physically and mentally fit,” said Rajoria. The instructions of the district police chief have worked, say police sources. Ranabir Bag, the inspector-in-charge of Gazole police station, has started a fitness camp for his colleagues. Right from sub-inspectors to civic volunteers, all the personnel posted at the police station join yoga sessions in the morning conducted by experts. At the district headquarters, morning walkers are nowadays surprised to see senior officers such as the additional SPs and DSPs briskly jogging and running on foggy mornings. Police sources said Malda SP Rajoria plays lawn tennis for a couple of hours every morning and for another two hours in the evening if he is not otherwise busy. “The district magistrate also plays tennis regularly. Recently, senior police officers and bureaucrats who were here to attend the review meeting were seen doing exercises at the Malda Club grounds. If these senior officials can include physical exercise in their daily routine, why can’t we?” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
14-12-2021||West Bengal||‘Mentally unsound’ resident back from Bangladesh after a year ||A 53-year-old resident of South Dinajpur district, reportedly mentally challenged, returned home on Monday from Bangladesh after over a year. Kartik Biswas, a resident of Nazirpur under Patiram police station of the district, had crossed the India-Bangladesh border by mistake last year in November and had been intercepted by the Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB). Jagat Singha, Kartik’s son-in-law, said he would stroll across the village. “However, on November 27 last year, he went out and did not return home,” the son-in-law added. Baby, Kartik’s wife, had then filed a missing diary with the local police. Police searched for him without success. As days went on without his return, his family members suspected that he might have strayed into Bangladesh by mistake. The India-Bangla border is some 20km from Kartik’s home. “We contacted some of our friends and relatives who export goods to Bangladesh through Hilli. They shared my husband’s photograph and other details with their counterparts in Bangladesh. Finally, on September this year, we came to know that my husband is under treatment at a hospital in Hilli of Bangladesh,” Baby said. Then came the business of bringing Kartik back to India. The family then contacted Sadikul Islam, an IT professional and a social worker in Calcutta, who has since the lockdown helped many migrant workers, in India and overseas, get in touch with their families in Bengal. Islam started communicating with the Union external affairs ministry and the Bangladesh High Commission. “Eventually, we could bring him back home after efforts of months. The BGB authorities had also realised he is mentally challenged, hence no case was registered against him. It is because of certain technical issues that his repatriation process got delayed,” said Islam. On Monday, Baby, Jagat and some others went to Patiram police station. From there, they were taken to Dipapara border outpost of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Mahipal under Kushmandi police station. A team of BSF moved towards the border as a team of BGB and other officials walked in, carrying Kartik in a stretcher. When he met his family members, Kartik could recognise them. The final formalities were carried out and Kartik was handed over to the family. “He has grown weak and can’t walk. But it is a great relief for us to have him home at last. We hope he will recuperate soon,” said Baby. Jagat said he was fine before 2012 and would run a husking mill and a decorator's business. “But after a road accident in 2012 he was unconscious for three days. After that, he recovered but was never the same again. He became mentally challenged. Since then, we have been taking care of his business,” the son-in-law added. Kartik, his family members said, had almost stopped talking after the accident. The family consulted several doctors but to no avail.  He preferred to take solitary walks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
14-12-2021||West Bengal||Civic polls: Supreme Court rejects BJP’s plea for central forces ||The Supreme Court on Monday rejected the state BJP's plea for central forces for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls on December 19. The apex court told the BJP that the plea could be adjudicated by Calcutta High Court. Calcutta High Court will on Tuesday deliver its verdict in the case related to polls to 111 municipal bodies. The division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj finished hearing the case filed by an individual who sought the court to direct the state government to hold elections to 111 civic bodies in Bengal fast. Later, the BJP and the CPM joined the case. Other cases Calcutta High Court wants to form a high-powered committee to curb the  illegal lifting of sand and boulders from rivers and coal mining. Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava expressed his desire to set up such a committee while hearing a PIL that sought the court’s order against illegal lifting of sand and boulders from Indus and Kotulpur rivers in Bankura. He asked counsels of the state government and the petitioner to suggest names of dignitaries for the committee by December 15. The high court on Monday asked the Centre for its view on placing in public domain the reports by various commissions on the disappearance of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Following a PIL filed by Hirendra Nath Bagchi, the division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj issued the directive. Moving the petition for Bagchi, advocate Rabindra Narayan Datta claimed before the court that even though Netaji had great contribution in the freedom movement, the central government never placed reports of the commissions before the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
14-12-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul 'removes'  'good for nothing' Durgapur mayor ||Durgapur mayor Dilip Agasty on Monday resigned apparently following instructions from the Trinamul Congress leadership. Agasty submitted his resignation to West Burdwan district magistrate S. Arun Prasad and sent a copy to municipal affairs minister Chandrima Bhattacharya mentioning his health issues as the reason. However, sources said Trinamul supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee was not satisfied with the performance of Agasty, a retired WBCS officer. Chief minister had in May last year instructed urban development minister Firhad Hakim from an administrative review meeting at Nabanna to remove Agasty from the post of mayor after describing him as “good for nothing”. However, the matter was later withheld but Trinamul sources said that ahead of the elections of Durgapur Municipal Corporation scheduled next year the party did not want to take “risk” as Opposition parties have been taking to the streets to protest against “lapses” in implementing civic amenities in the town. The CPM organised a three-day march that ended on Monday demanding a change in the civic board alleging negligence in implementing civic facilities in the town. A section of ruling party councillors was also unhappy with the activities of the retired bureaucrat turned politician and mayor. However, Agasty kept his phone switched off and no reaction could be found from his end. Sources close to him said Agasty received a call from Trinamul Bhawan on Monday afternoon asking him to resign immediately. Agasty wrote his resignation letter and addressed it to the district magistrate instead of the municipal affairs minister and submitted it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
14-12-2021||West Bengal||Carcass of Himalayan black bear found in Alipurduar||The carcass of a Himalayan black bear was found in the Dalmore forest near Makrapara tea estate in Alipurduar district on Sunday evening. Ujjwal Ghosh, the additional principal chief conservator of forests (north Bengal), said a post-mortem was conducted on the carcass that bore injury marks. “We have received the post-mortem report which shows the bear died a natural death. Its body parts are intact. We suspect a wild boar killed the bear a couple of days ago,” said Ghosh. In the past few weeks, a number of bears were sighted or rescued from different areas of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. The animal that inhabits upper reaches is nowadays found in lower areas, much to the concern of foresters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
