15-12-2021||West Bengal||UNESCO adds Durga Puja to Intangible Cultural Heritage||The UNESCO on Wednesday accorded heritage status to West Bengal's Durga puja festival, a move that has been hailed by the people of the state. "Durga puja in Kolkata has just been inscribed on the intangible heritage list. Congratulations India," the UN agency posted on Twitter with a picture of an idol of the goddess attached to it. Suvaprasanna, the chairman of State Heritage Commission, said the Red road carnival, which displays the craftsmanship that goes into the making of Durga puja pandals, have made more people across the world aware of the grandeur that is synonymous with the festival. Prime Minister Narendra Modi while sharing UNESCO's tweet, lauded the achievement. He tweeted, "A matter of great pride and joy for every Indian."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
15-12-2021||West Bengal||KMC poll: Illegal construction, waterlogging cause for concern, say oppn||As the opposition BJP, Left Front and the Congress focus on alleged illegal constructions in the city, "worsening" law and order and waterlogging as the main planks in their manifestos for the coming Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) election, the ruling Trinamool Congress promises to improve facilities that, the party asserted, have been put in place during its tenure in the last two terms. Since May 2020, the city's municipal body is being run by a board of administrators which was formed following the postponement of the civic elections in the state amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The KMC poll is scheduled to be held on December 19. In its manifesto, the TMC said to combat increased waterlogging in the city which it claimed is due to change in rainfall pattern, existing pumping stations will be upgraded and 200 pumps procured to flush out accumulated water during heavy rain. It also talked of revamping of Adi Ganga canal with regular dredging. Even as complaints of broken roads by motorists rise, the TMC promised pothole-free Kolkata roads and reduction in traffic congestion through construction of 50 escalator-enabled footbridges and subways at major intersections and widening of roads. Road space in the city is reported to be around 4 per cent and experts have pointed to the blockage of footpaths by hawkers as one of the reasons for congestion of thoroughfares, since people are forced to walk on roads. KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim claimed that numerous projects from drinking water treatment plants to flyovers have been successfully taken up during the tenure of the TMC, while accusing the Centre of scuttling plans such as building a flyover in New Alipore area in south Kolkata. Stressing the need for providing quality education to children of all income groups, the TMC promised in its manifesto conversion of 100 municipal schools into English medium and upgradation of infrastructure. It also said that it will make Kolkata dengue-free by setting up 30 new detection centres and seasonal cleaning and fumigation drives. The BJP, on the other hand, termed Kolkata as a symbol of literature, culture, harmony and fraternity, and promised to bring back the city's lost pride. The party, in its manifesto, promised strict enforcement of the law to ensure safety of women and children and prevent crime against them in the city. Pointing at a recent incident in which a policeman and a civic volunteer were accused of molesting a woman who had sought help from them in neighbouring Bidhannagar, BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar said, "This is an example of the law and order situation under the TMC rule." Claiming that law and order is good under the Mamata Banerjee government, senior TMC MP Saugata Roy termed it as a "stray incident". The BJP manifesto pledged to improve health care facilities, water supply and appropriate preventive measures to weed out malaria and dengue. It said that it will ensure that the city ranks at the top for cleanliness and will embark on a beautification drive. The saffron party also promised better roads and construction of new flyovers to reduce congestion. For solving the waterlogging problem of city roads and low-lying areas during monsoons, the BJP said it will overhaul the drainage system. BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya accused the TMC of being incapable of solving the problems of the metropolis, stating that the KMC had required the help of Odisha to clear roads of felled trees following cyclone Amphan in 2020. "The BJP's goal is to provide a modern Kolkata city free of problems of waterlogging, drinking water, etc," he said. Municipal schools will be provided with modern computers and scientific instruments, while their infrastructure will be bettered, the saffron party said in its manifesto. It also promised a separate legal cell of the KMC against illegal construction and for safeguarding the interests of the buyers of real estate. The Left Front alleged that around 3,000 waterbodies in the city have been filled up illegally and nearly 50,000 trees have been felled during the TMC's tenure, helping Kolkata enter the top echelons of the unenviable list of most polluted cities in the world. The CPI(M)-led group claimed that around 28,000 posts in the KMC are lying vacant and work is being done by temporary or contract workers. It further claimed that the slums in the city are making way for illegal highrise buildings, promising to take measures on these issues if it wins the elections to the 144-ward KMC. The Congress, which has seen its fortunes dwindle steadily in the city's civic body elections, has promised empowerment of women and betterment of facilities like education for children and healthcare for senior citizens. It also promised to stop illegal construction in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Kolkata's air quality worsens to poor level||The city's air quality index (AQI) on Wednesday worsened to poor level, a week after recording satisfactory category, an official said. In parts of North Kolkata, the AQI even breached the 300 mark which is categorised as very poor. An official of West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) said the AQI was 281 at the air monitoring station in Fort William and 276 in Ballygunge at 2 pm on Wednesday. An AQI of 0-50 is categorised as good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101-200 is moderate, 201-300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor and 400-500 is severe. The AQI was 261 at Jadavpur, 245 at Bidhannagar, 238 at Victoria Memorial and 228 in Rabindra Sarobar area, the official said, adding everywhere it was poor which means breathing discomfort for a considerable time for those susceptible to lung problems. However, the AQI in Rabindra Bharati University air monitoring station in north Kolkata at the same time was 322 which is categorised as very poor in environmental terms. Very poor means acute respiratory problem for those having chronic lung ailments and breathing difficulty for others. Only one week back, the Air Quality Index of 20 (good) was registered at Victoria Memorial, 43 (good) at Ballygunge, 33 (good) at Rabindra Sarobar, and 51 (satisfactory) at Rabindra Bharati University, the WBPCB said. A maximum of 90 per cent and a minimum of 80 per cent improvement in the AQI of Kolkata was reported after the cyclone-induced rain lashed the city, a record low for the city in the month of December in the last four decades but as the rains stopped, the sky cleared and the wintry conditions returned, the air quality went for a toss, environmentalist Somendra Mohan Ghosh said. On Tuesday the AQI at RBU was 322 (very poor). It was poor elsewhere - at Ballygunge it was 278, at Jadavpur 263 and at Victoria Memorial 232, a WBPCB official said. The WBPCB official, however, said the air quality index zooms up due to the foggy condition as the particulates in the air cannot rise much above the ground level. "However we have not lowered guards and undertaken all measures to curb vehicular pollution. Fifteen year old vehicles are not allowed in the city," he said. Ghosh alleged "the administration is not conducting checks of diesel vehicles, mostly the commercial ones which are running all around the city. The pollution under control certificate is being issued without any stringent monitoring and the police and pollution watchdog seem to be not vigilant enough." He said hydrocarbon and particulate emission should be checked in all petrol and diesel BS6 vehicles. The WBPCB official said garbage burning and coal fired chulas (ovens) in street food stalls are also adding more poisonous smoke and it was not always possible for the pollution watchdog to keep a tab on every vendor and person in every nook and corner unless people become aware. "We are doing everything possible with the help of police and administration," he added. Just before the cyclone Jawad induced unseasonal rains, the AQI was 185 (moderate) at Victoria Memorial, 212 (poor) at Ballygunge, 163 (moderate) at Rabindra Sarobar, and 307 (very poor) at Rabindra Bharati University air monitoring station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC rejects BJP's plea to stay Kolkata civic polls||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday refused to stay the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) election due on December 19, while directing the state poll panel and the West Bengal government to take measures for holding elections in other civic bodies at the earliest with the least possible number of phases. The State Election Commission (SEC) and the state government had earlier told the court that elections to 111 municipal bodies will be held in six to eight phases by May 2022, but dates can be fixed later, taking into account the spread of the omicron variant of Covid-19, and considering the school board examinations. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice R Bharadwaj in its order refused to stay the KMC elections as prayed for by the BJP. The BJP and another petitioner had moved the high court seeking direction to the SEC and the state government to hold elections to all the municipalities and municipal corporations where it is due together and as soon as possible. Claiming that the SEC and the state government had announced the schedule for the KMC elections during the pendency of its petition, the BJP had prayed for a stay on the polls for the city's civic body, which is to be held on December 19. The bench directed the SEC and the state government to take measures for holding elections to the other 111 municipal bodies at the earliest in minimum possible phases. It directed the SEC and the state government to inform the court on a tentative plan for holding these elections on the next date of hearing on December 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Singur: BJP starts 3-day long sit-in demonstration for farmers||BJP on Tuesday kicked off a three-day long sit-in demonstration at Singur to protest against the alleged apathy of the state government towards the plight of farmers. The development comes days after the BJP-led central government was forced to roll back three contentious farm laws. Top leaders of the state BJP — chief and MP Sukanta Majumdar, his predecessor Dilip Ghosh and leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari — attended the demonstration, which was organised by the Kisan Morcha, the party’s farmers’ wing. Leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — the umbrella organisation of several farmers’ unions which led the farmers’ movement against the central laws nationally — have criticised the BJP’s “sudden show of love for farmers” and called their protest an “eyewash”. Hannan Mollah, the general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha and an SKM leader, said the BJP’s bid to establish itself in Bengal had turned it towards the farmers. “They (BJP leaders) aren’t actually sympathetic towards the farmers. This (the protest) is a political drama, an eyewash,” Mollah told The Telegraph. “BJP has a farmers’ wing, which is just an ornamental organisation and does no real work for the farmers. Instead, it has tried to sabotage the farmers’ movement,” he added. However, he did admit that the plight of Bengal farmers was of concern. In Singur, the BJP leaders raised multiple demands, including the announcement of a compensation package for farmers who lost their crops in heavy rain. One of the demands sought a compensation of Rs 20 lakh for the families of the farmers who committed suicide. They have also said if these demands aren’t met, the Kisan Morcha will organise a march to the state secretariat. Balurghat MP Majumdar also used the platform for farmers’ protests to hit out at chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s plans to expand her party in Goa. “Chief minister is going around in Goa…. She has said she will turn Goa into Bengal. Migrant labourers from several districts of Bengal go to work in Goa. If she turns Goa into Bengal, labourers from that state will have to go somewhere else to find work,” Majumdar said. Tuesday’s protest was initially marked by confusion as the BJP said that the police had denied permission to set up a stage in Singur. However, later the police allowed a stage to be built but put a cap on the number of people who can attend the protest. A stage was later set up where the event will continue for the next two days. Ghosh, Majumdar and BJP leader Rahul Sinha led a rally from Singur to the protest site before the sit-in protest started. However, sources said that the party has failed to mobilise enough farmers for the protest. “They (BJP leaders) have realised that they will not be successful in the Calcutta civic polls. This is why they have gone to Singur to divert attention…People of Singur have already said that they don’t want them. They want the Trinamul Congress,” said Trinamul leader and state minister Firhad Hakim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 552 new cases, 554 recoveries and 12 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday logged 552 Covid-19 infections, 554 recoveries and a dozen deaths, resulting in a drop in the total of active cases by 12 to 7,505. Calcutta reported 161 new infections and North 24-Parganas 101. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas two. Bengal’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.37. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.24 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.97 lakh recoveries and 19,620 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Schools close down as teachers, students test positive for Covid||Authorities at several high schools as well as local administrators in south Bengal are in a quandary about what measures they need to take as sections of teachers and students are diagnosed with Covid-19 and the school education department is yet to issue any guidelines on the ways to tackle the situation. In the absence of the guidelines, sources said, the school authorities are closing down the institutions for some time when teachers and students test positive for Covid. In a few cases, the authorities have asked teachers who have not shown any symptoms of Covid to conduct classes. The problem has cropped up ahead of model tests which are slated to start from Friday for Madhyamik and higher secondary students. “We have five schools where teachers have reported Covid-19 positive. We sought help from the health department and sent a report to the state education department. We did not receive guidelines on how to deal with the situation,” said an education department official in East Burdwan. Officials said in districts like Bankura, Birbhum, East Burdwan and Hooghly, there were at least four schools each where teachers or students reported Covid positive. “If a teacher is found positive, then all teachers and students attending schools should go for tests. But in most cases, teachers are advised to go for tests but not students,” said a teacher of a high school in East Burdwan. Chandan Maiti, the general secretary of the Advance Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses, agreed that they were in a fix in dealing with such a situation in the absence of any guidelines from the government. “The government has given a directive to maintain Covid protocol while attending classes but there is no specific direction as to what should be done if teachers get infected. We are worried what would happen if teachers of a school get infected while conducting the test exams,” said Maiti. A girls’ high school in Birbhum’s Nanoor was closed down for three days after seven out of 11 teachers had been detected with Covid on Wednesday. The managing committee of the school held a meeting on Tuesday and decided to hold a test examination for 250 students from Friday. “We do not have the option to reschedule the dates of the test examination as we have to finish them by December 24,” said Subrata Bhattacharyya, the managing committee president of the Nanoor school. The authorities of Bolpur High School have decided to exclude from the test exams five students who have fever. A senior official of the health department said as a primary measures, they asked all teachers of the school to go for Covid tests but they could not be forced to close down the institution in the absence of any guideline from the state government. “We have already written to our seniors and district magistrate seeking specific guidelines to handle schools where teachers have reported Covid positive. But we are yet to receive them. It is the duty of the education department to find a solution,” said a senior health official of Birbhum. Sources said there were half a dozen schools in Birbhum where either teachers or students reported Covid positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Narendra Modi’s Ganga dip with eye on elections, says Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday mocked Narendra Modi over his ostentatious charm offensive in Varanasi, accusing him of taking a dip in the Ganga when elections came knocking and not long after countless bodies of Covid-19 victims floated in the river in the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. The Trinamul Congress chief also demanded a charcha (discussion) from Prime Minister Modi on the special investigation team (SIT) report on the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri killing of farmers. The SIT told a court that it was a “pre-planned conspiracy causing death”, prompting Mamata to ask whether or not Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister  Yogi Adityanath should resign. “We are not in the habit of offering prayers… taking a dip in the holy waters of Mother Ganga, only when elections are just around the corner. Chunaav aatey hain, toh Ganga mein doob jaatey hain… Modiji ney doob diya (When elections arrive, he drowns in the Ganga… Modi took a dip),” said Mamata to thunderous applause from the audience at a public meeting in Goa’s Assanora. She was apparently referring to the five dips by Modi in the Ganga — a river deemed holy in Hinduism — on Monday, before dedicating the renovated Kashi Vishwanath temple corridor to the nation while performing a brief Rudrabhishek sitting on a low table at the shrine. “Whenever elections come, he does something or the other. When elections are around the corner, sometimes he goes and sits for meditation in an Uttarakhand temple (during a visit to Kedarnath amid the general election of 2019). When elections are close by, he himself becomes a priest. Not that I have an objection. Let him do these things, he has that freedom. But where is he through the year?” asked the Bengal chief minister. She brought up the countless bodies of deceased Covid-19 victims floating in the Ganga, from Uttar Pradesh, during the peak of the second wave in India amid monumental mismanagement of the pandemic by the BJP-led Centre and several state governments. The visuals had made headlines globally, and brought shame to the nation, internationally. “Jis desh mein Ganga behti hay (The nation in which the Ganga flows)… in that nation, the government of Uttar Pradesh throws bodies of deceased Covid-19 victims without last rites. They have sullied the holy waters of Mother Ganga. The countless victims of Covid-19 who succumbed to the infection… so that their real numbers cannot be kept recorded, the bodies were thrown into the Ganga. The waters of the Ganga, which we believe is holy,” said Mamata in a public meeting at Panjim, conducted by her party along with Goa ally Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, earlier in the day. Mamata then brought up the Lakhimpur Kheri incident of October 3. “Remember Lakhimpur Kheri? Where protesting farmers were mowed down by a BJP (junior Union) minister’s son? The court’s SIT has submitted its report, which states clearly that the incident was planted (“pre-planned”).” The SIT recommended replacement of lesser charges such as death by negligence with attempt to murder. “If that is the truth, then should the Uttar Pradesh chief minister not resign? Should the (Union) home minister not resign? Should the Prime Minister not discuss this (in public)?” asked Mamata. NCP plea Sharad Pawar’s NCP on Tuesday filed a disqualification petition before the Goa Assembly’s Speaker Rajesh Patnekar against Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao (the lone MLA of the party in the western state), a day after he defected to Mamata’s party and sought recognition of the NCP legislature party in Goa as the Trinamul legislature party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt introduces new perk for top IAS officers||The Mamata Banerjee government has introduced a new allowance — sumptuary allowance — for senior IAS officers amid questions on whether the additional expenditure is needed at a time the state is facing an acute crisis of funds in the backdrop of Covid-19 and launch of new welfare schemes. According to sources, the chief secretary and additional chief secretaries would get a sum of Rs 34,000 each a month as sumptuary allowance to entertain their guests and visitors. Officers in the rank of principal secretaries and secretaries would receive a monthly sumptuary allowance of Rs 20,000 and Rs 17,000 each, respectively. “The new allowance was introduced from November 1. A section of central government officers gets the sumptuary allowance, but this is the first time it is introduced in Bengal,” said an official. A bureaucrat has said the sumptuary allowance for central government officers has a maximum limit of Rs 10,000 a month, but the amount is much higher in Bengal. The new allowance became a point of discussion in administrative circles as many felt that the announcement could have been delayed by some time, particularly when the finance department’s austerity measures were still in place. An official explained that the facility for the top most IAS officers was announced at a time when several development projects were stalled because of lack of funds in the backdrop of the pandemic and introduction of several new welfare schemes. “It’s not about the outgo on account of this allowance.... The new allowance would leave an additional burden of a few lakhs of rupees, but it does not send a good message when austerity measures are in place. Besides, the common employees who did not get fresh installments of deafness allowance in the past one year might feel bad,” said a bureaucrat. The decision to introduce the new allowance for the senior IAS officers was taken soon after the state had hiked the special allowance for senior IAS officers up to Rs 5,000 a month in November. The move hasn’t gone down well with WBCS officers and other staff members. “The administration comprises IAS officers, WBCS officers and common cadre employees. No government can function properly by making only one section happy,” said a WBCS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Gorkha National Liberation Front vows to stall GTA elections||The Gorkha National Liberation Front, which is an ally of the BJP, on Tuesday said it would not only refrain from contesting Gorkhaland Territorial Administration elections but would also hit the streets to stop the polls from being held. The GNLF’s stand could raise the political temperature in the hills during the winter after four years of relative lull. Many believe the GNLF’s current posturing is an indication of the tight spot the party and the BJP find themselves in following the Bengal government’s announcement to hold the GTA elections which have been due since 2017. M.K. Subba, the president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, on Tuesday said: “We will not participate in the GTA elections. In fact, we will hit the streets in thousands to stop the GTA elections.” On Tuesday, the GNLF plastered posters across the hills seeking the dissolution of the GTA. The Gorkha National Students’ Front, a wing of the GNLF, wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah, flagging the same issue. GNLF president Anmol Nirola in the letter requested Shah to “kindly intervene and dissolve the GTA immediately and find a permanent political solution to the problem of the Gorkhas, once and forever”. The GNLF’s student wing alleged that the GTA had been “forcefully imposed by the state government in the Darjeeling hills” and the hill body had only benefited the state government’s “political stooges and contractors”. “These political stooges are openly involved in corruption under the political patronage of the state government,” the letter reads. The memorandum of agreement to set up the GTA had been signed by the central and state governments and the Bimal Gurung-led Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in 2011. The Bengal Assembly passed an Act a year later to form the GTA. Observers believe the GNLF and the BJP which are both opposed to the GTA have been pushed to a corner following Mamata Banerjee’s announcement to hold GTA elections after the revision of electoral rolls is completed on January 5. “The GNLF and the BJP are opposed to the GTA. The GNLF even challenged the GTA’s constitutional validity in Calcutta High Court. Given this stand, it would be difficult for the GNLF and the BJP to contest the GTA elections,” said an observer. “However, if the GTA elections are held, their rivals will win, a situation which the GNLF and the BJP want to avoid at any cost.” So far, Anit Thapa’s Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatrantik Morcha and Ajoy Edwards’s Hamro Party have clearly said they will contest the elections. Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha wants the GTA elections to be held after the state government works out a “permanent political solution”. Many leaders of the Bimal Gurung camp, however, privately expressed that they would have no option but to contest the elections if the state government went ahead with the plan. “Looking at the overall situation, the GNLF and its allies have no option but to try their best to stall the GTA elections,” said an observer. Mamata Banerjee will be reaching Darjeeling in the last week of December and a final decision on conducting the elections might be worked out during her visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
15-12-2021||West Bengal||East Midnapore: Lawyers cease work over judge’s ‘insult’||The East Midnapore district bar association called for ceasework at Tamluk’s civil and criminal courts from Tuesday till Friday to protest against alleged misbehaviour by the district judge during the inauguration of a new court building. The lawyers said district judge Gopal Karmakar’s “inappropriate behaviour” was towards a few advocates who had laid out chairs on a lawn in front of the new district court building. They laid out chairs on the lawn to protest the fact that authorities did not include an advocates’ waiting room in the new structure. The incident took place shortly after the inauguration of the new district court, which was attended virtually by Calcutta High Court Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava, law minister Malay Ghatak and Justice Shekhar Saraf. “We have been requesting judge Karmakar for almost a decade to provide us with a waiting room at the new building, like the one that exists at Calcutta High Court. But our pleas seem to have fallen on deaf ears,” said bar association secretary Sankar Karak. “Moreover, the judge misbehaved with a few advocates who had arranged chairs on the lawn in order to mimic a waiting room,” added Karak. The ceasework will involve over 1,000 advocates and law clerks. Sources said members of the bar association had demanded a formal apology from Karmakar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
15-12-2021||West Bengal||'Vaccine Express' to expedite Covid jab process in Malda district   ||The Malda district health department will soon introduce “Vaccine Express”, a van that will run across the district to expedite Covid-19 vaccination process, especially among those who are yet to take their second dose. The department has also decided to launch an extensive campaign in each of the blocks from December 15, to encourage people to visit the van when it reaches their locality and get themselves jabbed on the spot. According to sources, based on the electoral roll of the district, a target to jab 29.5 lakh people was set in Malda. Among them, around 25.40 lakh people have received at least one dose, while around 10 lakh have received both the doses. “The first-dose vaccination is in progress to cover the remaining people, we are concerned about the second dose. There are around 4.13 lakh people who are scheduled to get their second dose but these people are not reaching out to hospitals and health centres. That is why the initiative has been launched,” said an official of the district health department. He mentioned that the department has already identified the blocks where the rate of second vaccination is low. “The Vaccine Express will reach these blocks first. Local health workers will encourage people to complete their vaccination,” the official added. Sabyasachi Chakraborty, the deputy chief medical officer of health (CMOH) III of the district, said because of reduction in active Covid cases, a section of people who took their first dose are not eager to get the second jab. “The Vaccine Express will elaborate on the need to finish the vaccination, especially when the virus is constantly mutating and new variants are being reported.” Officials of the district administration said they have adequate stock of the vaccine to administer second dose to 4.13 lakh people. “All the vaccination centres are open for six days in a week and there is no shortage of vaccine. Those who are not taking their second doses on due time should realise that if a fresh wave hits the region, they are still in the vulnerable lot,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court hopes for CCTVs cameras at all booths||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday expressed its “hope and trust” that the State Election Commission would keep its words and install CCTV cameras at 4,842 booths and 365 auxiliary booths when Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls would be held on December 19. The observation by a division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj followed a petition seeking an order to direct the SEC to install CCTV cameras at each and every polling booth for the CMC polls. The SEC’s counsel informed the court that the commission had arranged for CCTVs at 25 of the total 4,842 polling booths that had been identified as “sensitive”. “But if the court issues an order, my client (SEC) is ready to introduce CCTV in all the booths including 365 auxiliary booths,” the SEC counsel said. The lawyer also said that CCTVs would also be installed in strong rooms. Then, the division bench said it hoped that the SEC would keep its words and install CCTV cameras at all booths. Central force demand A day after the Supreme Court asked the petitioner to move Calcutta High Court with their demand for central forces in Calcutta civic polls, the state BJP on Tuesday moved a petition in the high court seeking an order for deployment of central forces during the CMC polls on December 19. The judge partly heard the case and fixed Wednesday as the next day of hearing. Appearing for the BJP, advocate S.K. Kapoor said the party apprehended trouble in the ensuing poll and had approached the SEC to deploy central forces on December 19. The advocate also told the court that the ruling party was issuing threats to party candidates and police refused to entertain complaints. The advocate general opposed the prayer and said between December 1 and December 13 not a single complaint had been lodged with any police station. BSF case The division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj on Tuesday directed the central government to file an affidavit by December 22 stating what prompted it to expand the jurisdiction of power of the BSF in bordering areas of Bengal and other states. The order followed a petition by the state to challenge the central government’s decision to expand the jurisdiction of power of the BSF from 15km to 50km in border areas. Appearing for the state, advocate general S.N. Mukherjee told the court that the Centre had taken the decision without consulting the state. The case will come up for hearing on December 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
15-12-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad: Sealdah-Lalgola train line blocked after youth's death||The Sealdah-Lalgola train line in Murshidabad was blocked for over an hour on Tuesday morning when residents of Begunbari village in Beldanga protested against the death of a youth who was allegedly thrown off a running train in Nadia’s Debagram. The deceased Nazimuddin Sheikh, 25, was a driver and was returning home from a holiday in Hyderabad when the purported incident took place aboard the Sealdah-Lalgola passenger train late on Monday. Preliminary reports had emerged that Nazimuddin had fallen off the train and went underneath its carriage, causing his body to be sawed in half. However, it later emerged from reports of eye-witnesses that a scuffle had broken out between Nazimuddin and his fellow passengers that finally led to the violent incident. A passenger, who was witness to the incident but did not want to be named, said the scuffle between Nazimuddin and the accused passengers took place when he protested against them hiding a bagful of vegetables of an elderly vendor. “When Nazimuddin exposed their mischief and handed over the bag to the vendor, the passengers got angry with him and pushed him off the train leading to him getting run over near Nadia’s Debagram station,” said Ataur Rahaman, 23, the brother of the deceased. An officer of Government Railway Police (GRP) in Krishnagar, under which Debagram falls, confirmed the death of the youth on the railway tracks but refused to say whether he was thrown off the train. He said that Nazimuddin’s family had lodged a complaint and what caused the youth's death would be known once the probe was over. Rejinagar MLA Rabiul Alam Chowdhury slammed the GRP for not speaking up. Promising that the accused would be arrested soon, Chowdhury said: “Other passengers have reported that a scuffle broke out on Monday night between Nazimuddin and a group of persons who got off at Debagram.” The picket at Beldanga was dispersed around 11am on Tuesday after Chowdhury assured the 200-odd protesters of justice. Three passenger trains were held up because of the protest. "This was a heinous and intentional act. The perpetrators must be arrested," said a protestor from Begunbari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
