16-12-2021||India||Foundational literacy index: Bengal tops chart, Bihar at bottom||Bengal topped the chart and Bihar languished at the bottom in the 'large states' category on the 'Index on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy' -- an indicator of literacy among children below 10 years. In the 'small states' category, Kerala grabbed the top spot and Jharkhand was adjudged the worst performer on the index. There are four categories in which regions have been divided -- large states, small states, Union Territories and North East. The report on the 'Index on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy' was prepared by 'Institute for Competitiveness' and released by Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM) chairman Bibek Debroy. It said the challenge of ensuring quality Foundational Literacy and Numeracy for all is daunting, yet not impossible to achieve. "The top-scoring regions are Kerala (67.95) and West Bengal (58.95) in small and large states, respectively," the EAC-PM said in a statement. Lakshadweep (52.69) and Mizoram (51.64) are top-scoring regions in the Union Territory and Northeast state category, respectively. As far as worst performers are concerned, Ladakh has featured at the bottom in the list of UTs, while Arunachal Pradesh came last in the North East category. According to the statement, the 'Index on Foundational Literacy and Numeracy' is the first step in this direction, establishing an understanding of the overall state of Foundational Learning across children aged below ten years in Indian states and Union territories. The Index includes five pillars comprising 41 indicators. The five pillars are -- educational infrastructure, access to education, basic health, learning outcomes and governance. The statement said out of the five pillars, it has been observed that states have performed particularly worse in governance. "More than 50 per cent of the states have scored below the national average, i.e. 28.05, the lowest across all pillars," it said. According to the statement, during the panel discussion organised on the occasion, Debroy said, "Education leads to positive externalities and the quality of Education imparted is important especially during the formative years." The present attainments in literacy and numeracy and the variations among states should be the focus for remedial action, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
16-12-2021||West Bengal||Police forces in Bengal to provide security for Kolkata civic polls, rules HC||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed that state police forces will provide security for Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections, rejecting a prayer by the Bengal BJP for deployment of central forces. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha directed that the commissioner of Kolkata Police will take care of all complaints by candidates or others during the election process. The state unit of the BJP had on December 14 filed a petition before the high court, seeking deployment of central forces for Kolkata civic polls, expressing apprehensions that its candidates and workers might be subjected to threats and attacks. The party had earlier moved Supreme Court with the prayer, but was asked by it to approach the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
16-12-2021||West Bengal||Auhorities launch month-long cleanliness drive in Gangasagar||The Sagar block administration of South 24-Parganas district in association with Sagar Panchayat Samity and Gangasagar-Bakkhali Development Authorities launched a month-long cleanliness drive titled “Swachh Sundar Gangasagar” on Wednesday, ahead of the ensuing Gangasagar Mela. District magistrate P.Ulaganathan launched the endeavour in the presence of Sagar block development officer Sudipto Mondal and other officials at Beach No. 4. The initiative will also ensure awareness among local people and pilgrims on the need to keep the island clean and safe, officials hoped. “We tried to inject a feeling among people that cleanliness is not the sole responsibility of the safai karmis, rather it is a collective responsibility to ensure cleanliness which as we all know is next to godliness. People responded well to our call. Even physically challenged persons took part in the endeavour,” BDO Sudipto Mondal said. This year’s Gangasagar Mela will begin on January 10 and conclude on January 15. “Our cleanliness drive will go on even after the Mela. We seek to restore the beaches to their natural clean state,” the BDO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
16-12-2021||West Bengal||Leopard killed in Alipurduar  tea estate||A leopard was found dead at a tea estate in Madarihat block of Alipurduar district on Wednesday, its injuries and post-mortem report confirming murder. Foresters have initiated a probe and are trying to trace those who had killed the animal. “During preliminary investigation, it has been found that the leopard was attacked with sharp weapons and sticks. It tried to save itself but died of injuries. We have received the post-mortem report where vets have also confirmed the killing. Our officers are in search of those who were involved in the crime,” said Deepak M., the divisional forest officer of Jaldapara wildlife division, under which the area falls. On Wednesday morning, some Garganda tea estate residents spotted the carcass near a primary school in the garden. The area is under the Lankapara forest range of Jaldapara National Park, the largest habitat of one-horned rhinos in the state and also a habitat of leopards and other wild animals. They informed foresters who rushed to the spot. It was found that the animal is a sub-adult male leopard with injuries on its face and head. The nature of the injuries left foresters suspecting that the animal, who possibly strayed into the garden from Lankapara forest, did not die a natural death. They brought in a trained sniffer dog of the department and initiated an investigation. The post-mortem confirmed the suspicion. In 2018, two leopards were poisoned at this tea estate. Recently, a Himalayan black bear was beaten to death in a tea estate in Jalpaiguri after he killed a teenager who ventured too close to it. Animesh Bose, wild conservationist in Siliguri, said: “Man-animal conflicts are rising. It is worrying that people are killing wild animals. People should act responsibly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
16-12-2021||West Bengal||New tourist survey with wider ambit: Authorities eye more footfall||The state tourism department will start a comprehensive survey on tourist inflow from January 2022 and collect allied information to assess the growth of the sector. “In the past two years, no such survey could be conducted owing to the pandemic situation. Recently, the department decided on a survey and information was passed to the administrations of all districts it. It will be a district-level survey that the administration will conduct in association with an agency. Later, the data will be collated for statewide figures,” said Jyoti Ghosh, the joint director of tourism in north Bengal. Sources in the tourism department said that so far, only the number of tourists at different destinations was counted and revenue earning estimates was made. The new survey will be more extensive than earlier ones. “For example, according to the earlier surveys, in 2014, 4.9 crore domestic tourists and 13.75 lakh foreign ones had visited Bengal which had then increased to 8.56 crore and 16.1 lakh, respectively, in 2018. However, in the new survey, along with usual destinations, information on inflow of tourists in homestay accommodations, religious and historical places would be collected. We will gather data about tourists who have visited the state during fairs and religious festivals or had been to the state for trekking or expeditions,” said a source. Through the upcoming survey, the tourism department will also try to find out if the new destinations such as Lamahatta in Darjeeling and “Bhorer Alo”, the mega tourism hub in Gajoldoba near the Teesta Barrage in Jalpaiguri district, for example, are drawing visitors. “So far, the information (for earlier surveys) was gathered from government and private accommodations in the prominent tourist spots. But this time, data would be collected from various other sources as well,” the source added. These new trends apart, another aspect of the survey will be stress on the quality of the services given to the tourists. Those who conduct the survey will also collect information about the facilities which tourists seek in a destination, whether they had to face any inconvenience during their trip in Bengal, and most importantly the quality of services provided by the stakeholders of the sector. “Mobile apps and other software will be used to collect and collate data. The idea is to gather adequate information so that in future the findings can be analysed to frame appropriate policies and necessary initiatives can be taken to increase tourists flow to the state,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
16-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 554 more Covid cases, 13 deaths ||Bengal on Wednesday reported 554 new Covid-19 infections, 556 recoveries and 13 deaths, resulting in a drop in active cases by 15, to 7,490. New infections reported on Wednesday is indicative of people who got infected between December 6 and 10. Calcutta reported 196 new infections and North 24-Parganas 102. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas also reported three deaths each. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 420 or 75.81 per cent of new infections detected on Wednesday. However, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas are only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. A dozen districts reported a single-digit figure. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.47 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.38 per cent. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. In the past 81 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Durga Puja season on September 26, the total of Covid active cases or infected patients under treatment rose on 34 days and fell on 45 days. In these 81 days, there has been a net fall of 184 in the total of active Covid cases in Bengal. Bengal now has nearly 16.25 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.97 lakh recoveries and 19,633 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
16-12-2021||West Bengal||Export to Bangladesh suspended briefly, Indian drivers seek security||Export to Bangladesh was suspended for about five hours on Wednesday as Indian drivers demonstrated on the “zero line” of the international border near the Petrapole land port to protest attacks on Indian drivers for cash and valuables at Benapole port in Bangladesh when vehicles are unloaded. Protesting drivers alleged that in less than a week after an attack on a driver, at least a dozen more were attacked and looted during the early hours Wednesday in Anchra village of Benapole when they were asleep inside their vehicles. The drivers, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, suffered injuries from daggers and knives as goons robbed them of their cash, whatever jewellery they had on, and at least 12 smartphones. Hrishikesh Yadav, a driver from Uttar Pradesh, suffered a deep wound when he tried to resist a goon. He received six stitches at a clinic inside the port after Bangladeshi officials rescued him. Bhuban Kumar Das, an Indian driver, filed a complaint at Benapole port police station. On their return to Indian soil in Petrapole, Indian drivers came the “zero line” to stage a demonstration and draw the attention of Indian and Bangladeshi authorities to their plight.  Hundreds of Indian clearing agents also joined the agitation, demanding more security at the Benapole port. Trade stopped for five hours till 11am. Drivers and clearing agents warned authorities that unless security was ensured for them from here on, they would launch a larger agitation and suspend import-export activities through the Petrapole-Benapole land ports. On the most recent attack, driver Sonu Rai told The Telegraph: “Around 2pm, a group of goons began spraying chemicals inside our cabin to make us unconscious. We tried to flee. But they blocked our way brandishing sharp weapons, and thrashed us while looting our valuables. They took our cash, jewellery and phones. I had Rs 4,000 on me which I had to hand over to a goon. No security personnel was seen.” Added Vinod Singh, a truck driver from Bihar: “This is not the first such incident. Every time we enter Benapole port, goons openly threaten us, demand money, and if we resist, attack us. There is no security for us.” “A few days ago, when a similar incident occurred, Bangladesh authorities assured us it would not happen again. But if the attacks continue, we have no choice but to suspend trade activities via Petrapole port,” said Kartick Chakraborty, secretary of the Petrapole Clearing Agents Staff Welfare Association. The BSF has taken note. A BSF official in Petrapole said: “We got complaints from drivers. We will talk to (Bangladesh) authorities to ensure the security of drivers for smooth bilateral trading activities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
16-12-2021||West Bengal||Government’s push to free land for Calcutta Green City||The Bengal government has decided to expedite the Green City project in the Alipore area of Calcutta as the state has initiated moves to shift two prisons from the location and utilise the vacant plots for the scheme. “The Alipore Central Correctional Home has already been shifted to Baruipur in South 24-Parganas. Initiative is on to relocate the Presidency Correctional Home to Baruipur and the Alipore Women’s Correctional Home to Howrah. The B.G. Press in Alipore spread across 23 bighas of land would also be relocated. If these establishments move out of the Alipore area, the state would have more than 150 acres of free land where the Green City project can come up,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the state would not be able to use the entire 150 acres of land in the heart of the city as the Presidency and the Alipore prisons have some heritage structures which cannot be dismantled. “Based on all these heritage structures, the Hidco would set up a museum — Independence Museum — and the remaining land could be used for the Green City project. The museum could be set up on 30 acres,” said a source. Under the Green City project, the Bengal government plans to construct residential buildings. The urban development department is the nodal agency for the development of the Green City mission in Bengal. The state government had planned the Green City scheme after it opted out of Centre’s Smart City project. The focus of the Green City project is to create sufficient eco-space, sustainable groundwater recharge system and modern transport with low emissions. “If the large stretch of Alipore could be converted into a Green City area, Calcutta would become more environment friendly,” said an official. A section of officials has said setting up of the Green City might not be possible in the entire stretch that the state government is freeing up. “A large stretch of the land is earmarked for refugee rehabilitation. So, it wouldn’t be easy to set up buildings and other infrastructure on that stretch. Right now, it is being assessed how much land is earmarked for refugee rehabilitation in the areas that would be freed up soon,” said a source. The project is facing another unexpected roadblock. A section of Trinamul Congress leaders is not in favour of the project as it might cast a shadow on a number of slums in the areas near to the proposed Green City. “Many of the slums were set up on government land. If the residents of the slums feel they would be affected by the project, it would hurt our electoral prospects. Leaders like Firhad Hakim have already requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee to go slow on the project,” said a Trinamul insider. But sources in the administration said the government was firm on its stand and decided to expedite the project as none would be evicted because of the project. “The project would come up on the land that would be made free by relocating several establishments. So, none would be affected by the project,” said an official. The state government is trying to speed up the project as it could bring a handsome amount to the struggling state exchequer, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
16-12-2021||West Bengal||C-Voter survey predicts clean sweep for Trinamul in civic polls||An opinion poll conducted by C-Voter for ABP Ananda has indicated that the Trinamul Congress will win 130 out of 144 wards in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections scheduled for Sunday. In the survey conducted across 144 wards, 14,096 respondents participated . The 130 seats predicted for Trinamul would be the highest ever tally scored by any party in the CMC election. In 2015, Trinamul had won 114 seats, which was the highest tally for a party in the history of CMC polls. Another significant point of the pre-poll survey is that the BJP has been predicted to come up as the second largest party though it would remain far behind Trinamul in terms of vote share. In 2015, the Left Front was in second position with 15 seats. But this year, it has been predicted that the Left Front will win only 1 seat. C-Voter is a leading electoral survey agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
16-12-2021||West Bengal||Junior home minister Nityanand Rai fails to define hill solution||A response by Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai in Parliament on a query related to permanent political solution raised by Congress leader Gaurav Gogoi has triggered a fresh debate in Darjeeling on the BJP’s intentions related to the most emotive issue in the hills. Gogoi, deputy leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, sought a written answer from the Centre on the PPS what was provided by junior home minister Rai on Tuesday failed to define the PPS. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto, BJP promised a “permanent political solution” for the region, without defining it. BJP allies had tried to interpret PPS as the state of Gorkhaland. On the last day of the poll campaign, BJP’s Raju Bista promised “Gorkhaland.” But the lack of definition continues three years down the line, as was evident by Rai’s response to Gogoi. Gogoi had wanted to know the “status” of PPS related to Gorkhas in Bengal and “its details” along with those of tripartite talks, major claims and demands of the parties involved in the talks and major decisions taken there. The Congress legislator from Assam also wanted to know “whether the government has set a deadline set up for concluding the tripartite talks and implementing a mutually-agreed upon permanent political solution and if, so, the details thereof.” In response to all the questions, Union minister Rai stated: “The all-round development of Gorkhas including those living in West Bengal is one of the top priorities of the Government. In a meeting with the representatives of Gorkhas on 12.10.2021, it was mentioned that the aspirations of the people would be met within the Constitutional framework and in consultation with the Government of West Bengal.” The October 12 tripartite meeting in Delhi was attended largely by BJP MPs and MLAs and leaders of its allies. The GNLF, an ally of the BJP, has categorically stated they would not contest the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) polls as it allegedly failed to fulfill the aspirations of the hills. The BJP, too, is opposed to the GTA. However, both the GNLF and BJP leaders have also not yet defined the proposed permanent political solution. Rai’s reply has given room for both pro and anti-BJP proponents to come up with their own interpretations. Anti-BJP advocates claim any provision arrived at “in consultation with the Government of West Bengal” can’t be a separate state, which is the prime demand from the hills. “If the Centre wants to grant Gorkhaland, there is no need for talks but they can simply place a bill in Parliament. The BJP has been hoodwinking the hill people for more than a decade now,” an anti-BJP camp leader said. Neeraj Zimba, MLA from Darjeeling on a BJP ticket who is also a GNLF leader, on Wednesday claimed Rai’s reply meant thing were moving in the right direction. “The reply is a clear indication that the PPS issue has moved from the BJP’s manifesto to a policy issue of the Centre. The Centre has said it is giving top priority to this issue of fulfilling the aspiration of the hill people, which is Gorkhaland, and the demand of Gorkhaland is very much within the framework of the Constitution,” said Zimba. He said although the second round of tripartite talks were due, backdoor consultation with various stakeholders and “chief ministers of Northeast and neighouring states” were being held continuously in Delhi through government agencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
16-12-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court for early polls to 111 civic bodies||High Court on Wednesday directed the State Election Commission to hold polls to 111 civic bodies in Bengal at the earliest and in as few phases as possible and inform the court about the schedule on December 23. The division bench headed by Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava also clarified that it was not imposing any stay on Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls scheduled to be held on December 19. The BJP — which became a party to a PIL filed by an individual seeking an order from the high court to the SEC to hold all pending civic elections at the same time — had pleaded for a stay on the CMC polls. The CPM had also become a party to the case. The bench which also comprised Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj directed the state poll panel to announce the dates of elections to the 111 municipal bodies after consulting with the state government. “The SEC is directed to inform this court on December 23 about the schedule fixed for the elections,” the bench ordered. The court said the case would be heard again on December 23. When the case was being heard earlier, the SEC had said in a submission to the court that it planned to hold polls to the 111 civic bodies in six to eight phases and wanted to complete the entire process by May 2022. This was strongly opposed by the BJP. Reacting to the verdict, Opposition leader Suvendu Adhikari said a political party couldn’t win the polls with the help of the high court. “Also, the high court mustn’t help a political party because it is a constitutional body. The high court must check if fake voters from Bangladesh are voting in Calcutta, whether genuine voters of Calcutta are able to cast their votes, if Trinamul goon is monitoring the EVM, and whether Opposition parties have been able to post agents at booths. This is what needs to be checked. When democracy is under attack the judiciary comes forward…high court is doing its job and we all are law abiding people.” CPM’s Calcutta district committee’s secretary Kallol Majumder welcomed the court’s order. “We have been saying the same thing. We didn’t oppose holding the polls. What we said was that the government must announce the polls together even if they are held on different days. Plus, the counting must be done on a single day. The court has given directions on similar lines,” Majumder said. Trinamul Congress spokesperson and transport minister Firhad Hakim said his party was happy with the court’s decision. “These people (BJP) had been trying to stop polls because they don’t want to take the people’s mandate. The BJP is scared. However, the court didn’t walk that path and that is correct. Trinamul Congress is guided by the people’s mandate,” Hakim said. Another petition moved by the BJP seeking an order for deployment of central forces during the civic polls was supposed to be heard by a bench of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha on Wednesday. However, the hearing did not take place. Justice Mantha told the BJP counsel that he would hear the case on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
16-12-2021||West Bengal||Didi warns candidates against delaying civic projects for  people||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday addressed her first public meeting for the December 19 polls to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation with a diatribe against the BJP and assertions of how every election till 2024 was a stepping stone for the general election that year. The Trinamul Congress chief issued a moral warning to her party and its candidates, not only against delays or complications in the delivery of civic amenities and services but also against the notorious culture of syndicates (without using the word), to minimise harassment of citizens. “They (the BJP) cannot stop me with violence and canards. For as long as I am alive, I will protect the civilisation of Bengal, the culture and harmony of the nation… Bengal will show the way. What Bengal can do, nobody can,” said the chief minister, not long after her return from a political visit to Goa. “Calcutta, the whole of India watches…. No matter how many cities there are, what the people of Calcutta think will make the whole nation think again. That is why, every Calcuttan’s vote is priceless, in encouraging, emboldening me,” Mamata added in her 36-minute address at Phoolbagan. The speech was peppered with attacks on the divisive ways of the saffron camp and gratitude for how the people of the city and the state rejected the BJP in the Assembly elections recently. But a large part of her speech was dedicated to what councillors of the metropolis owe the people and how they should conduct themselves accordingly. “Those who are contesting now, to them I say some things very clearly, for those who will win and work for the people in future…. Your area does not have water supply, the road surface is bad in your lane, the streetlight in your neighbourhood is not working… that is the job of the councillors. Those who cannot deliver, do not become councillors,” she said, to thunderous applause. The Trinamul chief went on: “I have seen it in my own area, in Bhowanipore. I was passing by ward 73… not recently. Suddenly, some people stopped my car and told me: ‘Didi, our tap’s pipeline has been non-functional, we have been saying this for long, but it has not been fixed’,” she said, referring to the ward in Borough VIII of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, between Gobindo Bose Lane in the north and Asutosh Mukerjee Road in the south, comprising pockets of Bhowanipore and Kalighat areas. Mamata replaced Ratan Malakar, a councillor for two decades, in ward 73, and fielded her sister-in-law Kajari Banerjee there this time. Malakar had filed nomination as an Independent, but withdrew it after requests from the top-tier leadership. “I called up the councillor and said: ‘Hey, you were asked to get that pipe fixed, do I have to do this too? Then what are you there as a councillor for?’ So I did not give him a ticket this time. (Loud cheers) Did not give him a ticket,” said the chief minister. “How many times do people have to see my face for me to get work done? As soon as I get information, I get the work done. I don’t think like that.” Mamata then broached the rather sensitive subject of syndicates – cartels run with the alleged backing of a section of ruling party leaders that coerce contractors into buying inferior construction material at high prices – that has been a pet peeve for many in urban centres of the state through Trinamul’s decade in power. “Who will construct a home in your (councillor’s) area, you will not decide that everything has to be bought through you. (Loud applause) A house being constructed in my (councillor’s) area, I will dictate that so much has to be given… this will not happen,” said the chief minister. “Gradually, all of this has to go online. Entirely, online… all work. Many things have gone online already. Permission for a house, online already…. In future, I want clearances for industry, houses, water supply, lighting, whatever the people need, seek permission online, get it in seven days. This is what I want. (Loud cheers),” she added. She clarified that she was not doing this to publicly admonish anybody, but to help correct the course. “If I say anything to anybody, the media says I “scolded” that person. I don’t say things to scold, but to rectify,” said Mamata. “I get it, that councillors too have a life and have to lead it normally… that I do understand. But what I want is that anywhere, anything untoward happens, the councillor has to rush there first. The councillor has to be the first-responder. (Loud cheers) This is work for the people,” she added. “Whom do people think of as a great leader in this world? Those who understand the people’s needs and their work, love the people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
