17-12-2021||West Bengal||RSS-linked Bengali magazine says BJP, Mamata share dream of 'Congress-mukt Bharat'||An article in an RSS-linked Bengali magazine has stirred up a hornet's nest by claiming that both BJP and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee share the dream of "Congress-mukt Bharat" (Congress-free India). While the BJP distanced itself from the article in 'Swastika' calling it "baseless" and far from the party's official stand, the Trinamul Congress also rubbished allegations of "understanding with the saffron camp" but the Congress said that the "cat is now out of the bag". The article titled 'Keno itihas muchte chaichen Mamata? Shilpo agroho na Sonia khotom?' (Why is Mamata keen on erasing history? To attract investment or to destroy Sonia?) was written by Nirmalya Mukhopadhyay and published in the December 13 issue of the magazine. It speaks about the TMC chairperson's recent meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, and claimed that both share the dream of "Congress-free India". "It is clear from her changing stance that this is not the same Mamata Banerjee. Narendra Modi's dream is Congress-free India. I feel that Mamata now also believes in the same dream. That's why she is trying to erase the history to sell this dream," the author wrote. The writer also wondered what "political calculation" Banerjee has in her mind that she is bringing her "enemies and known rivals" close to her. Repeated calls to Tilak Ranjan Bera, editor of the magazine, went unanswered. RSS state general secretary Jishnu Basu said that he is yet to go through the article. "I am yet to read the article, so I cannot comment on it. But I don't know about any understanding as the truth is that 62 BJP workers have been killed in the post-poll violence in West Bengal," Basu told PTI. RSS sources said that the magazine is linked with the organisation as its editorial and managing committee has several people who have an RSS background. State BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya termed the article "baseless" and said it has nothing to do with the party's policy or stand. "It has nothing to do with the BJP's policy or stand. Swastika might be an RSS-linked magazine, but many articles in it come out which are not in tandem with our policies and principles," he said. Senior TMC leader Kunal Ghosh dubbed the allegations of "understanding with the BJP" as baseless. "The allegations of understanding with the BJP are baseless. Mamata Banerjee is the strongest opposition face against the saffron camp," the TMC's state general secretary said. The opposition Congress, however, alleged that the "cat is out of the bag". "The secret is now out in the open. For a long time, we have been saying that BJP and the TMC have a covert understanding and have been working together to destroy Congress. But they won't succeed," Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said. The TMC, which is trying to make inroads in other states, has been up in the arms against the Congress over its alleged failure to counter the BJP. In an escalation in the war of words between the TMC and the Congress, Banerjee's party had last week claimed that it is now the "real Congress", given the fact that the "war-weary" grand old party has failed to perform its role as the main opposition to the BJP. Ties between the Congress and the TMC got further strained after the ruling party in West Bengal, in an article in its mouthpiece 'Jago Bangla', asserted that Banerjee, and not Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
17-12-2021||West Bengal||660 Covid cases, 632 recoveries and 12 deaths in Bengal ||Bengal on Thursday reported 660 new Covid-19 infections, 632 recoveries and 12 deaths, pushing up after six days the total number of active cases, by 16 to 7,506. The new cases reported on Thursday were indicative of people infected between December 7 and 11. Calcutta reported 216 new infections and North 24-Parganas 124. Calcutta reported one death and North 24-Parganas three more. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 492 or 74.55 per cent of new infections detected on Thursday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day. Ten districts reported a single-digit figure. Thirteen districts reported zero deaths. In 82 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day fall in active cases, there has been a net fall of 168 in the total. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.78 per cent on Thursday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.38 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.25 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.98 lakh recoveries and 19,645 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
17-12-2021||West Bengal||St Xavier’s vice-chancellor delivers lecture at Visva-Bharati||Reverend Father J Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta, on Thursday delivered the first Christmas lecture 2021 at Santiniketan’s Parasmani, a centre for research and social outreach run as an unit of Visva-Bharati. He spoke on “Jesus Christ in the eyes of Tagore” before teachers and noted civil society members. “Jesus and Tagore have many things in common. They were great spiritual leaders and teachers ... They had similar vision, ideas and teachings.” He referred to Tagore’s 10-month stint as a student at the St Xavier’s Collegiate School, Calcutta. “He studied there until April 1876. He was uncomfortable with formal schooling and left.…The person who seems to have had the greatest impact on young Tagore was Father Alfonso de Penaranda, a Spanish Jesuit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
17-12-2021||West Bengal||Proposed business meet attracts investment worth Rs 700 crore: DM||A business meet scheduled for early next year in Jalpaiguri has already attracted investment proposals to the tune of Rs 700 crore, organisers said. “We have already received a number of investment proposals ahead of the meet, which is scheduled to be held in Jalpaiguri on February 10,” said Moumita Godara Basu, district magistrate, Jalpaiguri, after a meeting with representatives of different trade bodies on Thursday. The business meet meant to attract investment for three districts — Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar — is being jointly organised by the state government and the Indian Chamber of Commerce at the Sarojedra Deb Raikat Art Gallery in Jalpaiguri. Nishat Mittal, chairman, ICC (north Bengal chapter), said “the meet had already attracted investment proposals to the tune of Rs 700 crore.” “There are proposals to set up a 100-room hotel, a paper mill and an orchid centre in the region. We are, in fact, looking at getting investment to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore during the meet,” said Mittal. An administrative source said a proposal had also been received to set up a 100-bedded hospital in Alipurduar district. A Calcutta-based film director, along with a business house, wants to set up post-production film units in the region. “They want to set up the unit on a six-bigha plot,” said Avra Bose, secretary, Jalpaiguri District Chamber of Commerce. Tourism stakeholders are also preparing plans to boost the industry in the region. “We will submit a proposal to highlight the heritage and historical places of the district. We also want to submit a proposal for a hanging bridge over the Karala river in Jalpaiguri town,” said Prithwis Dastidar, president, Jalpaiguri Tour Operators’ Welfare Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
17-12-2021||West Bengal||Industry livid over ‘misconduct’ by labourers, trade unions ||A meeting of private industry officials organised by the East Midnapore district administration in Haldia on Thursday to boost employment generation turned into a venue for the participants to voice their grievances against alleged misconduct by labourers and trade unions. The event titled “Synergy between industry and government departments vis-a-vis employment generation” was mostly attended by managers of 25-30 industrial units, including Indian Oil Corporation and Haldia Petrochemicals. “The summit was organised as part of the Bengal government’s Utkarsh Bangla scheme and meant to be a combined way forward for the state and the industry. The event was attended by irrigation and waterways minister Somen Mahapatra as well as fisheries minister Akhil Giri but they had to skip their speeches,” said a source who was present at the event that was also attended by district magistrate Purnendu Majhi. “The goal of the summit was to exhort industry to up their employment levels by recruiting skilled labourers from the pool created by the Utkarsh Bangla scheme, but that backfired in a big way,’’ the source added. Among the participants was Partha Sarathi Banerjee, vice-president of Indorama India Private Limited, makers of the Paras brand of fertiliser. “The demand for our product far exceeds the supply because potato season is on in full swing and our labour forces cannot get their act together,” said Banerjee, who was the first to interject the interactive session in a notably perturbed tone. “Across three shifts, our plant should be producing 1,800 tonnes of fertiliser but the output is only half at the moment because of our workers’ attitude and the lack of any directive on discipline,” added Banerjee. Dev Dipta Samanta, general manager of TM International Logistics Private Limited, said his company had been “suffering labour problems for two years”, attributing it to “apathetic work culture”. “Our existing workers have openly stated that if we hire new persons, they will cap their hours at a certain number. We are in touch with the INTTUC regarding the same,” he said. Tarun Kanti Giri, general manager of IVL Dhunseri Petrochem Industries, said his company was in the process of handling a charter of demands from workers regarding unsettled payments. “They are trying to thwart production as a result without working towards an amicable understanding,” he said. The district magistrate intervened and promised prompt action. “I have heard all your complaints and will institute a vigilance committee to probe these matters every fortnight,” said district magistrate Majhi, with ministers Mahapatra and Akhil Giri approving of the proposal before leaving the venue. Speaking to The Telegraph, a general manager of a multinational company said: “At one-time, expelled CPM leader Lakshman Seth used to dominate the workforce and after the Left lost power in 2011, it was Trinamul’s Suvendu Adhikari who had total control over the labour unions. After Adhikari shifted to the BJP, the labour unions have been left rudderless. The genesis of the present problem lies in the absence of a popular trade union leader within the Trinamul. Taking advantage of the factionalism, some unions continue to be in touch with Adhikari secretly and he is happy stoking trouble in the industrial sector in Haldia.” A senior Trinamul trade union leader in Haldia admitted several leaders of the party’s trade union wing were secretly in touch with Adhikari and that had become a major headache for the party. BJP Tamluk organisational district president Nabarun Nayak rejected the charges and blamed Trinamul’s factionalism for the unrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
17-12-2021||West Bengal||December 31 deadline for Aaadhar linking,  3 crore cards not yet linked||The process of public distribution system in the state may face hiccups starting from January 1, 2022, as an internal estimate of Nabanna has revealed that the ration cards of about 30 per cent beneficiaries are yet to be seeded with their Aadhaar cards. The state has a total of 10.44 crore ration cards and till the first week of December, 3.05 crore cards were not linked with Aadhaar. Earlier, the Mamata Banerjee government had set a December 31, 2021 deadline to complete seeding and making the process mandatory for distribution under PDS. “All FPS (fair price shop) dealers are directed to proactively complete eKYC/seeding of Aadhaar with ration cards of all the beneficiaries whose ration cards are not linked with the Aadhaar by 31st December, 2021. They must ensure that Aadhaar seeding is done when food grain is distributed to such beneficiaries,” the order issued by the food and supplies department, in November, read. The order caused a flutter among ration dealers, who are struggling to complete the process of seeding or linking ration cards with Aadhaar. Many of them fear they may face the wrath of common people if they are denied food grains from January 1 in the wake of their ration cards not seeded with Aadhaar cards. “The state government has made it clear that the deadline would not be extended beyond December 31. The government has informed us that food grains should be given only to those whose Aadhaar is seeded with ration cards. But more than 30 per cent of cards are yet to be seeded. If so many cards remain unseeded after December 31, we will face trouble as we deal with consumers directly,”  said a ration dealer. Dealers were apprehensive that a number of cards might not be linked with Aadhaar within the deadline as the pace of the job has not been satisfactory. “Three months ago, 40 per cent cards were not seeded with Aadhaar. After three months, 30 per cent cards are yet to be linked with Aadhaar. It is highly unlikely that all these pending cards will be linked with Aadhaar in this month,” said a senior official. A section of officials apprehend that the Centre will not release food grains for those beneficiaries, covered under the National Food Security Act, whose ration and Aadhaar cards have not been seeded. If beneficiaries in crores remain outside the ambit of the free or cheap/subsidised food grains scheme, it could have a huge political impact in the state, the bureaucrats feel. “Ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, the ruling party (in Bengal) can’t afford a situation like this," said a source before adding that the state would then have to take up the onus of distributing free food grains to those people.  “If that happens, the state may have to spend a handsome amount to give free food grains to them, an extra burden on the state exchequer at a time it is already under severe stress,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
17-12-2021||West Bengal||High court rejects BJP’s plea for central forces ||The high court on Thursday rejected the BJP’s plea to direct the State Election Commission to deploy central forces at the Calcutta civic polls scheduled for Sunday. Rejecting the BJP’s plea, the single bench of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha observed that the court was hopeful that the state police would be able to conduct the polls peacefully. The BJP has, however, moved a division bench of the high court against the order of the single bench. The division bench is likely to hear the case on Friday. Though the state BJP leaders tried to put up a brave face to counter this humiliation, they were evidently shielding themselves with legal technicalities. BJP MLA and leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said the court hadn’t quashed their plea but left the decision on poll security on the poll panel. “The court hadn’t technically quashed our plea…. In fact the same bench on Thursday itself in another case filed by one of our candidates has ordered in our favour,” Suvendu said. The BJP had moved the Supreme Court on Monday with a similar plea for central forces. There, a bench of Justice Nageswara Rao and Justice B.R. Gavai refused to entertain the plea and directed the party’s lawyer, senior advocate Maninder Singh, to approach Calcutta High Court instead. Eventually, the saffron camp’s plea was quashed by the high court on Thursday. In its petition, the BJP alleged that four of its candidates had been heckled or harassed by Trinamul supporters, a claim strongly contested by the State Election Commission. The state poll commission said not a single such complaint had been lodged with them by the party or its candidates since December 1. The counsel for the poll panel also said that installation of CCTV cameras in every single booth, where polling will take place on December 19, is being done according to a court order and added that all decisions regarding security are being taken after consulting police and the bureaucrats. An updated report on the CCTVs cameras was also placed before the bench. Appearing for the BJP, advocate S.K. Kapoor claimed that the state governmentfailed to provide adequate security for the electorate. However, the state government’s lawyer said 5,000 personnel from Calcutta Police and 3,000 from the state police would be deployed on the day of Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls. Justice Mantha asked the state poll panel to direct the police to properly investigate any complaint of malpractices during the polls. He also said an adequate penalty must be awarded to offenders, if proven guilty of disrupting the poll process by any means. Roopa’s support The BJP's Rajya Sabha member Roopa Ganguly added to BJP’s embarrassment when on Wednesday she took to her Facebook account to pledge support for the Independent candidate of ward No 86, Gaurav Biswas, husband of deceased BJP councillor Tista Biswas. He had hoped the BJP would field him. Ganguly had also wanted it, but it did not materialise. In her post on Wednesday, Ganguly called herself a karyakarta of the BJP and said that she could be thrown out, suspended from the party or asked to show cause. “But (the party) cannot compel me to leave the party,” she wrote. She also wrote she now felt she wasn't “fit to be a politician”. Ganguly has been outraged with Bengal BJP as she was not consulted before candidates were decided upon. She had previously left a virtual party meeting midway over her differences regarding the candidate list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
17-12-2021||West Bengal||Road-bridge proposal to ease Siliguri traffic jams||Rail India Technical and Economic Service Limited (RITES) on Thursday submitted a feasibility report to the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) for an alternative route along the Mahananda river aimed at easing traffic snarls in the heart of Siliguri town. RITES has proposed a road-and-bridge-combination as a solution to the city’s clogged roads. If approved by the state government, the proposed road-and-bridge combination is expected to ease traffic congestion on Sevoke Road and Hill Cart Road, two major thoroughfares in Siliguri. The Mahananda river flows through Siliguri. Earlier this year, the SMC had asked the engineering consultancy corporation to take up a study and come up with a report. Siliguri, which is the second largest town in Bengal and a gateway to the Northeast states and Bhutan, has  been plagued by traffic congestion for decades now. “The experts of RITES after conducting a feasibility study have submitted a draft report for construction of a new bridge-and-road along the Mahananda river. The tentative cost of the project is around Rs 150 crore,” Gautam Deb, the chairman of the board of administrators of the SMC, said. “We have come up with this proposal to ease traffic congestion in Siliguri town,” he added. A source in the civic body said that the proposed route would connect Surya Sen Park-Bagha Jatin Colony-Bhanu Nagar and Gurung Busty areas of the city. The bridge will connect Bhanu Nagar with Bagha Jatin Colony. “The alternative road will be 6km in length and the proposed bridge over the Mahananda river will facilitate three-lane traffic movement,” said the source. Deb said that according to the RITES report the proposed road can handle 800 vehicles per hour. “We will be soon submitting this report to the state government for their final seal of approval,” said Deb, a Trinamul veteran and a former minister in the Mamata Banerjee government.. Many political observers feel that with the SMC elections round the corner, an approval to the said project would help Trinamul in the civic polls. RITES, a government of India enterprise established in 1974 under the aegis of Indian Railways, is a multi-disciplinary consultancy organisation in the fields of transport, infrastructure and related technologies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
17-12-2021||West Bengal||Mamata takes credit for putting Durga Puja on global map||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday exulted over the Unesco recognition to Calcutta’s Durga Puja, staking claim to credit for initiatives her government took to bring global attention to the festival, jeering at the BJP’s top leadership over their propaganda for years over the alleged resistance to the festival under her regime. A day after the BJP-led Centre went to town, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah taking to Twitter to celebrate the achievement, the Bengal chief minister suggested the latest feather in the state’s cap was enough for her to win a major election. “I think the vote (to Calcutta Municipal Corporation) should take place on this achievement alone. It is now my regret that this (recognition) did not happen before the Assembly election,” said Mamata at a Trinamul campaign rally in Behala in the evening, promising special celebrations next year during Durga Puja to commemorate the Unesco recognition. On Wednesday, Unesco announced the city’s Durga Puja is now inscribed on its “Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity”, a tag that formally takes the city’s much-loved carnival to the global stage. “Durga Puja is seen as the best instance of the public performance of religion and art, and as a thriving ground for collaborative artists and designers. The festival is characterised by large-scale installations and pavilions in urban areas as well as by traditional Bengali drumming and veneration of the goddess. During the event the divides of class, religion and ethnicities collapse as crowds of spectators walk around to admire the installations,” the Unesco website reads. On Thursday, Mamata repeatedly mocked the saffron camp for falling back on its hackneyed weapons of majoritarian appeasement and communal polarisation every time elections come, weapons decisively rejected by the historic Bengal mandate this summer. Then she twisted the knife, mocking Modi, Shah, BJP chief J.P. Nadda without taking their names for the saffron ecosystem’s narrative of obstacles on the path of Durga Puja allegedly placed by her government to appease minorities. “I have to take certificates from this lot? ‘Mamataji Durga Puja nahi karney deti hain (Mamata does not allow Durga Puja; apparently mimicking Modi).’ Your faces are smeared with chunkali (lime and ink, colloquial Bengali for public shaming),” said a visibly jubilant Mamata, to thunderous applause from the audience. The BJP has long been seeking to milk a notification issued in 2017 by the Bengal government that suspended the immersion of Durga idols on September 30 and October 1 on account of Muharram, observed by Muslims as a day of mourning. The decision, driven by goodwill and an eagerness to minimise potential flashpoints because both events involve processions, has been amplified by the Right-wing ecosystem as an example of “appeasement”. “‘Mamataji’, you can abuse, can you do that to Unesco? Tell us. Go now, ask them (Unesco)....We delivered and our work spoke for us. You only lied… only lied. You lie, and we let our work speak for itself,” Mamata said. Modi, Shah and Nadda, besides countless others in their party, kept raking up the Durga Puja charge in campaign for the Assembly election this summer. Many BJP leaders believed that polarising voters along religious lines is their best bet in Bengal. Some continue doing so, apparently unable to digest the fact that Hindus stood shoulder-to-shoulder with Muslims to slam the door shut on Hindutva and its flag-bearers. “From Kanyashree to Sabuj Sathi, many of our initiatives earned global recognition in the past. But with what we got yesterday, my heart is filled with joy. Our Bengal is the best in the world…. As I say this, I am getting goosebumps, you must also be getting them. I had been trying for this since 2016. We conceptualised the Durga Puja carnival. We have been assisting puja organisers with Rs 50,000 each, with which they do a lot of work… including for the poor,” said the chief minister. Even BJP leaders concede in private that the scale and scope of celebrations during Durga Puja have grown exponentially under Trinamul rule with the active patronage of the ruling party. The Mamata government has been giving Rs 50,000 each to 37,000-odd community pujas to help them stay on course, despite a pandemic-induced funds crunch. “So full of colours, our Durga Puja, so full of rhythm, so vibrant, so full of culture. This is what we had tried to show (the world). Our Durga Puja is now being lauded around the world. The entire world! The entire world! The entire world! There is nothing more that I need to say,” said Mamata, at the close of campaign for Sunday’s civic polls in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
