18-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Governor alleges diversion of funds for 'Maa' canteen scheme||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday claimed that he has noticed "unconstitutional diversion of funds" for 'Maa' canteen, a project launched by the TMC government in February to provide subsidised cooked food to the poor. Citing the state budget document for 2021-22, the governor said the scheme, was to be operationalised from April 1, the beginning of the current fiscal, with an annual allocation of Rs 100 crore, but it was functional from mid-February with "no legitimate" fund. It has been represented, as also gathered from the public domain, that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee launched 'Maa' canteens for providing subsidised cooked food for poor people at a nominal cost of Rs 5 in mid-February, he said. The budget document emanates that the allocation of Rs 100 crore for the scheme was proposed for the 2021-22 fiscal, Dhankhar said. "It is, thus apparent that for about a month and half prior to April 1, 2021, the scheme was functional and during this period there was no legitimate allocation to this effect," the governor said. Dhankhar sought details of the source of funds and the amount spent for the scheme till March 31. "Noticing unconstitutional diversion of funds #MAA Scheme @MamataOfficial till March 31, 2021, WB Governor has sought from Finance Secy source & amount spent #MAA till March 31, 2021," he wrote on Twitter. Reacting to Dhankhar's allegation, veteran Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy said the governor may keep writing letters but the state government is answerable to the legislative assembly, not to the one holding gubernatorial post". "It is up to the state government whether it will reply to him or not. But he seems to be in the habit of tweeting to trigger controversy and enter into confrontation with the government," Roy said. Notably, Dhankhar and Mamata Banerjee"s TMC government have been at loggerheads ever since he assumed office in 2019. The governor had in November asked Amit Mitra to come out with a white paper on details of investments received from five editions of Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS), alleging that the former state finance minister's "misplaced eloquent economic optical illusions have been a heavy drain on development". Mitra, who has been appointed chief economic advisor to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee after he relinquished the finance portfolio recently, had refuted Dhankhar's accusation that he had not responded to queries on investments proposed in the five editions of BGBS. Dhankhar and Mitra were engaged in a verbal duel over the success of the business summits. "Another revelations @DrAmitMitra. His Silence #BGBS Report Card indicates there is all to hide," the governor said on the microblogging site on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Civic polls: Kolkata Police to deploy 23,000 personnel ||The Kolkata Police has heightened vigil across the city and its neighbouring areas ahead of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) elections on Sunday, including initiating stringent checks at hotels and various entry points. Officers of the force have been visiting hotels and guest houses in the metropolis to keep a tab on the number of guests who have checked-in and those due to arrive in the next two days, a senior police officer said. "We want to ensure that the elections are totally peaceful and we have strengthened vigil in Kolkata, Salt Lake, Howrah, and North and South 24 Parganas districts for that purpose. Areas of focus are Esplanade, New Market, Central Avenue, Gariahat, Ballygunge, Tollygunge, Garia and Salt Lake," he said. "Route march and area domination have also started at various key locations of the city," he said. Kolkata Police would deploy around 23,000 personnel for Sunday's elections. There will be 200 police pickets at crucial points of the city. Quick Response Teams (QRT) and Heavy Radio Flying Squads (HRFS) would also be deployed, apart from the usual patrolling teams, the officer added. Elections to all the 144 wards of the KMC will be held on Sunday, and counting of votes will take place on December 21. The Calcutta High Court had on Friday rejected an appeal by the BJP against a single bench order, which directed that the state police - and not central forces - will provide security for the polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
18-12-2021||West Bengal|| 'Syndicate raj' notwithstanding, civic polls are in Trinamul's bag||A little over four years ago, some youths rung the doorbell at 90, Sarat Bose Road and demanded from the frail, ailing elderly woman who had opened the door that the family should get all building materials required for the on-going renovation of the house from them. Stung by the demand the elderly woman informed the group that the house they had come to belonged to Subhas Chandra Bose. Undaunted, someone among the youth demanded, “Then call Subhas da (Tahole Subhas da ke deke din).” The woman was Krishna Bose, a former Trinamul MP, whose son, historian Sugato Bose, was then an MP of the same party. Soon enough, the  harried first-time MP had informed the party’s state president Subrata Bakshi and secretary-general Partha Chatterjee. More than four years later, days before Sunday’s polls for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, arguably the first chief minister of the state to have actively campaigned for a civic poll which most believe the Trinamul will easily win, has been talking about stamping out the party-builder nexus that is commonly known as "syndicate raj". This building supplier syndicate and Mamata’s public denouncement are nothing new. She has been saying this again and again. During previous elections, Opposition leaders, including no less a figure than the Prime Minister, had made syndicate raj a key talking point in their campaign. This summer’s Assembly elections saw "syndicate raj" being condemned by several leaders. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation, since 2010, has been run by the Trinamul Congress. Both its mayors in these 10 years are facing corruption charges and were even put behind bars, along with the first Trinamul mayor, the late Subrata Mukherjee. Trinamul’s all India general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee has claimed the party will win no less than 135 of the 144 wards. In the Assembly polls, Trinamul had won all the 11 seats in Calcutta. Logically, therefore, the civic polls should have been held more than a year ago. But the Mamata Banerjee government pushed it back due to several factors. The state government's poor handling of relief distribution in the the aftermath of the Amphan cyclone, accusations of corruption, the much talked about syndicate raj and deep forays made by the BJP a year ago in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, were weighing on Didi and the Trinamul. Between then and now, things have changed completely for Mamata after she scored a spectacular win in the Assembly polls, reduced the Congress and the Left to zero seats in the Assembly and stopped the BJP’s onslaught. In the by-polls to vacant Assembly seats, Mamata has successfully kept the scoresheet clean. Beyond the borders of Bengal, she has expanded her party to Meghalaya, Haryana and Goa in the last one month. For the Trinamul Congress, a clinching victory (winning more than 130 seats) will once again confirm the electoral invincibility of Mamata and send a message to the other states that Mamata remains the strongest leader in Bengal, who can challenge the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah might in Delhi. The BJP. which has been stung by a series of desertions in Bengal since the Assembly polls when it emerged as the only Opposition within the House, would like to retain its status as the Number Two in the city, which could give it a fighting chance in the Lok Sabha polls of 2024. For the Congress and the Left, which went their separate ways since its pre-poll alliance in the Assembly polls failed to give them even a single seat, are looking at arresting their slide in the vote share. “Had the Congress and the Left reached an understanding for the CMC polls, we could have had a chance. The anti-incumbency factor is there. Trinamul has been running the show at the CMC for more than 10 years now. They have nothing new to offer. Sadly, we have missed an opportunity to put up a fight,” said a Congress leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
18-12-2021||West Bengal||BJP may try to foment trouble during Kolkata civic polls, TMC must resist such bids: Abhishek||TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Friday cautioned his party workers against attempts by the BJP to instigate trouble during the voting process for Kolkata civic elections on December 19, stating that such bids must be resisted. Banerjee, who was addressing a meeting following a road show in south Kolkata, also warned party activists and leaders of action if found using "unfair means" for personal gains. If anyone shows 'dadagiri' (high-handedness), he will be expelled from the party after 24 hours, the Diamond Harbour MP stated. "Keep your eyes and ears open. We have information that the BJP will foment trouble in five to six wards. If BJP tries to instigate trouble, we will have to resist such bids. We have to be alert," the senior TMC leader maintained. Describing BJP heavyweights from Delhi, who had come here for electioneering during the last assembly polls as "bahiragato" (outsiders), Banerjee said, "They had only peddled lies about West Bengal and contributed to COVID surge during the eight-phase elections. "People rejected leaders like Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath who had spread canards about the state. See for yourself the situation in UP, where a union minister's son mows down agitating farmers with his car. Do you want such a situation in Bengal," he asked, as the crowd replied with an emphatic "no". The TMC general secretary was apparently referring to MoS Home Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son is an accused in Lakhimpur Kheri violence in UP earlier this year. The Diamond Harbour MP, who is the de-facto number two in the party, further alleged that the TMC was prevented from carrying out political activities by the ruling BJP in Tripura with "our cars being damaged, our party offices torched, our supporters' houses vandalised and our men and women attacked". "In sharp contrast, not a single attack has taken place on any opposition candidate since the dates of KMC polls were announced 20 days ago. In a democracy, every party has the right to carry out its activities freely. The TMC believes in that but the BJP doesn't," he added. Banerjee pointed out that the TMC managed to "bag the second spot in Tripura civic polls, securing 24 per cent of the votes polled" within three months of setting foot in the northeastern state. "We are present in Meghalaya and Goa. In Goa, assembly polls are due in February. I am telling you, the TMC will either be in power in that state or become the principal opposition," he claimed. "To install a secular, democratic, progressive government at the Centre by defeating the autocratic BJP, the TMC has an important task at hand. Our leader Mamata Banerjee is the spearhead of the anti-BJP fight at the national level," he said. The Congress is not capable of leading such a fight, it is the Trinamool Congress, he claimed. Banerjee accused the BJP government at the Centre of "plotting to confine me at home by using agencies, but I won't get intimidated. Mamata Banerjee cannot be intimidated in this manner". Challenging the BJP to engage in an open debate with him on the issue of Bengal's development, Banerjee said, "The saffron party has no suggestion to give. It just uses religion to get votes." "We will ensure that our party's image is not tarnished by any abhorrent act of anyone. The TMC will show the world that it emphatically won the KMC polls in a fair manner," he said. In two years, Kolkata will become the "number one city" in the country on development parameters, the Lok Sabha MP asserted. "The TMC has already brought about 90 per cent development in the city, the rest 10 per cent, too, will be accomplished. If we fail to live up to the promise, don't vote for us in the Lok Sabha polls," he said. Making a reference to the recent UNESCO heritage tag for Durga puja in Kolkata, Banerjee lambasted BJP heavyweights "for falsely claiming that the festival isn't observed properly in Bengal". "Mamata Banerjee gave Rs 50,000 to every puja committee, while the BJP approached courts," he said. TMC candidates -- MLA Debashis Kumar and debutant Kajari Banerjee, who is also the chief minister's sister-in law -- were present at the road show in south Kolkata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul’s Gen Next face their first test in civic polls||Gen Next is here — that’s the one loud and clear message the Trinamul establishment has sent while designing its campaign strategy and drawing up its list of candidates for Kolkata Municipal Corporation polls scheduled this Sunday. Unlike in the past, Abhishek Banerjee, the party’s all-India general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP, has been the face of the party’s campaign this time. His two mega roadshows on Thursday and Friday in north and south Kolkata made it clear that Mamata has passed on the campaign baton to the 34-year-old. “The KMC poll is a great opportunity to bring the youths to the forefront…. By giving Abhishek the mandate to lead the campaign, Didi has subtly made him the face of the party’s campaign,” said a senior Trinamul leader. The veteran leader said this was the first time since Trinamul was formed in 1998 that Mamata had taken a backseat in the party’s civic poll campaign. “This is part of a well thought out strategy of bringing the next generation, who will run the affairs of the party in the future, to the forefront,” the leader said. Among Trinamul’s 144 candidates, there are children of three state ministers, an MLA and a member of the KMC’s outgoing mayoral council. The list includes Sourav Basu, son of minister Chandrima Bhattacharya; Puja Panja, daughter of minister Sashi Panja; Faiz Ahmed Khan, son of minister Javed Ahmed Khan; Amit Singh, son of outgoing mayoral council member Tarak Singh; and Sandipan Saha, son of MLA Swarnakamal Saha. There are at least 10 other candidates from families of senior Trinamul leaders. Basu and Panja are the brand new entrants in the foray. Basu gave up 14 years of service in the corporate sector to join politics full-fledged in 2018. Once a backroom warrior for his politician mother, he faces a challenging task. For the last seven years, Ward 86, where Basu has been nominated from, was represented by a BJP councillor. But Basu is determined to secure the seat this time. “My ward has a very cosmopolitan nature. Yet it doesn’t have a compactor machine, doesn’t have a proper community hall. All this has to be done,” Basu told The Telegraph. Puja Panja, Trinamul’s candidate for Ward 8, is also contesting her first ever polls. A law graduate with a postgraduate degree in social welfare, the third generation politician from the Panja family of Girish Park has been busy as a social worker. “She is already one of the secretaries of Trinamul’s youth wing…. She has been helping me in my campaign and work in the area. This time, she is in the fray as she is ready to contest,” said mother Shashi, who is facilitating the entry of the next generation to the world of competitive politics. A Trinamul source said that the party’s strategy of putting Abhishek in charge of the campaign and nominating the next generation of senior leaders is a deft move. “There is little doubt that we will set a record by bagging the highest ever seats in the history of KMC polls... The credit will go to Abhishek and his team of next generation leaders and it will facilitate the process of a generational shift in the party,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Class 9 student gangraped in Bengal, one arrested||A 15-year-old girl has been allegedly gangraped in West Bengal's Purba Bardhaman district, following which one of the two accused has been arrested, police said on Saturday. The incident took place near Amarun Bazaar in Bhatar police station area on Thursday evening when the class 9 student went out to the market, an officer said. The arrested accused is an e-rickshaw driver and an acquaintance of the girl. On the day of the incident, he saw her walking towards the market and offered to drop her there. But on the way, another accused got on the vehicle and the duo took the girl to a deserted place and gangraped her, he said. The accused duo left her at the spot and fled, following which she returned to the market and told the locals about the incident, who told informed her guardians, the officer said, adding that the survivor is undergoing treatment at Bhatar Hospital. The girl's family lodged a police complaint, following which the e-rickshaw driver was arrested on Friday, and a manhunt has been launched to nab the other accused, he said. The arrested accused was produced before Bardhaman POCSO Court, which sent him to three days in police custody, the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal|| SSB Siliguri frontier parade to mark its 58th anniversary ||Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) carried out a parade to mark its  58th anniversary at the headquarters of the Siliguri frontier of the force in Ranidanga on Friday. Officers and personnel of various ranks of Ranidanga, Jalpaiguri and Gangtok Sectors of the frontier participated in the march past. This apart, the celebrations included band performances, display of various skilled arts and sports  events at the venue on the outskirts of Siliguri. Shrikumar Bandopadhyay, the inspector-general of Siliguri frontier, took the salute. He also presented one golden and 36 silver discs of the director –general, Utkrisht Seva medal and commendation certificates to various personnel serving under the frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling tea garden shut? Workers don’t want to sweat||A sizeable section of workers from Peshok tea garden in Darjeeling are not keen to return to the estate closed since 2019, amid informal talks among prospective buyers about its reopening at a time the Bengal government wants to shut tea gardens to resume operations. Workers here are preferring  livelihoods beyond traditional garden work as those pay better, several trade union leaders have found out during their informal chats. “Once the garden closed down, people sought different livelihoods, some started roadside eateries, some started homestays or small resorts, others started selling green leaves plucked from the closed garden,” said a local resident. “Even the earnings from selling the green leaves is more than the daily wage of a tea garden worker (which is currently Rs 202 a day).” Eateries are a major source of sustenance in Peshok as most vehicles between Darjeeling and Kalimpong-Gangtok make a stop here, said the source. If this trend catches up, it would be “worrisome" for the industry, said a planter, who did not wish to be quoted. Peshok tea garden, some 25km from Darjeeling, has been running erratically since 2015 but was officially declared closed in 2019. The lessee of the garden was the Alchemist Group, whose chairman emeritus was former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member K.D. Singh. The group owned the garden, which employed around 570-odd workers, under the Dooteriah & Kalej Valley Tea Estate Private Limited. A tea garden union leader, who spoke to workers, said in private that a “sizeable workforce” was not interested in the reopening of the tea garden. “It is true that many residents of that place are economically well off and they have lost interest in working in the garden,” said the leader. “However, one must realise that if the tea garden does not reopen, the poorest of the poor, who do not have other means of sustenance, will be hit really hard. This section needs livelihood protection,” the union leader added. The leader also said it was also true that “the tea garden land has been sold and resorts have been built” during the past many years. “These people, too, are not interested in reopening the garden as their structures would come under the scanner,” the union leader said. Sources said that a prospective buyer had enquired about this garden. “However, on knowing that some sections were not in favour of opening the garden, the company backed off,” said a source. “We believe that the problem is largely because tea garden lands have been sold off through local arrangement. This is why there is opposition to reopening this garden. This trend is definitely worrisome,” said an insider of the Darjeeling Tea industry. Over the years, the Darjeeling tea industry is witnessing a steady rise in absenteeism among the workforce. In 2018, the industry reported absenteeism as high as 50 per cent among the total workforce of about 70,000. Higher wages in other jobs, better education and migration because of the 104-day general strike in 2017 were cited as reasons. “Things are not looking good for the industry, which is crippled with high absenteeism and hence low productivity,” said a tea management. Ajoy Edwards, social worker and founder of Hamro Party, said it was time to renegotiate the terms and conditions in tea gardens. “We cannot have a situation where the garden lessee operates when business is good and leaves when things are unfavourable leaving the workers in the lurch. It has to be a win-win situation for all,” said Edwards. Many people from Peshok and its surrounding areas have joined Hamro Party in recent days. “Land rights are important for tea garden workers,” said Edwards. An official, however, added that the problem was for now only reported from Peshok because of the place’s viability for other livelihood avenues. “Recently Kalej Valley tea garden reopened and there was no opposition from the workers,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Heroin worth Rs 1.4 crore seized from trio in Siliguri||The special operations group of Siliguri Metropolitan Police, along with a team of New Jalpaiguri police station, in a joint raid on Thursday in Siliguri, seized narcotics worth around Rs 1.4 crore from a trio. Police arrested the three persons, including two women, who were carrying 700 grams of brown sugar (a derivative of heroin), at Kamrangaguri, a locality in the southern part of Siliguri. Those arrested hail from different districts. While Saniur Sheikh is a resident of Kaliachak in Malda district, Ayesha Begum is from Islampur in North Dinajpur district, and Menoka Khatun is from Matigara, which is on the outskirts of Siliguri. “We suspect that all three of them are members of a drug smuggling racket. They need to be grilled for more information about the racket,” said a police officer. ‘Illegal’ entry Five Bangladeshi residents, including a woman, were arrested in Jalpaiguri district for allegedly illegally crossing the border on Thursday.  Sources said a team of Manikganj police outpost, which functions under Kotwali police station and is in Jalpaiguri Sadar block, caught Liton Sheikh, Hriday Sheikh, Jabidul Sikdar, Anarul Mian and Parveen Begum, all from Narail district in Bangladesh. Some phones with Bangladeshi SIM cards and currency notes of the neighbouring country were seized from them, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal||High Court turns down BJP plea for central forces deployment in polls||A division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava and Justice Rajarshri Bharadwaj on Friday rejected the BJP’s plea to deploy central forces in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls scheduled for Sunday. The BJP had on Friday moved the division bench challenging the legality of the order passed by a single bench of Justice Rajasekhar Mantha of the high court that rejected the same petition. After a daylong hearing, the division bench adjourned hearing in the case related to all civic polls apart from Calcutta till December 23 but uploaded its verdict related to the BJP’s central forces plea for the Calcutta elections at night on its website. There, the division bench rejected the BJP’s plea to deploy central forces to conduct the CMC polls. The bench, however, directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to chalk out a plan so that voters could come to polling stations and vote freely. The court in its order asked the SEC and the state government to comply with its December 14 directive to install CCTV cameras at each poll booth in the Calcutta polls. Earlier on Friday, the counsel appearing for the BJP requested the division bench to hear the petition urgently as the election for civic body polls in the city was scheduled on Sunday. The Chief Justice decided to hear the case at noon. Pleading their case before the division bench, the BJP counsel wanted the election to be held under the supervision of central forces, claiming the state police were acting as an agent of the (Trinamul-ruled) state government. The lawyer claimed that their party candidates and supporters were being threatened by Trinamul supporters. After recess, at 2pm, the counsels appearing for the and the state government countered the BJP and informed the court about steps taken to make the poll hazard-free. They informed the division bench that over 22,000 police would be deployed and CCTV cameras and armed police deployed in each booth. More than 8,000 police will be kept as reserved force, the lawyer of the SEC said. The court asked the counsels of the SEC and the state government to name persons who would take responsibility if any untoward incident took place on polling day. Advocate-general S.N. Mukherjee informed the court that the police commissioner and the DIG would shoulder the responsibility. But the court expressed its doubt on whether steps taken by the SEC and the state government were sufficient as some 40 lakh voters were expected to exercise their franchise. When asked by the court, additional advocate general Y.J. Dastoor, who appeared for the Union government, said the Centre was ready to send a central force if the court ordered for it. At this the Chief Justice asked Dastoor to name the person who should be approached for deployment of the central force. Dastoor responded with: “The DIG, CRPF.” The court then adjourned the hearing for all civic polls apart from Calcutta till December 23 and said its decision on CMC polls related to the deployment of central forces would be uploaded on the high court website later on Friday night. The order on website rejected the BJP’s plea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal||580 infections, 566 recoveries and seven deaths in Bengal ||Bengal on Friday reported 580 new Covid-19 infections, 566 recoveries and seven deaths, increasing the total of active cases by seven, to 7,513. Calcutta reported 172 new infections. Calcutta also recorded one death, while North 24-Parganas logged four. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 400 or 68.97 per cent of the new infections detected on Friday. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Nineteen districts reported zero deaths. In the past 83 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Durga Puja season on September 26, the total rose on 36 days and fell on 45 days. In these 83 days, there has been a net fall of 161 in the total of active cases. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.44 per cent on Friday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.38 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 16.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.98 lakh recoveries and 19,652 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Jhargram: 200 fake Scheduled Caste certificates cancelled  ||The Jhargram district administration has cancelled over 200 fake Scheduled Caste certificates, including one belonging to a government official posted as joint block development officer in West Burdwan. A police complaint was lodged against the official and five of his family members for possessing the forged SC certificates. The move by the district administration earlier this month came after chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed her anguish over the fake SC papers at a meeting of West Bengal Tribal Development council in August. The issue was raised at the meeting by junior forest minister and Jhargram MLA Birbaha Hansda. “I will thank our chief minister Mamata Banerjee who directed all districts to verify caste documents and it was Jhargram that came across such a large number of fake certificates issued to ineligible persons. The practice should be stopped as ineligible people obtaining caste certificates do a crime by grabbing privileges meant for genuinely backward people,” said Hansda. Government officials in Jhargram said among the 204 fake SC certificate holders, 105 persons had obtained both OBC and SC certificates. “The fake papers were found among a group of people living in the Shilda area of Jhargram. They actually belonged to the OBC but were not entitled to SC certificates. The joint BDO got the government job on the basis of the fake SC certificate that was cancelled. His family members were the first to obtain the SC certificates and the rest of the people got their papers during the first leg of Duare Sarkar camps,” said a senior government official. Sources said during the first edition of Duare Sarkar camps held between December 2020 and January 2021, over 21 lakh SC and ST certificates had been issued across Bengal. Officials said the problem of issuing such certificates to ineligible persons might have happened as the process was eased during that time. Government officials said obtaining a fake SC or ST certificate was a crime and if a government servant was involved in this, he may lose his job and may be asked to return the entire salary he had received during his period of service. After complaints were lodged by subdivisional officer of Jhargram, Babulal Mahato, police have started a criminal case against six persons, including the joint BDO, under sections 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471(Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged document), 420 (cheating) and 10 of West Bengal SC and ST Act. Officials said the matter in Jhargram came to the notice of the administration after two SC certificates came for verification from the police to the office of the SDO of Jhargram. Many officials said the government may take action against those who had issued the fake certificates. Jhargram district magistrate Joyoshi Das Gupta did not take calls or reply to a text message to know whether the administration would start a probe against those officials who had issued the fake certificates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Centre gives nod for inspection authority for imported plants: Bista||The Centre has decided to appoint a post-entry quarantine (PEQ) inspection authority in north Bengal to issue certificates for use of plants imported in the region. Floriculture and horticulture are thriving businesses in the hills which export orchids. Darjeeling MP Raju Bista, in a written statement, said that he had received information from Union minister of agriculture and farmer welfare Narendra Singh Tomar regarding approval for the PEQ inspection authority in north Bengal. Bista wrote that on Wednesday he received a letter and gazette notification from Tomar informing him (Bista) that “the proposal was considered and it was decided for the addition of Head, Division of Plant Pathology, Uttar Banga Krishi Viswavidyalaya Cooch Behar, as the PEQ Inspection Authority, which is located in North Bengal”. Post-entry quarantine centres provide permission for the import of planting materials of coarse cereals, oil seeds, pulses, fodder and fruit plants and clearances to plant the same following inspection on various parameters such as the presence of exotic pests, diseases, among others. The only post-entry quarantine facility in Bengal is currently in Nadia. “Farmers from north Bengal were forced to travel almost 600km for any minor work relating to inspection and certification for plants brought from outside the country,” said Bista, adding he highlighted this issue before the ministry in September. “I am most hopeful that once the PEQ authority is set up in north Bengal, it will go a long way in enabling our farmers to import and export top quality agricultural produce from our region in a hassle-free way,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri civic offices to go paperless for official works||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation — the largest civic body in north Bengal — has taken an initiative to go paperless for official works. The decision has been made by the board of administrators (BoA) of the civic body that has planned to provide the services online. “We will introduce an ‘e-office’ at the SMC and most of the work will be done online. The process has already started and soon, the process will be finished,” Gautam Deb, chairman of the BoA, said here on Friday. He was speaking on the sidelines of the second edition of “Talk to Chairman,” the weekly interaction that he started last week. “As of now, we are providing online services when it comes to the issuance of birth and death certificates. Issuing and renewal of new trade licenses and approval of building plans are also done online. Some more services will be added to the list,” added Deb. He also said the civic body would soon provide free wi-fi at six prominent locations of the city. “These will be free wi-fi zones which the SMC will develop in association with a private telecom service provider,” the chairperson said. When Deb held the hour-long interactive session with the residents of the city on Friday, he attended to 30-odd calls. Some of the callers flagged poor road conditions at their localities while others mentioned issues like erratic drinking water supply and inadequate conservancy services. A caller also pointed out the indiscriminate parking of vehicles which leads to congestion near Bagha Jatin Park. “He said the congestion could lead to accidents as it had happened along a stretch of Eastern Bypass at Jaleswari on November 24 which had led to the deaths of four persons,” said a source at the SMC. Deb said he would speak to officials of the traffic wing of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police to sort out the problem. “We will ensure that vehicles are parked in a proper manner on the site and the road does not get congested,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Opposition hails Sikkim High Court verdict, attacks SDF government||Political parties and social organisations have widely welcomed the verdict of the High Court of Sikkim setting aside the expulsions of four students of Sikkim Government College, Gyalshing, and assailed the state government for allegedly backing the decision of the college authorities. The Students Front of the opposition Sikkim Democratic Front said the quashing of the expulsions was a historic judgement of the high court and a blot on the Sikkim Krantikari Morcha government that had refused to heed the call of the people to revoke the unjustified expulsions. “The court intervening to give justice to the expelled students is a history in itself. The blotch will forever remain on the SKM government and the expulsions will forever be a reference point of an anti-education party leading a government,” said Ram Gurung, executive member of the Student Front. Congratulating the four undergraduate students, Praveen Basnet, Pravin Sharma, Lok Nath Chettri and Nakul Sharma, on their victory, Gurung said they had not only won the battle for themselves but also for the rights of all students in Sikkim. The high court had on Tuesday set aside the ouster of the students for participating in a dharna and other alleged acts of indiscipline on grounds of violation of principles of natural justice by the college authorities since they had neither showcaused the students nor provided proof to the court to establish the allegations. Hailing the court’s decision, the Sikkimey Nagarik Samaj said the ruling had brought great relief not just to the four students but to the entire law-abiding citizens of the state. “We congratulate the students for their victory and extend our sincere gratitude to all the individuals and organisations who stood by the students and supported them,” said Passang Sherpa, the general secretary of the Samaj. Barring the ruling SKM, majority of political parties and social organisations had come out in support of the students after they were expelled. “We had all along said the expulsions of the students went against natural justice. The verdict vindicates our position. We are happy for the students because justice has been done to them,” said Shankar Sharma, a member of the Sikkim Progressive Youth Forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Workers of shut Raipur tea estate bare their plight||A group of workers from the closed Raipur tea estate on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town went up to the district magistrate’s office on Friday and resorted to a protest, demanding the garden be immediately reopened. The garden was shut back in 2003 owing to a slump in the tea sector, reopened in January 2018 after a new tea company took over, but the management representatives left the site in September 2018. In January 2019, the state government announced closure. “We have been suffering for years now and can’t survive on the meagre amount we earn by selling green tea leaves. Even ration supply is irregular and health facilities are in a shambles. The state government should immediately find a new investor and facilitate the reopening of the garden,” said Pradhan Hembram, a worker and also the chief of the Trinamul-led Patkata village panchayat of Jalpaiguri Sadar block. Hembram, who led the protesters, said that in the past two months, eight persons of different ages died in the garden. “Most families find it tough to arrange two decent square meals. People are suffering from malnutrition in the garden,” he added. Rajani Ghosh, an employee of the garden, said he attended at least 40 tripartite meetings convened by the state labour department. “But the garden has not reopened,” Ghosh said. “It is disappointing that the MLAs and MPs are not sincere in addressing our problem. That is why we are at the district magistrate’s office and we want the officials to act.” He said there were some 550 permanent workers in the garden. Most workers’ quarters were in a deplorable condition, but jobless workers have nowhere to go, he added. “The state government has launched the free housing scheme (Cha Sundari) for tea workers and their families. Considering our pitiful existence, the government can implement the scheme in our garden,” said worker Guru Munda. After the demonstration, a delegation met Jalgaipuri DM Moumita Godara Basu. “The garden is closed but its lease is with a tea company. We do not have any authority to cancel the lease. We asked officials of the labour department to see to it that the workers get all possible benefits from the state. Also, we will forward the workers’ demand to authorities concerned,” said the DM. Another official said they were implementing the housing scheme in some tea estates of the district based on instructions from Nabanna. “The project can start in Raipur only if approved by the state government,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
18-12-2021||West Bengal||16 women to be birders’ guides at mega tourism hub||Sixteen women from Rajganj block in Jalpaiguri district with college degrees will now work as guides of birdwatchers at “Bhorer Alo,” the mega tourism hub developed by the state government in Gajoldoba near the Teesta barrage. The hub, some 25km from Siliguri, but in Jalpaiguri district, has the bird sanctuary Pakhi Bitan. Every year thousands of migratory birds visit Teesta barrage and nearby areas. “The area is a paradise for birdwatchers and ornithologists. Every day, hundreds of tourists turn up at the tourism hub and many take boat rides to see the birds. So far, there were no guides here who could inform visitors accurate details about the birds. That is why we organised a seven-day training for 21 women from nearby areas, which ended on Thursday. Of them, 16 women were selected as guides,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri. Sources in the administration said the women selected could best identify the birds. They can, if they want, start working immediately as guides. “We had brought in experts from Bombay Natural History Society to train the participants. After the training, they can identify around 50 bird species. We decided to engage them as guides and will equip them with binoculars and some other items,” said a source in the administration, adding this was a new livelihood option for the women. Nisha Shaibya, a postgraduate, and Pratima Roy, a graduate, said  they did not have many options to earn in their areas. “We are associated with self-help groups engaged in certain activities and from there we make some money. Also, some of us offer tuition in the villages. But this new option of working as a guide is very welcome,” Nisha said. A senior official of the state forest department said that in north Bengal, there are a number of sites where migratory birds turn up every year, such as the Kulik Bird Sanctuary in North Dinajpur and Rashik Beel in Cooch Behar. “But what the region lacks is proper guides who can give correct information about the species. What  Jalpaiguri district administration has done deserves appreciation. We hope that in due course, women of other such birdwatching sites get similar training and scope,” he said. The forester pointed out that while on one hand, the presence of expert guides can increase the flow of tourists, especially birdwatchers, to the region, it would also financially empower women in tourist spots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Loom owners in Nadia make big strides with state government aid||Power loom owners in Nadia’s Santipur and Phulia, famed for making traditional cotton saris, will now broaden their horizons. The Bengal government is offering them logistics support in setting up modernised power looms to manufacture textiles for school uniforms. A number of such power looms owners in Santipur have come forward to convert their set-ups into modernised power looms and started manufacturing suiting and shirting lengths from this month. The cloth manufactured at these power looms would be procured by state government undertaking “Tantuja” for making school uniforms by members of self-help groups. The state is supplying yarn, an official of the textiles department said. Not just Santipur and Phulia, similar modernised power looms have been set up in Nabadwip, Banipur, Ashoknagar and East Burdwan. The government expects these looms to collectively manufacture 50 lakh metres of cloth by January next year that will go into making school uniforms. The state government at present requires a six crore metres of suiting and shirting lengths to supply two sets of uniforms to students across the state. As of now, the cloth is procured from outside Bengal.  But if the state government’s project succeeds, by 2024 Bengal will become self-reliant, a Nadia district official said. “We have begun to change the picture. For the first time, we will procure locally made suiting lengths of 50 lakh metres from  Santipur, Phulia and some other places. The chief minister has given us three years’ time to reduce dependence on outside procurement. So, we have planned to set up at least 100 industrial hubs where such modernised power looms would be set up for manufacturing suiting and shirting lengths,” state small-scale and medium enterprises and textiles minister Chandranath Sinha told The Telegraph. The endeavour conceptualised by chief minister Mamata Banerjee aims to do away with dependence on Gujarat and Maharashtra from where suiting and shirting lengths are bought to make school uniforms in Bengal. The state government has taken up Nadia as its pilot project. Officials said the aim is not just to curtail the cost of uniforms, but also explore job opportunities in Bengal. “Our primary target is to develop infrastructure so that we could gradually become self-reliant. Not just school uniforms, we are trying to build infrastructure and support entrepreneurs so that we can independently make uniforms for the police, firefighters, healthcare personnel and others,” minister Sinha added. “We have received several applications from power loom owners who want to convert their set-ups.” To begin with, most power loom owners have installed second-hand machines bought from Mumbai, each of which cost around Rs 12 lakh. “But we are planning to procure new machines that cost Rs 45 lakh. The state government has assured us of arranging bank loans for it," Debranjan Das, a power loom owner in Santipur Bagdebipur, said. He added that in August they were asked by textiles officials if they were interested in converting their set-ups for this new job. “I found the offer challenging,” Das said. “The state government has also given me with yarn. By September I installed two machines and hired technicians from Mumbai. I submitted a sample of suiting length manufactured at my unit to the textile officials. It was accepted and since then production has started,” he added. Another entrepreneur added that the sari business had suffered during the pandemic and this new venture has given them hope of steady earnings. “I expect to earn twice what I did in the pre-Covid time,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
18-12-2021||West Bengal||Deocha-Pachami: Mining start a challenge for government||The Bengal government has set a target of early next year for itself to start mining at the Deocha-Pachami coal block by successfully completing negotiations with 4000-odd land loser families spread across a dozen villages in the dusty corner of Birbhum. In the first-ever major land acquisition initiative of the Mamata Banerjee dispensation, Nabanna has offered a government job for each land losing family, compensation for the plot foregone three times the market price and a slew of other benefits. Reports from the ground suggest that getting the consent of all the land losers will be easier said than done. The Telegraph visited the area and spoke to some of the land losers to identify the challenges facing Nabanna. Livelihood Several local people this correspondent spoke to — like Muril Hansda, a 24 year-old youth at Dewanganj village, who lives with his elderly parents, three brothers and their families — said they were circumspect about the impact of the project on their livelihood. Muril and his three brothers earn Rs 300 to Rs 400 a day working at stone mining and crushing units as unskilled labourers. The family also has agricultural land from where it earns around Rs 4,000 a month by cultivating paddy and mustard seed as a sharecropper. “We all four brothers earn around Rs 1,600 a day and there is an option for our women to work at the (stone) crushers. We also earn a good amount from agriculture. The government would give the job of a junior constable which would employ one of us. Then, what will the other three brothers do? Can we feed all 15 members of our family with that salary?” asked Muril. The government is offering the job of a junior constable with a starting monthly salary of around Rs 21,000. A senior district official has said the basic problem is the tribal people here are not similar to those indigenous people. “As there is already an industry, which gives livelihood to people here, many of them are reluctant to part with their land…,” said the official. Sentiment Lulu Tudu, 70, a resident of Namupara, adjacent to Dewanganj, has been living at a one-storey concrete house, which has a sprawling 10-cottah courtyard, for decades. The Tudu campus — with layers of trees — has two mud houses as well. “The total property where I live with my family is no less than two bigha. We have heard the government would provide only 5-6 cottah of land in exchange for the existing land held by land losers. We are not used to living in small 600 square feet flats like city dwellers. We want open sky, plenty of land, trees, our religious and sacred places in the forests. Can the government compensate for it?” asked the elderly man in presence of his two sons. As part of the rehabilitation package, the government has promised a 600sqft home to each land losing family in a rehabilitation colony. Industry resistance The government’s major challenge is the silent resistance from the existing stone mine and crushing units, which have been the main source of sustenance for locals for years. According to government reports, there are around 35 mines and 300 crushing units that employ over one lakh people directly or indirectly. “We had invested crores of rupees in the business. Why would we leave it? We want our own business to continue,” said a stone crusher owner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
