19-12-2021||India||Pavan K. Varma appointed as Trinamul Congress' new vice president||Former JD(U) leader Pavan K Varma has been appointed as Trinamul Congress’ vice-president. Mamata Banerjee’s party, through its official Twitter handle tweeted, “Hon’ble Chairperson, Smt. @MamataOfficial  takes great pride in appointing Shri @PavanK_Varma  as the Vice President of All India Trinamool Congress with immediate effect.” Abhishek Banerjee, National President, TMC, in the appointment letter wrote, “Pavan K Verma, with his immense knowledge and political experience has worked ardently towards the betterment of people. His able guidance will help AITC reah greater heights and continure the fight to protect every Indian citizen's democratic rights.” Significantly, Varma had been earlier expelled from JD(U) along with TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor. This is a breaking story. Keep refreshing the page for the latest update on this new.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
19-12-2021||West Bengal|| In Calcutta's winner-takes-all civic polls, Opp. parties point to  'Trinamul terror'||Voting for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation closed at the scheduled time of 5 pm on Sunday, but not before the Opposition parties had levelled serious allegations of voter intimidation and targeted violence by members and supporters of the ruling Trinamul Congress that came into the election as the runaway favourite. According to agencies and sources in the government, turnout in Calcutta civic areas was around 52.25 per cent till 3 pm. The final figures are yet to be released. On Sunday afternoon, outside the Burtolla police station in North Calcutta,  flags and insignia of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the Indian National Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party covered a tiny speck of the sky as supporters of the three Opposition parties came together in a feeble  show of solidarity as the Trinamul’s thuggery at polling stations made a mockery of the poll process. A few kilometres away at Salt Lake, the residence of the leader of Opposition, Suvendu Adhikary, was surrounded by a police force. It was the same at  the MLAs' hostel at Kyd Street. Except for the BJP none of the other two parties has any legislator in the incumbent Assembly. Congressman Amitabha Chakraborty, who has seen many an election in the Bowbazar-Sealdah-Chowringhee areas  from his days as a Chhatra Parishad leader  _ and later on bore the brunt of the CPM’s might _ was assaulted by “outsiders” in Ward 45, which includes BBD Bagh, the city’s business district and former administrative headquarters from the Raj days,  and has, among others, the state Governor among its list of voters. “The administration is doing the bidding of Trinamul Congress. A farce was allowed in the name of elections. Opposition booth agents were not allowed to take their seats. This is unacceptable,” said Sujan Chakraborty, CPM central committee member. The Trinamul’s all India general secretary and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Bandyopadhyay waas ready with a counter. “If there is any documentary evidence of any Trinamul worker involved in any instance of voter intimidation or any other electoral malpractice, bring it to us. We will take action in 24 hours," he promised. Neither of these three parties, the CPM, the Congress and the BJP, harbour any ambitions of getting to run the Calcutta Municipal Corporation in the near future. It is a given that the Trinamul will win at least 130 of the 144 wards, if not more. Yet the intimidation of voters and polling agents belonging to the Opposition parties, the blindsidedness of the Calcutta Police led by the city police chief Soumen Mitra, who in 2016 had made an example of what policing during election season should be, continued. Sunday’s expose of Trinamul tactics is not new to pollsters in Bengal. The record speaks for itself since the 2014 Lok Sabha, 2016 Assembly and 2018 panchayat polls, when as many as 20,000 Trinamul nominees to various panchayats across the state won uncontested. The electorate in 2019 did warn Mamata Banerjee, when the BJP rose meteorically to bag 18 Lok Sabha seats. That vote was not so much for Bengal’s brand of Hindutva as much as it was to express anger for the denial of voting rights in 2018. In the 2021 Assembly polls, Mamata made mincemeat of the Opposition, riding on her dole politics and the bogey of Hindutva that is a genuine threat. However, while the Trinamul elsewhere romped home, Mamata herself tasted defeat for the first time in over 30 years and had to take the by-election route to make it to the Assembly as third time chief minister. In the Bhowanipore Assembly by-polls, the Trinamul machinery had worked quietly. But in the civic polls just under two months later, the ugly façade of the ruling party’s might was ripped apart. Trinamul does not have any opposition outside. The opposition to the party is from within, its various factions. This factionalism works in two ways. One, it can work against the party;  two, it can bring forth a competitiveness within  warring sub-groups to prove who is the strongest. Calcutta on Sunday was witness to the might of different factions of the Trinamul each eager to outperform the other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
19-12-2021||West Bengal||CMC polls: Grievances pile as reports of violence pour in||Complaints piled on Sunday morning for election to the 144 wards in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Minus, the blood spilling witnessed in the urban local bodies elections in the Bengali-speaking state of Tripura, the intimidation and coercive techniques employed by the ruling Trinamul was no different from the strategy used by the BJP in the North-east state. Around 11.15 am, the Left candidates in the fray blocked the Bagha Jatin crossing in Jadavpur area to protest against the polling agents of the Opposition parties not being allowed in wards 101, 102, 109 and 110. In a complaint sent to the district magistrate of South 24-Parganas, the following booths in wards 101, 102 and 110 were added to the list where rival poll agents were forced out: all the booths in wards 101 and 109, booths 1,2,3,4,13,14,15,16,17, 20, 21, 22 in ward 102 and booths 2, 4, 4A, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25. “Unfortunately, the administration and State Election Commission, West Bengal is mute spectator and if the butchering of democracy continues then we will have no other option but to withdraw our candidates of these wards,” wrote former CPM MP and the party’s South 24-Parganas district secretary Samik Lahiri, in his complaint to the district magistrate of South 24-Parganas. The violence of the day was not restricted to the south where the CPM still has some presence. In ward 30, CPM nominee Shashwati Dasgupta was shoved in the polling booth at Vivekananda Vidyapeeth. The ward 8 candidate from the CPM, MadhabI Bose was not allowed to enter after her polling agent Soma Gupta was forced to leave the booth In ward 63, all the booths at the Jews Girl Centre were allegedly captured by goons backed by the ruling party. A CPM cadre identified as Rajendra Prasad was beaten up when he protested against the poll code violations. In ward 67, opposition agents were instructed around 11 am to vacate the polling premises at Hemchandra Institution, Jagrata Balak Sangham KMCP School, Bijoynagar Primary School, Eastend Park Sporting Club and CFP School. Bombs were hurled outside the Taki School at Sealdah this morning injuring three voters, one of whom is in a serious condition. According to news agency PTI, One of the injured persons has lost his leg, while the other two are also undergoing treatment at the hospital, an officer said. "Two bombs were hurled and we are scrutinising CCTV footages to identify the culprits," the officer said. A large police contingent has been deployed in the area, and the State Election Commission has sought a report from the police on the matter, another official said. A voter turnout of 36.78 per cent was recorded till 1 PM on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
19-12-2021||West Bengal|| Civic polls: Opp party agents being targeted, complaints pour in ||Fifteen minutes before polling for the 144 wards in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation started, former CPM MP Samik Lahiri wrote to the district magistrate of South 24-Parganas to lodge an official complaint about the party’s polling agents in two wards being roughed up and driven out of booths even before the first voters had queued. “Looting of votes started much before starting of the poll process. The ruling party is casting false votes even before the official poll started,” Lahiri alleged in his complaint to the magistrate who is also returning officer. In his complaint, Lahiri gave the instances of booths 2,3 and 4 in ward 102 and booths 17 to 23 in ward 110 where the party’s polling agents faced the brunt of the ruling party’s might. As the gates to the polling station’s were opened for the day, the floodgates for complaints of false-votes, voter intimidation, coercion of booth agents were reported from all across the city. Till 9.00 am, the voter turnout was a mere 10.86 per cent. Similar complaints of agents from Opposition parties' agents not being allowed have been reported from booths 23, 31, 38 and 39 of ward 82. At ward 45, one of the two wards the Congress is hoping to retain, the party nominee, Santosh Pathak, got involved in an altercation with the Trinamul nominee, Shakti Prasad Singh. At the offices of AG Bengal, where polling was being held, the Congress alleged false voters were being mobilised. Pathak, who has been the councillor from the same ward for over a decade now, is in a prestige battle as the Trinamul is determined to wrest the ward to make the entire Chowringhee constituency (of which ward 45 is a part) under its control. The Congress nominee from ward 36 alleged that despite the Calcutta High Court’s directive of having closed circuit television cameras in all the booths,  cameras were not working in the booths. In the 2015 CMC elections, the Trinamul had won 114 of the 144 wards. This time the Trinamul is expecting to win 135 wards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
19-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: 3 farmers found dead in rice bowl Bardhaman ||Three farmers have been found dead in West Bengal's rice bowl Purba Bardhaman district in the last two days, police said on Sunday. The deceased farmers' families claimed that they have died by suicide after Cyclone Jawad-induced untimely rain destroyed potato and paddy crops, while the district administration is probing the incidents. Two farmers were found hanging in their houses in Debipur and Bantir villages in Raina I block on Saturday. Another farmer was found hanging in his house in Biruha village in Kalna II block on Friday. The bodies have been sent to Bardhaman Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem examination, a police officer said. District Magistrate Priyanka Singla said that the incidents are being investigated. However, Raina I block BDO Soumen Banik said that after preliminary investigation, it was found that the suicides were not due to crop loss, and the police and agriculture department have been asked to further investigate the incidents. Pradip Mazumdar, advisor to the state government on agriculture, said that the farmers' suicide would not have been due to crop failure as they had received financial help under 'Krishak Bandhu' scheme a week ago. Raina MLA Shampa Dhara also claimed that the deaths were not because of crop failure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
19-12-2021||West Bengal||Gujarat Frontier becomes champion ||The Gujarat Frontier became champion at the 44th edition of the inter frontier football tournament of the Border Security Force (BSF) that ended at the Dronacharya Stadium of the north Bengal frontier headquarters on Friday. In all, 11 teams of BSF from across different frontiers of the country participated in the event. In the finals, the teams of Gujarat and Meghalaya frontiers played an exciting, closely contested match, with Gujarat winning 4-3 after a tie-breaker. Ravi Gandhi, the inspector-general of the NB frontier, was present along with former Indian footballer Bhaichung Bhutia. Civil dignitaries, BSF officers and their families enjoyed the match. Cultural events marked the closing ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
19-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 556 new cases, 560 recoveries and eight deaths||Bengal on Saturday reported 556 new Covid-19 infections, 560 recoveries and eight deaths, causing the state’s total of active cases to drop by 12 to 7,501, after two days of a rise in the total. New cases reported on Saturday indicated infections between December 9 and 13. Calcutta reported 163 new infections and North 24-Parganas 113, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day. Eleven districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 409 or 73.56 per cent of the new Covid-19 infections that were detected on Saturday. Of the eight deaths reported, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas logged three deaths each. Twenty districts reported zero deaths. Bengal’s daily Covid positive confirmation rate is 1.45 per cent and recovery rate was 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.38 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. In the past 12 weeks (84 days) since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the total rose on 36 days and fell on 46 days. Over these 12 weeks, there has been a net fall of 173 in the total. Bengal now has over 16.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.99 lakh recoveries and 19,660 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
19-12-2021||West Bengal||Central govt to spend Rs 1,000 crore for Indian tea industry||The Centre will spend nearly Rs 1,000 crore for the Indian tea industry with focus on the small tea sector that contributes close to 50 per cent of the total tea produced in the country, a source in the tea board said. The sum allotted under the 15th finance commission for “tea development and promotion scheme” will be spent between November 2021 and March 2026. “In all, an outlay of Rs 967.78 crore has been sanctioned for the scheme. The objective is to improve the production, productivity and quality of Indian teas so that the brew remains competitive in global markets. The plan involves steps for better realisation of prices, enhanced export share and transparency in the entire supply chain,” said a source in the tea board. The board has identified seven major components covered under the scheme, such as development of small tea plantations, welfare of workers that includes the wards of the small tea growers, market promotion, sector-specific plan for the Northeast, research and development, regulatory functions and reforms in the tea auction system. In small tea sector, funds would be available to encourage mechanisation, setting up factories of farmer-producer organisations (FPOs), workshop and training and also for the studies of children of the small growers. “It is a major announcement that can largely help the small tea sector that has come up during the past two decades. Along with tea estates, this sector is steadily contributing to tea production. Over the past couple of years, around half of the tea in India comes from small tea plantations. We hope growers and other stakeholders will benefit from the scheme,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations. According to him, there are around 2.5 lakh small growers in India. Among them, 1.3 lakh are in Assam and 50,000-odd in Bengal. Under the scheme, growers can also get aid for infrastructure in their factories, from machinery to storage sheds. “Factories can also get funds to be used as a revolving corpus,” said a source. Under the scheme, the Centre has also put impetus to increase area for organic tea. “The demand for organic tea, like the brew produced in Darjeeling, is increasing. That is why options for assistance have been included in this scheme, both for tea estates and growers. They can get funds for conversion of their plantations and for setting up organic factories,” said a tea board official. According to him, a 10-member committee headed by the deputy chairman of the board has been formed. “It will monitor implementation of the scheme across the brew belts of India and coordinate with the stakeholders,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
19-12-2021||West Bengal||Three wild elephants enter Alipurduar town on Friday night||Three wild elephants entered Alipurduar town late on Friday night and roamed around in at least three municipal wards. After some three hours of effort, foresters could steer them to the Buxa Tiger Reserve on the outskirts of the town. One was an adult tusker, the other two were sub-adults. Sources said people from ward 4 told foresters that wild elephants had been spotted. Around midnight, four youths returning home on motorcycles from a wedding in ward 16 spotted two elephants near the railway crossing that cuts the town in the ward. They could not spot the third and they initially mistook the two they saw as gaurs (Indian bisons). A closer look revealed that they weren’t gaurs but elephants. The youths clicked photographs and returned to the wedding party to inform others. The elephants by then entered ward 17 beside New Alipurduar railway station. Foresters of the west division of the BTR started a  search for the elephants and after some time, located them in ward 17. Foresters on vehicles used searchlights to steer the elephants out of town. The animals headed towards Chengpara, a village on the east end of the town outside the civic area as the team kept watch. “Around 3.30am, the elephants entered the BTR via Majherdabri tea estate. We believe they entered the town the same way,” said Budhwaraj Sewa, field director of the BTR. “It is good that the December chill kept people at home and the roads were deserted. Hence, man-animal conflict was averted,” said a forest officer. “We came to know that initially the elephants had entered ward 4 of the town and then moved to wards 16 and 17. They devoured some banana plants and damaged some other trees, but thankfully, there was no major damage and no one was attacked,” the forested added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
19-12-2021||West Bengal||Stirrings of protest against proposed coal mine at Deocha||Over 600 tribal people, including women from at least half a dozen villages in Birbhum’s Deocha-Pachami, a few political leaders and lawyers held a meeting at Dewanganj village on Saturday against the proposed coal mine, the first organised event against chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s dream project. The venue, Dewanganj village of Mohammedbazar block, is significant as work on the coal mine is supposed to begin from here. Apart from CPM Rajya Sabha member Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya and Congress leader Abdul Mannan, the meeting was marked by the presence of some Calcutta High Court lawyers who promised legal help to villagers in case the “state government used force against protesters”. “Earlier murmurs against the coal mine were mostly restricted to local residents. This is the first time the local people, who are against the coal mine, have come forward in an organised manner. Organisers distributed leaflets among villagers in 12-odd tribal hamlets and urged them to come to the meeting. Tribal people want Bengal’s intellectuals to raise their voice against the project,” said a leader of Deocha-Pachami Adivasi Janajati Bhumiraksha Committee, organiser of Saturday’s meeting. Bhattacharyya, Mannan and legal experts and social activists from Calcutta attended the meeting on behalf of Save Democracy Forum. “A large number of local people came here and expressed their views against setting up the coal mine. The government is planning to set up a coal mine at a time the world is fighting against fossil fuel. There is nothing to discuss on the compensation package as people should not be evicted from their homeland,” said Bhattacharyya, who also slammed the Narendra Modi government as “the coal mine has been given to the state government but is under control of the central government”. Trinamul’s Birbhum chief Anubrata Mondal said people of Deocha-Panchami were in support of the coal mine project. He said the Congress and the CPM had “become zero” as the Assembly polls proved. "On Saturday, a few leaders from Calcutta tried to provoke the tribal people by bringing in outsiders. The people of the coal mine area are with the state government,” said Anubrata Mondal, the Birbhum Trinamul chief. Mamata on November 9 announced a rehabilitation package that promises, among a slew of offers, a government job for one person from each land-loser’s family. The state government wants to start the coal mine as soon as possible. “We identified 16 points on government land near Dewanganj where the WBPDCL (West Bengal Power Development Corporation Limited), the implementing agency, will start primary work. But the government is very clear that everything will happen after talks with local people,” said a source in district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
19-12-2021||West Bengal||Ajoy Edward’s party to launch tea trade union on Sunday ||Hamro Party of Ajoy Edwards will launch its tea trade union on Sunday, a clear indication that the party has managed to attract many from the tea belt of the hills even before its official launch. Ever since the party’s name and flag were revealed on November 25, many have joined Hamro Party (literally, our party), most from tea gardens, the most important constituency in hill politics. On Saturday, more than 250 people joined the party. “Hamro Hill Terai Dooars Chiabari Shramik Sangh, which will be our tea trade union, will be launched from Darjeeling on Sunday,” said Anup K.C., on behalf of the party. Most hill people reside in the tea gardens and the party’s decision to start forming its frontal organisation through a tea trade union is significant. “It is an indication that the party has managed to attract the grassroots tea workers,” said a party leader. Sources said the date of the party’s official launch is likely to be announced on Sunday. More than 60,000 people had participated in an online selection process to decide on the name, Hamro Party. In the last 20-odd days, Edwards and his team have visited various places, including Kalimpong, Mirik and Bijanbari to attend party joining events. Supporters in Kalimpong have also opened a party office. Edwards, who was earlier with the GNLF but decided to quit the party after alleging that the GNLF president and his childhood friend Mann Ghisingh betrayed him, has managed to make a mark in the hills also because of his philanthropic activities. Recently, he bought two earthmovers, each costing Rs 35 lakh, to help people dig roads and playing fields. Villagers of Jogmaya in Kurseong complained that a road was left incomplete since 2010 and requested Edwards to send one of the earthmovers to help finish the job. “Many parties have been formed in the hills, but Hamro Party is definitely making a big impact even before its official launch. It seems to be attracting youths in large numbers,” said an observer. Edwards’s party has announced that they would contest all elections in the hills, right from managing committee elections of schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
19-12-2021||West Bengal||KLO talks must include Bengal government: Rajbanshis||A number of social and political organisations of the Rajbanshis in north Bengal have demanded involving the Bengal government in the proposed peace talks with the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO), reaffirming that no resolution can be reached with the rebel group without including the Mamata Banerjee government in the negotiations. Around a fortnight ago, Himanta Biswa Sarma, chief minister of the BJP-led government in Assam, said the KLO leadership, including its self-styled chief Jeevan Singha a.k.a. Tamir Das, was interested in peace talks. His government will properly reciprocate, Biswa Sarma had added. The possibility of peace talks with the KLO under the aegis of the BJP government in Assam triggered a debate in neighbouring north Bengal, which has an overwhelming presence of Rajbanshis. “The KLO leadership must realise that unless the Bengal government is in the talks, it is unlikely they will yield any result,” said Sanjoy Roy, vice-president of Kamtapur Students Organisation (KSO), the students’ front of Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP). Roy’s response, police sources said, should not be seen in isolation. “We have information that Singha has spoken to his contacts in the local media and appreciated the gesture of the Assam chief minister and also thanked the Prime Minister and the Union home minister for their sincerity in resolving their issue. However, he is silent so far on the Bengal government,” said a source. Singha’s silence on the role of the Bengal government in the talks doesn’t seem to have gone down well with Rajbanshi outfits in north Bengal. “If he intends to leave the armed struggle and return to the mainstream, we have no problem in talks with him. But he cannot be silent (over inclusion of Bengal government) as his basic demand for statehood, which is also the demand of many other organisations, involves six districts of north Bengal,” said a senior leader of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association, one of the proponents of statehood in the region. Observers pointed out that in north Bengal, where the BJP gloats over its political might, the party has tried to play identity politics to consolidate votes. Since 2009, the BJP has come up with assurances for the Gorkhas who are also demanding a state. The Centre started talks with the Gorkhas recently but the state hasn’t joined the discourse properly as Nabanna feels Delhi is trying to keep the state government away from the issue. “Over the past few years, the BJP has been playing the Rajbanshi card, knowing well that Rajbanshi votes matter in north Bengal. It seems the proposal for talks with the KLO is part of the strategy of keeping Nabanna away from the discourse,” said an observer. The observer said Singha and a number of his associates have several police cases pending against them, including charges under the UAPA, in Bengal. “That is why, the KLO chief may find it convenient to get into negotiations with Assam, particularly because the Trinamul government is against any further division of Bengal,” the observer added. Ever since Biswa Sarma has invited the militant outfit for talks, the Trinamul leadership in north Bengal have said no talks should be held without including the state government in the process. A senior leader pointed out that many prominent faces of the Rajbanshi community in north Bengal, including a number of former militants, are with Trinamul’s establishments or are close to the state government. “It would be wrong to perceive that a call from Jeevan Singha or from the Assam government or the Centre will prompt all these organisations to sit for discussions... In fact, most of them will not budge unless our state government is included in the talks,” the Trinamul leader said. Additional inputs by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
19-12-2021||West Bengal||Two residents arrested with guns and bullets in Dinhata||The crime branch of Dinhata police station in Cooch Behar seized illegal firearms and ammunition on Saturday from a village on the outskirts of Dinhata town. Two residents of Dinhata  have been arrested. “The crime branch acted on a tip-off and conducted a raid in the Okrabari area. There, they intercepted two persons and seized six firearms, some magazines, live cartridges and some cough syrup bottles from their possession. A case has been registered and investigations have started,” said Sumit Kumar, SP, Cooch Behar. Four automated pistols, a revolver, an improvised single shutter pipe gun, 15 rounds of live ammunition, four magazines, 35 bottles of cough syrup and a motorcycle were recovered from the duo, police sources said. The two arrested have been identified as Jhantu Haque and Minarul Islam. “The arrested duo are suspected to be members of an arms smuggling racket. We need to interrogate them to find out from where they had obtained the firearms and ammunition and to whom they intended to supply them,” said a police officer. A case has been filed against them under the Arms Act and The NDPS act, police sources said. In another incident, troops of the 152 battalion of the BSF carried out a joint operation with state police at Kalibari, Panjipara of North Dinajpur district on Friday, arresting Kajal Kanti Saha of Malda’s Gazole with 8.5kg cannabis and some Indian currency notes. Also, the BSF troops at the India-Bangladesh border under the NB frontier on Saturday seized some items, including cattle and cough syrup bottles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
