20-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt's Pegasus program: Governor invokes constitutional provision to seek records from CM||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday invoked Article 167 of the Constitution to seek from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee all the records and proceedings that led to the issuance of a notification by the state government for setting up a commission of inquiry into alleged phone tapping using Pegasus software. Article 167 of the Constitution deals with the duties of a chief minister about furnishing of information to the governor. In a letter to Banerjee, he claimed that his opinion on the matter had not been sought, though the notification points to the formation of opinion by the governor . "Constrained to invoke Article 167 of the Constitution to seek @MamataOfficial all record and proceedings leading to Inquiry Commission #Pegasus Notification dated 26.07.2021 as the Chief Secretary Hari Krishna Dwivedi @IASassociation failed to provide such information," Dhankhar tweeted. He also attached with it a copy of the letter to the chief minister. "It emanates from the penultimate and last para of Notification dated 26.07.2021 that provisions of sub-sections (2) to (5) of Section 5A of the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 have been made applicable to the proceedings of Pegasus Inquiry Commission, premised on the 'opinion of the Governor'," Dhankhar said. He pointed out that there has been no communication whatsoever on this count from her side to the governor before the promulgation of the notification, "There has been none as a matter of fact," the governor said. He wrote to the chief minister asking her to take steps to forward to him at the earliest the entire record leading to the issuance of the notification for forming the Justice Lokur and Justice Bhattacharya Commission of Inquiry, "adverting on all facets of formation of opinion by the Governor." Ex-Supreme Court judge Madan B Lokur and former Calcutta High Court chief justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya were the panel members. Expressing dismay at not being provided a copy of notification vide which the Mamata Banerjee government constituted the two-man commission of inquiry into alleged phone tapping using Pegasus software and connected proceedings, Dhankhar had last week called upon the state chief secretary to make it available to him by the evening of December 18. Dhankhar said that invocation of Article 167 has become necessary as the chief secretary failed to provide information to him about the notification . The Supreme Court had on December 17 stayed the ongoing inquiry into allegations of spying by the state government-appointed commission of inquiry. The apex court had on October 27 appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India, saying every citizen needs protection against privacy violation and mere invocation of national security by the state does not render the court a mute spectator. A massive political row erupted in July after media reports claimed that the Pegasus spyware was used to infiltrate phones and conduct surveillance on political leaders, government officials, and journalists across the country. According to reports, TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, a nephew of the West Bengal chief minister, and poll strategist Prashant Kishor were among the potential targets of the spyware during the assembly elections held earlier in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
20-12-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers scuffle with police after being denied permission to hold rally in Kolkata||A scuffle broke out between BJP activists and the police outside the party's headquarters on Monday after the saffron camp workers were stopped from taking out a rally to protest against the alleged violence during the Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections. The opposition BJP had demanded cancellation of the "violence-marred civic body polls" held on Sunday and announced that it would conduct protest programmes across the state and organise a rally in the city during the day. The city police put up barricades outside the BJP office since morning. The police said the saffron party didn't have permission to take out the rally. As the protesters started the march, they were stopped outside the party office, leading to a scuffle between the police and the activists. The police detained several party workers and leaders. "Whenever the BJP wants to take out any rally, we are denied permission by citing COVID norms. We had announced yesterday that we would protest against the violence in the civic polls," party's state vice-president Jaiprakash Majumdar said. The Left parties and the Congress also staged protests near the State Election Commission office here against the alleged violence in the civic body polls. Sporadic incidents of violence, including hurling of bombs at two booths, marred the KMC elections even as over 63 per cent of the nearly 40.5 lakh voters exercised their franchise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Kolkata shivers as mercury dips four notches below normal||Kolkata shivered on Monday as the mercury plummeted to 11.2 degrees Celsius, while Darjeeling recorded the lowest temperature in West Bengal at 3.5 degrees Celsius. The weather office said that low day and night temperatures will continue for another couple of days in Kolkata, following which there will be a slight thaw. Kolkata's maximum temperature was 22.8 degrees Celsius while the minimum was 11.2 degrees Celsius, both of which was four notches below normal, it said. There will be no major change in the night temperature in West Bengal for the next two days, following which there will be a gradual rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius during the subsequent three days. Sriniketan was the coldest in the plains of the state, recording the lowest temperature of 7.1 degrees Celsius, it said. The other places which recorded sub-10 degrees Celsius temperatures are Kalimpong (7.5), Purulia (7.5), Panagarh (7.6), Kalaikunda (7.5), Siliguri (8.6), Burdwan (8.6), Cooch Behar (9.3) and Digha (9.6), the weather office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Airports Authority of India team to visit 3 defunct north Bengal airports ||A delegation of Airports Authority of India (AAI) will visit three defunct airports in north Bengal this week and scrutinise the readiness of the facilities and report to the Centre, which will then take a call on operationalising those, a senior state government official said on Monday. The West Bengal government wants to quickly operationalise the Coochbehar, Balurghat and Malda airports, he said. "Necessary work has been started by the district administrations. The AAI delegation will visit and scrutinise the three airports, and then report to the Centre for its nod to operationalise those," he said. Over 90 per cent of the work at Balurghat airport at Mahinagar in Dakshin Dinajpur district is completed, the official said. Balurghat MP and state BJP president Sukanta Majumdar said that talks are underway with various airlines for commencing commence flight services from the airport. "If AAI officials find Balurghat airport suitable, then flight services will recommence from there. The Centre is keen to reopen this airport," he said. A senior official at the state secretariat said that the airport at Coochbehar is very old and runway extension is a problem there. "The runway will be extended from 1,069 metres to 1,800 metres, for which a portion of a nearby river is required. The district administration is trying hard to find a solution by constructing a culvert over the river in consultation with authorities concerned," he said. Union minister and local MP Nisith Pramanik had last landed at Coochbehar airport in 2019. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, during an administrative meeting in Malda earlier this month, said that work is underway for extension of the runway there so that larger aircraft can land on it. Regular flight services at the three airports were discontinued due to lack of passengers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
20-12-2021||West Bengal||BJP, CPM move court against rigging, 'Trinamul terror' during civic polls||Bengal's main Opposition party BJP and the CPM have moved  Calcutta High Court separately against alleged electoral malpractices and intimidation by the ruling Trinamul Congress during the elections to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation held on Sunday. The hearing of the case has been scheduled for Thursday, December 23. Results for the 144 wards of the CMC will be declared on Tuesday, December 21. The CPM nominee from ward 2, Deblina Sarkar, sought the court’s permission to file a petition which was granted. A separate plea was moved by the state BJP leader, Pratap Banerjee. “The court had instructed that peaceful polling had to be ensured. Bombs were hurled. The court had asked for CCTVs to be installed in all the polling booths, but the state poll panel ignored it. In most of the booths, the CCTV cameras malfunctioned. We have submitted the relevant documents to the court,” said a BJP leader. On Monday afternoon, leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikary shared a video of his neighbourhood in East Midnapore’s Contai where loudspeakers were blaring with a song: Aamrai Trinamul Chhatra Parishad (We are Trinamul Chhatra Parishad). “People of West Bengal, please look at the dirty culture of TMC. Yesterday they couldn’t stop me with all their might using thousands of police personnel. So, today they have plummeted even lower, playing songs on loudspeakers in front of my residence without any authorisation or decency,” said Suvendu. On Sunday, police had surrounded Suvendu’s Salt Lake residence where he was present with some legislators while polling was on. BJP legislators staying at the Kyd Street MLAs hostel were also locked inside while Trinamul backed goons allegedly went on a rampage at polling booths. “My busy schedule doesn’t allow me to stay at home, but my 83-year-old father Sisir Adhikari and 74-year-old ailing mother became targets of this nuisance. Mamata Banerjee must remember what goes around comes around. Culture conscious people of West Bengal would judge your conscience,” Adhikary said. The Left Front has been staging a demonstration at the state election commission office at Sarojini Naidu Road, while protest marches have been scheduled across the state for Monday and Tuesday. The Left Front and Congress are squatting outside the office of the state election commissioner Saurav Das demanding repoll in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls. "We had submitted over 300 complaints to the state poll panel. Our candidate Purabi De Biswas' agent's face was bloodied. Was that staged?" asked Kallol Mazumdar, convenor Left Front's Calcutta unit. Both the Left and Congress leaders said they will go for a larger movement against Sunday's poll process. During Sunday's elections to the Calcutta corporation, the  CPM had alleged with specific details about wards 101, 102, 109, 110 where polling agents of candidates were forced out of their booths. Similar complaints poured in from the northern tip of the city. In ward 36,  Congress nominee Nandan Ghosh alleged CCTV cameras installed inside the booths were not working.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Merlin Group celebrates the successful launch  of Merlin Rise||As the song goes – it’s beginning to look a lot like Christmas! With the winter chill beginning to set, the Christmas fever is soon to catch on. The air is festive with the spirit of Christmas, when Merlin Group celebrated the Pre-Christmas Carnival at “Rise,the sports township site" in a grand manner. The carnival was organized to mark the grand success of the launch of Merlin Rise – the sports township at Rajarhat Chowmatha. The carnival was a token of  gratitude for the humongous response from the people of Kolkata and Bengal. Actress Nusrat Jahan greeted the audience with her scintillating presence  and  Singer Anupam Ray enthralled  the audience with his melodious songs.The carnival witnessed a plethora of kids games. A spread of lipsmacking cuisines were also on rustled up for the guests. "The Rise Success Party bears a testimony to our commitment  to  our  valued customers . We  feel it  is our prerogative to thank  our valued customers for the unprecedented response they evinced for Merlin Rise -  the sports township. I thank our guests Nusrat Jahan and Anupam Ray for gracing the occasion. This is an apt occasion to celebrate the grand success of the launch of Merlin Rise with a gala Rise Success Party, a grand pre-Christmas winter carnival for our valued customers. We wish Kolkata a very happy Christmas to come”, said Saket Mohta, MD, Merlin Group. The overwhelming response from the valued consumers has  inspired   Merlin Group to add one additional tower  in Merlin Rise.This decision of Merlin Group  has prompted it to announce  an extension of the last date of submission of application kits for Merlin Rise  to 22nd December 2021. Merlin Allotment of flats will be completed through e lottery. Merlin Group launched Merlin Rise- the Sports Republic-  the first theme based greenfield township project in Eastern India  by any real  estate developer one month ago.The group also had announced its coveted association with World famous sports icons – Midfielder Maestro Ronalidiho, The most decorated Olympian of all time, Olympic swimming champion Michael Phelps, India’s cricketing icon and a passionate dedicated cricketer Yuvraj Singh and the Bollywood fitness icon Tiger Shroff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Retired cop recalls attack in last KMC poll||When Calcutta voted the last time for the municipal corporation in 2015, police sub-inspector Jagannath Mandal took a bullet in his collar bone at Girish Park. On Sunday, he was in the queue at a polling booth in Behala to vote like others. Mandal, 62, has retired from service. When voting was about to close six years ago, Mandal was trying to disperse a group of alleged Trinamul Congress workers who were engaged in a battle with supporters of a rival candidate in north Calcutta’s Singhibagan. That was when he was shot at. On Sunday, Mandal returned home by 4.30pm after casting his vote at the polling station off Shakherbazar in Ward 126 with wife Mahamaya. After a surgery to remove the bullet, it had taken Mandal months to get back on his feet and resume duty. Mandal has “vivid memories” of the day he was hit. “The saddest part is the man who was accused of masterminding the attack — Gopal Tiwari — has been acquitted in the case. But I am confident the police's appeal in the high court against the acquittal will bring desirable results,” Mandal said. Tiwari’s wife Kamini is contesting the CMC elections as a BJP candidate from Ward 24 in Jorasanko. Mandal retired from the force in 2019 as additional officer-in-charge of Kasba police station. He said: “I had mixed feelings today seeing my former colleagues in uniform performing their duty managing the queue outside the polling station while I was standing in the queue doing nothing. I was feeling sad… missing the action.” At the same time, he was “happy because now my family does not have to suffer the anxiety” they felt when he was part of the force. “My wife, son and daughter had literally spent sleepless nights after that incident,” he said. Mandal has joined a power plant in Purulia as a security advisor. He took leave from work and came home to cast his vote.  Unlike his previous election duties that needed him to report at the polling station at least two hours before voting began, Mandal woke up to a lazy Sunday and went to buy meat. He stepped out to vote late in the afternoon after having his favourite mangsho-bhaat (meat curry and rice) for lunch.  “I went to the polling station only after lunch when the queues are small,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Three injured in bomb attack during polls ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections on Sunday were marred by multiple incidents of violence and hurling of bombs, one of which left three voters injured, including one who suffered fractures in his right leg. Police said one of the crude bombs was hurled outside a polling station in Ward 36, which covers parts of Sealdah. Complaints of assault on opposition candidates and their election agents came in from Burrabazar, Dalhousie, Beleghata and other pockets. Workers of opposition parties said tension had been brewing in Ward 36 since the date of the civic polls was announced several weeks ago. Around 10.45am on Sunday, a bomb was hurled outside Taki House Government Sponsored Multipurpose School for Boys, which housed a polling station. The bomb exploded on APC Road, right in front of the school and ESI Hospital, Maniktala. Three men, who had already voted, were injured in the explosion. One of them, Dipu Das, suffered fractures in two bones in his right leg and was admitted to the NRS Medical College and Hospital. The other two were Arpan Nandi and Amit Dutta. A police officer said one person was arrested in connection with the hurling of the bomb outside the school. “Das suffered fractures in two bones of his right leg. He also had a lacerated injury in his right foot. He has been admitted to the male orthopaedic ward in our hospital,” said a doctor at NRS. A forensic expert said fracture injuries could have happened from a fall on the road. “A loud explosion, like that of a bomb, sends shock waves that can dislodge a person standing close to the spot. The fractures could have been caused by the fall,” the expert said. A relative of Das said he was chatting with some acquaintances after casting his vote when the bomb was hurled. “His daughter, in her teens, is writing her board exams. His son is barely eight,” said the relative. A neighbour said Das is a driver by profession. “It seems he will be out of work for a few months because of the injury,” the neighbour said. Nandi and Dutta, too, had cast their votes when the bomb was hurled. “I voted around 10am. I was talking to some friends outside the school when the bomb was thrown. Arpan Nandi was with us. I heard a very loud sound and felt a pain in my leg. There was a lot of smoke. It was a little later that I realised that I was bleeding from my left leg,” said Dutta, who suffered a cut on his left knee. A doctor at NRS said Dutta’s injury did not require admission. Nandi suffered a cut on his back and he, too, was not advised admission. Dutta, who works at South Eastern Railway, said the bomb exploded behind Nandi, which is why he suffered an injury on his back. “We have arrested one person in relation to the hurling of the bomb. We are not disclosing the identity of the accused for the sake of investigation,” said Subhankar Sinha Sarkar, joint commissioner of police (headquarters). “A case under IPC sections related to attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy and also under the explosive substances act has been registered at Amherst Street police station,” said the officer. Police sources said the accused was a known trouble-maker in the locality and had criminal antecedents. Sachin Singh, Trinamul's candidate from Ward 36, denied any involvement in the incident. “Why would I hurl bombs when I know that I am going to win,” he said in the evening. Earlier in the morning, two crude bombs were hurled outside Khanna High School on Shiv Kumar Khanna Sarani in Sealdah, also in Ward 36. Alok Ghosh, who was the chief election agent of the CPI’s Mousumi Ghosh, the Left Front candidate from the ward, said they were forced to withdraw their agents from many booths. “All our workers were threatened so much that we could not provide election agents in many booths. Our posters had been torn earlier. We were not allowed to write wall graffiti in many places,” said Alok. Besides the two incidents of hurling crude bombs, multiple allegations of assault on opposition candidates and their agents emerged during the elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Voting under Covid shadow, still  business as usual||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Municipal elections: Opposition alleges rigging and attacks||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls on Sunday witnessed no major violence but a united Opposition targeted Trinamul, police and the state poll panel alleging large-scale rigging and attacks. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, the all-India general secretary of Trinamul, accused the Opposition parties of engaging in “theatrics” after failing to win the people’s trust. The state election commission said 63.63 per cent polling had been reported till 5pm across the 144 wards, and that voting had been peaceful barring stray incidents. But the Opposition parties alleged mass rigging, and as many as 453 complaints had been lodged with the poll panel till 5pm, including some from the ruling party. “What we witnessed today in the name of elections was nothing but a farce…. The city had never before seen such a rigged election,” Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, said. “The turnout figure may say something else, but we think only 20 per cent of Calcutta’s population voted,” the BJP leader added. State BJP leaders met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to complain about alleged vitiation of the poll process. Elections in Bengal, especially civic and rural polls, have a history of violence. But it was hoped that Sunday’s contest would be peaceful since both Mamata and Abhishek had issued repeated internal warnings to the party rungs saying no electoral malpractices would be tolerated. Besides, sources in the administration had said the political establishment had given them a free hand to crack down on poll rogues even if they were from Trinamul. “All these pre-poll directives from the Trinamul leadership to party supporters fell on deaf ears. The election was far from free and fair.... Trinamul will surely emerge winner in the polls but Abhishek has lost (morally),” political observer Biswanath Chakraborty said. He referred to the allegations of bombings, physical attacks on Opposition candidates such as the BJP’s Meena Devi Purohit and Rajarshi Lahiri and their aides, intimidation of voters and large-scale false voting between 3pm and 5pm. Through the day, the Opposition parties blamed the police and the state poll panel for what they described as the “murder of democracy”. All the Opposition parties have threatened protests in the coming days. Mamata, who voted at the Mitra Institution in Bhowanipore, lauded the poll process as a “festival of democracy”. “The people have been voting in a festive mood. This is what we desired. Elections are a popular festival of democracy, and people are participating in that festival, as everyone can see,” Mamata said. Told about the Opposition’s allegations, she said: “No, no, you people please realise, 144 wards went to the polls. If somebody can’t contest the election and does some drama, let them do it. It is also a process of democracy. So, ignore them. It is better to ignore them.” Asked whether she thought the police’s role was satisfactory on polling day, she said: “The police, they tried their best.” She added: “Calcutta Police (are) the best police…. They also helped with naka checking so that outsiders cannot come. When elections in Calcutta take place, (they are) restricted to Calcutta. Only Calcutta people should come, not outsiders. I’m happy that people voted peacefully. That (is what) we wanted.” Mamata’s public responses suggested that those vitiating the poll process were unlikely to be taken to task, although Abhishek continued to publicly reiterate even on Sunday that wrongdoers would face stern action. Several Calcutta-based political scientists said Sunday’s incidents ran counter to Trinamul-hired poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s doctrine of a hands-off approach to elections like civic polls that are inconsequential in the larger scheme. “Especially with the strong likelihood of Trinamul winning 120-130 of the 144 wards anyway, what need there was to try to take the tally past 140 is something for Trinamul to answer,” said Subhamoy Maitra, a professor at the Indian Statistical Institute. “It’s a missed opportunity to gauge the actual support base before crucial elections to the Assembly or the Lok Sabha.” At least 13 Opposition candidates claimed injury in alleged Trinamul attacks. While the CPM and the Congress have demanded re-polling in some of the wards, the BJP said the entire election process ought to be cancelled and fresh elections held in all the 144 wards. Poll panel sources said any decision on the demands for re-polling would come after meetings with the observers. Abhishek, in a brief interaction with journalists, reaffirmed that his party did not support violence. “Any person, irrespective of political affiliation, who disturbs the voting process will be put behind bars. If it’s proven that any Trinamul worker is involved in violence, stern action will be taken within 24 hours,” the Diamond Harbour MP said. Some Trinamul leaders privately blamed the trouble on the ward-level leaderships’ desire to ensure resounding victories at any cost. “The (top) leadership had warned against all this…. What happened today was avoidable,” a source said. “We got over 60 per cent of the votes from the CMC area (in the Assembly elections). The BJP got zero seats, and secured barely 29 per cent votes. That gap could only have widened now, irrespective of any malpractice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Sporadic incidents of violence reported, Meena Devi alleges attack||The CMC elections on Sunday were marked by sporadic violence across the city. Till 10pm, 209 persons had been arrested in connection with alleged poll violence. Some alleged instances of violence:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 565 new Covid cases, 568 recoveries & 9 deaths ||Bengal on Sunday reported 565 new Covid19 infections, 568 recoveries and nine deaths, causing a drop in active cases by 12, to 7,489. Calcutta reported 174 new infections and three deaths. North 24Parganas reported 104 new infections and four deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a threedigit figure of new cases detected in a day. Calcutta, North and South 24Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 424 or 75.04 per cent of the new infections detected on Sunday. Twelve districts reported a singledigit figure of fresh cases. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. New infections reported on Sunday are indicative of people infected between December 10 and 14. In the past 85 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day streak of fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the total rose on 36 days and fell on 47 days. Over these 85 days, there has been a net fall of 185 in the total. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.53 per cent on Sunday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.37 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.27 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 16 lakh recoveries and 19,669 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Tea union of Ajoy’s party comes up in hills||A new tea trade union came up in the hills on Sunday as Ajoy Edwards, who broke away from the GNLF leader to form his own Hamro Party, and his associates announced the party’s frontal outfit for workers of north Bengal's brew belt. At a public meeting near Chowrasta in Darjeeling town, Edwards and some other leaders announced the launch of Hamro Hill Terai Dooars Chiyabari Sramik Sangh. Workers from some 60 tea estates were present at the meeting, they claimed. In the hills, almost all regional parties have their trade union fronts. The CPM, Trinamul and the Congress have their tea trade unions in the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Shift plan for Buxa villagers after Royal Bengal tiger sighted||The sighting of the royal Bengal tiger at the Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) of Alipurduar after a gap of some three decades has made officials of the state forest department draw up plans to relocate residents of villages in and around the tiger reserve. Sources in the department said that altogether there are around 35 such villages in the BTR area among which 15 villages need to be relocated for the safety of residents and wildlife. “Around 15,000 people live in these villages. Among these, dwellers of three villages need to be relocated immediately, especially because the presence of the royal Bengal tiger in the forest area has been proven,” said a source in the department. Back in 2007, the central government had drawn up a plan to relocate villages within the tiger reserves in the country. It has been found that in 50 tiger reserves of India, there are around 500 villages where 40,000-odd families reside. So far, around half the residents, living in 210 such villages, have been relocated. The initiative started in Bengal, but eventually the process didn’t end. It had also led to protests from some villagers and social organisations. Earlier this year, compensation payable to each family was increased from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh by the National Tiger Conservation Authority which has encouraged some villagers, particularly the younger ones, to move out. “Senior citizens in these villages are hesitant as they have stayed there for generations. The youths want to shift outside the forest for better access to education, healthcare and jobs,” said a senior forest official. The sighting of the tiger and its pugmarks in different locations of BTR has prompted the forest department to send their teams inside the villages and make them aware about safety. The department has confirmed that the pugmarks are of the same tiger. “Forest villagers are being told to stay indoors from evening onwards till daybreak and to inform us immediately if they see any wild animal in their area,” the forester added. Representatives of the Uttarbanga Van Sharmjibi Manch, a social organisation fighting for the rights of forest dwellers, said the department should initiate talks regarding relocation in a transparent manner. “There should be proper discussions with the people and all information regarding relocation and benefits should be elaborated to these villagers. Only then can a solution be reached. In 2007, there was lack of transparency in the process, which is why the state had stumbled on relocating the dwellers,” said Lal Singh Bhujel, convener of the Manch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Projects to develop infrastructure in Mirik, TMC’s hill foothold||The state urban development and municipal affairs department has set its sights on Mirik, a tiny hill town and subdivisional headquarters, to develop its civic infrastructure and facilities. The move makes it evident that Trinamul, in power in the Mirik municipality, wants to retain the hill civic body. In Mirik, civic elections are due in 2022. In 2017, Trinamul managed to secure a majority in Mirik municipality. So far, it is the only civic body in Darjeeling district where Trinamul has ever been elected to power. According to sources in the civic body, officials from the department and other agencies like the State Urban Development Authority (SUDA), the Municipal Engineering Directorate (MED) and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, have visited the hill town, some 50km from here, in the past one week to discuss various infrastructure projects for Mirik civic area. The regional office of MED in Siliguri has made a comprehensive master plan to develop the hill town, said sources. “The plan has been sent to the state urban development and municipal affairs department. It comprises beautification of Mirik Lake and surroundings and proposals for other projects to keep the town clean. We are awaiting the department’s nod,” said a source in MED. Sources in the civic body said the team from SUDA has elaborately discussed the issue of solid waste management of the town. “The civic body has identified a three-acre plot on the outskirts of the town for a waste processing unit. Members of self-help groups will be trained to run it. There are plans to make compost from wastes and sell it to tea estates and owners of orange and other plantations. It can be another source of revenue for the municipality,” said the source. Officials of state tourism and UDMA departments said the state government intends to develop the hill town, so far known as a site for a day’s visit, as a full-fledged tourist destination. “There are indications that the flow of tourists will go up. That is why it is necessary to have proper civic infrastructure here,” said L.B. Rai, the civic chairman of Mirik. Trinamul insiders, asked about the sudden focus on Mirik, said they do not want to lose the civic body. “We have our allies in the hills and evidently regional parties will participate in municipal elections. But this is the first municipality in the hills we won in 2017 and we don’t want to lose it,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Vistadome coaches for Darjeeling joy rides ||The rise in the demand of tickets for vistadome coaches introduced by the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) in many routes of north Bengal and the Northeast has now made railway authorities decide on introducing such coaches in the heritage mountain railway of Darjeeling. The coaches have large glass windows and a glass roof, which offer the passengers the view of a stunning expanse of the surrounding landscape. According to sources in NFR, as many as 24 vistadome coaches will be introduced in the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) from April next year. “It has been planned to launch the vistadome coaches from April 1, 2022, that is, at the commencement of the summer season when thousands of tourists flock to the hills. All these coaches would be available for joy rides. Over the past few years, the number of passengers who took rides on the toy train has increased and we believe introduction of these vistadome coaches will increase the footfall,” said a railway source. According to the plan, 16 vistadome coaches with a capacity of 30 seats each will be included in the diesel loco-hauled joy rides. Another eight coaches with similar capacity will be included in joy rides in which the coaches are hauled by steam locos. “Altogether, the coaches will be available for four diesel (loco) rides and for equal number of steam (loco) rides,” the source added. In the hills, the joy ride or a return journey from Darjeeling to Ghoom via the Batasia Loop is the most popular ride in DHR. Tourism stakeholders have liked the plan. “We welcome the decision. It ill surely draw more tourists  as people want to enjoy an uninterrupted view of the hilly landscape during their train travel. Over the past few months, the railways have introduced many new services that are fast gaining popularity. These coaches will be another new attraction for tourists,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Day after protest, govt panel lands in Deocha-Pachami site to listen||Members of the West Bengal Power Development Corporation’s apex committee visited Harinsingha village and adjoining areas in Birbhum’s Deocha-Pachami on Sunday, a day after a public protest meeting of tribal residents, lawyers and politicians against the proposed mega coal mine project. Apex committee members, including actor Parambrata Chattopadhyay and convener Tanmoy Ghosh, interacted with local residents to “hear out” their concerns and “communicate” those to the state government, under whose auspices the committee was formed this August. “We are not jumping to any conclusions yet regarding the supposed airing of protest on Saturday. We asked our own questions and noted down answers. We will submit our ground report to the government,” said Ghosh. Saturday’s protest meeting in Dewanganj village saw CPM and Congress veterans as well as high court lawyers who promised legal help to villagers if the government “forced” them to vacate for the coal mine. “This development is sensitive as it involves large tribal populations,” said a leader of the Deocha-Pachami Adivasi Janajati Bhumiraksha Committee, which organised Saturday’s meeting. Trinamul district sources said on Sunday that the CPM’s overtures in this regard had been “unwelcome”. District party chief Anubrata Mondal on Saturday alleged that “outsiders” had been brought in to “provoke” tribal residents. The apex committee’s visit on Sunday was seen by party insiders as an encouraging gesture from the state government to take the dialogue for the coal mine project forward. The apex committee was formed by the WBPCDL in August this year, at which time a public order had anticipated the need for “social work” and “trust building” among Deocha residents in order to further the project. The Deocha coal block is spread over 11,222 acres and has estimated coal reserves of 2.2 billion tonnes. According to government estimates, the project can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people and can act as an engine of economic growth for the entire south Bengal. On November 9, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a rehabilitation package worth Rs 10,000 crore that offers at least three times the land price compared to market rates and a government job of junior constable for every displaced family. The state government also relaxed the minimum qualification for junior constables in its official notification as many members of the eligible families would reportedly not be able to meet the needed educational criteria. This issue was revived during Saturday’s protest, and with the apex committee on Sunday, with protesters claiming they wanted the job assurance on paper before any relocation. Another common demand was the need for greater transparency in the face of a “significant” loss in real estate if families went forward with the relocation. “We will be the ones who will be moving from these open fields into 600sqft dwelling units, so we need to be sure of everything before taking the step,” said a Deocha resident on Sunday. “There are already so many mines in our vicinity, so we are a little sceptical... We want to ensure we are not being gobbled up by economic interest and are being treated fairly,” another added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Police acting at the behest of  Trinamul Congress, says Suvendu||Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday alleged police were trying to restrict the movements of BJP lawmakers, including him, on poll day under instructions from the Trinamul Congress. The Nandigram MLA cited multiple incidents that unfolded on Sunday to buttress his claim. Adhikari and 16 other BJP MLAs, along with MP Arjun Singh, were allegedly prevented from leaving Adhikari’s Salt Lake residence by Bidhannagar police in the evening. Earlier in the day, eight BJP MLAs were allegedly locked inside the MLA hostel. The MLAs sat on a dharna inside the hostel compound when the lock on the gate wasn’t removed. “We had a meeting in Salt Lake at 2pm. Five of us are from Purulia and three from Bankura. But we have been locked here. We went to the superintendent to ask him about this but he said the police had done this.… The hostel is under the Speaker’s jurisdiction. We called him. He told us to stay here for some more time and then leave...,” Sudip Mukherjee, the BJP MLA of Purulia Town, said. Adhikari said BJP MLA Niladri Sekhar Dana was detained while on his way to Salt Lake. MLA Lakshman Ghorai was arrested. Adhikari alleged. On Sunday evening, a group led by Adhikari was supposed to reach Calcutta to meet governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at the Raj Bhavan at 6pm to apprise him of the alleged malpractices in the civic polls. However, the police stopped them from leaving Adhikari’s residence by citing law and order. BJP leaders and the police were locked in a scuffle for over an hour. “Bidhannagar police have no right to stop us here. Polls are being held in areas under Calcutta police.… They did not arrest us since they would have had to produce us in court otherwise,” Adhikari told The Telegraph on Sunday evening. According to Adhikari, he, along with other leaders, had told the police on duty that they wanted to head to the Raj Bhavan, yet they were stopped. “This proves that the police are acting on the orders of the Trinamul Congress and are scared of the BJP. We want re-poll in all wards,” said Adhikari. BJP sources said Adhikari had planned to station himself at Salt Lake to be able to reach Calcutta as soon as the polls were over at 5pm. A person who isn’t a voter of an area where elections are being held cannot enter it as long as voting continues. Adhikari had earlier said at a news conference that BJP MLAs and workers would “bring Calcutta to a standstill” if there was any misconduct during the polls. The Nandigram MLA reached his Salt Lake residence around 2pm on Sunday. Arjun Singh followed him shortly. However, hours before their arrival, a large police contingent led by Surya Pratap Yadav, deputy commissioner, headquarters of the Bidhannagar commissionerate, had cordoned off the house. The leaders spoke with senior officers of the commissionerate several times, asking them why they had been detained when there were no polls in Salt Lake and wanted to see an official order. Singh said there was no democracy in Bengal and it had turned into a police state. “This is a complete police raj. We had asked the court to ensure free and fair elections but sadly this has not taken place. We will raise this issue in the Lok Sabha on Monday,” said Singh. As Adhikari and his colleagues were being stopped by the police from leaving Salt Lake, governor Dhankhar took to Twitter to draw attention to the situation. Later, the BJP delegation met Dhankhar and apprised him. “Our case in the court hasn’t yet been disposed of. We will prove our allegations on December 23.… I’ve footage of 150 to 200 instances (of electoral misconduct)…,” Adhikari said. The delegation has also urged the governor to ensure that the poll process is declared null and void. Later at night, Adhikari and BJP leaders got into a fight with the police when they had gone to meet state election commission officials. CPM workers took to the streets on Sunday. In protest against their candidates and agents being attacked and alleged poll rigging, Left supporters blocked multiple busy crossings in the Bhowanipore and the Baghajatin areas. Trinamul leaders rejected all allegations of the Opposition. Minister Firhad Hakim said the Opposition didn’t have the people’s support and hence they were levelling allegations. “Nobody has stopped them. They have put themselves in self-arrest,” Hakim said, asked about Adhikari’s allegation that BJP lawmakers were stopped from leaving his residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Opposition BJP, CPM & Congress in ‘one-off’ violence protest||Supporters of the BJP, CPM and the Congress came together for a dharna in front of a police station in north Calcutta on Sunday to protest what they alleged were violence and electoral malpractice by “Trinamul-backed goons” during the civic polls. Although top leaders of the Opposition said it was a “one-off incident”, several party members claimed the protest was a “spontaneous resistance to Trinamul muscle-flexing”. “This was just a coincidence. All of them were incidentally at Burtolla police station at the same time to stage a protest. It wasn’t a pre-planned programme,” CPM leader Rabin Deb said. BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya also said the timings matching was a “mere coincidence”. The Congress and the Left had previously come together in the 2016 and 2021 Assembly polls. In 2018, ahead of the panchayat elections in Bengal, BJP and CPM workers had taken out joint rallies against Trinamul in several villages. However, the three parties converged for a protest for the first time in Calcutta on Sunday. Each of the three parties accused Trinamul of rigging, attacking and injuring candidates and threatening Opposition booth agents and voters in all 144 wards of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. While complaints of poll process vitiation poured in from different parts of the city, the day passed off without any major incident or loss of life. The state election commission said voting “went off peacefully, barring a few sporadic incidents of violence”. Calcutta police, however, said there had been multiple bomb blasts in ward 36 in which at least two persons had suffered injuries. The CPM alleged that a woman poll agent in ward 45 was assaulted, leaving her with a cut in her lips. At another booth in the same ward, supporters of the Congress and Trinamul clashed. The CPM alleged that its agents were driven out of many booths in several wards. CPM workers and leaders blocked roads in Bhowanipore and Bagha Jatin. Meena Devi Purohit, the BJP nominee for ward 22, alleged attack by Trinamul. “I was assaulted.… I suffered blows and even my clothes were torn,” she told The Telegraph. Other BJP leaders complained that one of the booths in Purohit’s ward was ransacked and her agent beaten up. The saffron ecosystem circulated a video that showed another BJP candidate, Rajarshi Lahiri from ward 86, being thrashed when he allegedly caught hold of a fake voter. “He was again beaten by Trinamul goons when he tried to talk to his supporters about the incident on Facebook Live. He was later treated at a private hospital,” a BJP source said. The Congress was furious with the way Calcutta police reacted to the attack on Amitabha Chakraborty, a polling agent of party nominee Santosh Pathak in ward 45. “The manner in which Amitabhada was roughed up has proved how the police were attacking Opposition parties.… The state poll panel and the police have proved that they are stooges of the ruling party,” a Congress leader said. All the three major Opposition parties demanded re-poll in several wards with heavy security. The CPM asked for re-poll in 17 wards and at around 50 booths spread across 10 other wards. The Congress has demanded re-poll at 50-odd booths in six wards. Former Congress MLA Nepaldeb Mahato said the numbers might go up. The BJP demanded that the state election commission countermand the entire CMC polls and order re-election. “What happened today is a farce. This was no election,” BJP’s Bhattacharya said. The Opposition parties alleged that the poll panel was functioning on the diktat of Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee instead of being independent. “The commission has kept a single day between voting and counting. The counting happens on Tuesday. They never intended to hold re-polls and we don’t know what will happen to our demands,” CPM’s Deb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
20-12-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta  civic polls: 64% voter turnout recorded till 5 pm||Polls to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Sunday witnessed a voter turnout of around 63.63 per cent till 5pm with the state election commission terming it “commendable amid the Covid-19 pandemic”. However, Opposition parties alleged foul play in the final hours that apparently pushed up the turnout figure. A senior official of the state poll panel said: “Till 5pm, 63.63 per cent polling was reported. It is expected to reach 65 per cent in the final tally as some voters were still queuing up in front of the booths after 5pm. The polling percentage is considered commendable amid the Covid-19 pandemic.” The poll panel, sources said, was relieved because there was an apprehension that voter turnout would remain low in the CMC election this year because of two reasons — the scare of Covid-19 and the lack of interest among voters on account of the perception of a Trinamul sweep. “But it appears people have finally come out to elect their representatives in the city’s civic body,” said a source. More than 60 per cent voting is considered good in an election, more so for a city like Calcutta where the turnout was around 65 per cent in the recent Assembly polls and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “In the 2015 CMC polls, the voter turnout was little over 68 per cent. This year, it appears that the voter turnout may fall short compared to that of 2015,” said an official. Although the election commission expressed satisfaction at the voter turnout, Opposition parties raised questions over the heavy polling in the final few hours. “Till 2pm, the voter turnout was 38.37 per cent. It is unbelievable that people came out in large numbers in the last few hours to cast their votes on a winter day,” said a city-based political observer. The BJP alleged that Trinamul cadres had captured several booths by driving away Opposition agents and resorted to false voting. “It is almost impossible that about 27 per cent polling was recorded in the last three hours. Without false voting, such an increase in voter turnout is just impossible,” said a BJP leader. The BJP and the CPM demanded re-poll at several booths. Although the parties were yet to submit a list of specific booths where they demanded the re-poll, the leaders said the number of booths would be more than 200. The poll panel said it had received 453 complaints during the day and all were attended to and steps initiated accordingly. “No booth was captured. All CCTV cameras installed at the booths worked properly. A meeting will be held with the observers and after that, a decision on the demand for the re-poll will be taken,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
