21-12-2021||West Bengal|| Trinamul sweeps Calcutta civic polls, 134 of 144 wards already in kitty ||Perched atop a pile of 134 wards of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, the Trinamul tricolour with the twin flower emblem stood the tallest on Tuesday, as 71.9 per cent of the city residents voted in favour of the party, giving the Trinamul 134 of the 144 wards. Bengal chief minister and Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee, who is seriously pursuing her national ambitions, might just hope the flag be visible at least from poll-bound Lucknow, if not Delhi, on which she has set her eyes. “We thank Maa-Mati-Manush for supporting us. The more people support us, the more our heads will bow before them,” Mamata told newspersons at her Kalighat residence. “Heartiest congratulation to all candidates for your victory in the KMC elections. Remember to serve people with utmost diligence and gratitude. I wholeheartedly thank every single resident of KMC for putting their faith on us, once again,” Mamata tweeted. After Mamata and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek, a third family member from 30B Harish Chatterjee, Kajari Banerjee, social worker and wife of Mamata’s brother Kartik, made her debut in electoral politics. The incumbent Mayor in the outgoing civic board, which has been under an administrator for over a year since polls were deferred, Firhad Hakim too won comfortably from ward 87 and is now leading the race for the Mayor’s chair. Soon after her jubilant victory in the Assembly polls seven months ago, Mamata had announced the policy of one-man-one-post. The policy, however, was junked ahead of Sunday’s civic polls, as Mamata fielded six legislators and an MP to contest for the post of councillors. All of them have won from their respective wards. Till now, the BJP has won three wards, the Left and the Congress two and three went to others. For the BJP, two incumbent councillors Meena Devi Purohit, who had served as deputy mayor with the late Subrata Mukherjee as mayor from the Trinamul, two decades ago, and Vijay Ojha retained their wards. Sajal Ghosh, son of Pradip Ghosh, who has covered the entire spectrum from the centrist Congress to right-wing BJP with a stopover in Trinamul, won from the ward 50 in a keen contest. From the Congress, Santosh Pathak, whose son Rohit was arrested on the day of polling  _ other party leaders and workers including former state youth Congress chief Amitabha Chakraborty were assaulted _ retained his ward. The Congress nominee from ward 137 won the seat by 1,300 votes. In the Assembly elections, Trinamul was leading in the ward by 7,476 votes. The Left nominees from the CPM in ward 103 and CPI in ward 92 emerged victorious. The only solace for the Left, which has been bleeding under the double onslaught of the Trinamul and the BJP, was that it  managed to increase it’s vote share. Though the CPM has only one councillor in the new civic board, it’s own vote share was 9.02 per cent, marginally ahead of the BJP which got 8.9 per cent. The Congress received 4.47 per cent votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
21-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 414 new Covid cases, 422 recoveries and seven deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 414 new Covid19 infections, 422 recoveries and seven deaths, causing a drop in the total of active cases by 15, to 7,474. Calcutta reported 145 new infections and one death, and was the only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Fourteen districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 319 or 77.05 per cent of the new infections detected on Monday. North 24-Parganas reported two deaths. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. New  Covid cases reported on Monday are indicative of the people who got infected between December 11 and 15. In the past 86 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97day streak of fall in active cases before Puja on September 26, the total rose on 36 days and fell on 48 days. Over these 86 days, there has been a net fall of 200 in the total of active cases. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate was 1.84 per cent on Monday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.39 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 16.27 lakh Covid19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 16 lakh recoveries and 19,676 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
21-12-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to file CID report on Sitalkuchi before HC soon||The Bengal government will file the investigation report of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), which is probing the Sitalkuchi firing case at the Jalpaiguri circuit bench of Calcutta High Court in the next two to three weeks, lawyers representing the state said here on Monday. On April 10 this year, when polling for the Assembly elections was on in Cooch Behar district, violence had allegedly sparked in a booth under Sitalkuchi Assembly seat. The CISF personnel on duty at the booth had fired in the open, leading to four deaths. Later, the CISF filed a case in the incident. Families of the deceased youths had filed another case, alleging murder and seeking compensation. On Monday, a division bench of Justice Soumen Sen and Justice Biswajit Basu heard a petition for anticipatory bail filed by six CISF jawans who are accused of firing. The bench rejected the bail petition and ordered the next hearing of the case would be held on January 11 next year. While the hearing was on, Y. Dastoor, the additional solicitor-general, appealed for the submission of the incident’s comprehensive report. Public prosecutor Saswata Gopal Mukherjee, said the state had assigned the CID to probe the case. “We also said the report will be submitted with evidence and other documents within the next two to three weeks,” said Mukherjee after the hearing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
21-12-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista slams state over delay in tribal school construction||The Centre has approved establishment of an Eklavya Model Residential School (EMRS) in Kalimpong at a cost of Rs 16 crore but Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista has alleged that the state government is depriving students by not taking concrete steps to establish the institution. The EMRS are set up to teach Scheduled Tribe students from Classes VI to XII. The Kalimpong district administration, however, said a detailed project report is being vetted, the allotted land for the same has been fenced and an approach road is complete. Bista had asked for the details of the proposed EMRS in Kalimpong and the status of the project in Parliament. Renuka Singh Saruta, Union minister of state for tribal affairs, in a written reply to Bista, said the ministry has approved the EMRS for Kalimpong to be set up at a cost of Rs 16 crore. “..an amount of Rs 8.00 Crore has been released to the State Government as the first installment of the fund for construction of the school in the year 2020-21,” the reply states. Saruta added: “…so far the State Government of West Bengal has not furnished the utilization certificates and progress report in respect of the first installment of funds released for the purpose.” Unless the certificates are issued, the second installment of funding is not released. The onus of land and construction for EMRS lies with the state government, monitored by National Education Society for Tribal Students (NESTS) under the tribal ministry. Saruta stated: “As informed by the NESTS, the state government has not signed the MoU with NESTS which defines the roles and responsibilities of the State and NESTS.” Lashing out at the “TMC government”, Bista said he was appalled that it was “depriving our region of a top-class school and discriminating against children from Darjeeling hills, Terai and Dooars region”. However, when asked, Kalimpong DM R. Vimala  said work was on and the DPR for EMRS was being vetted at the department level. “The land allotted is fenced and an approach road has been completed.” Vimala also stated that there was a proposal to start EMRS from a rented premise for now. At the moment there are 367 EMRS across the country with a student strength of 85,000. The total number of schools sanctioned by the government is 632.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
21-12-2021||West Bengal||Airports Authority of India officials inspect Malda airport||A joint team of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the state transport department inspected the existing infrastructure of Malda airport on Monday, after chief minister Mamata Banerjee earlier this month said that her government was working to start regular flight services from Malda. A two-member team of AAI led by Dhananjay Tiwari, a deputy general manager of AAI, along with two officials of the transport department, surveyed the runway of the airport here and other facilities at the site. Senior officials of the Malda district administration, including two additional district magistrates (ADMs), were present.  The ADMs explained the plan of the district administration to make the airport functional as it was asserted by Mamata while attending the Malda district’s administrative review meeting earlier this month. “We studied details of the airport and will share our opinions with the district administration,” Tiwari said after the visit. Sources in the administration said the team has suggested extension of the runway up to 2.3km, which as of now is only 1.1km long. “This was also mentioned by the chief minister. She had categorically said at the meeting that the length of the runway has to be increased by another kilometre or so. Also, the chief secretary of the state and the district magistrate had visited the site to find out availability of the land that is required for the runway,” said an official. If the runway is extended, planes with the capacities for 70-odd passengers can operate from the airport, he added. “If flight services are introduced from here, the travel time between Malda and Calcutta will reduce to around 30 minutes or so,” the official added. After the visit, the team also held a meeting with the administration. Rajarshi Mitra, Malda district magistrate, said they primarily defined alignment of the runway. “We are waiting for their report and would then take up the issue with the state government,” he said. The team, sources said, is also likely to visit Cooch Behar and Balurghat, the two other locations in north Bengal from where the state wants to have flight services. The airport in Malda was built on 144 acres of land back in 1962 for cargo flights. In the eighties, the Vayudoot service was launched but did not continue for long. As of now, the airstrip is used for helicopters of the VIPs. Malda is connected to Calcutta and other districts of the state through rail and roads. One has to travel for six to eight hours by train or bus to reach Calcutta, 350km away. Trade bodies in the district welcomed the team’s visit. “Regular flight services from here can benefit people and industrial investment in the district,” said Jayanta Kundu, secretary of the Malda Merchant Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
21-12-2021||West Bengal||Protest shuts Haldia fertiliser plant, blame game follows  ||Production of a fertiliser company in Haldia was stopped on Monday following agitation by a group of contract workers with flags of Trinamul Congress, after 12 of them accused of hampering production were suspended by their contractor. However, INTTUC (Trinamul’s labour arm) leaders claimed the protesters were affiliated to the BJP and had planned the agitation with Trinamul flags to tarnish the image of the state government. The BJP, in turn, denied it.  On Thursday, officials of the company, Indorama India Private Limited, which mostly supplies di-ammonium phosphate (DAP), had complained against the alleged misconduct of labourers and the trade unions and how it hampers production, at a meeting with the district administration, in the presence of ministers Soumen Mahapatra and Akhil Giri. Partha Sarathi Banerjee, vice-president of the company that produces the Paras brand of fertiliser, on Monday said he had told the government in the Thursday meeting about labour troubles. “Our production came down to half our capacity because of the attitude and lack of discipline of  labourers. I was apprehensive  of having to close down production…The government officials assured us of steps (to prevent such an eventuality). (However) as soon as 12 workers were suspended, production stopped,” Banerjee said on Monday. A group of around 200 workers of the unit’s stacking and loading section closed the main gates of the factory in Haldia, which resulted in no production for all of Monday, after labour contractor Prasanta Das suspended 12 workers for their alleged role in hampering production. Das is a Trinamul councillor of the Haldia municipality. Tapas Maity, the INTTUC chief in Tamluk, said they had no hand in it. “I heard about the issue in the fertiliser factory. I found out those behind the closure of the unit are of the BJP. The BJP leaders instigated those labourers to tarnish the image of our government. I have spoken to the police to take action,” Maity, who was present at the Thursday meeting and was asked by  ministers Mahapatra and Giri to take action against those hampering production at the fertiliser company which supplies 80 per cent of its produce to Bengal. The labour-contractor of the factory had then been asked to identify such “troublemakers” and remove them from work. BJP leaders, however, said Maity had made a “baseless” allegation. “It is the usual claim by Trinamul, whenever they fail to control their own workers. There is no connection of the BJP with the protest or suspension,” said Nabarun Nayek, BJP chief in the Tamluk organisational district. Panchanan Hazra, one of the suspended labourers of the factory, identified himself as a member of Trinamul’s labour arm and accused the company’s management of framing him and others to escape their charter of demands. “There are 200 labourers in our unit, and 12, including me, were suspended… We are proud members of the INTTUC, and we protested with the flag of our union,” said Hazra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
21-12-2021||West Bengal||Northwesterly winds bring the chill Calcutta shivers at 11 degrees||The state capital got into Christmas mode as the mercury plunged to 11.2 °C on Monday, but the minimum  temperature is set to slide further on Tuesday, owing to biting northwesterly winds. However, the cold spell will get a break from Wednesday and Christmas is tipped to be slightly warmer, said a Met official. On Monday, the minimum temperature was four notches below normal. It was also the coldest day in Calcutta since December 28, 2019, when the minimum temperature was 11.1 °C, according to the Met data. The readings at the Met office in Alipore go into the record books as the “official” temperature of Calcutta. But the fringe areas, from Kamarhati in the north to Narendrapur in the south, are usually colder than Alipore by “around half a degree Celsius”, said a Met official. Many districts were colder, with the mercury plummeting to the 7-degree range, prompting the Met office to declare “cold wave conditions”. A deviation of around five degrees from the normal prompts the Met office to declare a cold wave. The minimum temperature is expected to go up from Wednesday and is likely to be in the range of 13-14 °C during Christmas. “A Western Disturbance is likely to hit Kashmir over the next 48 hours. As a result, northwesterly winds will become weaker,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. “A cyclonic circulation is brewing over Uttar Pradesh. As a result, Wednesday is likely to be partially cloudy in Calcutta. The sky will eventually clear before Christmas. But the minimum temperature is likely to remain over 13 °C during Christmas,” he added. Winter in Calcutta is usually marked by multiple spells of chill. The current spell, the first this season that started a week ago, is set to end after Tuesday.   But on Monday, the intensity of the northwesterly winds had reached their peak. “I wore a pullover under my jacket, but still the ride on Parama in the morning was freezing,” said Arijit Banik, who rode his bike from his Behala home to his Salt Lake office. At 22.4 °C, the maximum temperature was also four notches below normal. “The minimum temperature in Srinagar was around -6 °C on Monday. It was around 3.2 °C in Delhi and 4.1 °C in Gaya (Bihar). That explains the sharp slide in Calcutta,” said a Met official. Calcutta seems to be making the most of the Christmas weather. On Monday evening, Park Street looked resplendent under a canopy of lights, put up in the run-up to the Christmas carnival, and people wrapped up in woollens clicked pictures. Cold wave conditions were prevailing in the districts of south Bengal, the Met office said. In Santiniketan, the mercury dipped to 7.1 °C.  The minimum temperatures were 7.5 °C and 7.6 °C in Purulia and Panagarh respectively. The sharp slide in mercury led the district administrations to ask its block offices to reach out to the poor with blankets and warm clothes. “We have started distributing blankets and warm clothes to the poor in remote pockets of the districts,” said Rahul Majumdar, the district magistrate of Purulia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
21-12-2021||West Bengal||Two rail workers buried alive in Darjeeling ||Two workers engaged in the construction of the Sevoke-Rangpo railway project died in a slide at Kalikhola, some 30km from Siliguri, under Kurseong subdivision of Darjeeling district on Sunday night. The duo got buried under debris. This year, this is the third such incident when workers associated with this ambitious railway project on difficult terrain have lost their lives. “Around 11.30pm on Sunday, two workers of the railway project died after a large chunk of debris fell on them. Their bodies have been recovered. They were sent to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital on Monday for post-mortem. A case has been registered and our officials are investigating the incident,” said Manoranjan Ghosh, the additional superintendent of police of Kurseong. The deceased have been identified as Karu Ram, 40, and Santosh Roy, 37, both residents of Giridih district in the neighbouring state of Jharkhand. The bodies will be handed over to their relatives after the necessary formalities, sources said. Officials of Ircon International Limited, a government company that functions under the railway ministry that is carrying out the work of the ambitious rail project to include the Himalayan state of Sikkim on the Indian railway map, said the duo were engaged in piling work for the foundation of a railway bridge (bridge number III) at Kalikhola. “It was around midnight when suddenly a part of the earth slipped and workers came under the debris. Emergency rescue operations were carried out on an emergency basis and the workers were taken out of the debris. Unfortunately, none of them could survive,” said an official. The mishap halted the work at the site on Monday. In the past six months, this is the third such incident when workers engaged in the railway project have lost their lives. On June 17, a worker in one of the under-construction tunnels of the rail project near Bhalukhola died after a rock crashed on him. Again, on July 31, two other workers died at the project site, also near Bhalukhola, when incessant rain triggered a landslide and Mamkhola, a hilly stream flowing nearby, carried boulders and debris along with water and swept away the workers with their tent that they had pitched near a tunnel. After these incidents, railway officials had time and again claimed they were taking all necessary precautions for the safety of the workers. “The workforce is alerted regularly to minimise risks. But these are natural calamities,” said an official. Back in 2009, the project was launched by the then railway minister Mamata Banerjee. The plan is to lay railway tracks along a stretch of 44.98km from Sevoke railway station (which is around 20km from here) to Rangpo, the bordering town of Sikkim. As of now, the estimated project cost is around Rs 4,000 crore. In all, 14 tunnels and a number of bridges would come up in the route as a part of the project. “The railway ministry is putting impetus on this project and there are plans to complete the job by December 2023. The route is also strategically important as it would connect Sikkim, the state that sits on the India-Chinese border, by railways,” said a source in the Northeast Frontier Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
21-12-2021||West Bengal||Longview tea estate reopens after differences over dues||The Longview tea estate, some 25km from here and famed for the Darjeeling brew, reopened on Monday, after over two months, owing to differences cropping up between workers and the management over dues. “The management reopened the garden and workers joined their duties,” said Harihar Acharya, a vice-president of the Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Workers’ Union, the tea union front of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. Sources said that on October 7, workers had accused the management of not paying wages, salaries bonuses and retirement benefits. Work halted and an impasse ensued. This led to closure of the 500-hectare garden with all the 1,240 workers becoming jobless. However, the state labour department soon started taking initiatives to reopen the garden. On December 17, the management agreed to open the garden during tripartite  talks in the presence of Md Rizwan, the additional labour commissioner posted in Siliguri. Accordingly, work resumed at the garden on Monday. Nima Lama, the president of the Kurseong branch committee of GNLF, said the Longview management has agreed to disburse the outstanding wages and salaries within a week. “It has also been decided that the other dues will be paid to the workers in phases. We welcome the development (of the garden’s reopening) and hope that a section of workers, who had left the garden in search of jobs elsehere, will return soon,” Lama said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
21-12-2021||West Bengal||BJP knocks on HC doors with repoll demand in all wards||Opposition parties hit the streets on Monday in protest against alleged vitiation of Sunday’s Calcutta Municipal Corporation polls by the Trinamul Congress and moved the high court seeking repoll. The BJP, CPM and the Congress separately conducted rallies and demonstrations through the day. In separate petitions moved before a division bench headed by Chief Justice Prakash Srivastava of Calcutta High Court, the BJP and the CPM alleged rampant violence during the elections, in which several candidates and workers of the both parties had been “threatened” or “beaten up” by suspected Trinamul activists. While the BJP pleaded for repoll in all 144 CMC wards, the CPM wanted repoll in 17 wards. The matter was fixed for hearing on Thursday. A delegation of the Congress’s youth met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday and demanded repoll in all the wards. “We have fought the polls politically. We have seen the violence and now we will fight it out legally,” state BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. In their petitions, the CPM and the BJP alleged Trinamul “goons” had attacked and injured their candidates and polling agents, CCTV cameras at booths had been tampered with and the elections rigged. The BJP’s youth wing had planned to take out a march from the party’s state headquarters on 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane in the city. However, the police had set up barricades within 50 metres of the building. A group of BJP leaders tried to breach the barricades and move ahead, but they were immediately arrested by the police. State BJP vice-president Pratap Banerjee and another leader Kalyan Banerjee were taken into custody, along with several other party workers. However, no key leader was seen at the event, which even sources in the BJP admitted to “being lacklustre”. Senior BJP leaders, along with the party’s national president J.P. Nadda, had taken to Twitter to protest against the alleged manhandling by the police of Suvendu Adhikari in front of the State Election Commission’s office on Sunday. However, even Adhikari wasn’t seen at Monday’s protest at the party’s state headquarters. The BJP’s state youth wing chief Saumitra Khan was also conspicuous by his absence. The CPM took out a rally from Rawdon Street and went to the commission’s office. The party organised a meeting and demonstration in front of the office, which went on for almost three hours. Six representatives of the Left, including CPM’s Calcutta district secretary Kallol Majumdar, sat on a dharna in front of state poll panel chief Sourav Das’s chamber, demanding a favourable decision on their appeal for repolls. “After keeping us waiting for more than two hours, the commissioner told us he was unable to announce any re-poll. We have already moved the court and will supplement our claims with further evidence,” said Majumdar. Trinamul accused the Opposition of desperation to make headlines, having lost the support of the people. “They are unable to stay in people’s hearts or in the political fight. That’s why they are trying to stay in the news by moving court. The people are, however, very intelligent,” said Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
