22-12-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati announces schedule for four-day event, no word yet on 'Poush Mela'||Visva-Bharati has announced the schedule for a four-day on-campus event 'Poush Utsav', beginning Wednesday, while remaining tight-lipped about the observation of the annual heritage fair. 'Poush Mela' -- the annual heritage fair -- showcases diverse art and craft in West Bengal's Santiniketan during this time of the year, drawing lakhs of people from across the country as well as abroad. The central university issued a notice on Tuesday, stating that baitaliks (musical procession), prayers, foundation day celebrations and Christotsav (Christmas) will be the highlights of four-day 'Poush Utsav', traditionally held alongside 'Poush mela', but made no mention about the cultural event. Taking exception to the notification, the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA) said it "strongly condemns the recent hide-and-seek policy of the administration". "Till date, we have not been told officially that the university is skipping 'Poush Mela'. Visva-Bharati failed to show minimum courtesy to acknowledge the letter received from Bolpur Municipality and Santiniketan Trust, expressing their interest to conduct 'Poush Mela'." A Visva-Bharati official said the university has decided against holding the fair for the second consecutive year in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and rise in Omicron cases. To this, a VBUFA member said, "First of all, there is no government prohibition on holding a mela if some precautions are taken. In fact, Gangasagar mela and bookfair are being held with government approval and support. "Second, if there is any threat of COVID-19 and Omicron, as claimed by Visva Bharati officials, it is the university that is going to make everyone vulnerable to these threats by mobilising hundreds of people for Poush-Utsav." Meanwhile, Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a cultural group, in association with a local traders' body, has decided to organise an alternative fair at another venue, instead of the Poush Mela ground, for five days from December 23. "We have also sent an invitation letter to Vice-Chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty's office but no confirmation has been given about his visit thus far," a spokesperson of Bangla Sanskriti Mancha said. 'Poush Mela', which dates back to 1894, had not been held only thrice up until now first during the Bengal famine in 1943, then because of the Great Calcutta Killings of 1946, and finally owing to the COVID-19 situation last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Congress candidate for KMC polls moves Calcutta HC over assault||A Congress candidate who had contested the just-concluded KMC elections moved the Calcutta High Court on Wednesday, seeking leave to file a petition over alleged assault on him after the conclusion of polling, and grant of police protection. Rabi Saha, the Congress nominee from ward number 16 for the December 19 Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections, claimed that supporters of the ruling Trinamool Congress roughed him up and made a video of the incident, which went viral on social media. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha, before whom his lawyer mentioned the matter, granted leave to him to file a petition in this regard. Saha's lawyer said the matter, following filing of the petition, may be taken up for hearing by the court on Thursday. His counsel, claiming that the police did not take necessary action following the episode, said they will seek from the court a direction to the police to take action against the perpetrators and grant protection to Saha. Counting for the polls was held on Tuesday, with the ruling TMC gaining control of the 144-member KMC, bagging 134 seats to post a hat-trick of wins.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Bangladeshi man killed in BSF firing during border smuggling bid in Bengal||A Bangladeshi national was killed on Wednesday when BSF personnel fired to thwart a narcotics smuggling bid along the International Border in West Bengal, a senior officer said. The incident took place about 1.2 km inside the Indian territory at around 1:40 am near border post-Nawada in the Malda district of the state. A Border Security Force (BSF) officer said the "miscreants (comprising both Indian and Bangladeshi smugglers) encircled our jawans and attacked them with dah (large knife), bamboo sticks and stones". "The jawans tried to disperse them and fired stun grenades but the miscreants continued with their aggressive gesture and act," the officer said. Subsequently, he said, the troops fired two bullet rounds "in self-defence". A Bangladeshi man, who was shot at, was taken to a hospital where he was declared dead. The killed Bangladeshi national is a resident of Dhoolipara, which is about six km from the International Border. A mobile phone, two iron 'dahs' and 197 bottles of Phensedyl cough syrup were seized from the spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Priorities of prominent councillors in Kolkata||The Trinamul Congress swept the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) elections on Tuesday, winning 134 of the 144 wards. Metro spoke to some of the more prominent councillors to check what their priorities were and if they matched with those of ordinary Calcuttans Name: Firhad Hakim (Outgoing mayor and chairperson of the board of administrators of the CMC) Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 63 Ward: 82 Area: Chetla Priorities: For the past 10 years, I have been trying to build a footbridge connecting the route No. 7 bus terminus with New Alipore railway station, but could not succeed because the railways did not cooperate. I want to pursue it. This will benefit a large number of people in my ward. For the city as a whole, I want to focus on the construction of drainage lines, which is being funded by the Asian Development Bank. This has to be completed. (The project is dragging on in many parts of Calcutta.) I also want all councilors to publish a report card every year. The card should have details of what they had promised, how much they could achieve, why they couldn’t achieve the rest and what are their plans for the coming year. Name: Atin Ghosh (Outgoing deputy mayor and member of the board of administrators of the CMC. Headed the civic health department) Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 63 Ward: 11 Area: Hatibagan Priorities: Over 35 per cent of the population of my ward lives in slums. I will focus on developing the slums. There is a large volume of thika land in this ward. The state government has amended rules to facilitate construction on thika land, which was earlier not allowed. Those who live in old, dilapidated buildings on thika land deserve a better life. Most of such houses have a tin or tile roof. I want to act as a facilitator so that these people can build new homes on thika land making use of schemes floated by the state government for low-income groups. (Post-Independence, the government had abolished the zamindari system and acquired land from zamindars. The government subsequently allowed tenants of the zamindars to live on these lands, which came to be known as thika tenancy land. Calcutta has about 2,000 acres of such land. In 2019, an amendment to the West Bengal Thika Tenancy (Acquisition and Regulation) Act enabled the tenants to become the lessees with rights to develop their homes on thika land.) Also, as someone who headed the health department, I have plans to install ECG, USG and digital X-ray machines in at least one centre in each borough. This will help a lot of people, especially from low-income groups. Name: Debasish Kumar (Outgoing member of the board of administrators of the CMC. Headed the civic parks and squares, and environment departments) Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 61 Ward: 85 Area: Deshapriya Park, Dover Lane, Dover Terrace, Hazra Road and portions of Sarat Bose Road. Priorities: My ward has to be environment friendly. I want to make the street lights in my ward solar-powered. We have to gradually move towards renewable energy to cut down on carbon emissions. I want to increase the green cover of Calcutta by taking plantation drives. I want to help those living on thika plots to build their own houses using the state government’s Aamar Bari scheme. Name: Mala Roy Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 63 Ward: 88 Area: Rashbehari, Pratapaditya Road and neighbouring areas Priorities: This ward is more or less well developed with good amenities. My aim is to ensure that there is seamless delivery of services like waste management, water supply, cleaning of sewer lines and others. I want to streamline the hawkers on pavements. There should be a stipulated period when they will hawk, after which they will have to leave with their carts carrying their wares. After they leave, the footpaths will have no encroachments and people can walk without facing any obstruction. Name: Sushanta Ghosh Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 49 Ward: 108 Area: Bantala to Ruby Priorities: The road leading to Urbana is lined with many makeshift shops. Without removing them, I will try to create as much free space as possible. I will improve the condition of the road so that cars, buses, cycles and other modes of transport can move without hindrance. Many areas in the ward do not have underground drains and depend on surface drains. I want to replace surface drains with an underground network. My other priority is to replace kutcha roads with metalled ones. Name: Sandipan Saha Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 43 Ward: 58 Area: Tangra Priorities: The water pressure in places like Gholpara and Chinapara has increased but is still quite low. I will try to ensure that the duration of water supply and the water pressure both increase. Waterlogging is a problem in the Baishali area. I am not promising that the problem will be entirely solved but something will be done to ensure that water recedes faster. Name: Arup Chakraborty Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 43 Ward: 98 Area: Gandhi Colony, Netaji Nagar, Pallisree, Khanpur, Suryanagar and Raipur Sanghati Colony (all in Tollygunge) Priorities: Most areas in the ward still do not receive potable water. Residents depend on underground water extracted through deep tube wells. My topmost priority is to bring potable water to all areas in the ward. There is only one compactor station for such a large ward. We need another station. I have seen waste lying along roads in some places. I want to streamline the waste collection system so that no waste remains on the road. Name: Tarak Singh (Headed the sewerage and drainage department of the last CMC board) Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 71 Ward: 118 Area: Parts of New Alipore and Behala Priorities: Finish the project of laying underground sewer lines, which is part of the Kolkata Environment Improvement Project (KEIP), especially in wards 122 and 124. The wards are between Tollygunge Karunamoyee and Behala Chowrasta. The main drainage lines of KEIP have been laid in most places but the connecting drainage lines are yet to be completed. I want to expedite the remaining work. Name: Meena Devi Purohit (She was deputy mayor from 2000 to 2005) Party: BJP Age: 61 Ward: 22 Area: Parts of Posta and Burrabazar. Priorities: I want to keep the parks in my wards clean because religious programmes are held there and expand the green cover. I also want to increase the capacity of the civic health centre on MG Road so the poor can be provided with better facilities. Name: Madhuchanda Deb Party: CPI Age: 68 Ward: 92 Area: Parts of Dhakuria, Babu Bagan, Selimpur Priorities: I will work to build a civic market on Dhakuria Station Road. The existing makeshift market creates massive congestion. The other priorities are to ensure that the second phase of the booster pumping station in Babubagan is completed at the earliest, beautification of the Palbazar Jheel and setting up of a swimming pool. Name: Santosh Pathak Party: Congress Age: 56 Ward: 45 Area: Parts of Esplanade West, Babughat and Millenium Park. Priorities: I will build community halls in my ward for underprivileged families. I will also take up the matter of unregulated parking with the CMC. Name: Baiswanor Chattopadhyay Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 58 Ward: 91 Area: Parts of Kasba and Dhakuria Priorities: I will work to provide drinking water to residents of Jagannath Ghosh Road, Kumor Para and Banerjee Para. Desilting sewer lines and cleaning ponds are other priorities. Name: Jui Biswas Party: Trinamul Congress Age: 40 Ward: 81 Area: New Alipore Priorities: Desilting the underground sewer line entering New Alipore from Taratala is one of my priorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Young victors’ vision  for Kolkata||Roads, waterlogging and community halls rank high up on the priority list of several young and new councilors of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, mirroring the lack of basic civic amenities in several pockets of the city. Modern urban issues — like lack of sufficient spaces for the differently-abled, a long-term solution to improve air quality and the rights of the LGBTQ community — were important, they said. But more important is to prevent water from invading homes after every downpour and ensure people living in slums have access to basic healthcare. “My ward lacks a community hall. The slums need uplift. Before making lofty promises, I want to focus on ensuring that the basic amenities reach everyone,” said Trinamul’s Puja Panja, who won from Ward 8. “The delivery of the government’s welfare schemes to every deserving recipient is equally important,” said Puja, the daughter of state minister Shashi Panja and a law graduate from Calcutta University with a postgraduate degree in social welfare. Ayan Chakraborty, another first-time Trinamul councillor who won from Ward 28, said the problems faced by the differently-abled and the mesh of overhead cables and unregulated billboards bothered him.  But he asserted that health and education would be his “top priorities”. “Thousands of students come to schools run by the civic body. They are poor but they are entitled to quality education, including access to modern technology. The primary health care centres should be able to provide primary health care,” said Chakraborty, a 42-year-old advocate. Trinamul, which swept the civic polls bagging 134 of the 144 wards, had fielded many fresh faces, most of them from families of senior party leaders. Trinamul’s Amit Singh, son of the former mayoral council member Tarak Singh and winner from Ward 117, wants to focus on roads and waterlogging. “One repair after another is raising the height of the roads. That in turn floods houses. In my ward, I have focussed on changing this,” said Singh, who had won the ward in a by-election in 2018. “When Jyotish Roy Road was repaired, I made sure that the old layers were removed first,” said the 44-year-old, who has a management degree in marketing and sales and had a stint with a private manufacturer taking the political plunge. Trinamul’s Sandipan Saha, second-time winner from Ward 58 and son of party leader Swarnakamal Saha, has in the past been an active part of Bengal’s e-governance initiatives. Saha, who has a management degree in marketing from IIM Calcutta, wants to work towards “online delivery of every certificate” issued by the civic body. “People still have to stand in long queues for these certificates. I want these to be accessible at the click of a button,” said Saha, who has worked in IT companies in India and abroad before joining public life. He said the discrimination faced by the LGBTQ community was a “very important issue that needs long-term planning”. “Sops like added Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for environment-friendly constructions are very much part of our plan,” he said. Saurav Basu, who won Ward 86 for Trinamul and is the son of minister Chandrima Bhattacharya, said he would focus on taking care of senior citizens. “I have digital access to each voter in my ward. I am planning to reach out to every senior citizen and encourage them to give feedback on our work at regular intervals,” said Basu, a commerce graduate from St Xavier’s College who did an MBA in marketing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Civic polls: Mamata sees ‘victory for national politics’ in record sweep||The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday bagged 134 of the 144 wards in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation elections, prompting Mamata Banerjee to hail the record sweep as a victory for democracy that would “show the way” to the entire nation. While Trinamul won an astounding 93 per cent of the seats, the BJP managed only three wards and the Left and the Congress two each. Three Independent candidates also emerged victorious. Trinamul pocketed a shade over 72 per cent of the votes polled, which was 21 per cent more than the 2015 figure and eclipsing the summer Assembly election’s performance by around 23 per cent. The BJP’s vote share slipped to 9.21 per cent from the 29 per cent this summer, falling below the Left, which got 11.89 per cent of the votes. “The BJP bho-katta (cut off) by the people. The CPM no patta (attention) by the people. The Congress, sandwiched between the CPM and the BJP,” the Bengal chief minister said in her first reaction to the results on Tuesday afternoon, shortly before leaving for Guwahati where she offered prayers at the Kamakhya temple. “This is a landslide victory because our sons and daughters of the soil, who work on the ground, we don’t talk about methods of working in the sky. What we promise, we deliver,” Mamata added. The Trinamul chief said the election was a victory for democracy in a “festival of the people”. “It further humbles us, makes us more submissive to the people. Calcutta and Bengal are our pride. Calcutta and Bengal will show the way for the rest of the nation and take it towards a place of pride… is what I believe,” Mamata said. “Of course it is a victory for national politics also. Because the other national parties also contested against us, together — the BJP, the Congress and the CPM — and they were all defeated by the people. This is the verdict of the people, by the people and for the people. This mandate will further help us to do more and more work for the people.” While much of what Mamata said about the verdict and the state of the Opposition, at least in Calcutta, is irrefutable, there are several upshots. Trinamul sweep Mamata’s party converted all 134 leads in the Assembly elections earlier this year into victories, finishing second in the remaining 10, with none of its candidates having to forfeit their deposit in Calcutta. This was a gain of 20 seats over the 2015 civic polls. “There is no cause for undermining the significance of Trinamul’s victory. Everybody knew they were going to win these many seats,” said political observer Subhamoy Maitra, a professor at the Indian Statistical Institute. Maitra added: “There are various political reasons for that but a key factor certainly is offering to the poor programmes such as a universal basic income of some kind.” BJP in decline The BJP fell from leads in 51 wards in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and 12 in the Assembly elections earlier this year to just three wins in the 142 wards it contested. It is now back to where it had been in 2010, when too the party had won three CMC seats. In the 139 seats the BJP lost, it finished third, or worse, in 97. Its candidates faced the ignominy of having to forfeit their deposit in 116 wards. “The results unmistakably show that the BJP has bled further since the 2021 Assembly elections…. The BJP project has failed, at least for now, in the eyes of the electorate,” said psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty, a professor at Rabindra Bharati University. “From 2016 to (earlier in) 2021, the BJP’s curve stayed largely up despite going nowhere close to the 200-plus claim (before the Assembly elections). But since the bypolls earlier this year, that curve has been downward. The opposite of that is being seen for the Left, even the Congress. A change in the larger trend seems to have begun. It would be much clearer, of course, when the elections to the remaining 111 civic bodies are held,” Maitra, the ISI professor, said. Left gains The Left, whose tally came down from 15 CMC seats in 2015 to leads in none of the wards in the 2021 Assembly elections, pouched two seats this time after leading in a few others over several rounds of counting during the day. Despite contesting alone and in 128 wards, the Left finished second in 65. Its vote share was close to 12 per cent, up from the 10 per cent it had managed this summer. Compared to the BJP, the Left’s candidates had to forfeit their deposit in 97 wards after contesting a lower number of seats. Political scientists said the Left had never really been obliterated in Calcutta. According to them, the civic polls being fought on local issues, the ground-level presence of the Left — especially its social work during the peaks of the pandemic — had resonated with sections of the electorate. The experts also pointed out that had the election not been marred by allegations of malpractice, the Left could have done better. “Moreover, the Left’s interaction with the Congress, by way of an alliance, does not seem to be paying the dividends they had been hoping for. Instead, fighting separately as independent political entities in a so-called friendly way seems to be helping them,” Maitra said. ‘Malpractice’ niggle The purported disregard for the high command’s diktat to ensure a clean election, said sections within Trinamul, was a fallout of the ward-level leadership’s urge to ensure thumping victories at any cost, resulting in suspiciously high margins in many wards. Trinamul’s candidates bagged over 93 per cent of the vote share in two wards, over 90 per cent in five, over 80 per cent in 26 and over 70 per cent in 42. Several political scientists said Sunday’s incidents in the city ran counter to Trinamul-hired poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s doctrine of a hands-off approach to elections like civic polls that are inconsequential in the larger scheme, as 13 Opposition candidates claimed injury from attacks by the ruling party while 146 polling agents of Opposition parties alleged that they were kept away through “coercion”. “Trinamul would’ve won emphatically anyway. The chance they got to have an unblemished election, when the rest of the country or even many parts of the world were watching the polls to the globally renowned city’s civic body, was squandered because of slight lapses in caution,” Maitra said. “Had they been able to achieve that, it would have earned them praise nationally, even globally…. The seat count remains the same, but the alleged vitiation of the poll process has given the Opposition scope to find fault with the mandate, which was not the case across the state this summer. The buck for that stops with the leadership, because its inability to control the lower levels is unacceptable,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Three dead, 44 injured in fire at IOC's Haldia refinery||Three persons died and 44 were injured, many of them critically, when a fire broke out at a unit of the Indian Oil Corporation’s refinery in Haldia on Tuesday afternoon. The flash fire was reported at the under-maintenance motor spirit quality (MSQ) unit shortly after a safety drill for employees and contractual workers in the area. An IOC source said the fire started around 2.50pm when sparks from a welding operation landed on inflammable material being used for the job, causing an explosion. One of the cylinders brought for welding appeared to have exploded, the source added. The three men who died were contract workers who are yet to be identified. District police chief Amarnath K said: “There was a flash fire at the IOC refinery in which three persons have been killed and 44 injured. A green corridor was subsequently ensured for the transportation of the injured to two private hospitals in Calcutta.” Seventeen of the injured were admitted to Desun Hospital. “The patients are middle aged and the burn injuries are all over the body, including the face,” said Tapas Mukherjee, deputy managing director of the hospital. Several others are being treated at the Haldia Oil Refinery Hospital. Sarbari Jana, senior human resource officer, Haldia Refinery, said in a statement: “Haldia Refinery is undertaking shutdown and maintenance of various major units. In the MSQ unit, during shutdown-related work, at around 1450 hrs today, an incident occurred.” The statement added: “The primary cause seems to be a flash fire leading to burn injuries to 44 persons and 3 persons have unfortunately succumbed to their injuries. The fire has been immediately extinguished and the situation is under control.” It took about 30 minutes to bring the fire under control. Employees of the IOC refinery accused the authorities and district disaster management officials of responding late and said there was delay in transporting the critically injured to hospitals in Calcutta. An official of the district disaster management department said many members were at the safety drill and had returned to their respective reporting stations, which contributed to the delay in responding to the accident. “The turnaround took some time as we were at the refinery all morning. Nonetheless, our ambulances and volunteers responded and helped victims to their best capacity,” said district disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar. Refinery officials said an investigation committee had been set up to probe the fire. Manash Khara, 26, a contractual labourer from Haldia’s Brajlal Chowk who is admitted to the refinery hospital with 20 per cent burns, said: “The rescue effort and medical response should have been quicker.” The blaze comes three months after a similar incident at Haldia Petrochemicals when its naptha cracker unit had caught fire for the second month in a row. Thirteen persons had been injured in the September accident. Tapas Maity, a leader of Trinamul’s trade union, said rather than the IOC, they were the first to reach the site with ambulances. “I had to arrange most of the critical ambulances myself,” he said, adding that the union had also made arrangements for the victims to be admitted to “private hospitals” in Calcutta. Speaking from New Delhi, Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari said he had taken up the incident with the IOC chairman and a probe team would reach Haldia on Wednesday.Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: BJP fans statehood cry, Trinamul Congress dubs it ploy||The saffron camp’s Darjeeling MP Raju Bista is flagging the statehood demand of the Gorkhas in the Lok Sabha while other BJP leaders are proactively making statements to back similar demands raised by various Rajbanshis organisations. The two-pronged strategy, rival Trinamul feels, is an attempt by the BJP to try and retain its support base by stoking people’s sentiments and diverting attention from development. On Monday, Bista raised the hill issue again in the Lok Sabha. While speaking on the demand for a state, the MP referred to the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) and Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), and claimed these “stopgap experiments” failed to address the aspirations of people. “I have also said there are no elected representatives in the grassroots organisations (GTA and panchayat) across the hills and that people are deprived of their rights for years. I have urged the Centre to expedite the ongoing tripartite talks so that a constitutionally guaranteed permanent political solution can be reached for the region,” said the MP. Other leaders, including two other MPs of north Bengal John Barla and Nisith Pramanik who are junior ministers in the Narendra Modi government, have backed the demand for a north Bengal state, the support triggering a number of Rajbanshi associations who had been calling for separate statehood for years but had fallen silent in recent times, to renew their activities. Political forces like the Kamtapur Progressive Party and Kamtapur Peoples’ Party (United) and their frontal organisations are holding marches and protests in the districts of Cooch Behar, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar. A lobby of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association headed by Ananta Debbarma is holding regular public meetings with speakers referring to the statehood demand. The recent assertion of BJP-ruled Assam’s chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, that the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation is interested in peace talks and that his government would reciprocate, has also led to repercussions in north Bengal. “Rajbanshi associations want the Bengal government in talks but have also indicated they want the discourse to start, yet another concern for Trinamul as the party is principally against any further partition of Bengal,” pointed out a political observer. Trinamul leaders, however, are confident they can  thwart the BJP from expanding its turf by using the statehood issue. There are differences within the BJP on statehood, they pointed out. “It is because of such a divisive stand of the BJP that two its MLAs in north Bengal have joined our party. This is nothing but yet another attempt by the BJP to try and use this issue to garner support as all the promises made by central ministers since 2014 have turned out hollow,” said Rabindranath Ghosh, former minister of Trinamul based in Cooch Behar. The Trinamul government, on the other hand, has done a lot for the hills and Rajbanshis since 2011, he pointed out. “That’s why a number of regional parties and prominent leaders of Rajbanshi organisations stand in our chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s support… The BJP’s plan to use statehood to win the upcoming (civic and panchayat) elections won’t work,” said Chandan Bhowmik, another senior Trinamul leader of Jalpaiguri. Soumen Nag, a social researcher based in Siliguri, said it was evident that BJP is putting emphasis on the statehood demands. "It is not that there have been major moves from the Centre on these issues but the strategy seems to be to keep Trinamul and the state government under pressure, and simultaneously, keep consolidating support in north Bengal districts,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: 50-year-old patient found hanging in hospital washroom||A 50-year-old patient at the Siliguri district hospital was found dead, hanging from a washroom of the building on Tuesday morning. Police suspect that Swarojit Chakraborty committed suicide and are waiting for his post-mortem report. Sources said Chakraborty was a resident of Jamuribhita, a locality under New Jalpaiguri police station. “He was admitted to the male medical ward on December 18 with acute stomach pain and was still under treatment. This morning (Tuesday), his body was found hanging from the ward’s washroom,” said a source. Hospital authorities informed Siliguri police. A police team recovered the body. Murder cuffs Safikul Islam of Bansihari in South Dinajpur was arrested by New Jalpaiguri police and a team of Haryana police, from Fulbari, on the south end of Siliguri. Haryana police said Islam used to work in Gurgaon and had an affair with a girl also from Bengal but who stayed there. When she asked him to marry her, Islam started avoiding her and allegedly killed her in August. He fled and hid in Fulbari. More arrests Two US nationals of Nepali origin were arrested in Siliguri subdivision on Monday. Sources said Kapil Adhiakri and Bhawani Prasad Subedi, who are US citizens, were intercepted by Sashastra Seema Bal at Panitanki on the India-Nepal border, some 35km from here, when they were trying to enter Nepal. They were handed over to Kharibari police. The duo reached Nepal from the US on December 9 with a visa, but entered India allegedly without visa and visited Darjeeling. While returning to Nepal again, they were intercepted. Surajit Das of Siliguri was arrested on Monday by Pradhannagar police for duping Haryana businessman Ajay Sharma of Rs 5 lakh. Police sources said Sharma's car had gone missing in Siliguri. He came in contact with Das who assured Sharma of finding the car. Das took Rs 5 lakh from Sharma and then avoided Sharma’s phone calls. Sharma finally filed a police complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 440 new cases, 451 recoveries and 12 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported 440 new Covid-19 infections, 451 recoveries and 12 deaths, causing a drop in the total of active cases by 23, to 7,451. Calcutta reported 177 new infections, the only one of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day, and three deaths. North 24-Parganas also reported three deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 339 or 77.05 per cent of the new infections detected on Tuesday. Twelve districts reported a single-digit figure of new Covid cases detected in a day. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. New infections reported on Tuesday indicate people infected between December 12 and 16. In the past 87 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, the total rose on 36 days and fell on 49 days. Over these 87 days, there has been a net fall of 223 in the total. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.34 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, below the national rate of 98.4 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.21 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 16.28 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes around 16.01 lakh recoveries and 19,688 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Civic polls: Saffron votes decline by 20 per cent in Calcutta||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation poll results came as a shock for the BJP as its vote share came down by around 20 per cent in comparison to what it had got in the city in the Assembly elections barely six months ago. The startling slide — from around 29 per cent in May to about 9 per cent in December — proves a complete collapse of the BJP in the state capital, several BJP insiders admitted in private. The biggest political party in the country was lacklustre at its best in the campaign phase as none of its top national leaders visited Calcutta in the run up to the CMC polls. Still, several BJP leaders had said it would win at least 2025 wards and would emerge as the main Opposition party in Calcutta. “This result is shameful. We had expected better than this…. We couldn’t even reach double digits in terms of vote percentage,” a senior BJP leader said. “Number of wards in our pockets came down to three from seven (in 2015). This is nothing but a collapse.” Speaking of the three winners — Meena Devi Purohit, Vijay Ojha and Sajal Ghosh — another BJP leader said no credit should be given to the party for their victory. “Each of them won in their own capacity. Meena ji and Vijay have been winning their seats from preNarendra Modi era. The BJP flag wouldn’t matter in their cases,” this person said. Although most BJP leaders parroted the narrative of “largescale rigging and violence” on the pollday to justify their poor show, several insiders said in the private the results proved beyond doubt that the party had once again become a marginal player in Calcutta. “This is a bad signal as this poor show will cast a shadow over the forthcoming polls to 110odd civic bodies,” said a source. The biggest shock for the BJP was its relegation to the number 3 position, behind the Left. Out of the 144 wards, the BJP emerged second in 47, while the Left bagged the runnerup slot in 65 wards. The Congress came second in 17 wards. As the Left’s share of vote in Calcutta has risen to over 11 per cent this winter — while six months ago it had got around the same percentage when it had contested the Assembly polls in an alliance with the Congress and ISF — some Left leaders saw a silver lining in the outcome. “The civic poll results have indicated a rejection of the BJP as the Left and the Congress combined have come second in around 80 per cent of the seats. A lot of change is taking place in the Opposition space in Bengal,” said CPM veteran Sujan Chakraborty. Several political scientists like Biswanath Chakraborty also observed that the CMC polls were indicative of a realignment in the Opposition space and the beginning of a Left resurgence. “Our analysis of the poll results shows that 116 BJP candidates, out of 142, lost their deposits.... The number is 97 for the Left parties. I think there is a change taking place in the Opposition space,” he said. Even as the Left leaders were hopeful of a new beginning, some insiders cautioned against any early celebrations. “Over 110 civic bodies will go to the polls in a month or two. Unless we see the outcome there, we cannot claim that BJP has collapsed in Bengal at the cost of our resurrection,” a senior Left leader said. While comparing the performances of the BJP and the Left some of the points that need to be considered are: ⚫ Calcutta has never been the strongest bastion for the BJP as it got around 29 per cent votes in the city in the 2021 Assembly polls. The party got about 39 per cent of the votes polled in April-May across the state while it got around 35% votes in Greater Calcutta. This means the city proper is a weak spot for the BJP. What can be said at best is the BJP has become weaker in the city, said a source. ⚫ Another Left insider said had the BJP’s fall and the Left’s socalled surge were linked, the Left would have bagged a major share of the votes lost by the saffron camp. “The BJP lost around 20 per cent of its vote share in comparison to the Assembly polls. But the Left’s gain hasn’t been to that extent. Although there has been a gain, it isn’t substantial enough in comparison to Trinamul which increased its vote share by around 13 per cent against what it received six months ago,” this insider said. ⚫ The Left has always been organisationally superior to the BJP in Calcutta. In fact, on the day of the polling, CPM leaders and workers were seen hitting the streets and actively protesting against the alleged misconduct and violence whereas the BJP leaders could rarely make a mark in the city. Some BJP leaders said that while analysis of the numbers is important, priority should be given to extensive outreach initiatives so that the party was seen with people. A BJP source said during the peak of Covid19induced lockdown, the BJP leaders were not found with people whereas the CPM came up with the innovative idea of Red Volunteers and young members of the party did a remarkable job in helping the distressed people. “They (CPM) renewed their bond with the people during the pandemic, we couldn’t. We were in the social media celebrating the achievements of our national leaders. We did no work on the ground and the results prove that people have rejected us,” this person added. Throughout the day, several Trinamul leaders congratulated the Left for coming back as the strongest Opposition in the city. The party’s general secretary, Kunal Ghosh, said that it was a welcome mandate by the people that they had chosen the Left as the main Opposition, thereby defeating a unholy force such as the BJP. Taking a dig at Trinamul for this narrative, state BJP president Sukanta Majumdar said: “They are trying to create an illusion in front of the people that the Left is resurging. This will help Trinamul politically. But we won’t let them fool the people.” Majumdar did, however, admit that his party was weak in Calcutta and said it would do “much better” in the coming civic polls, which will be held in other parts of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Climber and team clear 1,500kg trash from Everest region||Everester Jamling Tenzing Norgay and his team of 35 Sherpas cleared around 1,500 kilograms of waste from the Everest region last month, but such is the litter in the world’s highest region that they are planning to return this spring. “We cleaned around 1,500kg of waste from the Everest region but we have decided to go back as there is still a lot to be cleaned. We could not dig out trash from under snow and we are looking at going to the region during spring when the snow melts a bit,” said Jamling. The Everester’s team covered areas around the Renjo la Pass, Kyajo Ri mountains and Tashi Lapcha, situated around 18,000ft above, during their weeklong campaign that started on November 3. The clean-up campaign is unique in the sense that Jamling is working with the famous Swiss company Bally that had specially designed boots made of reindeer for his father Tenzing Norgay Sherpa when he successfully climbed Mt Everest on May 29, 1953. Sherpa, along with New Zealander Sir Edmund Hillary, were the first to scale Mount Everest, which inspired many climbers, men and women, to replicate their success. More than 5,500 mountaineers have climbed Everest in the past 68 years. In 2019, Nirmal Purja, a climber from Nepal, had taken the famous photograph of a “traffic jam” at Everest showing mountaineers standing cheek by jowl in a queue waiting for their turn to stand atop the peak. Many term Everest region as the world’s highest “junkyard”. The refuse largely consists of food cans, bottles, plastics and remains of old tents. “We will carry out our sp-ing expedition in collaboration with Bally, which is working on this project through its Bally Peak Outlook Foundation. In fact, we are hopeful that we can make this campaign an annual affair,” said Jamling. The foundation initiative is part of the “8 x 8000m” pledge to clean up the base camps of eight high Himalayan mountains located 8,000m above the sea level. In 2020, climber Dawa Steven Sherpa had removed 2.2 tonnes of waste from the base camps of Everest (8,848m), Cho Oyu (8,188m), Lhotse (8,516m) and Makalu (8,485m). “Last year, I had been only involved with the organising aspects but this time, I was involved at ground zero,” said Jamling. This year, Jamling’s daughter, Pelzom, 23, also joined the campaign strengthening the bond between Bally and the Tenzing family. Jamling said his father’s association with Bally started with the unsuccessful Swiss expedition of 1952. “Bally had specially designed the boots for my father for the 1952 Swiss expedition and he used the same boots in the 1953 climb. While commemorating the 60th anniversary of the first Everest climb, Bally had again come up with a wearable replica of my father’s shoes,” the Everester said. The original pair of the boots are on display at the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI) museum in Darjeeling. The expedition also covered Thame in Nepal, where Tenzing grew up and a native village to many other famous mountaineers like Kami Rita Sherpa and Apa Sherpa who scaled Mt Everest. Reusable items were sent to Kathmandu to be recycled, while the rest were incinerated at Namche Bazaar (near the Everest base camp) with help from Sagarmatha Pollution Control Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
22-12-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: Drinking water survey in all educational institutions||The Alipurduar district administration and the state public health engineering (PHE) department will jointly conduct a survey in all educational institutions across the district to find out if all these institutions have a drinking water connection. On Tuesday, an administrative meeting was held here to discuss the survey where it was also said that the PHE will provide water connection to all institutions which lack it. The initiative has been taken to implement “Jal Swapna,” an initiative announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to provide drinking water in every nook and corner of the state. “The PHE has taken the task to provide door-to-door water connection in 19 villages of the district where supply was not available so far. From tomorrow (Wednesday), the survey of educational institutions will start. The teams will cover both government and private institutions and prepare a report within a fortnight. After the survey, a plan will be drawn to ensure all institutions get drinking water supply,” said Sheela Das Sarkar, the sabhadhipati of Alipurduar Zilla Parishad. In Alipurduar, sources said, there are around 2,500 educational institutions, which include 104 high schools and 840 primary schools, along with colleges, madarsas, Sishu Siksha Kendras and Madhyamik Siksha Kendras. “There is a similar plan to extend water supply to the ICDS centres of the district,” said an official. The initiative, he said, is important as in schools, pure drinking water is vital for the students and also to prepare midday meals for them. “Also, there is a prevalence of water-borne diseases, especially in the tea estates and rural areas. To confirm children are drinking pure water in schools, this initiative is necessary. There are many schools where there is no alternative water source and students have to walk to the nearby village to get water,” he added. In Alipurduar district, the PHE has provided water connection to 70,980 houses so far under the “Jal Swapna” scheme, said sources. “We are also putting impetus on drinking water in all tea estates of the district, some of which are located in remote areas,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
